02-02-2021||Today's||Budget 2021-22: Sitharaman borrows a leaf out of Pujara’s notebook||The expectations were running high, but finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman had to strike a delicate balance between fiscal expansionism and fiscal prudence in Budget 2021-22. Nobody denies that the economy needs a strong booster shot with growth at a historical low, amid Covid-19. However, excessive borrowing this year in times of uncertainty would have curtailed the room for the government to address this evolving situation in the future.The most critical number in the budget ---- fiscal deficit for FY21-22 ---- stands at 6.8% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), a sharp decrease from the 9.5% estimated for FY20-21. Even before the pandemic struck India, government borrowings were already in the shaky territory – the actual fiscal deficit for 2019-20 was 4.6% of GDP, the highest since 2012-13, reflecting the precarious nature of public finances. In keeping with the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003, (FRBM), the path for consolidation outlined in last year’s budget would have cut fiscal deficit to 3.1% of GDP and eliminated the primary deficit (borrowings excluding expenses on interest payments) by 2022-23. But Covid-19 derailed that plan. The government has made no projections for 2022-23 and 2023-24 due to an impending amendment to the FBRM Act. However, FM said that the Centre’s fiscal deficit will be brought down to below 4.5% of GDP by 2025-26. Clearly, a gentler path towards fiscal consolidation is being planned. This is a positive sign in uncertain times.Another central feature of this year’s budget is the paltry increase in government expenditure. The Centre’s outlays will increase by less than 1% over (the historically high) the revised estimates of 2020-21. This suggests that much of the heavy-lifting in fiscal policy is either behind us or limited to the next three months with an over 13% increase in revised expenditure over the budgetary figures for 2020-21.However, this 13% boost deserves a closer look. The government will spend an additional ₹3 lakh crore on food subsidy for the poor in 2020-21, making up almost 75% of the ₹4 lakh crore-gap between budgeted and estimated expenditures in the pandemic year. Although automatic stabilisers played a crucial role in countercyclical fiscal policy –government expenditure didn’t fall even while revenues dried up – where is the other stimulus spending promised in the several mini-budgets last year? There are some welcome changes announced in the quality of government expenditure. Almost 80% of borrowings in 2020-21 were undertaken to finance deficit on the revenue account. If the budgetary estimates hold, this will fall to about three-fourths in 2021-22. This government has made capital spending a centrepiece of its vision for India – the gross budgetary support for asset creation will climb to almost 2.5% of GDP, making up 16% of all government outlays. This is a significant boost from the average CAPEX of 1.7% of GDP from 2011-19. Many will ask whether the actual fiscal deficit is likely to be within the ballpark of the budgetary estimates. A lot will rely on success in meeting disinvestment targets.Except for two years in the past decade (2017-19), realised disinvestment receipts have been consistently lower than what was budgeted for. Worryingly, this gap exacerbated in the last two financial years, with collections for 2019-20 being half of budgetary estimates and only 15% in 2020-21. This year, the government hopes to collect ₹1.75 lakh crore – a record figure – but progress on Air India’s sale gives hope.On the tax front, no significant changes in rates on personal income were announced. Thankfully, the rumours of a Covid-19 cess or a higher surcharge – a hare-brained idea during a recession - remained just that. However, as is usual, the budget relies on optimistic targets for tax collection. It works with the assumption of 14.4% nominal GDP growth, causing a 17% spike in tax revenues. The implied buoyancy of gross tax revenue - increase in tax collection if income grows by 1% - is a bit higher than historical averages computed by the Reserve Bank of India. Thus, actual deficit might be considerably more than what is projected in the Budget. If the long-term estimates for buoyancy hold in 2021-22, the Centre’s kitty will shrink by ₹67,000 crore from what is budgeted for corporate and income taxes alone. To borrow the chief economic adviser’s analogy, this is not a big-bang Rishabh Pant budget, although that doesn’t mean it is bad. Particularly impressive is the keenness showed by FM in imparting integrity to fiscal numbers. Phasing out opaque extra-budgetary borrowings deserves our full compliments.Rising capital expenditure is a welcome sign too –RBI estimates that each rupee spent on creating long-term assets adds over seven times as much to GDP compared to expenditure on current items like subsidies and salaries.Finally, an unhurried move towards fiscal consolidation and the cushion of a 60-time bigger contingency fund suggests that the government is balancing caution with a willingness to do more in the future if required.In that, Nirmala Sitharaman might have borrowed a leaf out of Pujara’s notebook.Sarthak Agrawal is an economist from the University of Oxford, and previously a researcher at the London-based Institute for Fiscal StudiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/budget-2021-22-sitharaman-borrows-a-leaf-out-of-pujara-s-notebook-101612277507215.html
02-02-2021||Today's||Decoding the budget and the economics of welfare||Covid-19 is a crisis like no other. And, expectedly, it has wreaked havoc on the Government of India (GoI)’s financial arithmetic as it struggled to deal with collapsing tax revenues and increased expenditure pressures. Therefore, there are two questions that need to be asked of the FY 2021 budget.How did the Union government reorient its macro-fiscal position to counteract the economic fallout of the pandemic and what does this reveal about the nature of the policy choices made by the government to respond to the Covid-19-induced economic crisis? Second, what does the budget offer as a policy pathway to nurture the economy back to health in FY 2021-22?In FY 21, the lockdown-induced freeze on the economy expectedly resulted in a collapse in revenues while expenditure pressures increased. Revenue receipts collapsed from ₹20.2 lakh crore to ₹15.5 lakh crore, expenditure increased from ₹30.4 lakh crore to ₹34.5 lakh crore, as did the one number that the government has thus far worried about the most — the fiscal deficit.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman must be congratulated for breaking with tradition and being transparent about the fiscal deficit numbers while offering a path to fiscal consolidation by FY 2025-26. Importantly, she has discontinued the practice of off-budget borrowing for food subsidy. However, a closer look at the numbers reveals a more complex picture.First, while tax revenues fell, the real hit to the Centre’s finances came from a fall in disinvestment receipts and bringing off budget expenditure back on to the budget. The fall in net tax revenue to the Centre is responsible for a mere 1% of the rise in fiscal deficit numbers. Second, most of the increase in expenditure outlays is driven by the food and fertiliser subsidy (around 80%). Increases in health accounted for 3.88%. Third, the share of states in the divisible pool of taxes fell from 32% in the budgeted estimates to 28.9% (Revised Estimates 2020-21).Three facts emerge about the macro fiscal picture. First, the government has increasingly relied on the assumption that proceeds from disinvestment will fund its expenditure commitments. In good times, this is bad fiscal management. But in times of pandemic, this can be seriously damaging. The government’s reluctance to adopt an expansionary fiscal stance in response to the pandemic is a consequence of historical fiscal mismanagement rather than the Covid-19-induced economic shock. The emphasis on disinvestment in this budget, while welcome, risks a similar fate. The government will have to urgently double down in FY 22 to meet these targets.Second, expenditure increases in FY 21 were limited to subsidies and essential relief through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Overall, in FY 21, expenditure increased from a 13.53% of GDP Budget Estimates (BE) to 17.74% in RE. However, because GDP contracted significantly in FY 21, these numbers overstate the magnitude of increase in expenditure. It is important to note that transfers from centrally-sponsored schemes (including MGNREGS whose allocations increased by 81% over budget estimates) increased by 14%, suggesting significant contraction in expenditure for other schemes in FY 21. Finally, state governments, at the frontlines of the Covid-19 battle, have been forced to rely on market borrowing as their share in the central government taxes fell significantly. The consequences of this on state budgets, that have displayed far greater fiscal discipline than the Centre will be significant, in the long-term.As this column noted in a pre-budget piece, the post-lockdown economic recovery is showing signs of deepening structural inequality. Economic activity has reached near pre-pandemic levels, but this is largely profit-led. Large listed firms have profited at the cost of small firms and the informal sector. And the scars in the labour market, particularly informal labour, run deep. Reversing this trend is both a moral imperative and good economic sense — after all, if purchasing power remains low for the bulk of the economy, demand will collapse.In this context, the FY 22 budget ought to have increased expenditure for welfare, provided for an inclusive social protection architecture that protects vulnerable groups especially migrant workers, and increased capital expenditure. At first glance, the government has only done the last.Several important announcements have aimed at reforming what economist Arvind Subramanian has called the “software” — a bad bank, the proposal for a DFI, and bank recapitalisation. All of these are steps in the right direction. However, these increases will not immediately translate into employment and increased wages for the poor.There are continuing governance challenges, which will not be addressed overnight. In this context, it is a mistake to assume that FY 22 will present space to the government to curtail its welfare expenditures. But the FY 22 budget cuts allocations to food subsidy and MGNREGS. It offers no comfort that the government, in response to the migrant crisis, will address the extreme vulnerabilities faced by India’s informal sector and urban workers. Expenditure in FY 22 will see little planned growth over FY 21.The pandemic has disproportionately impacted India’s poor and vulnerable. The hope was that this budget would, by adopting an expansionist fiscal stance, respond to their needs while putting the economy back on track. It has not.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-the-budget-and-the-economics-of-welfare-101612199430638.html
