04-02-2021||Today's||Don’t force farm laws, let states decide for themselves||Over the last six months, so much has been said and written about the farmers’ agitation consequent to the enactment of the new farm bills, that I was wondering if anything more can be said for the bureaucrats and politicians engaged in defence of the farm bills that will make them understand that they are grossly wrong. It is not understood what is it that the government will lose if these laws are not implemented. Where is the urgency to implement something whose outcome is not easy to quantify? The government has been trying to convince people that these laws will help in attracting private investment in the agriculture sector, which will increase the farmer’s income. To achieve the goal to double farmer’s income will depend on multiple factors such as the size of farm holding, nature of crop, productivity levels and marketing facilities. This can never happen by one-size-fits-all farm laws. And there are millions of farmers who are not convinced. In fact, the farmers are agitating seeking the repeal of these laws as they feel the new laws will ensure that the present system of assured minimum support price will collapse, leading to the exploitation of the farmers at the hands of the private players. Ensure MSP for oilseeds, pulses and other crops The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act was enacted in Punjab in 1961, with a view to regulate sale, purchase, storage and processing of agricultural produce. Those were the times when India faced acute food shortages. When the Green Revolution started in Punjab, the central government was looking to build up food reserves and prevent shortages. This was followed by the minimum support price for wheat in 1966 and later for other crops. Over a period of time, the infrastructure created under the APMC Act, combined with MSP for wheat and paddy, not only reduced the shortages but created surpluses. Punjab and Haryana have been feeding the nation since the Green Revolution. In fact, paddy, which was never a traditional crop in Punjab and Haryana, has become one the main crops only because of MSP. Today, one of the undisclosed reasons for the enactment of the new farm laws is to bring down production of wheat and paddy and consequently reduce the burden of procurement. It is no secret that the central government has not been able to handle the surpluses in wheat and paddy. The new farm laws unfortunately are no solution to this. The solution lies in ensuring MSP and assured procurement for oilseeds, pulses and other crops where the government depends on imports. The farmer is willing to cultivate other crops in lieu of wheat and paddy, provided the returns on investment are assured through MSP and procurement. What is important is to understand that while there may be different views on this subject, one thing which should be clear to all policy makers in Delhi, is, that no immediate revolution is going to take place if the farm laws are implemented. The abstract concepts such as the new farm laws will open up new avenues for the farmers to increase their income, or the freedom to the farmer to sell to anyone and anywhere etc are concepts which do not ensure MSP. On the contrary, if these laws are not implemented, the policy makers can review the other options available, like devising schemes for assured MSP and procurement for crops other than wheat and paddy. The rural infrastructure created in Punjab and Haryana from income generated under APMC, has contributed to the overall development of these states, and hence should be the model. Enhance PDS, subsidise foodgrain exports India is big and diverse. Kerala does not have APMC or MSP, because it is not required in a state where most of the land is under coffee, rubber or coconut plantations, and the paddy produced in Kerala is for local consumption. The solution, therefore, is to allow the states to legislate on this subject, as agriculture and marketing are in the state list under the Constitution. The central government enacted these laws considering itself competent under entry 33 of the concurrent list which relates to trade. The Supreme Court may adjudicate, if the matter comes up before it. However, there is no reason why the states should not have the freedom to choose to follow the farm laws or not, depending on the requirements and circumstances of each state. Since MSP for wheat and paddy is mostly relevant to Punjab, Haryana and a few other states, the existing system should continue. To deal with the surpluses, the central government should enhance the public distribution system and subsidise exports of foodgrains. This will bring stability in agriculture production and allow the poor segment of society to a little better access to subsidised foodgrains. We should not forget that if all Indians had the purchasing power of citizens of western countries, there would be no surplus grain in India. Since the whole world subsidises for their farmers, let’s not deprive our farmers, who in any case are the poorest in the world. Private investment in agriculture welcome In the long run, private investment in agriculture is welcome. However, the final test of any policy is determined by the outcome in terms of who gains and who loses. In the present scenario, while the government claims that the farmer will gain, it is the farmer who thinks the opposite. Why should then the government force a law, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, where it has been seen that there are no takers for these laws. Let the states decide for themselves. That is the only solution. brbajaj@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab-cadre IAS officer. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dont-force-farm-laws-let-states-decide-for-themselves-101612448471947.html
04-02-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Opportunities, challenges and growth for the edtech sector||Few events in recent history have caused as much disruption, across spheres, as Covid-19. This rupture was most acutely felt in the realm of education. While e-commerce took seven years to pick momentum in India and billions of dollars to change consumer behaviour, this occurred almost overnight for the education technology (edtech) sector. The pandemic accelerated the adoption of digital education with the indefinite closure of educational institutes across the world. With prolonged lockdowns, people had little choice but to adapt and move their activities online. Unlike the resourceful information technology (IT) and IT enabled-services sectors, which could afford to adjust to the new normal, the Indian education system was ill-equipped and unprepared to move teaching and instructions online.Eventually, urban India caught on, after instituting new methodologies for conducting online classes. The story remains incomplete for semi-urban and rural India, as schools in large swathes of the country struggled to host sessions due to a paucity of resources. Nevertheless, the pandemic has opened up space, giving educational start-ups the opportunity to expand their businesses and reach.Receiving over $2.2 billion of funding, the Indian edtech sector dominated headlines through 2020. The edtech ecosystem has seen multiple players catering across different verticals — from supporting schools for K-12 education to after school learning, from the massive test preparation market to, now, the adult lifelong learning segment.One of the key reasons for the resounding growth of this sector has definitely been the “local first” approach of the players, where they have embraced vernacular languages as well as taken into account regional disparities while implementing solutions. Though global in approach, this sector has been able to use both India’s demographic dividend to its advantage and leveraged the Indian consumers’ price elasticity for quality education.While issues of access were, at some level, resolved by select service providers, the real opportunity lies in the huge numbers that this sector has the potential to cater to. India continues to have the largest number of young people in any country, and they need to be skilled and trained for the next decade.Both audio and video content are now being delivered live and on demand, allowing students and participants to work at their own pace, as need be. There have also been huge advances in tech as well as curriculum design to minimise the use of internet bandwidth, given that this remains a constraint for most of our country. The learning experience has evolved to become more holistic, by adding gamification, communities, flip classrooms and discussion forums. There is a greater possibility and ability to personalise feedback for students and allow for assessments and reinforced learning. With learning on the go a possibility, corporates and adults alike see this as a renewed option to upskill themselves while not compromising productivity.But there are real challenges too.The widening gap between the haves and have-nots, and the lack of affordable access to quality teachers, rank high among the challenges faced online or offline in the education space. In addition, given that sustenance is a significant issue for emerging edtech players, maintaining quality is a tough task, considering that there is a dearth of qualified teachers who are digitally literate.While the National Education Policy 2020 lays emphasis on maximising online education opportunities through virtual labs, meeting teaching standards will be a long and arduous task that will take years to accomplish. The language proficiencies of teachers and students, lack of motivation to participate wilfully, and limits in allocations on education in annual budgets, are some of the other glaring challenges.However, a developing economy such as India must aspire and continue to dream about achieving higher levels of literacy, quality education and integration of technology into the sector. Periodic assessments, redressal mechanisms, stakeholder consultation, and timely policy changes can prepare us in facing the challenges posed by the education sector in the future.Divya Jain is the founder and CEO of SafeducateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-opportunities-challenges-and-growth-for-the-edtech-sector-101612444940062.html
04-02-2021||Today's||The new avatar of the encryption wars||The government has proposed a new bill to regulate mathematics. The bill envisages that certain mathematical operations such as multiplication, division, LCM and GCD would be banned, if they are prime numbers and have more than 309 digits and a licensing regime, which would only allow licensed entities to perform these operations.If the above reads like a parody, it may soon cease to be and become reality.An Australian Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull declared in 2017 that, “The laws of mathematics are very commendable, but the only law that applies in Australia is the law of Australia”.In a joint communique issued on October 11, 2020, the Five Eye nations (United States, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Canada), along with Japan and India, stated, “Particular implementations of encryption technology... pose significant challenges to public safety, including to highly vulnerable members of our societies like sexually exploited children” and called upon technology companies to enable “law enforcement access to content in a readable and usable format where an authorisation is lawfully issued, is necessary and proportionate, and is subject to strong safeguards and oversight”.The specific implementation of encryption technology that has worried governments the world over is the Signal protocol (E2EE), which guarantees that even intermediaries who provide these services will not be able to decrypt these messages in transit. It also guarantees plausible deniability, where if someone receives an encrypted message from you, they can be absolutely sure you sent it (rather than having been forged by some third party), but can’t prove to anyone else that it was a message you wrote.A variation of their anxieties played out in India, in the “WhatsApp traceability debate”, where the government pushed for traceability (Tell me who the sender is), but also said that it does not want to break end-to-end encryption, an impossible request, as sender deniability is at the heart of the end-to-end encryption. When repeatedly rebuffed by WhatsApp, an attempt was made to resolve the matter through the judicial system to compel the intermediaries (WhatsApp) to stop deploying messaging systems that use E2EE.Given this background, the use of children in the statement to build a case for banning E2EE is interesting because it uses a propaganda technique called Pedophrasty, where children are invoked to prop up an argument, and make the opponents against the argument look like unprincipled savages and make everyone else suspend all rational and critical thinking, and agree to the argument.But we must not agree to this dangerous set of proposals, as they are a continuum to the encryption wars, which started in the 1970s, where Western governments tried to limit use of encryption technologies by using export controls and ultimately failed.In the 1990s, the National Security Agency in the US proposed the use of “Clipper Chip” in every phone, which implemented encryption but gave backdoor access to the US government. After Matt Blaze showed how rogue applications can use the chip to access data without the government backdoor, this attempt was abandoned.In 2010, Google published a blog post, detailing how Chinese state backed hackers, attacked Gmail to spy on Chinese human rights advocates via a backdoor, installed by Google at the behest of the US government in Gmail to comply with search warrants on users. When Ericsson put backdoors into Vodafone products and deployed these in Greece for aiding law enforcement, these backdoors were used to spy on the Greek prime minister, by unknown perpetrators, who were never found.All these incidents point out two fundamental realities. The first one is that backdoors are always dual-use and can be used by anyone and, hence, they don’t keep anyone safe. The second is that E2EE is safe and easy enough for anyone to use and hence has achieved mainstream adoption. This has made the usual approach preferred by law enforcement agencies of coercing intermediaries to put backdoors irrelevant and obsolete.Outlawing E2EE deployment and forcing intermediaries to comply with these proposed rules or leave the country by threatening to shut down their business operations, hence, may become the preferred policy response. But these rules, even if they become the law everywhere, are doomed to fail, in the same way, the discovery of irrational numbers (square root of 2) could not be suppressed by drowning its inventor Hippasus, in the sea, as it takes only a rented computer at ₹700 a month to run a back-end service implementing E2EE.If existing intermediaries are forced to abandon it, others like EncroChat (popular among drug cartels) will step in and fill the void. The busting of EncroChat, when law enforcement agencies successfully penetrated the drug cartels by putting a “tool” in its servers, also indicates that it is possible to work around E2EE in some cases, using offensive technical measures by compromising endpoints. It would also be a far more proportionate measure than attempting to ban mathematical equations.Anand Venkatanarayanan researches disinformation, cyber weapons and data security and is a privacy advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-new-avatar-of-the-encryption-wars-101612444931535.html
04-02-2021||Today's||India’s long game with the Generals||There was no diplomatic soft talk in India’s response to the military coup in Myanmar. Among the first countries to react, India’s statement was crystal clear, expressing “deep concern” about the future of democracy and the rule of law.Such harsh words are not just out of moral solidarity with Aung San Suu Kyi and other democrats detained. They reflect India’s long-held understanding that democracy is the only model for Myanmar to achieve political stability, internal security and sustainable development. This is why India went out of its way to support Myanmar’s democratic transition since 2011 with economic assistance and capacity-building programmes. And when National Security Adviser Ajit Doval visited Myanmar in 2015 to attend the signing of a peace deal with insurgent groups, he was also expressing India’s support for a democratic process to end the country’s many armed conflicts.It may be often tempting to describe India’s Myanmar policy as suffering from a dilemma between values and interest. There is no such confusion in practice: India’s interest in Myanmar has always been guided strategically by the centrality of democracy to ensure deeper ties. However, as former diplomat IP Khosla observed, India has also learned to accept that “the liberal democratic paradigm will not automatically come about” in Myanmar, nor in any other part of India’s politically volatile neighbourhood.So while Indian policymakers have always been clear about their democratic endgame in Myanmar, they also recognise that pragmatic adjustments are sometimes necessary to engage with the military, which remains the ultimate guarantor of internal stability and order. This is similar to 60 years ago, when the Burmese armed forces, also known as Tatmadaw, first took over power to end a decade of democratic reforms in the 1950s. The coup of March 1962 was a severe setback for India’s investment in a federal, democratic Burma under the leadership of Nehru’s great friend U Nu. However, with the democratic regime in deep crisis, it made sense to engage General Ne Win to protect Indian interests, including cross-border insurgencies, China’s influence and the safety of the larger Indian diaspora.A young Indian diplomat then posted at the embassy in Yangon, Eric Gonsalves, recalls that “we were fairly confident that the Generals were going to remain and there would be no return to the democratic set-up.” Despite his personal distress at the imprisonment of his friend and the end of Burmese democracy, Nehru gave the green light for India to become one of the first countries to recognise the military regime, even before China. Sixty years later, the situation is strikingly similar. It is likely that this week, the ministry of external affairs would have, at least internally, shared Gonsalves’ realistic assessment. For the time being, New Delhi will, therefore, say what it can and do what it must — in public, India will push for democracy but in private it will pivot to engage with Myanmar’s new military regime.This marks a return to India’s dual policy of the 2000s, when it built a relationship of high-level trust with the Myanmar military while also nudging and supporting the Generals to embrace democratic reforms. This approach was first crafted in the late 1990s by Shyam Saran, then India’s ambassador in Yangon, and executed in 2000 with a rare display of successful defence diplomacy led by Army chief VP Malik.This was no easy task. Western analysts criticised India for blindly engaging Myanmar. At the United Nations (UN), India came under attack for not supporting sanctions and condemnatory resolutions, especially during the failed 2007 democratic uprising. And in his 2010 address to the Indian Parliament, President Barack Obama openly expressed American disappointment that India had “shied away” from its democratic responsibility towards Myanmar. Despite such pressure, India stood firm and also paid a price for it. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, for example, declined two invitations and only visited Myanmar in 2012, after the democratic opening.The carefully calibrated policy of the 2000s will serve India well today, where circumstances are even more favourable. Thanks to the rise of China, the United States (US) and the European Union (EU) are now more wary of isolating Myanmar. Under the Act East and Neighbourhood First policies, India has deepened its relations with Myanmar across political, military, security, diplomatic and economic tracks. And the Tatmadaw is now also less enamoured of China and keen to deepen relations with India.But New Delhi will still have to work hard to pursue its democratic realist policy in Myanmar. Two main challenges arise. The first will be to preserve trust with the Generals even while keeping up the pressure to restore a democratic order. Delhi will have to keep the relationship going at the highest level to ensure that the Generals respect India’s core concerns. This includes the Naga peace process, keeping an eye on China’s activities, and cross-border connectivity initiatives.The second challenge will be for India to coordinate its position internationally and buy itself manoeuvring space to engage Myanmar. The US and the EU are still likely to be less understanding of India’s position than the Association of South-East Asian Nations and Japan. Especially at the UN Security Council, India could play an important role to bridge differences and develop a common platform to nudge Myanmar back on to the democratic track.Constantino Xavier is a fellow at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-long-game-with-the-generals-101612444928293.html
04-02-2021||Today's||In Bengal, the salience of Jai Shri Ram||Jai Shri Ram has become a mudradosh (a catchphrase) for us”, said a voter, belonging to the Matua community, in Thakurnagar, West Bengal. “We started using it to tease the Trinamool, but now it has become as natural as saying good morning in English.” When asked how Jai Durga or Jai Kali — associated more deeply with Bengal — hadn’t, instead, become the rallying cry, he responded, “Ram is as familiar to us as you.”As West Bengal heads to the polls, it is at the intersection of changing cultural contours, shifting political dynamics and contested identity claims. Identity is always a two-way process. A particular mode of recognition by a group requires others to endorse it. Thus, the claim that Bengal is the intellectual-heartland of India is shared by a vast section of non-Bengalis, thereby constituting the image of the state being different. Irrespective of the changing political context in the last four decades, from the Left Front to Trinamool Congress (TMC) rule, the Bhadraloks (the cultural elite) have been fierce custodians of Bengal’s sense of exceptionalism and guarded it passionately. For instance, a quintessential Bhadralok would condemn and lament the rising assertive religiosity in other parts of the country while defending Durga Pujo in Bengal primarily as a social gathering.However, since 2018, political shifts and social changes, particularly among the subaltern sections in rural and mofussil Bengal, have raised questions about the Bhadralok sense of entitlement in representing and speaking for the state. What Bengal is witnessing is a new wave of subaltern assertion, using the instrument of Hindutva to push the narrative.The growing political and cultural salience of the Jai Shri Ram slogan in Bengal was reflected in three key moments — first, during the 2018 communal riot in Asansol on the occasion of Ramnavami; second, as chanted by people when chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s motorcade passed through Chandrakona in West Midnapore and Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas in May 2019; and, finally, on January 23, when the slogan was raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Banerjee during the celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary in Kolkata.The Bhadralok response to the slogan has been one of unease. It claims that the slogan has never been a part of Bengal’s religiosity and is almost alien to the land, and therefore, those invoking must be the migrants from neighbouring states. These incidents are also seen as the handiwork of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). However, a closer look would reveal that this argument, defending the specificity of Bengali religiosity and shifting the blame entirely to the BJP and migrants is not only untrue, but also fails to take into account the role played by the TMC. It also ignores ground realities.After having travelled through all 294 assembly constituencies in the state, four ground realities become apparent.One, the BJP, outside Kolkata, is organisationally weak and, even after a spree of defections from the incumbent, lacks strong local leadership. Two, an overwhelming majority of Hindus are polarised against the TMC, allegedly on account of rampant corruption and systemic violence by the ruling party’s rank and file in connivance with the state police. Three, it is primarily the erstwhile supporters of the Left who have been at the receiving end of the TMC’s excesses, and are now clamouring for “revenge”. And, finally, barring few pockets such as parts of Murshidabad, Malda and Dinajpur, both the Left and the Congress are not considered as credible alternative by pro-change voters. Thus, the BJP has become the default beneficiary of the existing resentment against the TMC.Even a cursory look at the intersection of these facts shows that the salience of the slogan has deeper roots. If the BJP is so weak outside Kolkata, crediting it, albeit negatively, with the ability to provoke citizens in different parts of the state to mock, challenge, and finally bear the brunt of the chief minister’s anger, by chanting Jai Shri Ram, doesn’t add up. The search for the underlying forces behind the slogan should be directed at the social realm and the role played by the TMC itself.Travels on the ground, primarily the interiors of south Bengal, reveal the everydayness of Jai Shri Ram greetings, chants and sloganeering among a vast section of Bengalis who are opposed to the TMC.For instance, respondents across castes at Chowkbazar in Balrampur assembly constituency in Purulia defended the slogan as a way of getting back at the TMC supporters — and alleged that the district president of the TMC ridiculed their sentiment by asking who is Ram. A school teacher at Bishnupur claimed Ram to be an integral part of everyday life, and argued how Ramayana is inscribed even in the world famous Baluchari silk sarees. At Habra in N orth 24 Parganas, a group of respondents expressed their anger at the government arresting some people for using the slogan. Ironically, in most of these places, then same people lamented the poor organisational profile of the BJP.The story of Jai Shri Ram goes beyond the BJP in Bengal. It has become a code of solidarity, a way of greeting, and a signal of anti-TMC consolidation. And it has become an everyday tool of political demarcation not only against the TMC but also against the patronising attitude of the old elites who privilege ideology over the everyday precarious experience of the subalterns. It signifies the fusion of the subaltern with Hindutva against the worldviews of Bhadraloks.Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples PulseThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-bengal-the-salience-of-jai-shri-ram-101612363734119.html
04-02-2021||Today's||A budget for a ‘project finance economy’||This year’s budget revealed the mindset of a confident and unapologetic India. In this newspaper, on January 22, I had argued for the need for developing economies such as India to view themselves as “project finance” economies and not “working capital” economies of the developed West. While a developed economy has good infrastructure, near full employment and high per capita income so that it has the revenue base to meet its expenditures, a country with low per capita income, high disguised unemployment and poor infrastructure needs to borrow to meet its required expenditures.Project finance economies need to build the infrastructure lacking in their nations so that they can increase the productivity of their economies. Sustainable growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) cannot be achieved without plugging the gap in hard and soft infrastructure. What is important is to ensure that the borrowing is well-directed and spent on the right things. It is in this context that I applaud this year’s budget.Finance Minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman was not coy in signalling to the world her intent to spend to grow out of the pandemic. She was not cowed down by the constraining orthodoxy of neo-classical economic thinking that inhibited action in the past. The budget was bold and unafraid in a crisis year. It combined pragmatism in some areas, with a bold attack on the traditional holy cows of old and did not fall prey to ineffective symbolism and needless populist tinkering.Sitharaman broke with the constraint imposed by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. It transparently accounted for expenditures and openly stated the true deficit this year at 9.5% and targeted a deficit of 6.8% next year. She was clear that critical spending on infrastructure, health and education could not be delayed if India was to recover its old growth path. Revenue expenditures and some subsidy allocations were reduced, but capital expenditure was sharply increased. All this was done without tinkering with direct taxes and only some minor adjustments in tariffs and indirect taxes. Policy signalled consistency and an attempt was made at reducing tax harassment by reducing the time frame within which tax cases could be taken up and tried.The outlay for hard infrastructure was increased to ₹5.54 lakh crore from ₹4.39 crore spent this year. The allocation was spread on roads, rail, urban infrastructure, ports, shipping, waterways, and airports. Another important area which continued to attract focus was water ( ₹2,87,000 crore allocation over five years) — a key requirement for the population, a basic human need which brings important side benefits in respect of health and hygiene. State power distribution companies were, at the same time, asked to get ready for competition to shake up this vital sector.The pandemic had put a focus on India’s crumbling health care system. The finance minister increased allocation for health care to ₹22,3846 crore as against ₹94,452 crore this year, a 137% increase, with ₹35,000 crore of that amount earmarked for vaccines. The signal here is very important but we all recognise this to be a multi-year journey. Perhaps some more could have been done for education and skilling, but one hopes it is recognised as a critical area for coming budgets.The measures for the financial sector were long-overdue. The finance minister announced the reversal of the policy on development finance institutions by setting aside ₹20,000 crore to establish one to supplement the needs of India’s infrastructure. She also announced the setting up of a bad bank to facilitate the resolution of bad loans and cleaning up of bank balance sheets to spur credit growth in the economy.But the announcement of privatisation, yes privatisation, of two public sector banks in addition to IDBI Bank, one general insurer, the listing of Life Insurance Company and allowing 74% foreign investment in insurance, were pathbreaking. To raise resources for these expenditures, the government wants aggressive disinvestment and asset monetisation. In addition to providing resources, these actions increase the efficiency of the sectors and signal a return to the maxim of maximum governance minimum government.My two concerns on the budget relate to implementation. First, we must ensure the divestment targets are met unlike in the past. Divestment is always political, complicated but vital. Second, the government should earmark a certain minimum spending on soft infrastructure and target outcome goals it monitors and share these with the nation in Parliament. Outcomes in health and education are as important as sharing the fiscal deficit figure. The government should focus on the level of monitoring required — a monthly FM-led review and a quarterly prime minister-led review — to ensure the programme stays on track.This budget boldly espoused a project finance economy mindset — based on spending with confidence on hard and soft infrastructure to improve the productive capacity of the country. FM Nirmala Sitharaman deserves high praise for betting on unlocking India’s full potential and setting it on a path to growth. I doff my hat to you, Madam FM.Janmejaya Sinha is chairman, BCG IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-budget-for-a-project-finance-economy-101612363254090.html
04-02-2021||Today's||Does the budget meet India’s defence requirements?||Until 2019, defence spending made headlines around just two events in a year. The first was when the Union budget was tabled in Parliament, and the second was when the Swedish thinktank, SIPRI, released its formidable comparative military expenditure report.That scenario changed in FY 2020-21. China’s incursions in Ladakh highlighted the urgent and long-term need to prioritise defence. It brought home the point that the central focus of military planning should be China, not Pakistan. This need for prioritisation came even as the pandemic caused a drop in both economic activity and government revenue. Given this backdrop, the government had a challenging task on its hands. There are four key takeaways from the Union Budget 2021-22 for defence.One, despite the China challenge, there seems to be no proportional increase in the priority accorded to defence spending. Although defence minister Rajnath Singh was quick to thank the Prime Minister and Finance Minister for increasing the defence budget to ₹4.78 lakh crores, the reality is less encouraging. This number represents a mere ₹7,000 crore increase over the FY 2020-21 budget number. Moreover, if we account for the revised spending estimate of FY 2020-21, defence spending is set to reduce by 1.35%.Two, the capital outlay on defence services, of which defence modernisation expenditure is a part, doesn’t seem to have factored in the urgency either. While the defence minister highlighted that capital expenditure of ₹1.35 lakh crore was an increase of 19% over the last budget, the situation is less reassuring when one looks at the fine print. The government ended up spending nearly ₹0.21 lakh crore more on capital outlay in FY 2020-21 than it had initially planned. In FY 2021-22, it merely seeks to continue spending at the same levels.This increase would still be good news if the higher spending was on account of new schemes, but that doesn’t seem to be the case. The largest component of the increase in capital expenditure (nearly 40%) is on the line item “other equipment—Air Force”. It is unclear whether this is for new acquisitions or for meeting committed liabilities since budget documents do not make this distinction. This issue is crucial because the Standing Committee on Defence, in 2019, had observed that the budget allocation for modernisation covering both committed liabilities and new schemes did not meet committed liabilities itself. It is likely that the higher capital outlay is on account of payments for committed liabilities such as the payments for equipment purchased before recent events on the Ladakh border.Three, the budget allocated for defence pensions is lower by nearly ₹0.18 lakh crore compared to the FY 2020-21 budget. Pension expenditure cannot fall by 13% without a decrease in the number of retirees or a reduction in each retiree’s amount. While reducing pension expenditure over the long-term is an important goal, going back on existing commitments made to retirees would be counterproductive. It is likely that the government is trying to spread pension commitments over multiple years in light of the fiscal situation. Some reports suggest that this reduction reflects the government’s proposal to increase the retirement age of officers. However, this alone would still not explain the fall. It could also be that previous years’ payments included arrears that have been compensated for already.Four, the defence ministry’s plan for raising revenue on its own is unclear. There was no mention of the sale of assets of ordnance factories, defence public sector units, or surplus defence land. The Fifteenth Finance Commission has recommended the creation of a non-lapsable fund for modernisation, a long-standing demand of the ministry. Whether the government will put this recommendation into action starting FY 2021-22 remains to be seen. Until then, the government plans to meet existing defence requirements by borrowing from the market.The key lesson from the budget is that sudden increases in defence spending are unlikely in the post-pandemic recovery phase. Military planning for the future needs major doctrinal shifts to counter the threat posed by China and Pakistan. Hopes of a quantum jump in defence expenditure should be laid to rest.Pranay Kotasthane is a researcher on strategic public finance at The Takshashila Institution, BengaluruThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/does-the-budget-meet-india-s-defence-requirements-101612360493530.html
