07-02-2021||Today's||Make public transport safe for women||The finance minister’s emphasis on women working across all sectors, and in night shifts with adequate protection, is positive. But for this to work, a prerequisite is ensuring their safe and sustainable mobility in cities. Urban planning should be reviewed keeping in mind the safety of women. For rural India, the challenges are different and more daunting.Due to poor planning in many urban areas, women do not have access to safe or affordable transportation. The pandemic has further reduced financial resources available to women and this must be factored into public transport planning.For a start, the police, transport authorities and civil society organisations have to work together to help in ensuring that women don’t face any form of sexual or other violence in public transport. This is one reason why women are reluctant to use public transport, which reduces their ability to go to and from work. There are enough CCTVs in urban areas, but that alone does not ensure safety for women.There has to be adequate lighting in urban spaces as many women have to walk long distances from metro or bus stations to reach home. Many urban spaces are not well-lit or effectively patrolled in the evenings. Women should be involved in decision-making in urban planning so that their concerns are factored in when framing plans. There are some initiatives in other cities which are worth studying.In London, its public transport operator uses information technology, which has led to solutions to address women’s safety and easy mobility. Among the ideas generated were fare discounts and step-free buses as women often combine domestic chores with work and may have to carry large packages, which hinder their mobility.In addition, there must be regular safety audits in urban spaces and public transport systems through which authorities can frame better ways to work out programmes for safety.A social enterprise working on data collection for safer cities, Safetipin, collected data from five cities, namely Bhopal, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Pune, which showed that women tend not to venture out into public spaces after dark. Some of the reasons cited were poor visibility due to high-boundary walls and lack of well-lit walking paths. Safetipin has also mapped safety scores for public spaces in order to identify ways in which safety for women can be improved.There has been an earlier suggestion that cities should promote the presence of hawkers in public areas as this would ensure greater street activity and, thus, improve safety for women on their way to and from home.In addition, there must be efforts by employers to provide safe transportation wherever possible for women at affordable rates. If local government bodies work with the police, areas which are unsafe for women can be identified and patrolling improved.Public spaces and transport should be a major focus so that women are able to fully participate in the workforce without any fear of violence. With economic distress due to the pandemic, there is going to be more pressure than ever on women to contribute to the household income. And this must be enabled in every possible way, starting with upgrading public infrastructure.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/make-public-transport-safe-for-women-101612621008097.html
07-02-2021||Today's||The dilemmas in regulating online speech||On February 3, the Indian government issued a stark warning to Twitter for having defied its order to block access to around 250 accounts that had posted tweets in the context of the farm protests. In an 18-page missive, Twitter was told it was in no position to determine the “impracticability or the disproportionality of the said measure”.“Twitter… is an intermediary bound by the orders of the Central Government,” said the letter, with a warning that Twitter India executives could face punishment, including jail terms. The trigger was the social media company’s position that it found the posts and accounts to “constitute free speech” and “newsworthy”. “Protecting public conversation and transparency is fundamental to the work we do at Twitter,” a representative told multiple media organisations, off the record.The exchange underscored the political sensitivities around the farm protests. But more importantly, it could become the first shot to be fired in a battle that holds implications for free speech, regulation of technology, and, possibly, even geopolitics. At the core of this confrontation is a simple question: Who has the mandate to regulate speech online — the State or the private entity running the service?There is no easy answer. In 2011, Facebook and Twitter helped the citizens of Egypt launch a most successful pro-democracy movement. The role of social media in bringing about the Arab Spring was captured succinctly in a protester’s tweet: “We use Facebook to schedule the protests, Twitter to coordinate, and YouTube to tell the world.”On February 11, 2011, hundreds of thousands of people gathered at Tahrir Square succeeded in their revolution, just like their counterparts in Tunisia had a month earlier, while also leveraging technology.In a more recent example, from 2019, anti-China protests in Hong Kong too were mobilised and coordinated over social media and digital networks. But this campaign did not have the same sort of success seen in Egypt and Tunisia. The Great Firewall of China — where the government has close control over what can and cannot be said online — has now descended upon Hong Kong.In these three instances — particularly the first two — online speech helped address the information asymmetry between a State that did not enjoy popular support and the people.But the evolution of technology in the social media domain during this decade has created vulnerabilities, which are being exploited by bad actors to strike at the heart of democracy and democratic institutions. This was most visible in 2016, when political disinformation is believed to have influenced the United States presidential election and the Brexit referendum.Because social media companies held up principles of free speech against the State, it gave the people of Egypt and Tunisia a chance to express their will. At the same time, because social media companies failed to stop the abuse of their platform, the will of the people in the United States and the United Kingdom — at least to some degree — was manipulated.The temporality of these examples is relevant too. They suggest that increasingly, social media companies have not been — by virtue of being unwilling or simply ill-prepared — able to prevent the abuse of their platform. When their passivity to content moderation has often led to the rise of misinformation and disinformation, their algorithms have actively propagated harm and marginalisation.The origins of social media trace back to cyberutopianism, where early activists wanted the medium to help emancipate the oppressed from the oppressor. In the last 20 years, the internet has undoubtedly risen to that role — the MeToo movement and Black Lives Matter are only the most recent in a long list of success stories.Ultimately, then, the entity that holds the best mandate to regulate speech online is a democratic, rules-based institution. This does not often translate into the State, and it almost certainly cannot be embodied by a private corporation. The world needs to evolve an independent, impartial domain — almost similar to an independent judiciary — to help navigate the dilemmas at the heart of regulating online speech.binayak.dasgupta@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-dilemmas-in-regulating-online-speech-101612620997912.html
07-02-2021||Today's||The global scrutiny of Indian democracy||The farm protests — in opposition to the government’s measures and the new laws to liberalise agricultural markets — have continued to intensify. After the shocking violence and vandalism on Republic Day, farm groups went into a huddle and it appeared that the protests would lose momentum. But when the Uttar Pradesh Police sought to disperse protesters from Ghazipur, at Delhi’s borders, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, Rakesh Tikait’s resistance and emotive appeal led to a renewal of the agitation.The images of thousands of protesters, continuing to oppose the State for months, in a largely non-violent manner, lend themselves to a captivating narrative and evoke solidarity. Even those who believe that the farmers are wrong in their demands or have been maximalist during negotiations cannot but help admire the tenacity and determination of this mass movement.But when this image is coupled with images of what can be seen as a degree of State coercion — either through heavy police deployment or barricades or orders of internet shutdowns or first information reports against journalists or arrests of ground-based reporters — then the narrative of ordinary citizens fighting for their livelihood against an insensitive State gets enhanced traction.This is the broad explanation for the range of international reactions to the farm protests. But this response cannot be understood in isolation.Ever since Narendra Modi’s impressive electoral victory in 2014, and even more so since his resounding triumph in the 2019 elections, there has been a story that has gained increased attention in the West. This is the story of India’s perceived democratic backsliding. The overwhelming tone and nature of the international media’s coverage of contentious domestic political issues reinforce a narrative that India is turning back on its democratic, secular, pluralist roots and its open and free society is no longer as open and as free.The under-representation and exclusion of minorities from the power structure of the ruling party; instances of hate speech by members of organisations broadly associated with the ideological worldview of the ruling dispensation; and a set of laws and policies — from the effective abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the subsequent detention of leaders and crackdown on connectivity to the process to update the National Register of Citizens in Assam, which left out 1.9 million residents of the state, from the enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the Shaheen Bagh protests to the Delhi riots — have all fed into this perception that India is sliding back from its constitutional roots. The recent international response to the farm protests has to be seen in this wider context, for in itself, the agitation may not have elicited a response except from Sikh members of the diaspora.The government believes this narrative is unfair. After all, it is through the democratic route that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come to power in two consecutive elections. It also believes that this international criticism is a result of a campaign by domestic political rivals and activists who have been unable to mount an effective domestic opposition to the regime and thus seek support from elsewhere. Political managers in the BJP are convinced that, in this case, international criticism has little to do with the farm laws or the nature of agricultural markets or the direction of Indian economic reforms — but guided solely by an attempt to undermine Modi internationally and box the Indian State into a corner. This narrative, many in the government believe, is also being encouraged by India’s geopolitical adversaries directly or indirectly.The problem, however, for the government is that irrespective of what it sees as the flaws in the liberal international narrative on India, this narrative is becoming more entrenched. If India were not a democracy, or if it did not care about its image as a responsible and rule-abiding member of the international community, which respected human rights internally, this may not have mattered — after all, there are a range of countries with a far worse record on civil liberties which continue to escape the same level of scrutiny.But for India, democracy is both a matter of pride and a geopolitical asset. It is not a coincidence that all members of the Quad are democracies and the intent of the framework is to contain the belligerence of an authoritarian dictatorship such as China or that its democratic values give India tremendous soft power in the region and beyond. The fact that there is a new administration in Washington, which will be far more amenable to the views of human rights groups as well as factor in international media coverage, adds to the challenge. Dismissing the narrative, therefore, is not an option.The government, then, has a choice. It can feel that the only way to counter what it sees as mischievous propaganda is by doubling down and converting it into an instrument of nationalist mobilisation. This week, what appeared to be coordinated tweets from political leaders, ministers, and a range of Indian celebrities in defence of Indian sovereignty was an outcome of such a strategy. This may even be helpful domestically and put critics on a backfoot.But it doesn’t help in countering the challenge posed by the perception that Indian democracy is in trouble. And that is why the most effective response is not by issuing a statement but by strengthening India’s democratic framework — ensuring a political structure which is more inclusive of the country’s minorities; enabling independent institutions to work independently, even if their decisions, at times, go against what the executive would prefer; deploying a more consultative and democratic method of resolving differences internally; stepping back from any measures that can be interpreted as cracking down on freedom of citizens; and evolving a more collaborative relationship with the parliamentary Opposition to send out a message of national unity on key issues.This isn’t always easy. For instance, in the case of the farm laws, the government has clearly indicated its willingness to negotiate, offered to stay the laws for 18 months, and address any issues the farmers may have. This is an interest-based negotiation. Unfortunately, this has run up against the position-based one of the farmers — that the laws be repealed for a start.India has the right to take its own decisions, frame its own laws, and work according to its own nationally defined priorities. Its democratically elected government has the mandate to push legislative changes and reorient policies within the framework of law. But at a time of global interconnectedness, there is bound to be enhanced scrutiny of its internal record. The focus should be to improve that record and communicate more effectively to the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-global-scrutiny-of-indian-democracy-101612620956741.html
07-02-2021||Today's||The persistence of the employment crisis||For the vast majority of us, the economy boils down to a simple matter of employment and jobs. Without one, most of us are broke. And nothing shatters self-esteem more than being unemployed. So, this Sunday morning, let’s analyse the budget in terms of the problem of employment and how effectively it’s been tackled.The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), widely acknowledged as the principal authority on employment, says immediately after the lockdown, over 120 million lost jobs. By December, when the finance minister (FM) was preparing the budget, employment was still 14.7 million below pre-Covid-19 levels. Other surveys put that figure at 18 million. However, in January, employment increased by 11.9 million. But, compared to January 2020, it was still 9.8 million lower.This hides the fact that many who have found jobs were forced to accept lower levels of remuneration. Salaried employees were worst hit with 21 million lost jobs. Within this category, white-collar professionals saw jobs reduced by 31%. The next worst-affected were industrial workers, with 26% lost jobs.Dig deeper and the problem of employment has other worrying roots. India’s labour force participation rate hovers around 40%. The global rate is 66%. We’re far behind. It’s even worse when you focus on female labour participation. Official statistics establish its fallen 8% to 23% between 2011-12 and 2017-18. CMIE puts it even lower at 11%. In comparison, female labour participation in Bangladesh is 30%, in Indonesia 39% and Thailand 45%. India is the odd one out.So the conclusion is clear — the budget was presented when unemployment is a serious problem and against the historic background of very low labour participation and dismally worrying female labour participation.Now, what did the budget do about this? Let me quote Mahesh Vyas, CEO of CMIE: “The Government of India does not recognise any employment problem in the country,” he said. “The Finance Minister’s speech contained no specific scheme to help the unemployed or to generate employment directly.”Let’s start with rural unemployment. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is designed to tackle this. But the FM slashed next year’s allocation by almost 35%. So not only has its importance diminished but, as Vyas picked up, Sitharaman did not mention MGNREGS in her speech. That silence is telling.In interviews, the FM said the budget’s schemes to promote textiles and infrastructure, particularly roads and housing, will create a substantial number of jobs. But will they? Infrastructure has a long gestation period and its allocations are often unspent or tied up in bureaucratic knots. This is why Vyas says the allocation for roads and housing “is unlikely to make a material difference to employment”. He has a similar conclusion for the scheme to promote textiles. It’s “unlikely to move the needle on employment much”.Not being an economist, I can’t confirm Vyas’s conclusions. But as our most widely acknowledged authority on employment, his doubts and the language he’s used are worth noting. They could be an important note of caution.What I find inexplicable and politically insensitive is the government’s lack of acknowledgement of the fact 120 million lost jobs last year. Their lives and their children’s futures could have been destroyed. Yet there were no words of sympathy and comfort. It’s almost as if we don’t remember the tens of millions forced to walk back to their villages, their lives decimated, their futures uncertain.Once again, let me quote Vyas: “The Economic Survey and the Finance Minister’s speech did not recognise, in any manner, the fact that scores of millions of Indians lost livelihoods in 2020-21.” He makes a further telling point. Most people who lost jobs found ways of surviving without help from the government. It seems that will be the case next financial year too.So, this Sunday, when you read glowing praise for the budget from industrialists and bankers don’t forget the unemployed millions who have found little succour. Many of them can’t afford a Sunday newspaper.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-persistence-of-the-employment-crisis-101612620938067.html
