14-02-2021||Today's||Culture needs more government support||Culture occupies prime space in our political imagination and enriches our daily lives in myriad ways. But how much of this sentiment has got translated into government support for culture? The budget offers a window into State priorities. Allocations for the ministry of culture (MoC) announced in this year stand at ₹2,688 crore, ₹461 crore less than last year. This 15% reduction comes on top of a 30% mid-year downward revision of the culture budget for last year due to the lockdown. This apathy towards culture, reflected in low levels of public spending, is not surprising. Over the years, regardless of the ruling dispensation, the will to support the sector has been declining. Actual expenditure by MoC, as a percentage of GDP, has reduced from a mere 0.017% in 2010-11 to 0.012% in 2019-20. This alarming trend was flagged by the Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Culture in 2020, when it noted that with inflation factored in, there is nil growth in allocations made to MoC in the last five years.Tracing just one of the mandates of MoC — promotion of arts through fellowships and various akademies — demonstrates the dismal status of spending. The Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana, an umbrella scheme for scholarships and pensions, has been cut to half, from ₹310 crore in 2018–19 to ₹168 crore in 2021–22. Of the ₹310 crore allocated, only ₹202 crore was spent. Further, the number of beneficiaries is minuscule. In 2016–17, 283 scholars were selected for the Award of Young Artistes and only ₹4,000 per month pension was provided to 3,133 artistes. The 2018 PSC report found these numbers disappointing, given the country’s vast artistic community and recommended increasing coverage, but MoC remained non-committal.Similarly, allocations to academies have been stagnant around ₹350 crore, and fell this year to ₹341 crore. They are also ridden with vacancies — out of 878 posts, 262 were vacant as on March 31, 2020. Besides poor resource provisions, the functioning of these akademies has invited the ire of various committees. The PSC in in 2013 and a high-powered committee in 2014 noted multiple points that needed resolution — lack of synergy between institutions; need for a grievance redressal body to tackle institutional complaints; and delays in disbursing scholarships. Most of these recommendations were either ignored or shot down by MoC, with insufficient explanations.One of the reasons for policy gaps has been attributed to the absence of a comprehensive cultural directory — if we do not know who we are spending for, how will we know how much to spend. To this end, an ambitious cultural mapping mission was launched in 2015 with an outlay of ₹3,000 crore. Six years later, the exercise has failed to take off — out of ₹43 crore allocated, only ₹1 crore has been utilised. Efforts to identify artistes across the country were supposedly abandoned due to lack of IT and administrative support.The government, beyond its own budgetary allocations, also has the reach to create fund-attracting conditions for the sector. MoC, in the ongoing budget session, reported that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) spend dropped from ₹306 crore in 2016–17 to ₹48 crore in 2019–20. Further, the National Culture Fund (NCF), set up to enable private participation in cultural preservation, has been dormant. This makes one wonder as to what prevents the government from encouraging spending on culture through CSR, NCF and other measures.As in other sectors, the pandemic has adversely impacted art and culture, but only more severely. Many art forms and practices are on the verge of extinction or decay as they have been languishing over decades for want of resources. The immediate need is for the artistic community to unequivocally pursue its right to public spending on culture and cultivate the political and administrative will for the same. For, it is the government that has to be the primary enabler and patron of the arts — no culture has survived without it.Padmapriya Janakiraman leads Sahapedia’s cultural mapping project. Maansi Verma is a researcher with Sahapedia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/culture-needs-more-government-support-101613227355110.html
14-02-2021||Today's||Narendra Modi’s new political narrative||Over the past week, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi spoke in Parliament thrice — while responding to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and bidding farewell to retiring Rajya Sabha members, particularly Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, Ghulam Nabi Azad. The speeches throw up a broad outline of PM Modi’s new political narrative, the areas of focus for the government, and the possible political faultlines ahead.There is no doubt that PM Modi is an effective communicator — not just in mass meetings and election rallies, but in the House too, which requires a more calibrated approach and a mix of asserting one’s position, engaging with the Opposition in a more conversational tone, and lacing one’s speech with wit and one-liners. Given his natural oratory skills, the PM should speak in Parliament more often, for it will provide the nation a sense of his line of thinking, rationale for controversial policies, and encourage more reasoned deliberation.The key was not the manner in which he articulated his points, but the content of his speeches. A new political narrative is taking shape — which may well last till the 2024 elections — and this revolves around three pillars.The first is political ownership of economic reforms, and embracing the task of communicating the efficacy of these reforms. Over the past four decades, India has seen a range of economic reforms — the process started with Indira Gandhi’s return to power in 1980, continued under Rajiv Gandhi, witnessed preparatory work under the VP Singh and Chandrashekhar governments, and then got a boost under the PV Narasimha Rao-Manmohan Singh duo in 1991.But no political leader till then was willing to own the reforms — even Rao had to frame it as a continuation of Jawaharlal Nehru’s legacy to neutralise the opposition within his party. And that is why while India has proceeded, in terms of policy, with enabling the rise of the private sector and cutting back, partly, on the role of the State in enterprises where it doesn’t have a role, at the ideological level, there remains a distrust of capital and big business. Indeed, it was this political fear of being seen as close to capital that led to PM Modi retracting from his reform trajectory after Rahul Gandhi’s “suit-boot ki sarkar” jibe in his first term and adopting a strong welfarist avatar.But at a time when the country is seeing the biggest mass movement in recent history, and the Opposition has centred its attacks on crony capitalism, the PM has doubled down. He lauded the role of the private sector as wealth creators, linked the process of wealth creation with employment generation and wealth distribution, openly took on the bureaucratic stranglehold over public sector enterprises and the power of the Indian Administrative Service officers, and provided a robust defence of farm laws — on the grounds that agriculture needed investment and modernisation, that land fragmentation was making livelihoods increasingly untenable for farmers, and laws expanded economic freedom even while the old State-supported structure of mandis and minimum support prices would remain.This political message is also significant for the budget has laid out an ambitious privatisation agenda — including of public sector banks — which is bound to provoke resistance from unions and the Opposition. But PM Modi has clearly decided that the next generation reforms cannot be held back anymore — and that he will politically own it and attempt to convert it into an asset rather than fear the political costs associated with it. There remain legitimate concerns that Aatmanirbhar Bharat could lead to a return to insular policies and, even if partly, delink India from global trading networks. But the PM’s speeches indicate that even if this happens, on the domestic front, there will be no return to the past — and instead, a liberal economic agenda, focused on boosting competitiveness and private sector, will stay.How this plays out is to be seen, for there will remain strong opposition to these initiatives, including from within the Sangh Parivar. The message will also have much greater traction if support for business is not seen as support for a certain set of “national champions”, the private sector at large is seen to grow, and growth does not lead to inequality, but is accompanied with equity. The need to sustain a multi-class compact is clearly recognised, for in all government speeches through the week, the focus on welfare schemes and pro-poor initiatives also remained a part of the narrative.The second, related, pillar of the PM’s speech is nationalism. But this nationalism now has both an economic subtext in the form of a self-reliant India — playing on Indian pride about becoming more autonomous across sectors or encouraging domestic alternatives to foreign platforms — and an emotive appeal in the form of rhetoric against critical foreign interventions.The fact that the ministry of external affairs chose to issue a statement in response to global celebrities tweeting in solidarity with the farm protests, and the PM warned against the perils of a “foreign destructive ideology”, indicates that the nationalist discourse will continue to be a part of the political toolkit. In the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ideological lexicon, nationalism has often been, externally, directed against Pakistan and, internally, assumed a majoritarian colour. This will stay. But, in addition, be prepared for stronger rhetoric against the West, especially if there is a pushback by human rights, Left and liberal groups against what is perceived as India’s democratic backsliding. The PM knows well the need to remain engaged with the developed democracies in the West, but the idea of a “foreign hand” destabilising or weakening India will be constantly articulated too to rally the domestic base.And finally, the PM appears to have decided that he will adopt both a conciliatory and confrontational approach with those opposing him. His emphasis on the purity of the farm movement was an attempt to directly reach out to farmers; his focus on small farmers was an attempt to showcase the diversity within farming communities and woo the weaker segments.The recognition of Punjab’s sensitivity and Sikh contribution to nation-building stems from the awareness that India cannot afford to alienate a large minority in a border state. The effort to reach out to Opposition leaders — be it Sharad Pawar or Azad — and the emphasis on how the government is flexibile and there is room to improve laws was an effort to challenge the image of being undemocratic and show that the PM is willing to listen to diverse views. At the same time, the clear attack on the Congress for its alleged inconsistency, and the coinage of the term “andolanjeevis”, indicates that the PM will fight and fight hard against both the principal Opposition and segments of civil society.How the Opposition responds to this new Modi narrative — based on reforms, welfare, nationalism, with a mix of flexibility and aggression — will determine India’s future political trajectory.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/narendra-modi-s-new-political-narrative-101613226216976.html
14-02-2021||Today's||How Hamid Ansari views India today||In a country where politicians rarely write memoirs — either to recall the details of their life or comment on the politics they were a part of — an autobiography by a recent vice-president (V-P) is a very welcome development. However, what makes Hamid Ansari’s book truly special is the candour and, at times, outspokenness with which he has written of the prevailing state of affairs. He was V-P for the first three years of the present prime minister’s tenure, and it’s only three more since his term ended.Consequently, his book is not just relevant but also topical. Additionally, By Many A Happy Accident touches on many troubling aspects of Narendra Modi’s India that others have been reluctant to write about. So it’s unlikely to be universally applauded.Let’s start with Ansari’s view of the 2019 election which, I believe, he sees as the real turning point and not 2014. He says it represents the “success of populism … assisted by authoritarianism, nationalism and majoritarianism”. This is both bold and unvarnished but, in fact, he is a lot more explicit when he analyses the outcome.Today we have “a version of nationalism that places cultural commitments at its core and promotes intolerance and arrogant patriotism”. It has “take(n) over the political and cultural landscape”. It’s left the country with “an increasingly fragile national ego that threatens to rule out any dissent however innocent”. The term Ansari uses to sum this up is particularly telling — “hyper-nationalism”.If you read his book carefully, you will discover he also identifies the deeper consequences of such hyper-nationalism. First, it’s created “a subversion of core values”. The most worrying, perhaps, is that “the term secularism itself has almost disappeared from the government’s official vocabulary”. In its place, he says, “the politico-ideological effort now (is) to superimpose … the primacy of a religious majority.”Ansari’s language is always careful and correct. He is not given to colourful adjectives or exaggerated suggestions. Yet it’s not difficult to tease out his real meaning, even if he hasn’t expressed it in so many words. From a secular country, we’re increasingly becoming a Hindu country.There are two other consequences that Ansari identifies. “Our commitment to the Rule of Law seems to be under serious threat, arising out of the noticeable decline in the efficacy of the institutions of state.” Instead, we have lapsed into “arbitrary decision-making and even …. mob rule.” And he doesn’t shy away from blaming the judiciary, although he does so delicately. “The approach of the superior judiciary … does little credit to an iconic institution and damages public confidence”.The second consequence is more worrying. Ansari writes: “The fault lines in our society are visible.” He says “enforced homogenisation” and “a simplistic or motivated reading of our history” is “being attempted in a social milieu traditionally enriched by its diversity between communities and within them”. It seems he’s suggesting cultural nationalism could end up making India fragile. Unfortunately, he doesn’t say more. But did he need to? Surely, as a warning, this is enough.So, is Ansari apprehensive about the future of India? He doesn’t answer the question directly but the reasons why he might be have been clearly expressed. And yet there is a sentence in his last chapter — in fact, on the penultimate page — that suggests the light at the end of the tunnel is still glowing and could prove difficult to dim. “Strident nationalism and its illusory gains premised on falsehoods can also not be long-lasting”. As I read those words I thought I could also hear his voice, gently but reassuringly, say: “This too will pass.”But when? Will it be in my lifetime? Or is salvation a fruit that will only ripen for later generations to enjoy? And by then how much damage will have been done? I draw comfort from the fact the India I love will rise again, but I’m saddened by the thought I might not be part of it.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-hamid-ansari-views-india-today-101613225433061.html
14-02-2021||Today's||From the Himalayas, a warning for us||The Himalayas are known as The Home of the Gods — yet, we mortals have shown scant respect for the sacred mountains. Last week’s tragedy in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand is the latest example of the outcome of our hubris in disregarding the nature of the Himalayas.We know, fully well, that the Himalayas are young, fragile, and unstable mountains; yet, we have constructed or are constructing more than 50 hydroelectric projects in the basins of the Alaknanda and Bhagirathi rivers. The horrendous Kedarnath floods of 2013 claimed 5,700 lives. Instead of stopping to think about the implications of that disaster, the government, merely three years later, launched a massive scheme — the Char Dham road project, aimed at constructing no less than 900 kilometres of highways, linking Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri.Apart from the damage to the mountains caused during the construction of the roads, this will lead to an exponential increase in tourism. One of the causes of the Kedarnath disaster was the uncontrolled development of hotels, shops, and other tourist facilities, violating all building regulations, and the absence of any system of disposing waste except dumping it in the open, which often meant on the banks of rivers or on the beds of streams.The scientific community is still carefully studying whether the Chamoli disaster was caused by an avalanche of snow, a landslide, or a glacier lake, which burst its banks. But what is certain is that it is further evidence that we are not taking into account the possible impact on nature when we draw up plans for economic development.The 2021-22 Union Budget will increase the pressure on the government to ignore the concerns of nature. It is heavily focused on investments in infrastructure, especially roads and railways, which the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, hopes will revive Gross Domestic Product growth. This may be true. But these projects will, also, inevitably give rise to concerns about their environmental impact.On the revenue side of the budget, the plan is to raise the money for infrastructure development from privatisation and the monetisation of government assets such as land. If investors don’t like the country’s environmental regulations, they won’t come forward to buy government companies, businesses, or property.Just as we have received a warning from the Himalayas about the need to be more respectful of them, the British government has published an eagerly awaited, independent, comprehensive review of The Economics of Biodiversity led by Cambridge economics professor, Sir Partha Dasgupta. He was born in Dhaka and obtained his first degree from Delhi University.The review has been described by the Governor of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey, as “a landmark contribution to our understanding of the relation between nature and our economy”, and by the renowned environmentalist David Attenborough as “comprehensive and immensely important”.It is bound to be the basis of much discussion if world leaders are able to meet for their crucial climate summit in Glasgow in September. Significantly, in view of the budget’s emphasis on reviving GDP growth, the review looks beyond that as a measure of economic growth, and suggests new tools for measuring biodiversity and conservation efforts. It calls for “rebalancing our demand of nature’s goods and services and its capacity to supply them”.While the Himalayas may be the abode of the Gods, the review points out that nature is our home and tells us “good economics demands that we manage it better”. The Himalayas have reminded us how urgently India needs to improve its housekeeping.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-himalayas-a-warning-for-us-101613225330288.html
