15-02-2021||Today's||Delhi must take the long view on Dhaka||A tri-service military contingent from Bangladesh participated in India’s 72nd Republic Day parade. Given the importance of the occasion, and the fact that 2021 is the 50th anniversary year of Bangladesh’s liberation, the signal of an “irreversible partnership” is unmissable.When viewed in conjunction with the recent visual summit between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, sustained high-level visits by top diplomats, signing of seven Memorandums of Understanding, restoration of the Haldibari-Chilahati railway line that was severed in 1965, a joint celebration of “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s legacy along with Mahatma Gandhi in a digital exhibition, and Modi’s planned visit to Dhaka in March, it becomes clear that this relationship is on stable ground.But with the historically cyclical nature of this relationship — on an upswing when Hasina’s Awami League is in power, and a downswing with the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) — how long will this bonhomie last? As the military coup in Myanmar shows, civilian power cannot be taken for granted in countries with chequered civil-military relations. The current stability offers an opportunity to take a hard look at the structural risks the India-Bangladesh relationship faces.Competition between religious and secular nationalisms in both countries is a powerful conditioning factor. This manifests in politically charged debates and violence around the issue of cross-border migration in India’s Northeast, and pervasive anti-India sentiment inside Bangladesh.India’s recent push to redefine citizenship along religious lines required proactive diplomatic management in Dhaka. As Bangladesh’s foreign secretary recently stated, there is “no immediate reason” for Dhaka to be concerned about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act-National Register of Citizens issue. He was careful not to give the impression that the issue is settled for good.Recent calls in India to support Hindu enclaves in Bangladesh is another sensitive issue with a historical precedent — witnessed in the demand for “Bangabhumi” by Bangladeshi Hindu separatists allegedly operating from Indian soil till the mid-2000s. This doesn’t bode well in the long-term either, even if such calls don’t have official sanction.Power asymmetry between the two countries, India’s diplomatic assurances, and Hasina’s historically pro-India tilt mean that Dhaka has decided to overlook these issues. But they feed into the often violent Islamist-versus-secular nationalist debate within Bangladesh. Despite the Awami League’s secular attractiveness for India, the party has struggled to deal with Islamists. In recent years, it has conceded ground to Hefazat-e-Islam — an Islamist umbrella organisation that rose to prominence in 2013.Another issue is Bangladesh’s increasingly one-party character under Hasina. This has enabled efficient decision-making as witnessed in Bangladesh’s economic success and effective management of big power rivalries. In the process, Hasina has neutralised the BNP and co-opted the military. But such moves create pockets of enduring resistance as the Islamists retain street power, and jihadist militancy refuses to die out.There is an ever-present risk of such violence percolating into India. This is witnessed in, among other cases, the recent arrests of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh radicals in Assam. Couple this with the fragile, tragic, and exploitable (by the jihadists) humanitarian situation of the Rohingyas, and the picture looks bleaker.As India supports the revival of Mujib’s legacy, it will be useful to revisit the circumstances around his assassination in 1975. Increasingly embattled and authoritarian, Mujib — despite his pro-India, secular, and socialist credentials — failed to reconcile the country’s socio-political cleavages, leading to a violent pushback. Contrary to Indian expectations, popular reactions to the event were markedly lukewarm.Mujib’s privileging of personal loyalty over professional institutions created foreseeable problems. Declassified documents demonstrate India’s frustration over its inability to secure the “hardcore” of pro-India elements and help Mujib better manage internal conflicts.But what stands out is a paramount concern about another wave of forced migration, and the loss of Bangladesh to Pakistan less than four years after liberation.Unlike India, where a change of government doesn’t alter New Delhi’s calculus vis-à-vis Bangladesh, the reverse is not true. Ziaur Rahman, who came to power in 1975 and formed the BNP in 1978, never got along with India. Neither did his wife, Khaleda Zia, who led the BNP ever since Zia’s assassination in 1981. A dip in Hasina’s political fortunes or personal health, then, risks undermining India’s interests.In this context, China’s promise of big finance (being resisted by Dhaka for now,) and its role in curating a thaw between Dhaka and Islamabad, should give India pause. To rely on the existence, skills, and charisma of a single leader might put India in a difficult situation in a future political crisis. If the BNP succeeds in reviving itself before the 2024 elections by mobilising Islamists and military officers disillusioned with Hasina — with Beijing and Islamabad’s support — that might complicate India’s Hasina-centric strategy.To be clear, India must continue supporting Hasina. But it should undertake a sustained mass outreach and political diversification in Bangladesh, including with moderate religious formations. The aim should be to develop something akin to a bipartisan consensus in Dhaka wherein all parties agree that good relations with India are their national interest.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US WithdrawalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/delhi-must-take-the-long-view-on-dhaka-101613311366664.html
15-02-2021||Today's||The significance of the upcoming state elections||Will the ongoing farm agitation change political equations in the country? The upcoming assembly elections in four states — Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — and the Union Territory of Puducherry could provide some answers. In any event, these elections are of significant political import.In Assam, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had made provisions for the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) at the beginning of its second term. This resulted in a range of protests across the country, the most notable one being at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. Subsequently, the Delhi riots took place, which led to the loss of dozens of lives.The provisions were meant to address the issue of the influx of Bangladeshi migrants. But it soon became evident that the laws would affect not just Bangladeshi migrants but also natives of Assam. The government was forced to put the proposals on hold, but with elections around the corner, these issues have come into the spotlight again in the state.Will the Congress-led coalition, which was in power in the state till 2016, be able to assume power in Guwahati? As in other states, the grand old party is facing internal strife as it takes on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with its strong platform of majoritarian nationalism. The BJP’s veteran leaders such as party president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah are going all out to ensure the party’s victory. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has begun addressing rallies in the state.In West Bengal, the BJP is facing an aggressive Trinamool Congress with a feisty Mamata Banerjee at the helm. This is why the BJP, with considerable foresight, deployed a fiery leader such as Kailash Vijayvargiya in the state five years ago. He has been able to win over several leaders considered loyal to Mamata Banerjee to the BJP. The BJP’s signature move under Amit Shah has been the fracturing of local parties during elections. It has been relentlessly holding rallies and raising the issue of what it terms the Trinamool’s politics of “minority appeasement”. The BJP’s aggression has paid off and it is the Trinamool’s main rival today. The Congress and the Left hardly feature in the fray. However, it is still not all smooth sailing for the BJP given the hurdles that the Trinamool will put in its way.About 62% of Bengal’s voters are in nine of its 23 districts. Of the total of 294 assembly seats, 185 are in these nine districts. These will dictate the course of the election. The Trinamool claims that the BJP is shaky in these districts. About 30% of the state’s voters are Muslims. Once Left supporters, they have largely shifted their loyalties to Mamata Banerjee. But, now Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has made an entry into Bengal after its impressive performance in Bihar earlier. Will this have an effect on the Muslim vote?In Kerala, over the last 40 years, the state has voted alternatively for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF). Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi represents the Wayanad seat in the Lok Sabha, giving the party some cause for hope. But the LDF has performed well in many areas over the last five years. It did well in handling the floods of 2018, 2019 and 2020 and its initial handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was impressive.The Congress and Left are rivals here, though they have come together in other places in the country. This may be confusing for the voters but, then again, such political conundrums are nothing new to India.Tamil Nadu is going into the elections this time without stalwarts such as the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader J Jayalalithaa and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader M Karunanidhi. While Karunanidhi had handed over the reins of the party to his son MK Stalin, the AIADMK has no successor to Jayalalithaa. This has made it prone to internal rifts and vulnerable to poaching by other parties. The announcement by Jayalalithaa’s long-time companion, Sasikala — after her release from jail in Bengaluru — that she is entering politics has complicated the picture. But it is not clear how much support she enjoys in the party or how effective she will be in improving its electoral prospects.While the Lok Sabha elections are still far away, each assembly election going forward will have a bearing on national politics. After all, 116 Members of Parliament (MPs) come from these five states. Muslims make up 28 to 32% of the electorate in Kerala, West Bengal and Assam. This gives the BJP the opportunity to play the politics of polarisation, but it equally gives the Congress a chance to consolidate its old voter base. These five states are also going to shape the destiny of the Left and regional parties. While many things are still up in the air, one thing is certain: These elections will have a crucial bearing on the politics of the future and will provide much fodder to political analysts.Shashi Shekhar is the editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-significance-of-the-upcoming-state-elections-101613311364294.html
