21-02-2021||Today's||Bitcoin stocks are possibly the dumbest Bitcoin play||If you believe in Bitcoin, you buy Bitcoin. And if you’re wary, you stay away. That’s about the simplest way of calculating your investment options when it comes to the world’s most infamous speculative bet. Of course, you can join the hoards of Telegram and Reddit groups claiming to understand and predict the twists and turns in the cryptocurrency’s price, making you just that much smarter than everyone else. Well done.But there is another option: invest in stocks of Bitcoin-related companies, including those that supply the “miners” — the computers that solve the complex algorithms which underpin the cryptocurrency network. That is, buy shovels in a gold rush. That could be the dumbest bet of all, though. Take Canaan Inc. the largest member of the Elwood Blockchain Global Equity Index. The Hangzhou-based company makes chips and equipment used in miners. You’d think that since Bitcoin price, and ergo demand, keeps rising then people would be clamoring to buy more rigs. The major incentive to do so is that if you run such a machine you can yourself get Bitcoin as a reward, and as the price rises the value of such a prize also climbs.It’s not working out that way. Canaan’s sales in the June and September quarters dropped and it posted four straight quarters of losses. That’s over a period in which Bitcoin’s price rose a sedate 30%. According to Bloomberg data, there’s no sell-side analysts left to even guess at its revenue outlook or share price target.Such equity investments are not about the bottom line, though, they’re about share returns. In that regard, Canaan has done well by rising 200% over the past year. Tesla Inc.’s announcement earlier this month that it had got into Bitcoin, followed by Canaan telling investors it had secured long-term orders, accounted for almost all of that gain.This huge return over the past year is minuscule compared to the rise in Bitcoin itself — which is five times higher than a year ago. In fact, on aggregate, betting on related equites — as tracked by the Elwood Blockchain index — would make you a laggard.There are a few exceptions. MicroStrategy Inc. is a provider of business-analytics software. But now it’s gone all-in on Bitcoin and this past week raised around $1 billion through a convertible-bond sale for the sole purpose of buying more. That big bet drove the stock to outperform even the cryptocurrency itself in the past few weeks.Unfortunately, as my Bloomberg News colleagues Crystal Kim and Tom Contiliano pointed out, its shares trade at about a 50% premium to the price of Bitcoin — and that was after a 25% plunge in the stock from its Feb. 9 high. It would be akin to buying Bitcoin at $75,019 apiece when it was trading at $49,000, they wrote. Clearly, that’s not the smartest of investments.And that’s the problem. Without a doubt there’ll be times when individual stocks, or even a collection of them, will be a solid investment strategy. But over the long term, if you truly think Bitcoin is a winner, then there’s really just one clear way to bet on it.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Tim Culpan is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering technology. He previously covered technology for Bloomberg News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bitcoin-stocks-are-possibly-the-dumbest-bitcoin-play-101613894628472.html
21-02-2021||Today's||The solution to the farm impasse lies in federalism||The current imbroglio over the farm laws highlights the Centre’s growing intrusion into what are constitutionally state subjects. But they also highlight another uncomfortable reality. Many of the most serious economic afflictions facing the country — agriculture, water, power, land, health and education — are state subjects. And the failures of the states to do justice on subjects that are well within their constitutional obligations have created space for an activist Centre to weigh in.Take power. The bleeding of the distribution companies (discoms) has had enormous opportunity costs for state finances. The attempts to stem the bleeding are a veritable alphabet soup – the Accelerated Power Development and Reform Programme (APDRP), the restructured-APDRP, Integrated Power Development Scheme, Financial Restructuring Plan and Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY). But, despite the enormous resources poured into them, their impact is, at best, modest and, at worst, an abject failure. The Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC) has once again attempted to clean the Augean stables of state power finances by recommending extra annual borrowing space based on certain performance criteria in the power sector. Hope springs eternal.Take another example. “Public Order” and “Police” fall under the “State List” of the Seventh Schedule, putting the onus on state governments for the maintenance of the law and order in their respective states. In 1999, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs (chaired by late President Pranab Mukherjee) observed that “of late the dependence of State Governments, all over, on the Central Para Military Forces in dealing with difficult situations arising on the law and order front has increased significantly… This changing trend over the years has given rise to a situation of dichotomy wherein while on the one hand the State Governments tend to demand more and more power and autonomy, on the other hand they appear to be prepared very inadequately to perform..one of the most primary duties of maintaining law and order and peace and normalcy in their respective State. On every incident of minor or major proportion they tend to seek help of the central police forces, which only throw poor light on the preparedness of their police forces in dealing with adverse situations.”Little has changed. Over the past two decades, even as the states continued to underinvest in their police, the size of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) doubled, thereby ensuring the creeping federalisation of a state subject.The story is similar in agriculture. For the vast majority of India’s farmers, the tiny size of their farms means that there is simply no way they can make a decent income on farming alone unless their incomes are artificially boosted by a plethora of input subsidies, price or income supports — or if they are part of the privileged few who have large farms. All the policy options being debated and passed as saviours are — for the vast majority of farmers — “post-dated check on a crashing bank”, as Gandhi once said of a British proposal.The only viable long-term answer for the majority of India’s farmers, as BR Ambedkar observed a century ago, is to get out of farming. At that time, India’s population was a fifth of what it is today and land fragmentation correspondingly less. Public policies of input subsidies (especially on fertilisers and water) that underpinned the Green Revolution certainly benefited the country broadly, in terms of both aggregate output as well as farmer incomes. But their sell-by date is well-past. Once farm incomes rose, the rural surplus should have provided the springboard for structural transformation, especially in industry. Instead, it has become a trap slowly asphyxiating the sector.The basic thrust of the farm laws was in the right direction. But their specific details and the manner in which it was done without broad deliberation and building consensus — let alone the manner in which the government has lashed out at critics — has been completely self-defeating. Public policies need to have broad legitimacy among those that it affects and the reality is that these farm laws simply don’t.A way out of this turmoil might lie in respecting India’s federalism more fully. The Centre should not pass farm laws that affect agriculture markets within states, but this should also mean no central government Minimum Support Price (MSP) and no central government procurement. The states say that agriculture is a state subject. It is. And they should have complete say in what subsidies they want to give their farmers, for which crop, and how. The states that strongly believe in MSP and procurement should have complete ownership of both.The Centre’s involvement in procurement today is inextricably linked to its obligations under the Right to Food Act. That Act had the right intentions but its cereal obsessiveness is having deeply damaging consequences for agriculture and agro-ecology. As FFC notes, within agriculture, the more the government intervention, the lower the growth. Crops, especially cereals, are lavished with subsidies while fisheries, livestock and horticulture have grown much faster — and are more nutritious.The Centre should move to replace the Act with a Right to Nutrition Act that eschews specifying the exact cereal and instead offers broad nutritional guarantees from a basket specific to different regional contexts. That change will take time. Until then, the Centre should buy, in the open market, the rice and wheat needed for the public distribution system after the kharif and rabi harvests and maintain buffer stocks for price stabilisation. If states think that the private sector will be exploitative, they can and should do their own procurement. It is only then that they will think hard about crops and costs.The Centre’s involvement in agriculture markets should be to smoothen pan-India commerce — no state should be able to block inter-state movement of a commodity. For its part, the Centre should not be able to ban agriculture exports if prices rise. Why should farmers not get the upside of prices when they have to suffer the downside when prices go down? If the government is worried about consumer reaction, it should either compensate farmers commensurately or subside the consumer directly, but not force the farmer to do so. And if agriculture is truly to be a state subject, either the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) in the new budget should be discontinued or whatever money is raised should be handed over to the states.But all this cannot be done overnight. There needs to be an exit ramp for farmers and states to adjust. Here, the Centre should provide a clear road map along with performance-based incentive financing to ease the transition over three to four years.The farm laws are illustrative of an uncomfortable reality. There are many important issues that states are fully empowered to handle. But they don’t. Problems arise. Then there is a clamour that “the government” should do more. But, inevitably, that means the central government. Of course, the Centre loves this, because it then exercises more power. And that has slowly, but surely, tilted the already imbalanced Union-state relationship even more in favour of the former.The best bulwark against a hegemonic Centre is stronger federalism. But, for that to occur, states will have to up their game. Fundamentally, unless they bite the bullet and move to develop their non-farm sectors, most farmers will have increasingly precarious livelihoods. And the Centre can best help farmers by assisting states make that transition.Devesh Kapur is the Starr Foundation South Asia Studies Professor and Asia Programs Director at the Paul H Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-solution-to-the-farm-impasse-lies-in-federalism-101613827756030.html
21-02-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine strategy needs transparency||Isn’t it odd the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — known to us as Covishield — is our main one and yet we are uninformed of the international debate about its efficacy and dosage? I’m not referring to the confusion created by AstraZeneca’s results when it claimed 62% efficacy after two full doses, but 90% after half a dose followed by a full one. Even though unresolved, that’s slipped into history. My concern is two recent issues and the fact that our government hasn’t said a word about them.The first is an official guidance issued by the World Health Organization on February 10: “In the light of the observation that two-dose efficacy and immunogenicity increase with a longer interval, WHO recommends an interval of 8 to 12 weeks between the doses”.Gagandeep Kang, perhaps our top vaccine scientist, has explained the reasons behind this. Because of delays in availability of the second dose, 59% of the efficacy trial sample got the second dose between four and eight weeks after the first, 22% between nine and 12 weeks and 16% after 12 weeks. Their vaccine efficacy was 56%, 70% and 78% respectively. This, she concludes, indicates “a clear trend of increasing efficacy with longer intervals between doses”. When the immune response is included, “it was found that the longer the intervals between the two doses, the better was the human response”.So, clearly, there’s good evidence for this guidance. It also makes sense for three other reasons. A longer interval means more people can receive a vaccine quickly. If more people get it, we would be better protected if a second wave — God forbid — happens. And with cases and deaths sharply declining, we’re in a position to increase the interval.Yet, on this issue the government is silent or, if it’s spoken, it’s done so sotto voce. Why? This is a matter on which I would expect a carefully thought-out, if not also confident, opinion. Moreover, it needs to be widely known. Silence feels like irresponsibility.The second issue is more complex, but the government’s lack of response remains perplexing. It’s to do with the efficacy of AstraZeneca for people over 65. Because only one-tenth of the participants in the efficacy trials were older than 65, Germany and Denmark have decided not to give it to this age group. Commenting on this, Kang writes that for over-65s, the trial showed “a vaccine efficacy of 52%”, which isn’t great. More importantly, “the numbers are too small for firm conclusions”. Spain, Italy and Belgium, it seems, have gone one step further. They’ve decided not to give AstraZeneca to anyone over 55. Switzerland is not giving it at all.Now, these are countries that have alternatives with proven efficacy for the over-65s. We don’t. Our alternative is Covaxin, and its efficacy is yet to be proven. Fortunately, WHO has come to a very different conclusion. Its guidance says: “WHO recommends the vaccine for use in persons aged 65 years and older”. Kang explains it’s done so after considering both immunogenicity and efficacy. So there’s no reason why we should not give it to this age group.But — and this is my point — should we not have informed our 65-year-olds of the European concerns and discussed them? Don’t our elderly have a right to be informed and then reassured? Leaving them unaware is not what one expects of a democratic government.Let me end by raising two other unconnected issues. France has decided to only give a single dose of any vaccine to people who’ve had Covid-19. As Kang puts it, it believes “an infection and one vaccination are equivalent to two doses of the vaccine”. Is this something we should consider too?Second, given vaccine hesitancy, should we shift focus to districts with a worrying number of cases rather than continue with a nationwide rollout? Has this been thought about? If it has, I’d like to know why it was considered inadvisable.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-strategy-needs-transparency-101613827753296.html
21-02-2021||Today's||Incentivise health workers on the ground||There are two positives from the Covid-19 pandemic. One, there is growing realisation of the need to invest in primary health, and second, there is recognition of the invaluable role of Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers at the grassroots. Their performance in the face of all odds should force the government to think about how to strengthen this cadre and make it more effective in delivering grassroots health care. One initiative should be to induct more male health workers into the system. This is the time to make community health work more attractive for all genders.To begin with, the incentive structure must change. India has 900,000 Asha workers who get an honorarium of ₹2,000 to ₹4,000, depending on the state government. They get minor incentives for recurring tasks, with each worker being responsible for up to 2,500 people in her district.They need to be given post-retirement benefits and other incentives if India is to build on this crucial cadre. The pandemic may recede, but a host of health care issues have to be dealt with. Instead of piecemeal payments linked to tasks, there must be a drastic overhaul in their pay structure. A non-governmental organisation (NGO) worker in the field told me that the government’s logic in some states is that task-based incentives keep the Asha worker on her toes. This is the wrong approach. Even if the remuneration is called an honorarium rather than a salary, state governments must now consider providing Asha workers with the job security that other medical professionals get.During the pandemic, many were given a very short period of training on how to handle the deadly virus and its aftermath. Their workload increased drastically without commensurate infrastructure. Yet, they have come up trumps. This calls for creative strategies to better their lot.Another area that needs re-evaluation is career progression. Through the Skill India programme, Asha workers should be given the opportunity to move to the next level in health care, should they so chose to. There should be year-round training for them in rural settings and much greater engagement with them to ascertain their personal aspirations for professional growth. One noteworthy step has been the commitment of the National Health Mission to pay the fees for Asha workers who wish to complete their secondary education through the open school system and for them to be given preference in admissions to nursing schools.They should also be given access to information about institutions where they can further their skills and avenues of employment open to them. Through the panchayat system, there should be community recognition of their efforts; something which could encourage more people, and hopefully men as well, to join the grassroots health care system. Their requirements such as crèches for their children, overnight rest rooms, sanitation facilities and safety must all get priority now. They must also have access to proper grievance redressal forums.If the right inputs are made into the Asha system now, it can have the potential to change and improve health care at the grassroots level and also eventually correct gender inequalities in the communities they function in. Much will depend on the respect, recognition and rewards that both the central and state governments afford them for their role in holding together a rickety grassroots health care system in a most challenging time.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/incentivise-health-workers-on-the-ground-101613827752225.html
21-02-2021||Today's||Health breaks into the economic mainstream||The past three weeks saw three key events in India’s economic and fiscal policy calendar. The Economic Survey of India was tabled in the Parliament on the first day of the Budget Session. Budget 2021-22 was presented on February 1; and the Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC)’s final report was then tabled in Parliament.While these may be seen as routine events, there was something unprecedented in their content — the focus on health. Health and well-being were the first of the six pillars in the finance minister’s budget speech. The Economic Survey has two chapters on health — a first. And then FFC report dedicates a chapter to health, and a sub-chapter to local body grants for health. Never has health been a centrepiece of India’s economic policy establishment. In fact, it has been conspicuous in its absence. These events mark health’s entry into the mainstream of economic policy.The shift is undoubtedly shaped by the Covid-19 pandemic, which demonstrated that a health shock can wreck the economy. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is expected to contract by 7.5% in 2020-21 due to the impact of the lockdown on jobs and businesses. Covid-19 unearthed the deep, but often invisible and unacknowledged, link between health and the economy. Though Covid-19 hastened the realisation, there was growing acknowledgement of health’s importance for the economy prior to it. FFC’s interim report highlighted the centrality of health for productivity and growth-enhancing human capital.There are two key implications of this shift. First, increasing, policy importance will be accorded to health as it starts getting viewed as “human capital investment”, not merely social sector expenditure. The Economic Survey and FFC both highlight this point, and outline the multiplier effect of government health spending on growth. Greater resource allocation for health will follow the shift in thinking. The 2021-22 Budget underscores the point. Budgeted expenditure on health increased by 75% to over ₹1.2 lakh crore, even after excluding allocations for drinking water and sanitation.Second, there will be greater scrutiny and thinking around how and where funds are spent, with the ministry of finance pushing for efficiency and increasing utilisation of allocated funds. Health policy and government spending have often prioritised cure, and had a disproportionate focus on secondary and tertiary care. Though the National Health Mission (NHM) is correcting the balance, an economic lens of efficiency can further push the preventive, promotive, and primary care components.Two examples highlight the shift. One, there is a broader conception of health and well-being in Budget 2021-22 and this includes drinking water and sanitation, both key for preventive health, with far-reaching impact. Contaminated water and poor sanitation are linked to the transmission of diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera, and dysentery. They also contribute to malnutrition. The allocation for drinking water and sanitation has increased over four-and-a-half times from ₹21,000 crore in 2020-21(BE) to ₹96,000 crore in 2021-22(BE), including FFC grants. Further increases in government health spending will still be required, but with a concurrent focus on systemic efficiency.Similarly, both FFC and the Economic Survey highlight the need to further strengthen the focus on primary care, typically under-consumed and under-provided. The former recommends primary health expenditure be two-thirds of total health expenditure by 2022. The finance ministry has accepted FFC’s recommendation for local government grants to improve primary health service provision. Prioritising efficiency and systemic focus on determinants of health will be as important as an increase in resources allocated for health.There is a long road ahead to building a robust health system. Recognition of health in the economic mainstream is not the same as sustained policy focus and resource allocation. It is certainly no guarantee of implementation of lofty goals, which require solving tricky governance and administration challenges. However, recognising and prioritising health is an important gesture by the economic and fiscal policy community. It would serve it well to internalise this lesson.Anurag Kumar works at NITI Aayog on health economics and financingThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/health-breaks-into-the-economic-mainstream-101613827692571.html
