02-10-2021||New Delhi||Former Delhi Congress chief Tajdar Babar passes away||Veteran Delhi Congress leader and former president of the party’s city unit Tajdar Babar passed away on Saturday.Babar, aged around 85 years, was admitted at a hospital in Malviya Nagar for 15-20 days due to health issues. She passed away at 5.30 am, said Delhi Congress party president Anil Kumar.Several party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, paid homage to Babar at the Nizamuddin East community centre where her mortal remains were kept for people to pay tributes.“My condolences to the family and friends of Smt. Tajdar Babar ji. We remember her commitment towards the people of Delhi and the values of the Congress party,” Gandhi tweeted.Babar was the mother of senior Congress leader and former Mayor Farhad Suri.She was also an MLA of the Delhi assembly from Minto Road constituency that was later merged with the New Delhi assembly segment.The Congress has lost its valuable leader, Kumar said over the death of Babar. She was Delhi Congress president from 1984-88, he said.“Tajdar Babar made immense contribution to the Congress party throughout her life. The party will never forget her contribution. Her absence will always be missed,” Kumar said.The mortal remains of Babar were put to rest at a graveyard in East Nizamuddin in the evening, party leaders said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/former-delhi-congress-chief-tajdar-babar-passes-away-319252
02-10-2021||New Delhi||Live by Gandhi’s ideals: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said Gandhi Jayanti was a special day for every Indian and on the eve of Mahatma Gandhi’s 152nd anniversary, called upon citizens to live by the ideals of the Father of the Nation.“Gandhi believed that non-violence is a philosophy, a principle and an experience which can be made the basis for betterment of society. He made strenuous efforts for attaining Swaraj, removing untouchability, eradicating social evils, improving the economic condition of our farmers and women empowerment. Let us, take a pledge that we will continue to strive for making India, a country of his dreams. — TNSKovind turns 76President Ram Nath Kovind turned 76 on Friday with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and PM Narendra Modi greeting him. Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and incumbent state CM Charanjit Singh Channi also tweeted greetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/live-by-gandhis-ideals-president-ram-nath-kovind-318966
02-10-2021||Satya Prakash||You have strangulated entire Capital: SC to farmers’ body||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 1The farmers protesting against farm laws received a rap on the knuckles on Friday from the Supreme Court which questioned the rationale behind blocking of roads even after approaching the judiciary and reminded them that citizens have equal rights to move freely without fear.“You have strangulated the entire city, now you want to come inside the city and start protesting again here…. The residents around… are they happy with the protest? This business should stop. You are obstructing security and defence personnel. This was in the media. All this should stop…. There has to be a balanced approach,” a Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar told the counsel for Kisan Mahapanchayat.“There is no point in protest once you come to the court challenging the laws,” the Bench told the farmers’ body during hearing on its petition seeking directions to the Centre, Delhi Lt Governor and Delhi Police Commissioner to allow it to stage “satyagraha” at Jantar Mantar in the Capital.“Are you protesting against the judicial system? Once you have approached the judicial system, have faith in the court. You pursue that matter for urgent hearing instead of protesting again,” the Bench told the counsel for Kisan Mahapanchayat, who said the farmers’ body did have faith in the court. After the petitioner’s counsel denied that farmers blocked highways, the Bench asked him to declare it on an affidavit and posted it for hearing on Monday.This is the second consecutive day that the Supreme Court has questioned the continued blockade of roads by protesting farmers. On Thursday, the court had wondered how highways could be blocked perpetually. “The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” another Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had asked. It had said it was the duty of the executive to implement the law laid down by it.Maintaining that farmers had the right to protest, the top court on Friday emphasised that citizens also enjoyed equal right to move freely and without fear. “Their (citizens’) properties are being damaged. Do you take permission from the residents around whether they are happy with your protest…. This coaxing business should stop,” it said.Citing media reports, the Bench pointed out that even security personnel were obstructed, stopped and heckled during the protests.As the petitioner’s counsel said the farmers were holding peaceful protests, the Bench shot back, “What’s this peaceful protest? You block trains, highways and then you say your protest is peaceful and without causing any harm to the public.”On January 12 this year, the top court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws — the Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act and Amendment to Essential Commodities Act.It had constituted a four-member panel to hear stakeholders’ views and report back to it. The panel submitted its report to the court in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/you-have-strangulated-entire-capital-sc-to-farmers-body-318944
