01-11-2020||India||Odisha TV channel CFO arrested in land deal case; channel owners, Opposition cry foul||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Odisha Police on Sunday arrested the chief financial officer (CFO) of a leading Odia TV channel over an allegation of land fraud triggering accusations of the government’s witchhunt against the channel.Manoranjan Sarangi, the CFO of OTV was picked up from his home in Bhubaneswar by EOW officials on Sunday morning and arrested after long interrogation in an alleged fraudulent land deal in Sarua, Khurda district. He was later forwarded to the court after a medical test at the Capital Hospital was conducted in the evening.A press release issued by the EOW said Odisha InfraTech Pvt Ltd, in which Sarangi was one of the directors, had purchased land belonging to scheduled caste persons circumventing rules/laws using forgery/cheating/intimidation and other dubious methods to cause losses to them. Sarangi has been charged under sections 420/423/467/468/471/120-B of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 3 (1) (g) (q) of SC & ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act.OTV channel is owned and operated by Jagi Mangat Panda, wife of BJP’s national vice-president and former MP Baijayant ‘Jay’ Panda, friend-turned-bete noire of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik.Also read: India rejects Pak’s status to Gilgit-Baltistan, says it has no locus standiOTV’s operating officer Litisha Mangat said the CFO’s arrest was a sign of vendetta against the channel as everyone in Odisha is widely aware of the attacks on OTV. “Our channel has been fearless and persistent in reporting fact-based news much to their (government’s) displeasure. The 13 false cases filed against OTV in the last 2 months is manifestation of their rage against us. In some of the cases, the courts have granted interim bail. No surprise that they felt the need to fabricate something new.”In a statement issued last month, the Editors Guild of India had also condemned the Odisha government’s move against OTV. Early last month, senior OTV journalist Ramesh Rath was picked up by Keonjhar police in an alleged case of viral video involving BJD’s Keonjhar MP Chandrani Murmu. Rath later resigned from OTV.The OTV CFO’s arrest was condemned by the Congress and the BJP. Senior Congress MP Saptagiri Ulaka said the Odisha government seemed to be scared. “It’s a clear case of vendetta which is trying to curb the freedom of expression,” said Congress MP from Koraput, Saptagiri Ulaka. BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, Aparajita Sarangi also asked if the Odisha government is afraid or it wants to hide something. Senior BJP leader and Sundergarh MP, Jual Oram said, “The vindictive action against OTV is a dastardly attempt to throttle the voice of media in the state.”But BJD MP Amar Patnaik said though Odisha Land Reforms Act prohibits the purchase of SC land by non-SC people, Jay Panda used his unlettered driver, who happened to be an SC, to buy land at throwaway prices, who then sold these to his infra company as he (the driver) had a little too much of land. “What kind of society have we come to live in where the filthy rich are still impoverishing the poor of whatever little possession they have? Let’s all wake up and raise a chorus of revolt! The power has to be with the poor,” tweeted Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tv-channel-cfo-arrested-in-land-deal-case-channel-owners-opposition-cry-foul/story-x19XENwyLIsqj8WUQUzVXO.html
01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan civic polls: 58.96% voting recorded till 5.30pm||In the second phase of polling for three municipal corporations on November 1, about 59 per cent votes were polled till 5.30pm, the state election commission said.The polling started at 7.30 am and continued till 5.30 pm. The counting will be done on November 3.Till 5.30pm, 58.96 per cent votes were polled. About 63.13 per cent polling was recorded in Kota South, 57.98 per cent in Jaipur Greater and 57.88 per cent in Jodhpur South municipal corporation till 5.30 pm, PTI reported.Out of more than 19.45 lakh registered voters, 11.47 lakh people voted to decide the electoral fate of 1,287 candidates for ward councilor at 3,211 polling stations in 310 wards.Over 60 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the first phase held on October 29. In these two phases of elections, 560 ward councillors will be elected to six newly formed municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota — Jaipur heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-civic-polls-58-96-voting-recorded-till-5-30pm/story-vEDCCBbEbTxQuKjW5HdzsM.html
01-11-2020||India||Assam records highest cases of sexual violence by armed forces in 20 years: NGO||Assam tops the list of sexual violence against women by central armed forces in the past 20 years, says a compilation of cases by a platform of NGOs against torture. The list, prepared by National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT), mentions 114 cases of rape, molestation and other forms of sexual violence recorded between November 1, 2000, to October 30, 2020, in 11 states across the country affected by armed conflicts. Besides Assam, other states included in the list are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Odisha and Tripura. Assam recorded 21 cases of sexual violence, followed by Manipur (18), Chattisgarh (17), Jammu and Kashmir (16), Tripura (14), Jharkhand (7), Meghalaya (6), Arunachal Pradesh (6), Odisha (5), Andhra Pradesh (3) and Maharashtra (1). A total of 224 females were victimized in the 114 cases with the highest number reported from Chattisgarh (92), followed by Assam (26), Manipur (21) and Jammu and Kashmir (20). The list included 42 cases of rape, 6 of murder, 3 cases of rape of pregnant women, 4 cases of rape of differently-abled, 3 cases of being shot dead for resisting molestation and rape, attempt to rape, stripping, molestation, among others. Also read: Jharkhand BJP chief charged with sedition after comment on Hemant Soren govtA total of 74 of the total victims were in the age group of 7 to 17 years and 156 (or 69.6 percent) of the victims were tribal women and girls, the list stated. It also mentioned that, as per official figures, a total of 9,448 people were killed in conflict areas during 2009 and 2019, including 3,747 in Left-wing extremism affected areas, 3,070 in northeast states and 2,631 in Jammu & Kashmir. The list was released on Saturday to mark the 20th year of adoption of Resolution 1325 by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) which calls upon all parties in armed conflicts to respect international law applicable to the rights and protection of females. Clause 11 of the resolution emphasises the responsibility of all states to “put an end to impunity and to prosecute those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes including those relating to sexual and other violence against women and girls”. The NCAT statement also mentioned acts of sexual violence against women committed by armed militant groups in the conflict-ridden areas but doesn’t provide any figure on such instances. The NCAT stated that the country needs to amend Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) as well as Section 6 of Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) to remove the requirement of prior sanction with respect to rape by a member of the armed forces deployed in a conflict-hit area in order to fully implement the UNSC Resolution 1325.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-records-highest-cases-of-sexual-violence-by-armed-forces-in-20-years-ngo/story-1xgc3y8MIIgHDh7SDIwhiN.html
01-11-2020||India||‘Big misfortune for Bihar if Tejashwi comes to power’: RK Singh||Union Minister R K Singh hit out at Mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav ahead of the closure of campaigning for the second phase of Bihar Assembly on Sunday stating that if the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader comes to power then it will be a big misfortune for the state.The Union Power Minister in an exclusive interview with ANI said, “It will be a big misfortune if Tejashwi Yadav comes to power. I see that his movement is similar to Lalu Yadav. Tejaswi has included all the dons and criminal of Bihar in his party. Anant Singh, Rajaballabh Yadav, Rama Singh are all dons and they have preferred Rama Singh instead of veteran socialist leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. Tejashwi Yadav’s tendencies show that he is not avoiding criminals, rapists.How would Bihar become if these people came to power, just imagine?”Singh, who is also the Lok Sabha MP from Arrah, attacked RJD and said that if that party is back in power in the state criminals will get a free run in Bihar.“The goons will come on the roads again and the process of snatching of vehicles will again increase in the state,” he remarked. He also questioned the inclusion of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) (CPI-ML) in the Mahagathbandhan.“RJD has formed an alliance with CPI(ML). This party was called ‘Mundi Katwa’ by Lalu ji himself when he was the Chief Minister and now they have formed an alliance with that party. RJD is not worried about the state that is why they brought the murderer CPI(ML) in the alliance. Due to fear of CPI(ML) people did not leave home in Bhojpur after evenings in the past,” Singh said. Union Minister directly attacked RJD Leadership and said that these are the people who’re not worried about the welfare of Bihar.They are not worried about development, and are taking along criminal and killers in order to gain power at any cost. “I tell people in Bihar that they should vote for someone who is educated, honest, and has character. If they voted for a criminal, ones who are corrupt and characterless on the basis of caste then you should not complain that there is too much corruption or the road is very bad. Because you did not worry while voting. While voting you should worry about how Bihar should be and vote accordingly,” Singh added.The first phase of Bihar assembly elections to 71 seats was held on October 28. The remaining 172 assembly constituencies of the 243-member assembly will go to polls on November 3 and November 7.The elections for the second phase of polls for 94 assembly constituencies will be held on November 3 and the results are scheduled to be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-misfortune-for-bihar-if-tejashwi-comes-to-power-rk-singh/story-oWUsYuH9Crqu79xkYcrtcJ.html
01-11-2020||India||Delhi records 5,664 new infections in last 24 hours, positivity rate 12.69%||Delhi recorded 5,664 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, making it the fifth consecutive day when the Capital registered over 5,000 daily cases. This sudden spike was first reported on October 28 with 5,673 new cases. On October 30, it broke all records registering the highest single-day spike ever with 5,891 cases.The positivity rate, as revealed by the Delhi health department, is 12.69 per cent — much higher than the national positivity rate. In the last 24 hours, 51 deaths have been recorded, which takes the toll of the Capital to 6,562. The total tally of Delhi is 3,92,370.The number of containment zones has also gone up in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, there were 3,274 containment zones in the Capital. As on Sunday, there are 3,359 containment zones.The AAP-led Delhi government has already planned to add more beds to its present capacity so that it can handle up to 12,000 cases daily. At present there are 15,775 beds in hospitals, 7,887 beds in dedicated Covid-19 care centres and 527 beds in dedicated Covid-19 health centres. Ahead of Delhi government’s meeting with central officials on Monday to address the sudden spike in the number of cases, Delhi has prepared the infrastructure ramp-up plan.“The planned escalation includes 1,558 additional beds in Delhi government hospitals, 1,092 additional beds in central government hospitals and 2,241 additional beds in private hospitals. The anticipated enhancement of beds in the private hospitals would be subject to the outcome of pending litigation in the Delhi high court as well as on need basis,” said the document, which has been presented to Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chairperson, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and vice-chairperson and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal apart from the expert committee led by Dr Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-5-664-new-infections-in-last-24-hours-case-positivity-rate-12-69/story-HA9dvlaoFRdPSAPWbAUkbL.html
01-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jharkhand BJP chief charged with sedition after comment on Hemant Soren govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesJharkhand BJP chief charged with sedition after comment on Hemant Soren govtA day after the Jharkhand police booked state BJP president Deepak Prakash for sedition and other charges, the leader on Sunday challenged the government to arrest him, stressing that he will not retract from his stand.Two days back in Dumka, Prakash had said that the incumbent government, led by Hemant Soren, would be unseated within two months and the next government would have a BJP chief minister. Read MoreIndia rejects Pakistan’s status to Gilgit-Baltistan, says it has no locus standiIndia on Sunday rejected Pakistan’s move of granting provisional-provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan. In a strongly worded reply, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs Anurag Srivastava said “the area of so-called Gilgit-Baltistan” are an integral part of India. Read MoreAnother stimulus package in the offing? Finance secretary respondsCiting the robust Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for two months in a row, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey stressed that the Indian economy is on the rapid recovery path. The finance secretary stressed that the government is quite open and as and when any intervention or stimulus is needed, it will be done. Read MoreUK PM calls in army to roll out tests as lockdown loomsAs England goes into Lockdown 2 from Thursday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called in the army to help with rolling out a massive testing programme across the UK and believes that there is “realistic hope” of a vaccine for Covid-19 in the first quarter of 2021.  Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘Always nice to try and get a smile from dear old MS Dhoni’ - Danny Morrison explains why he asked MSD about IPL futureThe start of Chennai Super Kings’ match against Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League 2020 on Sunday had a viral moment - at the toss itself, commentator Danny Morrison asked CSK captain MS Dhoni the question everyone had been waiting to ask him - will he be playing for CSK in the IPL in the future? “Could this be your final game in yellow?” Morrison had asked. “Definitely not,” Dhoni had replied emphatically. Read MoreMicrosoft Teams gets a massive update, adds numerous new featuresMicrosoft recently brought a massive change to its Teams video collaboration service. There were changes and improvements both in terms of features and cosmetics. These deal with meetings, calling, chat and collaboration along with the introduction of a a new section called “App spotlight”. Read MoreInside Kajal Aggarwal-Gautam Kitchlu wedding reception: Newlyweds burst into laughter as they raise a toastActor Kajal Aggarwal is now married to interior design entrepreneur Gautam Kitchlu. The couple tied the knot in a grand wedding ceremony on Friday. Now, a picture from their wedding reception has surfaced online and it shows the newlyweds in unconventional outfits.  Read MoreWill Smith shares video of something eerie coming out of man’s mouth. Watch to find out whatAmerican actor Will Smith is known for sharing entertaining and compelling content on his social media accounts. These posts often make netizens laugh and sometimes leave them feeling a little baffled. This video shared by Smith, which shows Prehistoric Pets’ founder Jay Brewer, may evoke the latter mentioned emotion of confusion within you. And, possibly a whole lot of creeps. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jharkhand-bjp-chief-charged-with-sedition-after-comment-on-hemant-soren-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kitFm32friMVvG5hR4pTiL.html
01-11-2020||India||Olive ridley conservation: Odisha govt clamps prohibition on sea fishing activity at 3 river mouths||To ensure the safety of olive ridley turtles during their breeding and mating season, the Odisha government on Sunday clamped a seven-month prohibition on sea fishing activity within 20 km of the coast at the river mouths of Dhamara, Devi, and Rusikulya.A blanket ban on sea-fishing remains enforced round- the-year in Gahirmatha coast, which is acclaimed as the largest habitation corridors of these endangered marine species. Besides, it has been conferred the status of marine sanctuary in view of turtles congregation.The sole objective of annual measures, that would remain effective till May 31, is to ensure the safety of marine animals during their breeding and mating season, said forest officials, adding that the ban has been clamped in accordance with Sections 2, 7, and 4 of Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act (OMFRA), 1982 and provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.The fishing ban has been imposed along a specified coast of the sea comprising sea turtle congregation area and their buffer zones at the river mouths of Dhamara, Devi, and Rusikulya.The prohibition of this nature has been clamped as the turtles perish in larger numbers either by getting entangled in fishing nets or hit by fishing trawler’ propellers.It will be a multi-layered patrolling exercise involving the forest, fisheries, and marine police besides the coast guard personnel. To ensure effective patrolling, 61 on- shore camps and five off-shore camps have been set up. The armed police constabulary force will flank the forest and fisheries patrolling teams.“To ensure the safety of turtles, the prohibitory orders are being strictly enforced. The trawler operators have been cautioned not to venture into prohibited water zones. Any act of trespassing would invite punitive measures”, said Divisional Forest Officer, Rajnagar Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division, Bikash Ranjan Dash.Around 10,666 fishermen families will be affected following the fishing ban. Therefore, to compensate for the loss of income avenues, the state government has decided to extend one-time livelihood assistance of Rs 7,500 to the affected fishermen families.Around 7.30 lakh Olive Ridley turtles had turned up for their annual sojourn for mass nesting in the 2019-20 nesting season. The female turtles had emerged from the sea to crawl on to the serene beach, dig pits to lay millions of eggs.The female turtles virtually invade the nesting beaches usually at the dead of the night for laying eggs, the phenomenon otherwise described as ‘arribada’. After indulgence in instinctive egg-laying, the turtles leave the nesting ground to stride into the deep sea water. Hatchlings emerge from these eggs after 45-60 days. It is a rare natural phenomenon where the babies grow without their mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/olive-ridley-conservation-odisha-govt-clamps-prohibition-on-sea-fishing-activity-at-3-river-mouths/story-O3XeyO9uY1mBDnLi2AAhNI.html
01-11-2020||India||Restoration of Uttarakhand’s 400-year-old Ganga temple begins||The historic 16th-century temple built by King Man Singh of Ajmer, in the midst of sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, in Haridwar will get a major facelift ahead of the Mahakumbh fair. The temple as per the High Court directives is being restored to its original dome shape (Chhatri) from which its name has been derived.The Ganga temple, popularly known as Raja Man Singh Ki Chhatri, has not been renovated for the past several decades. It stands among a cluster of temples at Har-Ki-Pauri, as it is the only temple not whitewashed and is in cemented-brick form only.Chemical layering, filling, testing and cleaning work has been started by experts from Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). The family whose ancestors were priests of Raja Man Singh and who manage the temple have given a go-ahead to ensure beautification, restoration of the original dome-shaped structure with an initial assessment of nearly Rs 60 lakh budget.Haridwar Roorkee Development Authority had also carried out an assessment of the four-century-old temple basement and structure during Ganga canal closure last year.A team of experts comprising Archaeological Survey of India, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee, and Central Building Research Institute had given a go-ahead to the construction of the dome structure in its feasibility report.Pallav Budhkar, member of the family whose ancestors were priests of Raja Man Singh, said that work has been initiated to ensure the temple restores its original umbrella-shaped top structure.Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha pointed out that in 1997 the Chhatri (elevated, dome-shaped or umbrella-shaped structure) atop the shrine was removed. “After the removal of the Chhatri, it became a raised concrete temple”, he said “Pilgrims and tourists used to make sure they pay obeisance at this temple; the same aura will get restored when it is restored to its original glory,” said local trader Tej Prakash.Devotees, as well as tourists, easily spot the Ganga temple and are surprised that such a historical temple is not in good shape. Even during Mahakumbh, Ardh Kumbh, Kanwar fairs and other VVIP dignitaries’ visit, Ganga Sabha and local administration cover this concrete-brick unfinished look of the Ganga temple by decorating it with decorative flowers to hide the dilapidated structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restoration-of-uttarakhand-s-400-year-old-ganga-temple-begins/story-CnQf5X82xmdjF1JmvrL5ZO.html
01-11-2020||India||Jharkhand BJP chief charged with sedition after comment on Hemant Soren govt||A day after the Jharkhand police booked state BJP president Deepak Prakash for sedition and other charges, the leader on Sunday challenged the government to arrest him, stressing that he will not retract from his stand.Two days back in Dumka, Prakash had said that the incumbent government, led by Hemant Soren, would be unseated within two months and the next government would have a BJP chief minister. He had also warned few government officials not to misuse their powers to favour ruling party’s candidates in Dumka and Bermo bypolls, scheduled on November 3.Following Prakash’s comment, Dumka’s Congress district president Shyamal Kumar Singh had filed a complaint with the police, alleging that Prakash was trying to destabilise the elected government and intimidated government officials.Responding to the complaint, the Dumka police registered an FIR under Sections 124 A (sedition), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimation) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy).Speaking to the media here at the BJP’s headquarters, Prakash said, “I challenge the government to arrest me as I am still sticking to my stand. The incumbent government is bound to go due to internal dissensions. I will keep questioning the chief minister on public issues, no matter what may come. It’s my right.” मैं आज भी अपने बयान पर कायम हूँ, ये मेरी मातृभूमि है और यहाँ की सवा तीन करोड़ की जनता की सेवा करने का संकल्प मैंने लिया है. इससे पहले भी मैंने दमन के खिलाफ संघर्ष किया है लेकिन ये तो बैशाखी सरकार है1: @dprakashbjp pic.twitter.com/a2sPqqUMDeMeanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren, also speaking to the media in Dumka, said, “BJP does not believe in democratic system. Like in other states, they are trying to define politics in a new way in which role of horse trading is vital. It becomes apparently clear by Prakash’s statement. What is running in his mind? If they have planned to topple the government, then this FIR against him would prove a strong tool to disclose their (BJP people) nefarious design.”Prakash took jibe over the functioning of the government and its machinery. He said, “The government invoked sedition charges against me, who always utter “Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Vandemataram”. A patriot has been made a traitor. See the functioning of the police. They invoke charges only after reading the complaint. But, in my case, the complainant had submitted in writing what charges (mentioning the IPC sections) should be invoked and the police acted on it.”The state BJP president also slammed chief minister Soren for giving a clean chit to Ranchi based social activist and an accused in Bhima-Koregaon violence case Sten Swami.Reading out a part of the NIA’s charge sheet in the case, Prakash said that the accused persons involved in this case had plans to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“They planned for procurement of M-4 rifles and four lakh bullets. It’s a 5000-page chargesheet. But, our CM didn’t care to read it and wait for the judicial decision and jumped on to give a clean chit to Swami,” he said.Prakash questioned why the CM kept silent when scores of hunger deaths and rape and murder incidents occurred in the state during lockdown period.He disclosed incidents before the media and said that he would keep questioning the CM for his failures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-bjp-chief-charged-with-sedition-after-comment-on-hemant-soren-govt/story-suFNvM0kcBr1vpmYW0axJO.html
01-11-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases in India on steady decline for past week, Kerala and Delhi not following trend||On August 13, India’s active Covid-19 cases were 6,53,622, which was the lowest in the days to follow as in August second half and September, the number of active cases crosses eight lakh-mark. On October 26, the number of active cases dropped to 6,53,717, indicating a downward trend which has continued throughout the week. On November 1, India’s total active caseload stands at 5,70,458. The number of active cases dropped below the six lakh-mark in this week nearly after three months. Also Read: Delhi again records over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, 34,186 cases added in last 7 days“This sustained achievement is the result of collaborative action by States/UTs under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive testing, timely tracking, quick hospitalization and adherence to the Standard Treatment Protocol which has ensured a standardised quality of medical care across the public and private hospitals and for the home isolation cases,” the health ministry said. Also Read: India’s daily Covid-19 count falls further, active cases remain below 6 lakhHowever, the trend can’t be found in Kerala and Delhi. While Kerala reported a sudden spike in the number of daily infections in middle October — after Onam, Delhi reported a spike in the last week of October. In this week, Kerala officially surpassed Maharashtra to report highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases. The test positivity rate in Delhi is a little over 11 per cent and in Delhi it is around 12 to 14 per cent.Date-wise new cases reported from Delhi and Kerala in last weekOctober 25Kerala: 6,843Delhi: 4,136October 26Kerala: 4,287Delhi: 2,832October 27Kerala: 5,457Delhi: 4,853October 28Kerala: 8,790Delhi: 5,673October 29Kerala: 7,020Delhi: 5,739October 30Kerala: 6,638Delhi: 5,891October 31Kerala: 7,983Delhi: 5,062Meanwhile, Delhi has taken another step towards unlocking after it allowed buses to ply with full capacity. The cap on the number of people attending wedding parties has also been relaxed ahead of the wedding season. Now 200 guests are allowed in Delhi weddings.Kerala has also opened beaches, parks and museums for tourists from November 1. The staggered unlocking of public places, facilities is not being blamed for contributing to the number of Covid-19 cases in either of the states. The sudden spike has been attributed to festive season in both Delhi and Kerala, pollution and the onset of winter being other two conducive factors in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-india-on-steady-decline-for-past-week-kerala-and-delhi-not-following-trend/story-NZ8nfZdITjx1xnb0arXfcK.html
01-11-2020||India||‘Woman with self-respect will die if raped’: Kerala Congress chief’s shocker||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullapally Ramachandran triggered a controversy on Sunday when he made “anti-women comments” while criticising the Left Democratic Front (LDF). After uproar, the Congress leader soon offered an apology. “A woman with self-respect will die if she is raped or else try not to be sexually assaulted again. But every day she is telling she is raped by someone,” he said while launching the opposition United Democratic Front’s protest, seeking the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mullapally made the offensive remarks while he was slamming the LDF for bringing up the solar scam case during the Congress regime to counter the criticism against it in the gold smuggling and drug cases. “The LDF has brought a sex worker as a desperate attempt to tell her tales. The CM’s blackmailing won’t work this time. One can understand when a woman is raped once but she says she is assaulted repeatedly. Nobody will believe her studded lies,” he said, without naming the woman in the solar scam case. The reference, however, was to the solar scam accused Saritha Nair. Just two days back, she is reported to have made a statement against former minister AP Anil Kumar. The solar scam relates to alleged fraud by Saritha and her second husband with the help of a few staff members of the then chief minister Oommen Chandy’s office. They promised unsuspecting customers imported solar panels. Once the scam surfaced, Chandy had to sack three of his aides and Kerala’s public relations director. After her arrest, she had raised sexual assault charges against many Congress leaders. Ramachandran apologised at the same venue after loud protests erupted, and the ruling CPI(M) and women organisations came out against the Congress leader. State Women Commission president MC Josephine said his words were in bad taste and the commission will take action against him. Congress leader Shanimol Usman and others also expressed displeasure over his remarks. This is not the first time he has landed in such a controversy. Earlier, he landed in another row after his ‘Covid Rani’ and ‘Nipah Rajkumari’ remarks against state health minister K K Shailaja. But he later said he used these epithets with good intention to expose the state’s failure on Covid-19 battlefront. “It shows his mindset. This is not the first time he is speaking against women. We would like to know the Congress president’s view about this,” said KK Shailaja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-with-self-respect-will-die-if-raped-kerala-congress-chief-s-shocker/story-yxldZZTfeg77yjz7plh2SJ.html
01-11-2020||India||Bar Council of India allows law universities to conduct physical exams||The Bar Council of India (BCI) has allowed law universities to conduct physical examination by giving an option to students, who are unable or unwilling to appear till the Covid-19 pandemic is averted, to take the exam again after physical reopening of the varsities.The BCI, the regulator of law education in the country, on Sunday also clarified that the students who appear but are unable to clear the exam will also get a chance to reappear in the fresh exams.The exams will have to be held with a No Objection Certificate (NOC) of the state government and State Disaster Management Authority, it said.“It is observed by the Council (General Council of the BCI) that if physical exams as contemplated by the University is held with effect from November 2 and if the said exams are held without any penal consequences to any student who is unable to appear in the said exam, no student shall be prejudiced or affected and they will get an opportunity to appear in the exam again after physical reopening of the college/university,” the BCI said in a press release.It provided an option “to Universities/Centres of Legal Education to conduct physical examination with the NOC of the state government and State Disaster Management Authority, by giving the option to such law students who are unable and/or unwilling to appear in such physical exams till the Covid-19 pandemic is averted, and having appeared therein, who are/is unable to clear such exam, to appear in the re-appear exam after physical reopening of the University/Centres of Legal Education”.Considering that the pandemic still persists with no early respite from it in sight, the Council resolved that examination for all intermediary along with final year law students and classes too may be held online, if the universities and law colleges are able to hold it online, and if adequate infrastructure and other facilities for students are available.  “It is further resolved that if online exam is so conducted and any student is unable to take it, or having appeared therein, is unable to pass such exam/subject paper, such student shall be entitled to take the reappear exam/paper whenever it is held preferably within one month of physical re-opening of the universities and college after the pandemic is averted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-council-of-india-allows-law-universities-to-conduct-physical-exams/story-cChIHf4iuC6bDyCkrqi6NP.html
01-11-2020||India||Auto sales show signs of rebound as carmakers see spike in monthly sales||India’s largest carmakers posted strong monthly sales numbers on Sunday, signalling that demand could be returning to the country’s ailing economy during the festival period.Maruti Suzuki, the country’s biggest automaker, said it sold 182,448 vehicles in October, an increase of nearly 19% over the same period last year.The company was hit hard by a months-long lockdown imposed in late March to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus, reporting a quarterly loss in July - the first time since its listing in 2003.India’s second-largest carmaker Hyundai said that it recorded its highest-ever domestic sales last month, selling 56,605 vehicles. The company’s previous highest monthly sales was in October 2018, when it sold around 52,000 cars.Mahindra & Mahindra, maker of popular sports utility vehicles, reported that domestic sales of passenger vehicles had increased by 1% in October, compared to last year.“For Mahindra, the festive season has started on a positive note with deliveries and bookings being higher than last year,” Veejay Nakra, CEO of the company’s automotive division, said in a press release.Some Indian businesses expect a boost in sales during the country’s largest shopping season, spread over the festival period of October and November, with the pandemic shutdown leading to pent-up demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auto-sales-show-signs-of-rebound-as-carmakers-see-spike-in-monthly-sales/story-t4CzK8SPzxGBCREMKNWDaN.html
01-11-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s status to Gilgit-Baltistan, says it has no locus standi||India on Sunday rejected Pakistan’s move of granting provisional-provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan. In a strongly worded reply, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs Anurag Srivastava said “the area of so-called Gilgit-Baltistan” are an integral part of India. Underlining India’s stand on the issue, MEA officials said that the territory has been illegally and forcibly occupied by Pakistan. “I reiterate that the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the area of so-called “Gilgit-Baltistan”, are an integral part of India by virtue of the legal, complete and irrevocable accession of Jammu and Kashmir to the Union of India in 1947. The Government of Pakistan has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it,” a statement released by MEA stated. Also read: Imran Khan names GB as Pak province despite protests at home, Opposition from IndiaSuch attempts by Pakistan, MEA said, ‘intended to camouflage its (Pakistan) illegal occupation, cannot hide the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom for over seven decades to the people residing in these Pakistan occupied territories. “Instead of seeking to alter the status of these Indian territories, we call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” the statement read.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday officially announced the provincial status of Gilgit-Baltistan, which New Delhi asserts is part of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Gilgit- Baltistan, earlier known as Northern Areas has been governed by the “Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order of 2009”, which established an electoral framework. Elections have been held in the region under the Order that provides for only limited autonomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-status-to-gilgit-baltistan-says-it-has-no-locus-standi/story-f6YrbUy4Ot3dgGJwmiSDwM.html
01-11-2020||India||Another stimulus package in the offing? Finance secretary responds||Citing the robust Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for two months in a row, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey stressed that the Indian economy is on the rapid recovery path. The finance secretary stressed that the government is quite open and as and when any intervention or stimulus is needed, it will be done.Secretary Pandey further said that economic recovery in many areas has crossed the pre-Covid level, and is expected to see further growth.Below are the edited excerpts of Ajay Bhushan Pandey’s interview with HT’s Rajeev Jayaswal.Q) The US economy has seen a sharp 33.1% jump in Q3. Do we expect a similar kind of recovery in India?So far as India is concerned, we have seen certain credible signs of recovery, particularly in the last two months. In many areas we have not only reached the pre-Covid level, but also crossed that and are seeing further growth. I will tell you about some figures. First is that of e-way bills, which indicates production, movement of goods and also consumption. In order to get e-way bills generated you have to produce things, you need to transport them, and then businesses have to receive and sell them. So it gives you an indication of business activity. This September, the growth in e-way bill was 10% compared to last year and this October the growth is about 21% year-on-year (y-o-y). The other statistics is of electronic invoice [e-invoice], for which we don’t have a y-o-y comparison as it started from October 1, 2020 only. However, on the first day it was about 8 lakh a day. Now, it has gone up and on October 30 it was more than 29 lakh a day. Similarly, if you see the GST collection figures, we had a positive 4% [annualised] growth in September 2020 at Rs 95,480 crore. The collections saw more than 10% growth in October this year at Rs 1 lakh 5 thousand crore compared to the same month last year, which definitely shows a pick-up in the economic activities. So, as far as the indirect tax is concerned, we have not only reached the last years’ level, but we have also gone beyond.Q) What is the position of direct taxes? So far, what are the direct tax collection figures?The total gross tax collection is down by 22%. It consists of corporate tax and also the personal income-tax. When we make comparison in corporate tax, we have to keep in mind that last year for the first six months, the corporate tax [rate] was at 30%. This year it is at 22%. There was also significant impact due to pandemic and lockdown for the first four-five months [of the current financial year]. Now, over the next few months, the situation will improve further. Eventually, if the indirect tax is doing well, we will see some positive impact of that on direct tax also. The gross direct tax collection [both corporate and personal income tax] in current financial year [till October] is Rs 5,05,000 crore. Last year [till October] it was Rs 6,41,000 crore. The gross corporate tax collection this financial year so far is Rs 2,65,000 crore compared to Rs 3,60,000 crore in the same period last year. Going forward, direct tax collection will also improve along with indirect taxes.Q) What are your plans to check tax evasion?We have taken necessary measures to update the system and follow data sharing consistently and use data analytics and artificial intelligence. This has helped us in augmenting revenue even in this difficult time of Covid-19. Today, the data of income-tax, customs and GST - all are being shared among themselves in real time on a continuous basis. Any asymmetry in data is red flagged by the system and evasion is caught. If anyone shows different turnover in GST and files different numbers in income-tax and different figures of customs, then they are automatically checked and caught.Q) Do you think another stimulus is required for faster growth recovery?The government has taken a series of measures since March this year. Various packages have been announced by the Union finance minister. Each time, we stepped in and intervened with relief or stimulus packages as per the need of the hour and the needs of the targeted group of populace, etc. And such packages need to be different to address the different requirements. We were constantly monitoring the ground situation and responded accordingly – as to which section of the society or which sector of the economy required support and in it what form. We acted accordingly.In the month of April, because of the lockdown, what was needed was cash in the hands of the vulnerable section of the society such as farmers and the Jan-Dhan account holders. We put the money in their hands, directly in their bank accounts. About 80 crore people were given free food grains per month, per family. Similarly, for MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises], Rs 3 lakh crore fund was provided for their working capital for which the government gave the guarantee and of which about Rs 2 lakh crore was already sanctioned. We also gave relief in taxation, by extending timelines, by deferred payments, by giving them TDS [tax deducted at source] relief. So measures were taken. Therefore, stimulus can’t be one size fits all or one size will fit at all times. So what we have to do is to continuously monitor and assess the situation and then come out with the response to address the needs of the hour appropriately as per the requirement of the segment of the economy. Our finance minister has already said that we are quite open and as and when any intervention or stimulus is needed we will not be left wanting.Q) So, will the stimulus be focused on demand generation this time?As we have done in the past few months, whichever sector of the economy or section of population needs stimulus or relief, we will do that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-stimulus-package-in-the-offing-finance-secretary-responds/story-44jjlJSJRDftsrQ0mw1fOJ.html
01-11-2020||India||TV is the best medium for newcomers: Maera||Born and brought up in Bareilly, actor Maera Mishra is keen to continue doing more television projects as for her it’s the medium with largest reach. “Yes, TV is undeniably the biggest entertainment medium with a vast reach so for newcomers it’s definitely the best platform to be at. So, for the time being, I will be focusing on TV shows. Rest, I’ll let life take its own course and see what is in store for my career in terms of work,” said the ‘Bahu Begum’ actor. Maera started as a child artiste and went back to complete her studies. “I auditioned as a child artiste and thankfully got work too. I did a few shows, including hit crime series ‘Bhanwar’, but then on my mother’s persuasion I went back to studies and it was during my college in Delhi I thought of resuming acting. So, I again got into grind of auditioning and started looking for work. And slowly, I paved way for myself — from being a child artiste to modelling and finally acting.” The young actor feels her participation in the reality shows made her learn a lot about behind the camera process. “I was part of ‘Splitsvilla season 11’ which not only made me more confident about myself but also for my craft. I got to witness the process of show-making and fine-tuned my skills for a better me. Then I pursued roles in shows like ‘Maharaj ki Jai Ho’, ‘Ishqbaaz’ and more. I also did number of Hindi and Punjabi music videos.” A fitness enthusiast, Maera is currently essaying a negative role in ‘Guddan Tumse Na Ho Payega.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tv-is-the-best-medium-for-newcomers-maera/story-nDRVLRByYX4CeoSSoUJIoJ.html
01-11-2020||India||Finally, I got a chance to explore my roots in UP: Deepshikha||After a long contented acting career in films and television, actor Deepshikha Nagpal was thrilled to finally get a chance to explore her roots in UP. The ‘Koyla’ actor for the first time, shot in Lucknow for the film ‘The Prayag Raj’ being directed by Anish Sharon Khan. “My father was from Agra and it’s this Hindi connect that helped in my career. Living in Mumbai and having Gujarati mother, I got a chance to speak both the languages at home. It’s for the first time I got to shoot here and I just love the Hindi spoken in this part of the world,” said the ‘Yeh Dooriyan’ actor-director. Deepshikha plays actor Mukesh Tiwari wife in the film. “It’s a political drama and I’m playing a ‘dabangg’ wife of this politician. I have done many negative roles before but this is surely different with an interesting lingo — ‘Yahan par aap gussa bhi ho jaao to samne wale ko bura nahi lagta hai’.” Sporting mask and sunglasses, Deepshikha went on a ride to explore Lucknow like never before. “I took peddle and e-rickshaw rides, savoured makkhan-malai and went on a shopping spree in Chowk. Though, I have been there for shows and have my rakhi brothers in Lucknow and Kanpur but this time it was a different fun experience altogether.” She was last seen in Vikram Bhatt’s film ‘Maya 3’ and the TV show ‘Main Bhi Ardhangni’. Besides, she also shot for a thriller web-series ‘Kaun’ with Sushant Singh. Talking more about the series, she said, “It’s is for a new platform with a subject based in UP and Bihar but we have shot for it in Mumbai post-lockdown. Then ‘The Prayag Raj’ came my way with an opportunity to shoot in Lucknow, the new shooting hub.” Back in Mumbai, Deepshikha is looking forward to come back for her second schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/finally-i-got-a-chance-to-explore-my-roots-in-up-deepshikha/story-LhRQowQ224kxyZpGKkpmFK.html
01-11-2020||India||Tripura police investigate 18-year-old extortion notice by outlawed terrorist outfit||Tripura police are investigating two extortion notices signed by an outlawed terrorist group 18 years ago that surfaced at Vangmun village located in North district, across Tripura-Mizoram inter-state boundary. Vangmun village council president Zosangliana received the two extortion notices signed by Md. D Bwskang, self-styled deputy collector of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of Twipra Kingdom, that was led by the banned terrorist group National Liberation Front of Twipra ( NLFT) on October 23. Surprisingly, the two notices were dated October 23, 2002. “We got the complaint from the village council president on October 26. We are trying to verify the genuineness of the two notices, however, we have started our investigation,” officer-in-charge of Vangmun police station Shyamal Murasingh told reporters. According to the village council president, the notices demanded Rs 200 from each household. The complainant was under home quarantine due to which he came to the police station three days after receiving the notices, the official added. Also read: After Uttar Pradesh, Haryana now considers law against ‘love jihad’With the agenda of sovereign Tripura, the NLFT was formed on March 12 in 1989. It was banned in 1997 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and then under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). The NLFT was responsible for violent activities including 317 insurgency incidents in which 28 security forces and 62 civilians lost their lives during the period 2005-2015, according to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-police-investigate-18-year-old-extortion-notice-by-outlawed-terrorist-outfit/story-Z30n0ro6Vc9exvyv024pGI.html
01-11-2020||India||Kamal Nath vs Shivraj Chouhan over Class IV employees’ retirement age||Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit back at state Congress president Kamal Nath after he misinterpreted a state government notification over the upper age limit of class IV employees engaged in ministers’ staff. The Madhya Pradesh government has raised the age from 40 to 60 years. In a series of tweets on Sunday, Nath accused the state government of reducing the retirement age of class IV government employees from 62 to 60 years. “Shivraj government’s decision to reduce the retirement age of class IV employees from 62 to 60 years amounts to cheating them. The decision is going to create a crisis for them,” he tweeted. “How will the government pay gratuity and pension to these employees when it’s not in a position to pay arrears to them?“Government has got exposed for its bad intentions before polling. BJP government should reconsider its decision, otherwise Congress will cancel such anti-employees decisions on being voted to power,” the former CM added.Defending the government, CM Chouhan underlined that no such decision has been taken to reduce the retirement age of the government employees. “Kamal Nath ji, how do you face yourself in the mirror every morning? You are spreading rumours on seeing imminent defeat in bypolls”, said CM Chouhan. He added, “Despite being a former chief minister you didn’t try to know before you tweeted that the notification issued by General Administration department (GAD) is concerning class IV employees appointed in ministers’ staff for a period till the ministers remain on their positions. In fact, their age limit to remain in the ministers’ staff has been extended from 40 to 60 years. The retirement age of class IV employees continues to remain 62.” The CM’s tweets were immediately followed by the GAD’s clarification issued on the notification, despite Sunday being the weekly holiday in the government. The department stated that the 18-40 age limit of the class IV employees appointed in ministers’ staff as per ministers’ wishes has been amended as 18-60 and that there is no change in the retirement age of the class IV employees of the state government. Later, Kamal Nath thanked the government while posting the GAD’s clarification on his Twitter account and said Congress always stood by the government employees. It would continue to fight to protect their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-vs-shivraj-chouhan-over-class-iv-employees-retirement-age/story-YctZQJbmrG1MmaHQCyBcqJ.html
01-11-2020||India||At 40 per cent, stubble burning’s hand in Delhi pollution at season’s high||The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution rose to 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season, according to a central government air quality monitoring agency.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said 3,216 farm fires were spotted over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution was 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season. It was 32 per cent on Saturday, 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday, the second highest this season so far.Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.Also read | Coldest October in 58 years, but numerous farm fires keep Delhi air in ICUNASA’s satellite imagery showed a large, dense cluster of fire dots covering Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  SAFAR said air quality has not improved much despite improved ventilation due to high stubble-related intrusion and trapping of pollutants during night time due to low wintertime boundary layer height. “However, it has not deteriorated further despite favourable North-North-Westerly boundary level wind direction. The highly favourable conditions for fire-related intrusion in Delhi is expected to continue,” it said.SAFAR predicted better ventilation for the next two days but said the AQI is likely to improve only marginally, depending on farm fires. It is set to deteriorate slightly on November 3, it said.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 370 at 3 pm. The 24-hour average AQI was 367 on Saturday. It was 374 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday and 353 on Monday.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-40-per-cent-stubble-burning-s-hand-in-delhi-pollution-at-season-s-high/story-HeMdtE482UpjKs66jLBlkL.html
01-11-2020||India||North Bengal’s long term issues too will be solved like Article 370 and Ram Mandir: Jagdeep Dhankhar||Like the two major issues of the country, Article 370 and construction of Ram Mandir, the long-term issues of North Bengal will also be solved constitutionally, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Sunday.North Bengal has been grappling with political problems in the Darjeeling hills, especially the demand for a separate Gorkhaland.“The two major issues of the country, abrogation of Article 370 and construction of Ram Mandir, have been settled. North Bengal also has some long-term issues, which will be solved constitutionally with a futuristic point of view,” said the governor who arrived in Siliguri on Saturday. He will spend one month at Darjeeling Raj Bhavan when he is expected to meet representatives from several political parties.Also expressing concern over the law and order situation in the state, he alleged that the government officials are working like political servants when they should work like public servants.“The law and order situation of the state has become a matter of concern. Political killings are happening every week. Figures of rape incidents have gone up. People are making bombs in open places. Moreover, the state DGP is not coming (to meet me) despite several calls (from Raj Bhavan),” the governor said during his interaction with media here.On the roles of Centre as well as the state, the governor said both are two wheels of development and it is their duty to work together for the betterment of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-bengal-s-long-term-issues-too-will-be-solved-like-article-370-and-ram-mandir-jagdeep-dhankhar/story-KZpGkJtpGDP9c1xLYdrDIL.html
01-11-2020||India||CRPF warns jawans of Facebook profile cloning to extract confidential information||Indian security forces have issued advisories as well as started preparing contents to educate jawans against being trapped by enemy nations into giving away strategic information. Cloning of Facebook profiles is one such tactic to retrieve information that has been rampant of late.Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has issued a letter raising an alarm about the cloning of their jawans’ Facebook profiles. “It has been observed that anti-social elements and people with malicious intent are using Facebook profile cloning to target vulnerable users. This scam is also being used to target security forces and extract confidential information,” the CRPF said in the recent letter issued to the jawans deployed in sensitive locations such as Jammu and Kashmir and red zones.Besides, CRPF’s social media team has also issued a “Manual on Social Media Cloning” and prepared a video to educate the jawans about how Facebook profile cloning is used to target security personnel, and how it can be prevented.According to a senior CRPF officer, there has been a series of complaints from jawans in the last few months about their friends and family members receiving a variety of requests from their cloned profiles. In one such case, friends of a jawan, deployed in a sensitive location, were asked to send details of his location, as “he was untraceable”. In most such cases, money was also demanded from the jawans’ family and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-warns-jawans-of-facebook-profile-cloning-to-extract-confidential-information/story-KFzePLjuI17NWAGfN8YYaN.html
01-11-2020||India||We backed independent in RS polls to expose BJP-BSP tacit understanding: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has said that his party supported independent nominee Prakash Bajaj for the upcoming Rajya Sabha (RS) elections from Uttar Pradesh (UP) to expose what he called a “tacit understanding” between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).“We wanted voting in the RS polls to expose which party is aligning with whom,” he said. The former CM shared this comment with media persons on Saturday on the sidelines of an event held by the party on the birth anniversary of socialist leader Acharya Narendra Dev.“Those who are inspired by socialist ideals chose to support the independent candidate for the RS polls in a bid to underscore the fact that BSP is in cahoots with the BJP,” Yadav said.The SP chief said that the BJP could enter into an electoral understanding with any party of its choice, but such tacit deals needed to be exposed. Yadav hit out at the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in UP for its alleged failure to nurture the Gomti riverfront development project in Lucknow, which was initiated by his government that was in power between 2012 and 2017. Similarly, he singled out the lack of expansion of Lucknow Metro, which was also started by his government.Earlier on October 27, Prakash Bajaj (38), a lawyer, had queered the pitch for the upcoming RS polls, when he had filed nomination papers at the last moment. He was supported by 10 SP lawmakers. His entry into the electoral fray implied a contest in the RS polls, as there were 11 candidates for 10 vacant seats. The BJP fielded eight candidates and the SP and the BSP one each.Bajaj’s entry made BSP candidate Ramji Gautam’s prospects uncertain, as the party did not have the requisite 37 votes to secure an outright win. To make matters worse, seven BSP rebel legislators had met Yadav last week and thrown their lot behind the rival SP. Clarity emerged and Gautam’s winning chances brightened after the returning officer (RO) rejected Bajaj’s nomination last Thursday.On the same day, BSP president Mayawati suspended the seven rebel MLAs. She declared that her party would vote for any other political outfit, including the BJP, to ensure the SP is taught a lesson in the UP Legislative Council elections slated to be held in January.She also rued her decisions such as forging an alliance with the SP in last year’s parliament elections and withdrawing the 1995 guest house case against Yadav and his father and former UP CM Mulayam Singh Yadav.RS polls will be held on November 9 and the results will be announced on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-backed-independent-in-rs-polls-to-expose-bjp-bsp-tacit-understanding-akhilesh/story-kwyAsJP3zmYAmRJlqXJzHK.html
01-11-2020||India||Big cat recaptured 24 hours after it escaped from cage in Kerala||Forest and police officials heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday after they managed to recapture a tigress which escaped from captivity in the Neyyar Lion Safari Park in Thiruvananthapuram. Officials said the operation to recapture the tigress was like a hide and seek game but they managed to tranquillize the animal within 24 hours of its escape. A team led by Dr Aurn Zacharia spotted the animal and tranquillized it. Officials said it was tired and would need some time to get out of the effect of the tranquillizer. State Forest Minister K Raju said a decision on the rehabilitation of the big cat will be taken after its recovery. Some experts want it to be released back into the wild but others want it to be shifted to a zoo. Officials said it will seek the advice of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The tigress was trapped in Wayanad last week and brought to Neyyar for treatment and rehabilitation but broke the cage and escaped Saturday afternoon triggering enough panic in the area. Personnel of the rapid response team of the forest department guarded the park all night to prevent it from coming out of the park though it was fenced. The forest department was worried that in case the tigress escaped from the park it could head into a populated area near a lake adjoining the safari.The animal was trapped in Wayanad last week after it killed many domestic animals and triggered panic in the area. After it was captured, forest officials discovered that it was slightly injured and decided to shift it to Neyyar Safari Park for treatment. Meanwhile, the government has announced Rs 10 lakh relief to a tribal youth killed in elephant attack in Aralam Farm in Kannur, north Kerala on Saturday. Local people said he was the eighth person to be killed by an elephant this year. “An elephant herd had strayed and were staying in the fringe areas of the forest for some time. We will continue our efforts to push them into the deep forests,” the forest minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-cat-recaptured-24-hours-after-it-escaped-from-cage-in-kerala/story-RK0SvZvSFfSfSmiG8rZF1L.html
01-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress attacks govt on women’s safety in UP, Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. ‘When government is run by leaders that respect women, it shows,’ Congress takes swipe at UP, BiharMocking BJP-JD(U)’s ‘beti bachao’ slogan, the Congress on Sunday accused the coalition of offering election tickets to those who abuse women, raising question over its women empowerment plank. “Crime against women in Bihar is increasing. The government only male tall claims of making Bihar self-reliant. But they never created any opportunity for women employment in the state,” the Congress tweeted from its official handle. Read moreArmy Chief Naravane’s Nepal visit to break ice, Oli wants Pancheshwar project revivedThe results of 45 days of discreet back channel diplomacy with Kathmandu will be put to test this week when Indian Army Chief General M.M. Naravane calls upon Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and formally buries the orchestrated controversy over road construction via Lipulekh for pilgrimage to Mansarovar in Tibet. Read morePune receives decade’s highest rainfall in Oct 2020Pune has received the highest rainfall of the decade in October 2020. The city registered a record 312.4mm rainfall last month, according to the data shared by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read more‘Not my last game in yellow’: MS Dhoni assures he will be back to play for CSK in IPL“Could this be your last game in yellow?,” commentator Danny Morrison asked Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni at the toss. CSK are facing Kings XI Punjab in their final game of the ongoing season of Indian Premier League 2020 in Abu Dhabi, and fans are excited to see what will be Dhoni’s last appearance in IPL 2020. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana recreates Ariana Grande’s look from new album for Halloween. See picShah Rukh Khan’s daughter, a huge Ariana Grande fan, Suhana Khan has reacted the pop singer’s look for Halloween this year. On Saturday, Suhana took to Instagram stories to share a picture of herself dressed as the Grammy-winning singer. Read moreUrban Cruiser bolsters Toyota performance in October, best month since lockdownToyota Kirloskar Motor on Sunday announced it had sold 12,373 units in the month of October, continuing the recovery process since the first phase of national lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic was announced back in March. Read moreHappy birthday, Ishaan Khatter: 5 times the ‘Suitable Boy’ gave us fitness goalsBollywood’s chocolatey boy just turned 25 years old this Sunday and while we can’t help but marvel at his stellar acting skills in the recently released BBC series, A Suitable Boy, Ishaan Khatter has left no stone unturned to give fitness enthusiasts a run for their money. Read more6-year-old boy raps about what you can be when you grow up, Michelle Obama shares motivational clip“What do you want to be when you’re older?” is a question many of us may remember being asked as a kid. Now, a young boy from the United States, named Sam, has come up with a seemingly perfect reply for the inquiry. The message Sam and his dad Bobby White’s rap conveys is that you can indeed be anything you dream of. Read moreBihar polls | ‘Double engine NDA govt pitted against oppn’s 2 Yuvaraj’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi launched a veiled attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav. Slamming the Mahagathbandhan leadership in the state, PM Modi said that the two ‘Yuvaraj’ are busy fighting to save their throne. The Prime Minister was addressing a rally in poll-bound Bihar’s Chhapra. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-attacks-govt-on-women-s-safety-in-up-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-99MsbZ45wYn76rF7W2lLPP.html
01-11-2020||India||Tripura’s 90-year-old gangraped, accused’s family says it ‘ conspiracy’||Priyanka Deb BarmanAGARTALA: Over a week after a woman (90) was allegedly raped by two men in Tripura, police have booked the offenders, including one of her neighbours, following a complaint. Though a probe is in progress, no one has been arrested so far.The incident occurred at a village in Kanchanpur in Tripura’s North district on October 24 and the case was filed on October 29. The prime accused, Manjan Namah (32), accompanied by another person, unknown to the rape survivor, came to her home late in the evening on October 24 and allegedly committed the crime. However, she filed the complaint five days later. “A case has been filed against the two persons under sections 376 (rape) and 457 (break-in of a house) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Namah is absconding,” said Bhanupada Chakraborty, superintendent of police (SP), North district.Police said that the rape survivor stay alone at home and has a sizeable inheritance.Namah’s family members have denied his role in the alleged crime, as he was purportedly present at home, when the incident occurred. “It is a fake incident. It is a conspiracy against us. My husband was at home on that day,” his wife claimed..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-s-90-year-old-gangraped-accused-s-family-says-it-conspiracy/story-AiEefXuLPBl10Jk8xllbQI.html
01-11-2020||India||Self-serving dynasts treat state, govt as personal properties: Modi in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the third leg of his Bihar assembly election campaign in Chapra on Sunday and urged the electorate to defeat the opposition which, he said, had presided over “jungle raj” in the state during its 15-year reign. Without naming the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Modi said that some parties were working for the welfare of their families instead of the development state. “Self-serving dynasts treat the state and government as their personal properties. No one from the families of Modi or Nitish Babu has reached the corridors of power,” the PM said in a speech in Samastipur. Addressing the people of 24 assembly constituencies from Chapra and 21 assembly seats from Samastipur, PM Modi said the high turnover in the first phase of Bihar assembly polls on October 28 had proved political pundits wrong. “The trends from the first phase of polls show the NDA is coming back to power again. It is clear that {chief minister} Nitish Kumar is all set to form government again,” said the PM. The second phase of elections on November 3 is crucial in the NDA’s quest to return to power. Out of the 94 seats going to the polls in the second phase, the BJP is contesting 46 and Nitish Kunar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), 43. The remaining five seats are being contested by their smaller partners. In 2015, the JD (U) had won 30 of the seats that are up for grabs on November 3. This time, it has fielded 19 new faces; the fate of two ministers will be decided in the phase. For the BJP, the second phase is equally crucial in its quest to emerge as the single biggest party in the assembly . The party contested 29 seats in first phase and will contest 35 more in the third phase on November 7. Without taking the name of any political party, but in an oblique reference to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, Modi said efforts by some to create confusion in the minds of the voters had been nullified by the people of Bihar. LJP leader Chirag Paswan has pulled the party out of the NDA in Bihar, citing ideological differences with Nitish Kumar, while remaining in the alliance at the Centre “On one hand, you have a government with double engines {at the Centre and state}; on the other hand, there are two prince (referring to RJD lader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress’s Rahul Gandhi). While the double engine government of Bihar is committed to the state’s development, the two princes are busy saving their thrones,” he added. “You must have seen 3-4 years ago during UP elections, double Yuvarajs there as well, climbed on top of the bus, wore black jackets and used to visit villages while waving,” he added in an apparent reference to the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi. Targeting young voters who are seemingly distancing themselves from the present government, Modi asked women of the state to tell them about the situation that existed in Bihar 15 years ago. “First-time voters should remember how much effort it took to pull out the state out of this situation. Ask your mothers how they feared kidnappers...The lantern has only spread darkness,” he said, referring to the RJD’s election symbol. “I am sure that with your vote you will save Bihar from getting bimaar {sick} again,” the PM said. The PM said the government had opened up 30 passport centres, including one in Gopalganj, for those aspiring to go abroad, adding that now there was no need to travel all the way to Patna to secure a passport. The region has one of the populations employed in West Asia. “We have removed the language barrier by emphasizing the {importance of the} mother tongue as the medium of instruction in the new education policy,” he said. “The Bihar government laid special emphasis on providing electricity, water and road connectivity to people across the state,” Modi said, adding that the Centre had implemented railway projects worth Rs. 2,500 crore in the state. PM said that the BJP has decided to form 1,000 farmer producer organizations in Bihar. “Also, the central government has created a fund of ₹1 lakh crore for agriculture infrastructure for our farmers,” the PM said.With the biggest festival of Bihar, Chhath Puja, taking place after the election results are out on November 10, Modi appealed to the sentiments of women. “I want to tell the mothers in Bihar, your son in Delhi will make sure you celebrate Chhath Puja with pride. I won’t let your family sleep hungry at night. We have ensured free grains for the poor till Chhath puja,” he said Modi accused the opposition of politicising the February 14, 2019 Pulwama terror attack, which left 40 paramilitary troopers dead, and demoralising the armed forces. “The Pakistani admission has shown the real face of opposition,” he said in an apparent reference to an admission by a Pakistani politician that Pakistan had a hand in the attack. He paid rich tributes to the 20 Indian troops who died in a June 15 clash with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan valley in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-serving-dynasts-treat-state-govt-as-personal-properties-modi-in-bihar/story-oKIxKV3HbqwKgC02T6lHKK.html
01-11-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Ghogha-Hazira ‘Ropax’ ferry service in Gujarat on November 8||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the ‘Ropax’ ferry service between Ghogha in Bhavnagar and Hazira in Surat November 8, which will reduce the 370-km road distance between the two places to 60-km by sea route, Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday.Modi will flag off the service, to carry both passengers and heavy vehicles between the two places located in Saurashtra and south Gujarat, through virtual mode at 11 am on November 8, Mandaviya told reporters.The Prime Minister will flag off similar services in other parts of the country also, the Union Minister of State for Shipping said.“A terminal has been constructed at Hazira, and all preparations are completed. The service will begin on November 8, and booking of tickets will start from tomorrow,” he said.The Ropax ferry vehicle can transport up to 550 passengers, 30 trucks, seven smaller trucks, and 100 two- wheelers in one trip. It will be an all-weather service which will operate all 12 months irrespective of the weather conditions and high tide, Mandaviya said.“The coast of Saurashtra is full of potential. There are a number of cement, steel and ship breaking industries, with markets in south India. Through sea connectivity, distance and time can be saved, and such a service will play a big role in industrial development,” he said.This will be important to reduce road, railway congestion, reduce traffic accidents and control pollution,” he added.“We have identified, mapped and studied the potential of destinations across the 7500 km Indian sea coast and are going to start similar services on many destinations across the country,” the Union minister said.“On November 8, Modiji will also launch similar services in Kochi (in Kerala), one on the Brahmaputra river in Assam, and one joining the North East to Kolkata. A service connecting Karimganj in Assam over the Barak river to Bangladesh will also be launched,” he said.The new Ropax service in Gujarat comes after a Ro-Ro (roll on-roll off) ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej in Bharuch district, launched by the PM in October 2017, was suspended last year due to siltation and unavailability of adequate draft to carry the vessel.Mandaviya said the Ro-Ro service was affected due to siltation caused by flood in the Narmada river connecting the sea, and now only a small vessel requiring limited draft and carrying only passengers will operate between Ghogha and Dahej.“We cannot run Ro-Ro service between Dahej and Ghogha as there isn’t adequate draft, and de-siltation is not financially feasible...we will run small vessels between Ghogha and Dahej that require limited draft,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ghogha-hazira-ropax-ferry-service-in-gujarat-on-november-8/story-VrDfxWUkF5ZBuZmbx3EeBI.html
01-11-2020||India||Hizbul Muhajideen’s top terrorist Saifullah killed in encounter in Kashmir’s Rangreth; police laud ‘huge success’||Hizbul Muhajideen top operative Dr Saifullah was killed during a gunfight in Rangreth area on Sunday, said police. One militant was also captured alive during the operation that was launched in the morning on a specific information, police said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range Vijay Kumar said that they had got an information that some militants who had come for south Kashmir are hiding in the area in Rangreth. “A joint operation was launched by Police, CRPF and later Army also joined,” he said.Kumar said that one terrorist was killed and another captured alive during the encounter. “Our sources have told us that the terrorist killed in the operation is Hizbul Mujahideen chief commander, Dr Saifullah.” He said that they are waiting for the family members of Hizb chief to identify the body.Kumar termed the killing of Saifullah a ‘big success’ for the security forces. “He is the second Hizb chief killed in the operation this year. Earlier in May, Riyaz Naikoo who was operational commander was also killed in an encounter in Pulwama and then Dr Saifullah was nominated as the new Hizb chief. For security forces, this is a big success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-muhajideen-chief-commander-dr-saifullah-killed-in-encounter-huge-success-say-police/story-MKb3ObLYixHnF1udWtdw7N.html
01-11-2020||India||Bengal governor targets Trinamool govt over Darjeeling’s fugitive leader||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday targeted the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government over the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s (GJM) fugitive leader Bimal Gurung, who had recently emerged from hiding after three years and offered support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Gurung, who had been on the run after Bengal government invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, (UAPA) 1967 against him in three years ago, previously backed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which wrested the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019.The Gorkha leader had founded the GJM in 2007 and ensured a 104-day shutdown in the Darjeeling hills in 2017 in demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland for the ethnic minority Nepali-speaking people. He was charged under the UAPA, 1967 and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) following the agitation. Dhankar spoke to the media persons in Siliguri – the biggest town in north Bengal – prior to his departure for his month-long stay at the British-era Raj Bhawan in Darjeeling town.He singled out the Banerjee-led administration for meeting Gurung, whom he obliquely referred to as a criminal. However, he stopped short of naming the GJM founder. His statement is significant because the TMC has welcomed Gurung’s decision to leave the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre and support Banerjee. “Those who think of destroying democracy have been destroyed invariably. No matter how big you are, no one is above law … A fugitive of law is a fugitive of society and must be uniformly treated. If anyone is not equal before the law, it is wrong. If I meet a wanted criminal, I shall be at fault,” said Dhankhar. Dhankhar said a prudent and pragmatic approach is needed to find a permanent political solution to the long-pending issues in the Darjeeling hills. He said he would try to understand the issues. The people from the Darjeeling hills have agitated for decades in demand for a separate state. The BJP had promised in its election manifestos that it would find a permanent political solution. “No matter how complex, complicated and emotive the problems are, they are not bigger than Article 370, more complicated than Ram temple and more emotive than the triple talaq issue. The solution should be found through a politically prudent and pragmatic approach,” said Dhankhar. Gautam Deb, Bengal minister for tourism, who belongs to Siliguri, said, “The governor should resign since he is working like a politician.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-targets-trinamool-govt-over-darjeeling-s-fugitive-leader/story-cevUt72WlQrhIjpt9TeFrK.html
01-11-2020||India||JD(U), Cong workers clash in Bihar, 2 FIRs lodged||The ruling Janata Dal (United) and Congress workers came to blows at Narayanpur village amid the ongoing assembly elections in Bihar’s Gopalganj district late at night on Saturday. Two separate first information reports (FIRs) have been registered at the Kuchaykot police station following the violent clashes between the party workers ahead of the second phase of the polls, slated to be held on Tuesday (November 3), and abduction of two persons, who were later released. The district administration deployed additional security forces to maintain law and order. Tension prevailed in the village on Sunday morning and the villagers remained indoors following the clashes, where six people sustained injuries, including one person whose condition is stated to be critical. The police are yet to make any arrest, despite two FIRs were registered. Congress supporters Pravin Kumar Dubey lodged the first FIR, where he alleged that the sitting JD (U) lawmaker from Kuchaykot, Amrendra Kumar alias Pappu Pandey, and his supporters attacked his house, thrashed people and abducted two persons — Nanhe Dubey and Rajiv Ranjan Dubey — from the village. Pravin also alleged that the MLA Pandey thrashed his wife Umrawati Devi, snatched her gold chain at gunpoint and threatened her with dire consequences. Ajay Dubey of the JD (U) lodged the second FIR, where he alleged that six people, including Pravin and Bhola Dubey, had attacked him while he was returning to Narayanpur from the nearest town in the district.Ashwini Kumar Tiwari, station house officer (SHO), Kuchaykot police station, said the incident occurred at around 10:30 pm, when both JD (U) and Congress workers were campaigning in Narayanpur village. A free-for-all ensued between the rival party supporters following an altercation. The SHO said that one of the abducted persons Rajiv Ranjan was rescued from the Chhapur village in the district, while Nanhe was released hours after the incident. Manoj Tiwrai, superintendent of police (SP), Gopalganj, said that an investigation into the fracas is in progress. One of the FIRs has named lawmaker Pandey, Ajay Dubey, Shyam Bihari Pandey, Shailesh Ojha, and six other unnamed people. Ojha heads the Bikrampur panchayat in the district.Congress workers have alleged that they retaliated after some JD (U) workers misbehaved with them. However, the rival JD (U) supporters have denied the allegation and claimed to have been attacked by the Congress workers. SP Tiwari said talks are on with village elders to restore peace and normalcy in Narayanpur and the law and order situation is under control, as no further untoward incident has been reported. MLA Pandey has been evading arrest since May after his name figured in a triple murder case.The third and last phase of 243-member Bihar legislative assembly elections will be held on Saturday (November 7).The election results will be announced on November 10. This is the first assembly election to be held amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-cong-workers-clash-in-bihar-2-firs-lodged/story-kMMM1qMlaKqdyE6bOQoz6I.html
01-11-2020||India||‘Don’t forget those who questioned existence of Ram,’ PM Modi in West Champaran||Addressing the fourth rally in West Champaran on Sunday — the last day of campaigning ahead of the second phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020 to be held on November 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the Opposition of spreading lies and misinformation. “Everywhere they go, they spread those lies with innocent face,” the PM said, taking an apparent dig at Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020“Champaran will have to play a significant role in shaping self-reliant Bihar. It has glorious history of Bapu and Jayaprakash Narayan. The Vajpayee government in which Nitish Kumar was also a part worked towards the development of the Tharu tribe,” the Prime Minister said.Talking about Ram Temple construction, PM Modi said, “ Now that the construction is beginning, don’t forget those who questioned the existed of Ram. They don’t have information. They don’t have any logic. They just want to oppose everything for politics. They are spreading fear and misinformation. They said NDA will do away with SC/ST reservation. But it is the NDA government which extended the reservation for 10 years.”“There was a time when people in Bihar were scared of coming out of a car showroom with their new car because they knew they will be looted. People did not repair the front of the house. Bihar people have not forgotten those days,” Narendra Modi said asking voters to be judicious to choose between those days of ‘jungle raj’ and the NDA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-forget-those-who-questioned-existence-of-ram-pm-modi-in-west-champaran/story-aV38gGKhNJGqzJ51LcLMSL.html
01-11-2020||India||Manipur issues new Covid-19 guidelines||The Manipur government has issued a new set of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related standard operating procedures (SoPs) in a bid to rein in the pandemic in the north-eastern border state. Dr Rajesh Kumar, chief secretary, Manipur, who is also the chairperson of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued a notification to this effect on Saturday. The new guidelines seek to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at neighbourhood, village and community levels, and various enforcement committees such as state, assembly, district and local levels that are being set up to create awareness about the contagion. A state-level monitoring cell is also being constituted. The new rules have directed that shops have to draw circles or squares in front in a bid to ensure adequate social distancing norms are adhered to by customers to keep the viral infection at bay. “Shops that don’t comply with the social distancing rules will be forcibly closed for a week. Besides, the sale of tobacco products will be restricted in all neighbourhoods,” the guidelines stated. Local Covid-19 awareness-cum-enforcement committees will keep a tab on the public who visit tea stalls, vegetable vendors, shops etc to ensure that all precautionary measures such as wearing of masks, maintaining adequate social distancing norms of at least six feet (ft) between two persons, frequent washing of hands and sneezing and coughing into elbow are adhered to. Social ceremonies, rituals and funerals should be organised for immediate family members only, the new SoPs said. The maximum size of such gatherings has been restricted to 20. The public has been directed to stay at home and can go out under unavoidable circumstances, it stated. Mingling with neighbours, friends or relatives, playing card games, gathering at tea stalls and loitering in public spaces should be avoided, it added. A liqour ban has also been imposed. Restrictions have been made for the entry and exit of outsiders at night, it further stated. Covid-19 patients, who are quarantined at home, need to inform members of local Covid-19 awareness-cum-enforcement committees, who, in turn, will direct accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers to monitor them. Manipur reported 18,502 cases and 168 viral disease-related deaths till Saturday. The state has 3,472 active Covid-19 cases. So far, 14,862 Covid-19 patients have recovered from their viral infection. The state authorities have screened and tested 4,29,910 and 3,51,953 people, respectively, government officials said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines/story-C9DvB8qy2weZOFBsk0NJ7N.html
01-11-2020||India||‘Mahapanchayat’ over Ballabgarh murder; police detains miscreants for blocking NH 2||Haryana Police detained several people after some miscreants tried to disrupt the law and order situation in Ballabgarh on Sunday at National Highway 2, while a ‘mahapanchayat’ was underway over the murder of the 21-year-old woman.As per Sumer Singh, DCP Haryana Police, permission was not taken by organisers to hold the ‘mahapanchayat’ in Ballabgarh.People of 36 communities called the ‘mahapanchayat’ over the murder of the 21-year-old woman. Locals had blocked the highway while the meeting was underway.Earlier today, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government will look into the ‘love jihad’ angle in the murder of the commerce student who was shot dead in broad daylight in Faridabad.“Since Ballabgarh woman killing case is being linked with ‘love jihad,’ Centre as well as state government is looking into it, and considering legal provisions so that guilty is not able to escape, and no innocent person is punished,” the Chief Minister said.Khattar on Friday said that the trial against the accused in Ballabgarh student murder case will be held in a fast-track court.“The victim’s family is satisfied with the Haryana government’s action. Culprits were nabbed within two hours of the incident and one who helped them was also arrested. Fast track court would be established in this case for giving strict punishment to culprits,” Khattar told reporters here.Meanwhile, prime accused Touseef’s accomplice Rehan was sent to 14 days of judicial custody.Three persons have been arrested in the case so far. The man who allegedly provided country-made pistol to Touseef has also been nabbed.The final year commerce student was shot dead on Monday afternoon outside her college in Ballabgarh, where she had gone to take an exam. The 21-year-old was rushed to the hospital where she succumbed to her injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahapanchayat-over-ballabgarh-murder-police-detains-miscreants-for-blocking-nh-2/story-JwThs9nRhZoklv4LfnQ2kN.html
01-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand to start controlled burning in Uttarkashi to check forest fires||The Uttarakhand forest department will soon initiate measures for controlled burning of combustible materials like pine dry leaves and twigs in the Uttarkashi division after almost nine hectares of forests have been burnt in forest fires in the past 20 days. Forest fires are generally reported in Uttarakhand from February to June with a peak usually in May and June. But despite the onset of winter in the state and even snowfall in higher reaches like the Kedarnath area, forest areas in places like Uttarkashi are reporting fires. Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer of Uttarkashi forest division said, “Around eight forest fire incidents have been reported in the past few days from the Ganga valley leading to the loss of nine hectares of forest. The forest fires are being reported due to dryness in the forests because of a lack of rainfall. Many ranges in the division last received rain in mid-August and forests have become dry now.” The official said that after repeated instances of forest fire, the department will soon start controlled burning in fire lines before heavy snowfall starts in the region. In the early hours of Sunday, forest fire was reported from parts of Yamuna valley in the district. Mayur Dixit, district magistrate of Uttarkashi district said, “Forest fire was reported from parts of Yamuna valley in the early hours of Sunday, which were brought under control by afternoon. To manage the fire, we had taken help from personnel from Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) along with the district disaster management team.” According to the records of the state forest department, 135 incidents of forest fire have been reported in the state till November 1 this year with 68.33 hectares of reserve forests being affected. Uttarakhand forests are prone to forest fires, with its vast forest cover especially that of tropical dry deciduous forest, subtropical pine forest. While some fires are caused by human activity, lightning and friction from falling rocks also spark forest fires. Over 44,554 hectares of forest area or an area of roughly 61,000 football grounds have been damaged in forest fires in Uttarakhand since its formation in 2000, accruing a loss of over Rs 185 lakh, according to the forest department’s reply to an RTI query recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-start-controlled-burning-in-uttarkashi-to-check-forest-fires/story-ZkjqO9al66yrlNsj4baVQP.html
01-11-2020||India||‘When government is run by leaders that respect women, it shows,’ Congress takes swipe at UP, Bihar||Mocking BJP-JD(U)’s ‘beti bachao’ slogan, the Congress on Sunday accused the coalition of offering election tickets to those who abuse women, raising question over its women empowerment plank. “Crime against women in Bihar is increasing. The government only male tall claims of making Bihar self-reliant. But they never created any opportunity for women employment in the state,” the Congress tweeted from its official handle.  भाजपा-जदयू ठगबंधन चुनाव में 'बेटी बचाओ' के नारे लगाता है। लेकिन चुनाव में बेटियों को प्रताड़ित करने वालों को टिकट देकर चुनाव लड़वाता है। भाजपा-जदयू के दोहरेपन का जनता जवाब देगी। #महिला_विरोधी_नीतीश_मोदी pic.twitter.com/bI6esIxPAz When a govt is run by leaders that respect women, it shows. #महिला_विरोधी_नीतीश_मोदी pic.twitter.com/74CZEwmO5E“The Nitish Kumar government didn’t do anything to stop evil social practices like dowry in the state,” the Congress said.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020Comparing crime rates of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar with that of Punjab, the Congress said, “When a government is run by leaders that respect women, it shows.”According to the data that the party Congress tweeted, in 2018, there were 2,521 dowry deaths in Uttar Pradesh and 1,111 in Bihar. In Congress-ruled Punjab, 67 dowry deaths were reported in 2018.Overall crime cases against women in Uttar Pradesh were 59,445 in 2018. In Bihar, the number was 16,920. In Punjab, it was 5,302.Women empowerment is a major poll plank for the Nitish Kumar government as his decision to ban the sale and the consumption of liquor was a move to empower women.In all his recent rallies, Nitish Kumar attacked the RJD on the issue of women empowerment. Hurling a personal attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Nitish Kumar said that people who produce eight to nine kids have no faith in daughters. Without naming Lalu, Nitish Kumar said, “They had 7-8 daughters before a son. What kind of Bihar they want to make? If this is their ideal, what will happen to Bihar?”On another occasion, Nitish Kumar said the only move that Lalu Prasad Yadav took for women welfare was to install his wife Rabri Devi on the CM’s chair when he was sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-government-is-run-by-leaders-that-respect-women-it-shows-congress-takes-swipe-at-up-bihar/story-iRrihq3wMxRKLlZf7vlSDO.html
01-11-2020||India||Hate speeches, personal remarks by leaders not good for healthy democracy: Rajnath Singh||Concerned over the deteriorating political discourse in the country, senior BJP leader and union minister Rajnath Singh has said elections shouldn’t be fought and won by spreading hatred among people and there should be no place for “bitterness and acidic remarks” in a healthy democracy.He also expressed confidence that the NDA will win the Bihar elections and asserted that the exit of the Chirag Paswan-led LJP won’t impact the poll prospects of the ruling alliance. Singh also rejected allegations of any hidden understanding with Paswan’s party, saying the BJP believes in fair politics and doesn’t play with the trust of the people.“Chirag and his party would have their own reasons for leaving the alliance. But I don’t think LJP would have any impact on the ruling BJP-JD(U) alliance in Bihar assembly polls. Our alliance will win the elections and form the next government in the state,” he said.When pointed out that Paswan in his election campaign was only attacking Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and not the BJP, Singh said, “Personal animosity is not good for healthy politics. It should be avoided and I myself also don’t practice such politics.” The former BJP president also termed as baseless the allegations of a hidden understanding between the BJP and the LJP. “BJP believes in fair politics and doesn’t play with the trust of the people,” he said.   Expressing concern over hate speeches and personal remarks being made against each other by leaders of all political parties, Singh said there is no place for hatred in healthy politics and elections should not be contested and won by spreading hatred among people. “I myself never resorted to such tactics,” he said.Read more: Army Chief Naravane’s Nepal visit to break ice, Oli wants Pancheshwar project revived “Bitterness, acidic remarks and personal attacks against each other in speeches should be avoided. It is not good for a healthy democracy. Rather, there should be discussion, debates and even arguments on issues of public interest,” he said.Singh, who has addressed more than a dozen political rallies in Bihar and is scheduled to address many rallies in the coming days, said the response he witnessed in his public meetings is highly indicative that the BJP-JD(U) alliance will win the elections in the state. “The alliance, in the Bihar assembly polls, will reap the benefits of effective implementation of the Central government’s welfare schemes. At the same time the state government under Nitish Kumar has also performed well and the people will vote for it,” he said.Singh, the seniormost minister in the central government, said the Modi dispensation “ended the crisis of credibility” in politics. “Modi government delivered on its promises and its track record establishes that. On the other hand the opposition, whether in Bihar or at the national level, lacks credibility as it always failed to fulfil its commitments,” he said.Watch: Bihar polls | ‘Double engine NDA govt pitted against oppn’s 2 Yuvaraj’: PM ModiOn Tejaswi Yadav’s rallies attracting huge crowds, Singh said the rallies of BJP leaders are also being attended by people in large numbers. “You yourself saw attendance in my rallies and you must have seen the massive crowds in Prime Minister Modi’s rallies. Public meetings organised by BJP are attracting huge crowds. It will be unfair to exaggerate about public meetings of one party and its leaders,” he said.Asked if the NDA was shrinking as some of its oldest constituents have left the ruling alliance, Singh said the alliance is still a “big united family”. Without naming any party, Singh said, “Those who left NDA moved out of the alliance for their respective reasons. In politics you never know when anyone can become your ally”.On whether the NDA’s doors were still open for its erstwhile allies, he said, “The NDA’s doors are always open for those who want to contribute in the development of India. But we cannot compromise on our development agenda and the core issues of our ideology”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hate-speeches-personal-remarks-by-leaders-not-good-for-healthy-democracy-rajnath-singh/story-Vkksfjl3jm5zBdXubqHzFO.html
01-11-2020||India||Covid-19 overhaulers experience skin problems, says study||A new analysis suggests that some patients with Covid-19 have persistent skin-related symptoms long after they recover from the initial infection.The findings, presented at the 29th Congress of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology by investigators at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), point to another burden experienced by so-called “long haulers” who get better but don’t seem to fully recover from Covid-19. For the analysis, researchers established an international registry for Covid-19 skin manifestations in April 2020, in collaboration with the International League of Dermatological Societies and the American Academy of Dermatology.Clinicians were contacted in June and August to update Covid-19 laboratory test results and the duration of patients’ Covid-19 skin symptoms. The team defined long haulers as anyone with skin symptoms of Covid-19 that persisted for at least 60 days. The team evaluated almost 1,000 cases of patients with skin manifestations of Covid-19. Among 224 total suspected cases and 90 laboratory-confirmed cases of Covid-19 from 39 countries with information on symptom duration, the median duration of symptoms was 12 days.Rash-like morbilliform and urticarial eruptions lasted a median of seven days and four days, respectively, for patients with lab-confirmed Covid-19, with a maximum duration of 28 days. Papulosquamous eruptions, which are scaly papules and plaques, lasted a median of 20 days in lab-confirmed cases, with one confirmed long hauler eruption lasting 70 days. Pernio/chilblains, or redness and swelling of the feet and hands, commonly known as “Covid toes,” lasted a median of 15 days in patients with suspected Covid-19 and 10 days in lab-confirmed cases. Notably, six patients with pernio/chilblains were long haulers with toe symptoms lasting at least 60 days, with two lab-confirmed patients with Covid toes lasting longer than 130 days.“Our findings reveal a previously unreported subset of patients with long-standing skin symptoms from Covid-19, in particular those with Covid toes. This data adds to our knowledge about the long-term effects of Covid-19 in different organ systems. The skin is potentially a visible window into inflammation that could be going on in the body,” said senior author Esther E. Freeman, MD, PhD, director of Global Health Dermatology at MGH. “We encourage clinicians taking care of patients with Covid-19 to ask about and evaluate any skin symptoms. Health care providers can enter information into our registry to further our understanding of the dermatologic effects of Covid-19,” added Freeman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-overhaulers-experience-skin-problems-says-study/story-CHq66IJY0pGpdu7V7AHhbN.html
01-11-2020||India||Is Tamil Nadu hitting a Covid-19 plateau?||As new infections of Covid-19 dro p across the country, numbers from Tamil Nadu appear to stand out. While the majority of the country saw a mid-September peak, Tamil Nadu exhibited a curious trend. The seven-day average peaked in the state in the last week of July when it touched 6,803, and then settled on a long plateau between 6,100 and 5,500 till mid-October, and finally started to decline fast ending October with 2,627 cases a day on average. This in itself is not so surprising. What makes it so is that while cases dropped 61% in this period, testing increased by 18%. Between July 29 and October 31, the average daily tests have gone up from 62,986 to 74,199. Daily tests touched a peak of 90,049 for the week ending October 15. Put simply, since July 29, when the average daily cases peaked, Tamil Nadu has recorded first, a plateau and then, a decline, in the number of positive cases all the while keeping its testing relatively high. Its positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive — touched a peak of 12.5% in the first week of June (one out of every eight tests conducted that week came back positive). In the second week of October, it dropped below the 5% mark for the first time. In the last week of October, the positivity rate dropped further to 3.5% -- making it the only state among India’s 10 worst-hit regions (other than Uttar Pradesh) that has dropped below the 5% threshold. According to recommendations by the World Health Organization, if the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme drops below 5% for at least two weeks, it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. Tamil Nadu is also one of the only states in the country uses the results of only Reverse Transcription Polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR kits and not the less accurate but faster antigen tests done by private labs. A rapid antigen test can miss as much as 50% infected patients, and thus a greater share of rapid antigen tests in a region may lead to a lower positivity rate there. Uttar Pradesh, which like Tamil Nadu, has dropped below the 5% mark largely relies on antigen tests. The Tamil Nadu health department, however, isn’t ready to make any grand claims yet. “There should be no room for complacency. We are near a place where we can either take a downturn or an upswing,” state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said, when asked whether the state has begun to plateau. “As a group of 37 districts we may present the picture of a plateau. But it is not a district-level plateau.” Testing strategy At present, 202 government and private laboratories test for the Sars-Cov-2 infection. Tamil Nadu has the capacity to test up to 120,000 to 125,000 swab samples per day. However, rather than fix a target of a specific number of tests that need to be conducted, the state has been drawing samples that are 10 times the average of the positive cases they record in any area, zone or district. This strategy was initially followed in Chennai and by July-end, it was rolled out to all districts. “This target is common sense,” Radhakrishnan said. Coimbatore district with the third highest caseload following Chennai and Chengalpattu is testing 18 times the case average. “Compared to other districts, we have always been testing in high numbers but sometime after May in a video meeting, the chief secretary [of Tamil Nadu K Shanmugam] announced that it is compulsory to test 10 people minimum for every one person who turns positive minimum,” Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of health services, Coimbatore, said. In Chennai, this testing is at least 12 to 13 times more than the average weekly positives, said Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) G Prakash. The capital city with the highest caseload in the state has been testing between 11,000-14,000 samples every day since June. “We have ramped up our capacity and we can take up to 21,000 tests per day across 47 labs (government and private),” Prakash said. “Right now, I don’t visualise a drastic need to increase testing as cases are stable and flattening. It’s a decision to be taken using availability of resources and utility of the outcome. We are confident these numbers are enough for now.” When asked whether increasing the number of tests could show more positive cases — and thus disprove the plateau theory conclusively — the civic chief disagreed. “For the sake of achieving targets, the system will catch hold of random subjects. It serves no purpose. If the scenario is prolonging we need to give micro focus on geographies of where we are testing,” Prakash said. “The state is testing from an administrative point of view which is acceptable,” says Dr Jacob John, retired professor and former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “Decisions are made based on the previous week’s numbers so if your caseload is low, your contacts for testing will also be low. Testing the disease from a science of public health point of view will not work in India.” Is this a plateau? Experts said that a decreasing positivity rate could indicate that the virus is slowing down. “We can safely say that the growth rate is not worrisome and that is categorically evidenced with doubling time,” G. Prakash said. Doubling time is the number of days it takes for cases to double and is used as a measure of the rate of growing cases. A high doubling time indicates a reduced rate of growth. For Chennai, it went up from 63 days on August 3 to 110 days on October 9. “On an average Chennai’s doubling time is 93 days now because of the control systems in place and the population’s immunity,” Prakash said. In Tamil Nadu, the doubling time has increased from 17 days in mid-June to 23 days in mid-July, 37 days in mid-August, 59 days in mid-September and 73 days as of October 3. In the last week of October, the doubling rate in Tamil Nadu was 189 days, significantly better than national average of 122 days. After September’s unlockdown, Chennai has intensified testing vendors and shopkeepers in market places and employees of banks. “We crossed 100,000 tests in this section with a 4-5% positivity rate,” Prakash said. “One person has the possibility to affect thousands and become superspreaders, so we have controlled this section.” On ground Meanwhile Chennai continues its door-to-door surveillance, which it started in July. Fever camps (attended by more 3 million people from whom 173,000 swabs were drawn) were held in residential areas during the lockdown. These camps are now conducted in the evenings and at night. “The thinking is that people can transmit the virus from home to office and vice-versa,” Radhakrishnan said. In addition to the home quarantine and isolation monitoring system, Chennai still has containment zones, but the civic chief has left it up to the local sanitary officer to decide whether to quarantine an infected person’s home or their entire street depending on the movement of people. Chennai’s sero-survey in July-August reported that 2,673 people or 21.5% were found to have developed IgG antibodies to the virus making 80% of the population still susceptible. The second prevalence survey started a week ago in the city and will be carried out for the next two months. As of the second-last week of October, 6,389 blood samples were tested and 2,062 people presented IgG antibodies meaning 32.3% or one in three Chennaities were immune to the virus. The study is on-going. A private hospital in Chengalpet district told HT that the Covid-19 cases have gradually been declining. “I’ve shut down 2 out of 4 ICUs,” said the director of medical services of the hospital on condition of anonymity. “We used to have 200 cases all the time but since last week it has come down to 120 cases. We have to wait for at least two weeks to see we have flattened the curve,” the director said. “Unless all the districts simultaneously come down, our cases will not come down,” Radhakrishnan said “This pandemic is giving a mixed picture. All our calculations, projections and herd immunity have been proved wrong. Tamil Nadu has shown a dip in the last couple of days but it may go up. The numbers are not following our expectations,” Jacob John said. (With inputs from Jamie Mullick)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-tamil-nadu-hitting-a-covid-19-plateau/story-OFQrQqsdmiX4WzDuLamFMO.html
01-11-2020||India||Covid-19 protocols relaxed, 15,000 pilgrims can now visit Vaishno Devi Temple every day||The Jammu and Kashmir administration last week gave green signal to increase the number of people permitted to visit the cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi from 7,000 to 15,000, starting November 1. Additionally, the requirement for travellers to home quarantine themselves for 14 days has also been removed.As per the latest standard operating procedure issued by the administration on October 30, all the other ‘Unlock’ instructions shall remain in place till November 30.The Vaishno Devi shrine located atop the Trikuta hills in Reasi district was reopened for the devotees after a five-month gap in August. It was shut for five months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The shrine was reopened on August 16 with an initial cap of 2,000 pilgrims permitted in the premises per day, including 100 from outside Jammu and Kashmir as per the SOPs.The registration of devotees for the pilgrimage is still allowed only through online mode to avoid mass gathering of people at the yatra registration counters which could lead to the spread of the deadly Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. The disease was declared a global pandemic in March by the World Health Organisation (WHO).For the ease of the devotees, accommodation facilities at the Bhawan, Katra, Ardhkuwari and Jammu are available. These facilities follow all the SOPs prescribed for Covid-19.Other facilities like battery-powered vehicles, helicopter services and passenger ropeway have also been set up by the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board for the convenience of devotees during the yatra (pilgrimage). However, they have to follow all the Covid-19 guidelines and social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-protocols-relaxed-15-000-pilgrims-can-now-visit-vaishno-devi-temple-every-day/story-TSZwLBabeY87ZM9IPEufsJ.html
01-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Informal channels for fast sharing of info discussed to solve crimes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Informal channels for fast sharing of info discussed by law enforcement agenciesIncreasing the role of informal channels such as direct cooperation between police and agencies of various countries, challenges in obtaining information from abroad and role of Interpol are among some of the key topics discussed by law enforcement agencies during the three-day long National Conference on Vigilance and Corruption last week, people familiar with the developments said. Read moreBihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP aims to secure fourth straight win in SiwanOne of the constituencies in Bihar where voting will be held in the second phase of Assembly election on November 3 is Siwan. This constituency has been Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) stronghold since 2005 and the party is aiming to win it for a fourth time this year. Voting will be held in Siwan along with 93 constituencies in the second phase. Read moreTrump warns of post-poll ‘bedlam’; Biden and Obama slam him over Covid-19Donald Trump warned of ‘bedlam” if election results were delayed inordinately while his Democratic challenger for the White House Joe Biden, and his former boss Barack Obama, attacked and mocked the US president in their first joint campaign appearances. Read moreIPL 2020, KKR vs RR Preview: Everything to play for as hurt Knight Riders seek improvement against fighting RoyalsThe Rajasthan Royals are on a party-spoiling spree. After beating Mumbai Indians comprehensively, RR got the better of Kings XI Punjab to halt their five-match winning streak on Friday, and in the process, kept themselves alive in the hunt for the playoffs. With three places up for grabs, we will have to wait till the last match of this IPL’s group stage, but nothing can deny the fact that both RR and Kolkata Knight Riders are still in contention for a place in the top four. Read moreMukesh Khanna defends sexist statement: ‘I am not worried that the female community will turn against me’Veteran actor Mukesh Khanna is defending his recent controversial comment that many have dubbed sexist. Mukesh has said in an interview that women should not compete with men and stay at home while the men go to work. Read moreHappy birthday, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan: Rekha’s emotional throwback letter goes viral as former Miss World turns 47If there is one Indian celebrity who needs no introductions across the globe, it has to be Bollywood diva Aishwarya Rai Bachchan who rang in her 47th birthday this Sunday. As the Internet floods with wishes for the former Miss World, a throwback letter penned by actor Rekha is currently doing the rounds on Aishwarya’s special day. Read more‘Pak minister admitted role in Pulwama attack’, Rajnath Singh hits out at oppositionDefence Minister Rajnath Singh recalled the Pulwama terror attack which left as many as 40 CRPF jawans dead. Singh attacked Congress over its remarks linking the ghastly attack to 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “I was Home Minister when our 40 soldiers lost lives in Pulwama attack. They (opposition) called it a conspiracy hatched by PM Modi. We would rather sit at home than do such disgusting politics,” he said. The defence minister added that a Pakistan minister also admitted the country’s role in Pulwama attack. “Imran Khan’s minister said that Pakistan was behind Pulwama,” he said. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-informal-channels-for-fast-sharing-of-info-discussed-to-solve-crimes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-h7iOk11lt67SEMm1eiSw7H.html
01-11-2020||India||Risking being ‘BJP lite’ will end up making ‘Congress zero’: Shashi Tharoor||Secularism as principle and practice in India is in “danger” and the ruling dispensation may even try to remove the word from the Constitution, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has said, but asserted that “forces of hatred” cannot alter the country’s secular character. Secularism is only a word and even if the government takes it out of the Constitution, it would still be a secular Constitution because of its basic structure, Tharoor told PTI in an interview on his new book ‘The Battle of Belonging’. He also asserted that the Congress party cannot risk trying to become ‘BJP Lite’ as it may end up making it ‘Congress Zero’ and said his party was not offering a watered-down version of the BJP’s political messaging and the spirit of Indian secularism was very much “alive and well” in the grand old party. Asked about his party being accused of peddling in soft Hindutva, Tharoor said he does recognise that there’s a very real and tangible concern for some liberal Indians over the issue, but asserted that “we in the Congress party are very clear that we cannot allow ourselves to become a BJP-lite”. “I have long argued that any attempt to emulate ‘Pepsi Lite’ by ‘BJP Lite’ will end up with us becoming like ‘Coke Zero’ -- that is, ‘Congress Zero’,” the former Union minister said.Read more: Army Chief Naravane’s Nepal visit to break ice, Oli wants Pancheshwar project revived “Congress is not BJP in any shape or form, and we should not attempt to be a lighter version of something we are not. Nor are we trying to, in my view,” he said. Underlining that the Congress makes a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, Tharoor said the Hinduism that “we respect is inclusive and non-judgemental”, whereas Hindutva is a political doctrine based on exclusion.“So we are not offering a watered-down version of the BJP’s political messaging: Rahul Gandhi has made it explicitly clear that, for all his avowing his personal Hinduism by going to temples, he does not support any form of Hindutva, neither soft nor hard,” the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.Asked if the Congress needs to talk about secularism more often then it has been doing of late, Tharoor said he disagrees with the assertion that the Congress has not talked about secularism enough and the party on every opportunity has stressed its unshakeable commitment to secularism. On Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s recent dig at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey over secularism, the Congress leader said he did suggest that Koshyari should be given a different letterhead to express such ideas, rather than the official “Raj Bhavan notepaper”.On whether the word ‘secularism’ in the Constitution was in imminent danger, he said, “The word is only a word; but even if the government takes the word ‘secularism’ out of the Constitution, it is still a secular Constitution.” After all, freedom of worship, freedom to profess and propagate your religion, freedom of expression, minority rights, and equality of all citizens, are all part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and they can’t disappear by deleting a word, he asserted.Watch: ‘Pak minister admitted role in Pulwama attack’: Rajnath Singh hits out at opposition “The ruling dispensation may well try to do that: there is certainly a concerted effort to erode secularism and replace it with a sectarian way of being that offers no place to religious minorities in Indian society,” he said. “Secularism as principle and practice is in danger, but I do not see it falling anytime soon: India embodies tolerance and pluralism in its very essence, and I do not believe that forces of hatred can permanently overcome our fundamental secularism,” he said. However, Tharoor cautioned that people must not let their guards down and must continue to oppose such regressive ideas wherever they arise.Talking about the controversy over a Tanishq advertisement which showed an inter-faith marriage and had to be withdrawn after a social media backlash, Tharoor said it offered yet another illustration of how “reactionary and bigoted certain right-wing fringe elements” have become, even as the ruling dispensation was quick to distance itself from the episode. “But let us not forget that this is a Frankenstein’s monster that they have created, sustained through organised and vicious social media trolls, and it’s just one more reminder of the appalling power of the full-throated communal hatred that is so often unleashed in today’s India,” he said.“As I have said, if such people are so infuriated by Hindu-Muslim ‘ekatvam’, why not boycott the world’s longest-surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity: India itself?” he asked.On whether Hindutva had gained mass popularity, Tharoor said the BJP holds a commanding parliamentary majority, but it has worked overtime to suppress dissenting voices and in that sense, it is difficult to get an accurate gauge of support for Hindutva among ordinary Indians. Asked about Congress leader P Chidambaram’s recent remarks calling for the restoration of Article 370 and its criticism by the BJP, Tharoor said he has articulated his stand clearly within Parliament. “It’s not just an issue of abrogating 370 -– even (Jawaharlal) Nehru ji had said the provision was a temporary one. But the Constitution specifies how it is to be done,” he said. “So though it shouldn’t matter what side of the debate on Article 370 you stand on -- after all, differing voices are the lifeline of any democracy -- the manner in which it was implemented, the way our own fellow citizens were overnight clamped down upon by their own government, consciously and willfully disregarding the democratically enshrined rights guaranteed to all Indians, does not bode well for the future of the country,” he said. No political objective can justify the huge-scale abuse of the rights of Indian citizens in this manner, Tharoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/risking-being-bjp-lite-will-end-up-making-congress-zero-shashi-tharoor/story-uJS7yEMaNJtz7CYUaOxuOO.html
01-11-2020||India||Govt looks to set up 14 more water aerodromes for seaplane services||The government is looking to set up 14 more water aerodromes across the country after the successful launch of maiden seaplane service by Prime Minister Narendra Modi between the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya in Gujarat’s Narmada district and Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. These will facilitate seaplane services on various routes including Lakshadweep, Andaman & Nicobar, Assam, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand. “Development of 14 more water aerodromes is being planned pan India under RCS UDAN scheme. Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had requested Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) to conduct a hydrographic survey and later on requested assistance in setting up jetties for facilitating the passenger movement,” a Shipping Ministry official told PTI. Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya last week told PTI that post the launch of seaplane service at Gujarat, regular services are being planned on various routes including in Guwahati, Andaman & Nicobar and Uttarakhand. “The potential locations include Tehri Dam in Uttarakhand, Guwahati riverfront and Umrangso reservoir in Assam, Khindsi Dam and Erai Dam in Maharashtra, Prakasam barrage in Andhra Pradesh, Minicoy and Kavaratti in Lakshadweep, Havelock, Neil, Long and Hutbay islands in Andaman & Nicobar and Dharoi and Shatrunjaya in Gujarat,” according to a Shipping Ministry document. IWAI has set up concrete jetties for the maiden seaplane project in Gujarat in record time, the official said and added IWAI has been entrusted for hydrographic survey, floating jetties and navigational buoys. Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships (DGLL) had used differential global positioning system (DGPS) technology, essentially a system to provide provisional corrections to GPS signals to mark the runway and shallow water in Gujarat for landing of the seaplane in daylight visibility while provision has already been made over installed buoys for fixing automated navigation lights for operation during nights in future, the document mentioned. For the maiden seaplane service no-frills carrier SpiceJet has chartered a seaplane from the Maldives, the official said and added that more such seaplanes will be hired once services start at other places. These seaplanes will be Twin Otters. “From the Maldives to the Canadian North, the Twin Otter has proven itself as the largest-selling 14-passenger commuter airplane in the world for over 40 years. Its an un-pressurized, all-metal, high-wing, twin-turboprop aircraft and is certified in the Normal Category by the Canadian Department of Transportation,” a Shipping Ministry document mentioned. Prime Minister Modi on October 31 inaugurated India’s maiden seaplane service by boarding the twin-engine plane from pond-3 close to Sardar Sarovar Dam after taking part in the Ekta Diwas celebrations at the Statue of Unity on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s 145th birth anniversary. The plane carrying Modi had landed on the waters of Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad in around 40 minutes after covering a distance of around 200 km. Floating jetties and water aerodrome buildings were built at the riverfront and at pond-3 near Sardar Sarovar Dam to enable passengers to board and alight from the plane. The service will be operated by SpiceJet’s fully-owned subsidiary, Spice Shuttle. Daily two flights will be operated on the Ahmedabad-Kevadiya route from Saturday, the company had said in a statement. The Gujarat government in July this year had cleared a proposal to enter into a tri-party agreement with Union Ministry of Civil Aviation and Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the construction of four water aerodromes under the regional connectivity scheme for seaplane service. A water aerodrome or seaplane base is an area of open water used by seaplanes, float-planes and amphibious aircraft for landing and taking off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-set-up-14-more-water-aerodromes-for-seaplane-services/story-t7DCdhZHM81EjCJS6dkM6K.html
01-11-2020||India||Agencies discuss informal channels for fast info sharing among nations to solve crimes||Increasing the role of informal channels such as direct cooperation between police and agencies of various countries, challenges in obtaining information from abroad and role of Interpol are among some of the key topics discussed by law enforcement agencies during the three-day long National Conference on Vigilance and Corruption last week, people familiar with the developments said.In a session chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, government agencies discussed that the rising spectre of transnational crimes including cases of corruption with international linkages need close cooperation among international community for detection and collection of evidence in foreign jurisdictions.At least two officials who attended the conference said Indian agencies have been lately exchanging information with police forces or intelligence agencies of various countries on economic offenders, smugglers, cyber criminals and terrorists, and that the process needs further strengthening considering the volume of such cases going high every year. This was one of the key discussions during the conference.“The formal channel, which involves lot of permissions, takes a lot of time as any request of a police force goes through various bureaucratic stages including ministry of home affairs (MHA) and ministry of external affairs (MEA). Over the years, criminals have taken advantage of delayed information sharing and collection of evidence from foreign soil. For example, delay in responding to Letter Rogatories (judicial request sent to a foreign jurisdiction) takes years to get information,” said one of the officers cited above. “The informal channel helps solve the crimes faster and provides real time information on organized crimes. There should be more police to police direct contact,” said this officer.Law enforcement officers from all the states and Union Territories also discussed that there is a need for multi-disciplinary approach in forming “investigative teams” by involving bankers, chartered accountants, forensic analysts etc. to solve economic crimes, banks and securities frauds, ponzi schemes and cyber crimes, among others.Speaking at the conference, organised by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), agency director Rishi Kumar Shukla also talked about strengthening synergy among law enforcement agencies within India and for continuous capacity building through training. He stressed sustained action against corruption through speedy investigation and expeditious prosecution of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agencies-discuss-informal-channels-for-fast-info-sharing-among-nations-to-solve-crimes/story-ihpvu89TXWQnt4CUOyAX8L.html
01-11-2020||India||Army Chief Naravane’s Nepal visit to break ice, Oli wants Pancheshwar project revived||The results of 45 days of discreet back channel diplomacy with Kathmandu will be put to test this week when Indian Army Chief General M.M. Naravane calls upon Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and formally buries the orchestrated controversy over road construction via Lipulekh for pilgrimage to Mansarovar in Tibet. Gen Naravane will be formally conferred the title of Honorary Chief of Nepal Army by Bidya Devi Bhandari, President of Nepal, during his three-day visit beginning November 4.PM Oli is scheduled to meet Army chief in his capacity as Defence Minister after the investiture ceremony.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli sends a quiet message to India with a change in his cabinetThere are all indications that Gen Naravane will receive a red carpet treatment from Kathmandu as the Oli government wants to revive the Pancheshwar multi-purpose project on river Mahakali as well as other hydro-electric projects with India. According to official sources, the Pancheswar draft detailed project report is under discussion of the technical teams by two governments with 80 per cent of the outstanding issues resolved through mutual consultation. India’s SJVN is already constructing a 900 megawatt river Arun III project and another 900 MW Upper Karnali hydroelectric project by GMR is on steam with no issues raised from Kathmandu.As India firmly believes that Kalapani map controversy was a result of Nepal’s own domestic politics, it is willing to shake extended hand of friendship from Kathmandu and go above internal party wrangling to restore the age-old relationship between two close neighbours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself is interested in deepening ties with Nepal and has made it clear to all that Kathmandu has a special place with New Delhi irrespective of the party in power.In fact, India is considering a plan to contribute significantly in education, health and infrastructure development sectors in Nepal. The following can be done with Nepal:• Education: Even though India has invested significantly over the years, there is a desperate need for assisting Nepal in setting up schools and academic institutions. India could also cater to education facilities in the eastern and western regions of Nepal while extending a large number of scholarships to Himal region children to study in India.• Health: India can help Nepal by catering to health facilities in the form of specialised small hospitals for the remote northern areas. There needs to be intense engagement between physicians of both countries to bridge the deficiency of trained doctors in the Himalayan Republic as well as support for critical medicine supply from New Delhi.• Infrastructure: India and Nepal need to join hands to build road and bridges infrastructure in remote areas on a long term basis. China has already moved into this area and has constructed the ring road around Kathmandu. The two countries also need to jointly identify the points where the embankments have to be strengthened to prevent flooding of trans border rivers.• Water Shortage: India needs to share expertise with Nepal to remove serious drinking water shortages in high altitude areas.• Agriculture: India has been supplying fertilizers to Nepal but this has been halted with Kathmandu blaming New Delhi for not renewing an old agreement for such supplies. This issue needs to be sorted out on a priority basis as Kathmandu is looking towards China and Bangladesh to plug the gap.The two countries need to look at increased trans-border connectivity by enhancing the number of trading points on the border with immigration and customs facilities. Besides, India and Nepal could work together to develop Simikot and Nepalgunj airports, used by Indians for Mansarovar pilgrimage.While Gen Naravane’s visit is expected to break ice between two age old friends, one seriously hopes that it does not turn out to be a false dawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-s-nepal-visit-to-break-ice-oli-wants-pancheswar-project-revived/story-kkWBelaPBetwXglRJZpAAM.html
01-11-2020||India||Protests against railway expansion in Goa gather steam||Opposition to railway infrastructure projects in Goa has intensified with protesters now planning to hold an all night vigil after work on the resumption on a stretch of railway line double tracking. The candlelight vigil will begin at 10:30 pm on Sunday and will continue till 5am on Monday morning and has earned the support of opposition parties even as the Goa government has doubled down on its commitments with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant seeking to deny legitimacy to the protesters accusing them of being ‘from abroad’. ‘Goyant Kollso Naka’ (We don’t want coal in Goa), a collective group of activists has pledged to oppose the double tracking and earlier this week confronted officials at a site where work was ongoing in a bid to try and stop the work. The first flashpoint was at the level crossing at Nessai in the outskirts of Margao in South Goa after authorities. With the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited, the agency that is executing the work and the South Goa Collector issuing permission to carry on with the work at a second railway crossing at Chandor another location in South Goa, leaders of the Goyant Kollso Naka have planned to lay siege on the work. In 2010, the Ministry of Railways sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in the states of Karnataka and Goa. The first phase between Hospet and Tinai ghat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. It’s the second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama that is currently being undertaken. The stretch involves three distinct sections -- the easternmost section that passes through wildlife sanctuaries crossing the steep slopes, raging rivers and the thick forests of the Western Ghats, a middle section involving easier terrain and the coastal stretch between Margao and Vasco that encounters densely populated areas where the project has run into land acquisition issues and opposition by residents living along the line. The middle section between Margao and Sanvordem has been taken up first and work is already underway. However, activists have alleged that when it comes to linear projects, unless permissions along the entire route have been obtained, the work shouldn’t start. “The double-tracking is a linear project, which implies that if any part of it cannot be constructed, the whole project will become useless and public funds wasted. It is not only mandatory in law, but also prudent and sensible not to spend public funds on any section of the double-tracking until all permissions are obtained,” the memorandum submitted to the RNVL, states.Activists have been opposing the line because, they say, it is being built solely to facilitate the transportation of more coal between the port and steel plants in North Karnataka, for which Goa is the closest port. Unlike steel plants in the Jharkhand-Orissa belt for whom coal is locally available, the lack of coal mines in peninsular India means that steel plants rely on imported coal. Residents in Goa especially in the port town and those living along the railway line have long complained that the handling and transport of coal has covered their homes with coal dust and threatens their lives and livelihood. Around 12 million tonnes of coal is imported annually, but plans are afoot to expand the capacity to nearly 55 million tonnes through a network of infrastructure projects for which the railway line will serve as a crucial link. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, however, refuted these suggestions. “The infrastructure is not being created for the movement of coal alone. Stop these agitations. We have not started importing coal. Coal has been imported for so many years now. We have not even increased the import of coal. We are carrying out this development, for development of industries and promotion of export and import,” Sawant said at a function earlier this week. The protesters have now earned the support of the major opposition parties. “These projects will affect the wildlife, forest and the identity of Goa. The CLP unanimously resolved to extend full support to the people’s protests and agitations raising concerns about the mass destruction of the environment and identity of Goa. The CLP also decided to actively participate in the protests with people,” Goa Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said after a meeting of the Congress legislature party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-against-railway-expansion-in-goa-gather-steam/story-1ybaKcVoffRZglRi5H44NL.html
01-11-2020||India||Bharat Biotech to launch Covaxin in Q2 2021||Bharat Biotech is planning to launch its vaccine for Covid-19 in the second quarter next year if it gets the requisite approvals from the Indian regulatory authorities, a top company official said.  It said its immediate focus is to conduct the Phase 3 trials successfully across sites in the country.The company’s vaccine candidate -Covaxin- has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV) using inactivated Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The virus was isolated in an ICMR lab.“If we get all the approvals after establishing strong experimental evidence and data, and efficacy and safety data in our last stage of trials, we aim to launch the vaccine in Q2 of 2021,” Bharat Biotech International Executive Director Sai Prasad told PTI.After the company received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct Phase 3 clinical trial to establish the efficacy of the vaccine candidate, it has begun site preparatory exercises for Phase 3, recruitment and dosage will begin in November, he added.  “The trial to be conducted in 25 to 30 sites across 13-14 states will provide two doses each for the vaccine and placebo recipients. About 2,000 subjects could be enrolled per hospital,” Prasad said.Asked about the investment on the vaccine, he said: “Our investment is about Rs 350-400 crore for the development of vaccine and the new manufacturing facilities, which include our investments for conducting the Phase 3 clinical trial, in the next six months”.On the company’s plan to sell the vaccine to the government or to private players, Prasad said: “We are looking to supply for both government and private markets. We are also in preliminary discussions with other countries for probable supply.” Prasad said the price of the vaccine is yet to be determined, as the company is still looking at the cost of product development. “Our immediate focus is to conduct Phase 3 trial successfully across sites,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-launch-covaxin-in-q2-2021/story-exIAleX8VGbAguk6szprtM.html
01-11-2020||India||Parents arrested for murder of unwed pregnant daughter in UP’s Pratapgarh||The Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a couple for allegedly murdering their daughter whose body was found on the railway tracks near Alapur in Pratapgarh district on October 25. Police claimed that the couple committed the crime after discovering that their unmarried daughter was pregnant and unwilling to share the name of her partner. The axe allegedly used to kill her was also recovered, station house officer (SHO) of Nawabganj police station Akhilesh Pratap Singh said. He said while the police were trying to ascertain the identity of the body found on railway tracks one Kamlesh Kumar Yadav of Kishundaspur village identified it as that of his daughter. He also alleged murder and submitted a complaint to the police. This led to an FIR being registered at the Nawabganj police station, he added. The SHO said investigations revealed the possible role of Kamlesh and his wife Anita Devi in the crime and the duo was arrested on Friday. “During interrogation, the two revealed that on October 24, they took their daughter who was unwell to Unchahar for an ultrasound on the advice of a doctor. The report revealed that she was six months pregnant. Taken aback and fearing loss of prestige, they tried to get the foetus aborted but couldn’t get it done. They then returned home and tried to inquire from the girl the name of the child’s father which she refused to reveal. The duo then took their daughter to the railway tracks in the night near Alapur and murdered her. Then they threw the body on the tracks,” Singh said. In another incident, police in Pratapgarh arrested two men and seized fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 60,000 in Kunda area on Saturday. SHO of Kunda police station Uday Tripathi said the men were arrested from the highway near Jahanabad and have been identified as Anuj Tiwari and Anubhav Tiwari, both residents of Kamlapur village of Prayagraj. “During interrogation, the duo revealed that they used to procure the fake currency notes of Rs 50 and Rs 100 denominations from Bihar and were part of a gang involved in getting these fake notes into circulation in the district. Now efforts are on to identify and arrest others involved in this racket,” he said and added the duo was sent to jail after lodging an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-arrested-for-murder-of-unwed-pregnant-daughter-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-9co767HRC8iBF5xkPYHkFL.html
01-11-2020||India||RLSP candidate attacked in Bihar, escapes||A candidate of Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), who is contesting from Dhamdaha assembly constituency in the ongoing three-phase Bihar polls, had a narrow escape on Saturday night when two unidentified persons opened fire on him while he was sitting in his party office. The Dhamdaha assembly constituency falls in Bihar’s Purnia district in the state’s Seemanchal region. The police are probing the incident, which took place a week after the Janata Dal (Rashtrawadi)’s candidate from the Sheohar assembly seat was shot dead during a campaign trail. Ramesh Kushwaha, the RLSP candidate from the Dhamdaha assembly seat, said: “I was holding talks with my workers at about 10 pm after the end of the day’s campaign on Saturday, when two unidentified persons entered a party room and started firing indiscriminately.” He added; “I managed to escape by hiding in another room.” He has demanded security detail for himself. “Earlier, too, we had demanded security detail, but it fell on the police’s deaf ears,” he alleged. “Our party workers are also being threatened,” he alleged. Anand Kumar Pandey, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Purnia, is investigating the incident. “We will ascertain the facts soon,” Pandey said. Kushwaha has lodged a first information report (FIR) at the local police station against the two unidentified persons. Seemanchal, which consists of Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia districts, has 24 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly and goes to polls on November 7. The election results will be declared on November 10. This is the first assembly election being held amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlsp-candidate-attacked-in-bihar-escapes/story-0Aq64t45bTVkvbpS37ChBO.html
01-11-2020||India||Mumbai gets sensor-based monitors as low cost air monitoring feasibility study begins||Installations of low-cost sensor based air quality monitoring equipment has been completed across 15 locations in Mumbai for the first-of-its kind study in India using this technology to accurately measure harmful pollutant concentration in the air, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) said.Low-cost monitoring sensors measure ambient air quality based on light scattering technology using much smaller equipment as compared to existing air quality measuring technology.In July, MPCB and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to undertake the sensor technology assessment between November 1, 2020 and May 31, 2021.Readings from the air quality equipment will begin being relayed to MPCB and IIT-K servers from November 1. “The installation of the monitors has begun. Now we are awaiting the data acquisition for final project implementation within a couple of days. Once data starts flowing into MPCB or IIT-K servers, it will help us understand and develop the interfaces. We are planning a formal launch soon,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.The sensors will be installed across MPCB’s 15 existing continuous (real-time) ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQM) - 10 in Mumbai, one each in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Vasai-Virar, and Dombivali. The sensors will monitor particulate matter (PM10, PM2.5), ozone, oxides of nitrogen (NOx), and sulphur oxides (SOx).“The basic idea is to get a sense of the liability, accuracy, and reproducibility of the result of these monitors. It will also help us understand the effectiveness of existing CAAQMS data. Once the feasibility is confirmed, it will be scaled across the state,” said Srivastava.Such monitors would be rolled out across 18 non-attainment cities in Maharashtra to identify pollution hotspots through hyper-local air monitoring, source distribution and associated health impacts, he said.Manual monitors to measure air quality have been used since 1984-85 by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which was later renamed the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP) network. It presently consists of 793 operating stations covering 344 cities and towns in 29 states and six union territories in India. The manual method involves analysis of pollutants measured once every six days where data is transferred manually for overall assessment, and the cost is Rs. 8 lakh per station per annum including purchasing cost, maintenance, and number of pollutants measured (according to MPCB). CAAQMS monitors cost Rs. 1.5 crore per station per annum including all additional costs and are automatic monitors providing real-time data that is easy to interpret.Low-cost monitors are bought for Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh (including maintenance) based on the number of pollutants they measure, said independent researchers.“For hyper local monitoring, these sensors are indispensable. However, one is required to do extensive validation for accuracy and precision of sensor data over a wide range of meteorological and environmental conditions,” said Professor SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering, IIT-K and apex committee member, National Clean Air Program.“This is the first experiment in India which is currently being conducted in collaboration with MPCB covering the entire CAAQMS or government network of the greater Mumbai region. This will enable us to conclusively determine the accuracy and stability of sensor data and will pave the way for large-scale sensor deployment in Maharashtra in particular and India in general,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-gets-sensor-based-monitors-as-low-cost-air-monitoring-feasibility-study-begins/story-LjSYWRqLsC7Q27B6WQDrEN.html
01-11-2020||India||610 more local train services to run in Mumbai from today: All you need to know||A total of 610 more local train services — 314 by Central Railways (CR) and 296 by Western Railways (WR) — will run in Mumbai from Sunday (November 1).The railways operated 3,141 suburban services — 1,774 CR and 1,367 WR before the nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was imposed.“Currently, 704 suburban services on WR and 706 on CR are running. Additional services will be operated from Sunday. It is requested that travellers follow medical and social protocols as mandated for Covid-19,” according to a statement from CR and WR.All you need to know:1. The railways are in discussions to start local train services for all commuters. The state government had on Wednesday proposed to open suburban train services for the entire public.2. According to the proposal, any person with a valid ticket or pass can travel up to 7.30 am, then between 11 am and 4.30 pm, and between 8 pm and the last local train of the day.3. It also proposed to operate women-only local train services every hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/610-more-local-train-services-to-run-in-mumbai-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-gWCaiZLqcFH84nTZSoFIwJ.html
01-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count falls further, active cases remain below 6 lakh||India on Sunday recorded 46,963 new cases of the coronavirus disease, which further showed a dip in the daily numbers of the infection. The nationwide tally reached 81,84,082 on Sunday.According to Union health ministry update at 8 am, the country has 5,70,458 active cases while 74,91,513 patients have been discharged from hospitals. Active cases in the country remained below 6 lakh for the third consecutive day on Sunday.Four hundred seventy people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 1,22,111, according to health ministry update.The country witnessed a fall in daily Covid-19 numbers in the month of October. Its case fatality rate (CFR) fell below 1.5 per cent on Saturday, the Union health ministry said.Deaths per million population in the country stand at a very low level of 88, it said.The ministry said 23 states and union territories in the country have a CFR lower than the national average, while 65 per cent of the total deaths so far were recorded in five states. #CoronaVirusUpdates 🔶 India has witnessed a significant success in its collective fight against the global pandemic.🔷 India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) falls below 1.5%🔶 23 States & UTs register a #CFR lower than the national average@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/TvzkUd7lFoThe Centre-led strategy of “test, trace, track and treat” has focused on effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive Standard of Care approach which includes use of anticoagulants and non-invasive oxygen, a statement from the health ministry said.“These have ensured that India’s Covid-19 mortality is kept low and within manageable numbers,” it added.Ten states and UTs - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh - account for 85 per cent of the total deaths, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-falls-further-active-cases-remain-below-6-lakh/story-WjFHkS4qamcNAWB1f45MGL.html
01-11-2020||India||Captured in Wayanad, tigress escapes from cage in Kerala’s Neyyar Safari Park||A tigress which was trapped in Wayanad last week and brought to Neyyar Safari Park in Thiruvananthapuram district for treatment and possible rehabilitation broke out of its cage and escaped Saturday afternoon , officials said. Park officials who have been trying to tranquillise big cat which was spotted Sunday morning and was looking tired .The 9-year-old tigress broke the grille using its teeth. Though forest officials located the animal later Saturday afternoon, they were not able to capture it. Senior officials then decided to camping in the area to tranquillise the animal. The elusive tiger spotted in Neyyar Lion Safari Park. Tranquilizing shots will be fired shortly. But what worries the official is that the big cat looks tired.After caretakers noticed that the big cat was missing, park officials insisted that it cannot escape from the park because it has tall fencing around it. But news of the animal’s escape has already triggered panic. There is a lake beside the park and is thickly populated and local people are worried about their safety if the tigress manages to escape from the Neyyar Safari Park.The animal was trapped in Wayanad last week after it killed many domestic animals and spread terror among the local population. It was slightly injured and forest officials decided to shift it to Neyyar Safari Park in Thiruvananthapuram for treatment. It was brought to the park on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captured-in-waynad-tigress-escapes-from-cage-in-kerala-s-neyyar-safari-park/story-d8mGS3WDjtTqSPYqOPe2CP.html
01-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre plans to brief diplomatic corps on efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesCentre plans to brief diplomatic corps on efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccinesThe Indian government will brief the Delhi-based diplomatic corps next week on efforts to develop vaccines for Covid-19 and explore potential partnerships for manufacturing and delivery of vaccines, people familiar with developments said on Saturday. Read moreFrom Dudhwa Tiger Reserve to Goa casinos: What all are opening from November 1 in Unlock 6.0India has entered unlock 6.0 with a handful of states opening up for more activities outside containment zones. Earlier this week, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had stated that there would be no further relaxations and the Unlock 5.0 guidelines issued last month would remain in force till November 30. Read more‘If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading...’: Kangana Ranaut on Canadian PM’s free speech commentActor Kangana Ranaut picked up Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s remarks on limits on free speech to say that people are not living in an ideal world and if people are beheaded for “petty crimes”, there is no need for law and order. Read moreKajal Aggarwal kisses husband Gautam Kitchlu’s hand in new pics from wedding: ‘Married my best friend and soulmate’Sharing a picture from the wedding ceremony and one that showed her kissing his hand, she wrote: “And just like that, from ms to mrs! I married my confidante, companion, best friend and soulmate. So glad I found all of this and my home in you @kitchlug #kajgautkitched.” Read moreHappy birthday Aishwarya Rai: Here’s when the actor’s name echoed in the corridors of HollywoodAishwarya Rai turns 47 this year and continues to remain an epitome of beauty and grace. The former Miss World is not just a noted Bollywood actor but is a known name in Hollywood as well. Besides being one of the most-talked about celebrities on the Cannes red carpet every year, Aishwarya also has quite a few Hollywood films as well to talk about. Read more Devdutt Padikkal’s shots remind me of a young Yuvraj Singh: Venkatesh PrasadVenkatesh Prasad, the former India fast bowler, as chairman of the Under-19 National Selection Committee, was one of the firsts to spot Padikkal. Weighing in on how well Padikkal has converted his brilliant form from the Indian domestic season into the IPL, Prasad, not surprisingly, reckons the future is bright for the left-handed batsman from Karnataka. Read moreLG’s rollable phone to arrive in March 2021LG, earlier this month, launched the LG Wing smartphone in India. For those of you who don’t know, the LG Wing comes with a display that rotates to form a T-shape. Now, word is that the company is planning to launch two new eclectic smartphones in the first half of 2021. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-plans-to-brief-diplomatic-corps-on-efforts-to-develop-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sOp5Ii3CaAOfLWXlPStRFN.html
01-11-2020||India||Police to provide security cover to voters in bypolls in MP’s Chambal region||There will be comprehensive security cover for voters in Chambal division of Madhya Pradesh, where Election Commission of India (ECI) has identified 200 vulnerable hamlets in seven assembly constituencies going to bypolls on November 3, said an officer of the EC’s state office. The hamlets recognised as vulnerable in Chambal region account for 57% of the total hamlets identified during the bypolls, the officer said. “Vulnerability in the context of elections is susceptibility of any voter or section of voters, whether or not living in a geographically identifiable area, to being wrongfully prevented from or influenced upon in relation to the exercise of his right to vote in a free and fair manner, through intimidation or use of any kind of undue influence or force on the voter,” states the ECI’s website. “The police in Morena and Bhind are convincing voters to cast their votes without fear and if they do have any fear, police teams will accompany them between their homes and polling booths. Taser guns and chili grenades have also been provided to the police force to control the mob, if there is any nuisance,” said the EC officer who did not wish to be named.“In the past one month more than half-a-dozen incidents of violence have been reported between workers of different political parties in Morena. It is one of the most sensitive districts in the state and prone to violence. Extra precautions are being taken by the police in Morena,” said an officer of the intelligence department. In Morena, bye-elections will be held in five of the six assembly constituencies on November 3. The EC identified 154 vulnerable hamlets in the district, 667 sensitive voting booths and 74 critical voting booths. Eleven thousand people have been identified as nuisance makers in Morena district and have been asked to file an affidavit while 140 people have been externed from the district as police suspected that they might create trouble during elections, said the officer. “We are running confidence-building programmes. The police personnel of all the police stations were asked to convince the voters for exercising their right to vote without any influence and fear. We have displayed the mobile numbers of police officers of nearest police stations and higher officers at public places so that voters can contact us easily,” said Anurag Sujania, superintendent of police, Morena. “As compared to 2018 assembly elections bypolls are stated to be more sensitive so we will provide special security to people,” he added. “Five companies of paramilitary forces have already been deployed in the district. Additional force of 3,300 personnel has reached for the voting day,” said the SP. Bhind superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Singh, “We are taking all possible measures to ensure a free and fair poll.” Joint chief electoral officer Mohit Bundas said the Covid-19 pandemic was another factor worrying the voters.“This election is very sensitive as people are already hesitant in coming out of their homes and cast their votes due to Covid-19. We are addressing every issue efficiently to deal with problems related to fear and other issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-to-provide-security-cover-to-voters-in-bypolls-in-mp-s-chambal-region/story-NyF8Jfn1TrlSPVMHJ50G1K.html
01-11-2020||India||‘If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading...’: Kangana Ranaut on Canadian PM’s free speech comment||Actor Kangana Ranaut picked up Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s remarks on limits on free speech to say that people are not living in an ideal world and if people are beheaded for “petty crimes”, there is no need for law and order.The remarks were made in connection with the beheading of a teacher in France who showed his students cartoons on Prophet Mohammed.Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Trudeau defended free speech, but added that it was “not without limits”.“We will always defend freedom of expression,” Trudeau said in response to a question about the right to show a caricature of the Prophet Mohammed, as France’s Charlie Hebdo magazine did.“But freedom of expression is not without limits,” he added. “We owe it to ourselves to act with respect for others and to seek not to arbitrarily or unnecessarily injure those with whom we are sharing a society and a planet.”Distancing himself from the position of French President Emmanuel Macron, Trudeau pleaded for a careful use of free speech.Ranaut used a news article with Trudeau’s comments to post her response.“Dear Justin,we don’t live in an ideal world,people mustn’t but everyday they are breaking signal,doing drugs,molesting others,hurting sentiments.If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading each other then why we need a Prime Minister or any law n order?” she tweeted. Dear Justin,we don’t live in an ideal world,people mustn’t but everyday they are breaking signal,doing drugs,molesting others,hurting sentiments.If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading each other then why we need a Prime Minister or any law n order? https://t.co/U9ronFrvbZShe further posted on Twitter, “Anybody makes cartoons on Ram, Krishan, Maa Durga or any God for that matter Allah, Christ, must be punished if they do it at work place or social media suspend them, if they disrespect openly send them to jail for 6 months, that’s all, people have a right to be atheist. I can choose not to believe in your God, that’s fine, it’s not a crime, I can express how I don’t agree with your religion, yes !! that’s freedom of expression, learn to live with my voice, you have learnt to slit my throat cause you have no answers to my questions, ask yourself.”Minutes later, the actor posted the tweet again seeking a response from the Canadian prime minister.Anger erupted in the Middle East in response to Macron defending the right to publish the cartoons in France.Macron made the comments during a tribute last week to Samuel Paty, a teacher beheaded in the street for showing caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed in class in a course on freedom of expression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-every-petty-crime-s-punishment-is-beheading-kangana-ranaut-on-canadian-pm-s-free-speech-comment/story-2BUfC6XCfh3vVg4puQdv6L.html
01-11-2020||India||Bengaluru-Mysuru rail journey passes Piyush Goyal’s ‘glass full of water test’||A high speed journey on the Bengaluru-Mysuru rail route was so smooth after intensive track maintenance work that it passed a test where not a drop of water spilled out from a glass kept on a table in a coach, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said.The Minister, in a tweet on Friday night, shared a video showing a water filled glass kept on a table in a compartment and not a drop spilling out during the recent trip. The results of intensive track 🛤️ maintenance carried out between Bengaluru & Mysuru in Karanataka are there for everyone to see.The journey has become so smooth that not even a single drop of water 💧 spilled out of the glass while the train was traveling at high speed. pic.twitter.com/r7aFp55gSA“The journey was so smooth that not even a single drop of water drop spilled out of the glass while the train was travelling at high speed.The results of intensive track Railway track maintenance carried out between Bengaluru & Mysuru in Karnataka are there for everyone to see,” he tweeted.A Railway officer said the work on the over 130 km stretch was undertaken over the past six months at a cost of Rs 40 crore.Ballast insertion, tamping of tracks and strengthening of embankments were some of the works carried out, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-mysuru-rail-journey-passes-piyush-goyal-s-glass-full-of-water-test/story-oisZUVG6hCrDMz8u6ndO6M.html
01-11-2020||India||From Dudhwa Tiger Reserve to Goa casinos: What all are opening from November 1 in Unlock 6.0||India entered unlock 6.0 on Sunday with a handful of states opening up for more activities outside containment zones. Earlier this week, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had stated that there would be no further relaxations and the Unlock 5.0 guidelines issued last month would remain in force till November 30.Since the ‘Unlock’ process started in the country from June 1, activities such as opening of restaurants, cinema halls, gyms, malls, schools, swimming pools, religious places and metro rail services have been allowed in a calibrated manner with strict standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place.From November 1, buses in Delhi will ply with full capacity and Western Railways will run additional local trains in Mumbai. Interstate bus services to and from Delhi are also likely to open from today.Apart from these, Goa will open its casinos, Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in Uttar Pradesh will be thrown open for tourists, Kaziranga National Park in Assam will resume elephant safari and Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu and Kashmir will allow more pilgrims - starting from today.Delhi buses to run in full capacityDelhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot had said on Saturday that passengers will be allowed to occupy all seats of DTC buses from November 1. As per the revised order, it is mandatory for commuters to wear face masks during travel and no passengers will be allowed to stand in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster scheme buses. The travellers, however, have been asked to maintain physical distancing.610 more local train services to run in Mumbai A total of 610 more local train services — 314 Central (CR) and 296 Western Railway (WR) — will run from Sunday, pushing the overall number of suburban train services in operation to 2020. Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, the railways operated 3,141 suburban services — 1,774 CR and 1,367 WR.Casinos in GoaCasinos in Goa will reopen from Sunday with 50% capacity, seven months after they were shut due to coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the decision was taken with a view to “promote tourism activity in the state.”Dudhwa Tiger ReserveDudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR), one of the prominent wildlife reserves located in Uttar Pradesh, will reopen from Sunday.“Strict Covid protocols for the tourists as well as those visiting Dudhwa Tiger Reserve have been imposed this season starting November 1. Any violation of the protocol would be taken seriously,” Sanjay Kumar Pathak, the park’s field director was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Elephant safari at Kaziranga National Park and Tiger ReserveThe national park was reopened for tourists on October 21. But elephant safari, one of the biggest tourist attractions, was not resumed. It will start from today.15,000 pilgrims to be allowed at Vaishno Devi TempleFifteen thousand pilgrims will be allowed at Vaishno Devi Temple per day starting from today. Earlier, only 7,000 pilgrims were allowed to visit the shrine due to Covid-19 restrictions. The shrine was reopened on August 16 after a gap of nearly five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-dudhwa-tiger-reserve-to-goa-casinos-what-all-are-opening-from-november-1-in-unlock-6-0/story-FBKxI21Om2v6vW5s1XvnJK.html
01-11-2020||India||Jagan Reddy’s SOS to PM Modi after finance ministry throws a spanner in Polavaram project||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in approving the revised cost of Polavaram major irrigation project as per 2017-18 estimates, instead of 2013-14 estimates as projected by the Union finance ministry.Jagan requested Modi to prevail upon the Union ministries of finance and Jal Sakthi to accord investment clearances to the revised project cost as per 2017-18 estimates. The department of expenditure of the Union ministry of finance, in its letter dated October 12, capped the cost of Polavaram project at Rs 20,398,61 crore at 2013-14 price level, as against the project cost of Rs 47,725.74 crore approved by the 2nd Revised Cost Estimate (RCE) of the Union ministry of water resources. “This is totally unrealistic to complete the Polavaram project, which was declared a national project under AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, according to which the Central government shall bear the entire cost of the project,” Jagan said in his letter to the Prime Minister. He said an amount of Rs 17,656.82 crore of public money had already been spent on the project. At this juncture, any unrealistic cost estimate would result in project remaining incomplete, he reminded. The chief minister pointed out that all the central government agencies including Polavaram Project Authority (PPA), Central Water Commission (CWC), Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and Revised Cost Committee (RCC) had approved the increase in project cost. He said the major reason for increase in the project cost was due to land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement cost, on account of Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, enacted by the Centre. “When the cost of land acquisition and R&R alone for rehabilitating project displaced families itself is Rs 28,191 crore, how is it possible to complete the entire project at a capped cost of Rs 20,398 crore?” Jagan asked. He reminded that the Union cabinet in March 2014 had clearly stated that the Centre would bear the entire cost of the project and obtain all requisite clearances including environmental, forests, and rehabilitation and resettlement and any increase in the project cost would also be borne by the Centre. Stating that it was nothing but natural that the cost of the project was bound to escalate due to cost-overruns and time overruns due to inflation, GST regime and other unforeseen factors, Jagan said any further delay would only increase the land acquisition and R&R costs further due to increase in basic price of land solatium and other factors. “The state government is only an executing agency on behalf of the Centre and the overall responsibility of completion of the project lies with the Centre as envisaged in AP Reorganisation Act, 2014,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-s-sos-to-pm-modi-after-finance-ministry-throws-a-spanner-in-polavaram-project/story-P7hWS4yzoNEqf3iYGWoFJM.html
01-11-2020||India||Dudhwa Tiger Reserve to reopen from today: Know all guidelines here||Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR), one of the prominent wildlife reserves in India and a favourite tourist destination, will reopen from Sunday.“Strict Covid protocols for the tourists as well as those visiting Dudhwa Tiger Reserve have been imposed this season starting November 1. Any violation of the protocol would be taken seriously,” the park’s field director Sanjay Kumar Pathak was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Due to nationwide lockdown following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, the tiger reserve had to be closed on March 22.Know all the guidelines here:1. Only those tourists clearing thermal scanning and having no symptoms of Covid-19 infection would be provided entry into the park premises.2. Each and every person entering the DTR, whether they are tourists, guides or visitors, would have to put on masks all time and any violation would lead to monetary fine.3. As per Covid guidelines of the Uttar Pradesh government, tourists in the 11 to 64 years age-group would be allowed into the national park. Entry of tourists below 10 years and above 65, those with co-morbidities and pregnant women would remain restricted.4. Only two tourists would be allowed to stay in a Dudhwa hut, which would be sanitised daily at the expenses of the tourists.5. In order to maintain social distancing, elephant climbing would remain banned this season while in the Jungle Safari vehicle, only four tourists (excluding driver) and the guide would be allowed to ride.6. No tourist would be allowed to walk during the jungle safari.The tourists would not be permitted to step out of their vehicles during jungle safari and their vehicle would be sanitized before and after every trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dudhwa-tiger-reserve-to-reopen-from-today-know-all-guidelines-here/story-T8s9MWKIXnaLWN5dWn0LYL.html
01-11-2020||India||Assam schools reopen from Monday after 7 months: All you need to know||Schools in Assam are set to reopen from Monday after over seven months of being shut in the view of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has directed the education department to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are adhered to while reopening schools.The state government said that students of Class 6 and above will go to school from November 2, but only after consent from their parents.Here is all you need to know:1. The ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines of the ministry of home affairs had allowed schools to reopen across the country after October 15 in a graded manner. Coming to school will, however, be a voluntary exercise on the part of the students as the necessary attendance required will not be applicable this year, Assam’s education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said.2. The officials of education and health departments have been instructed by the chief minister to make sure classes start early in the morning, there is a proper gap between classroom timings of two groups of students and toilets are clean and sanitised.3. Classes will be held in two batches - from 8:30 am to 12:30 pm and from 1:30 pm to 4:30 pm - with not more than 25 students in each section.4. The education department has decided that students of classes 6, 7, 9 and 12 will have classroom teachings on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays of every week while those of classes 8, 10 and 11 will come to school on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, according to news agency PTI.5. Examinations will be held only for class eight. Board examinations will be conducted for Classes 10 and 12.6. Undergraduate classes will also begin from November 2. They will be held in two batches - morning and afternoon. 7. For the first semester students, classes will be held twice a week on Monday and Thursday. For those in their third semester, they will be held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, and fifth semester students will have them on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday every week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-schools-reopen-from-monday-after-7-months-all-you-need-to-know/story-4SwfVScCBU8u5ZSdfjfRHP.html
01-11-2020||India||Tamil Nadu minister R Doraikannu passes away at 72, had tested positive for Covid-19||Tamil Nadu Agriculture Minister R Doraikannu, who was battling Covid-19, has died, a private hospital said on Sunday.The 72 year-old Minister breathed his last late on Saturday night, Kauvery Hospital Executive Director Dr Aravdindan Selvaraj said in a medical bulletin.“With deep grief, we announce the sad demise of Honourable Minister for Agriculture R Doraikkannu,” on Saturday at 11.15 pm, he said.“Our thoughts and prayers are with the grieving family during this difficult period,” he added.Doraikkannu was undergoing treatment here, after being shifted from a government medical college hospital in Villpuram on October 13, where he was admitted to after he complained of uneasiness.Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit condoled the death of Daoraikkannu and said he was saddened to know about the demise of the Minister.Doraikkannu “was known for his simplicity, humbleness, straightforwardness, governance skills and commitment towards the welfare of farming community...” “He handled Ministry of Agriculture with full dedication and engraved his strong mark. His untimely demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu and particularly to the AIADMK party,” he said in his condolence message.Purohit conveyed his deep condolences to the bereaved members of the family and said he prayed to the Almighty God to rest his soul in peace.Doraikkannu was elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly from Papanasam in Thanjavur district in 2006, 2011 and 2016, with the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa inducting him in the cabinet in 2016.The Minister’s health had suffered a significant deterioration in vital functions on Sunday last.The hospital had said on Monday that the Minister was being treated for severe Covid-19 pneumonia and its complications.A CT scan had showed 90 per cent lung involvement vis- a-vis the infection and he was put on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) and ventilator.On October 13, the minister experienced unease when he was on his way to attend the funeral of Davusayammal, Chief Minister K Palaniswami’s mother, who had died at the age of 93 at Salem.Doraikkannu, who was travelling in his car, was rushed to the government medical college hospital in Villupuram and from there was shifted to Kauvery hospital the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-minister-r-doraikkannu-dies-of-covid-19/story-QiqZmB04xfRx3pU3qAzQaM.html
01-11-2020||India||Goa casinos to reopen from today: Know Covid-19 guidelines here||Casinos in Goa will reopen from Sunday with 50% capacity, after they were shut since March when the nationwide lockdown was imposed.Announcing the decision, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the decision was taken with a view to “promote tourism activity in the state.” “From November 1, we have given the casinos permissions to start. They will have to follow all the SOPs as will be issued to them by the Home Department and with 50% capacity they can start. We need to promote tourism activity,” Sawant said.There are six offshore casinos in Goa, boats anchored in the Mandovi river that flows by the capital city. Other casinos are located inside five star hotels. It’s a 19-year-old industry of the state.As part of the unlocking process, the state government has allowed various commercial and tourism activities to resume in the state to get the economy back on track.Know all the Covid-19 guidelines here:1. The casinos will have to follow all the SOPs as issued to them by the Home Department2. . The casinos will have to operate with 50 percent capacity.3. The casino operators will have to pay the license fees before resuming operations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-casinos-to-reopen-from-today-know-covid-19-guidelines-here/story-dbfMyuBNRT6LHBKHDhpqrN.html
01-11-2020||India||‘Adorable and admirable’: PM Modi lauds 4-year-old girl’s rendition of ‘Vande Mataram’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday termed as “adorable and admirable” a four-year-old girl’s rendition of Vande Mataram which has caught the attention of scores of netizens.Four-year-old Esther Hnamte from Mizoram caught the attention of Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga who tweeted the video of the girl’s rendition of ‘Maa Tujhe Salaam, Vande Mataram’ .“Mesmerizing Esther Hnamte, a 4-year-old kid from Lunglei, Mizoram singing ‘Maa Tujhe Salaam, Vande Mataram’,” the Mizoram CM tweeted. Adorable and admirable! Proud of Esther Hnamte for this rendition. https://t.co/wQjiK3NOY0Tagging the Mizoram chief minister’s tweet and the video of the girl’s rendition of Vande Mataram, Prime Minister Modi tweeted, “Adorable and admirable! Proud of Esther Hnamte for this rendition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adorable-and-admirable-pm-modi-lauds-4-year-old-girl-s-rendition-of-vande-mataram/story-vsXYvyFhFaJHwczSQNX5ZP.html
01-11-2020||India||CPI(M) open to Bengal alliance with Congress||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or the CPI(M), announced on Saturday its inclination for a seat adjustment with the Congress in the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam, even as it is contesting against the Congress in Kerala. If the plan materialises, it would be the first formal seat adjustment pact between the Congress and the Left in West Bengal, where the two parties have been rivals till the 1990s. “In West Bengal, the CPIM and the Left Front will have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress, which seek to defeat the BJP and the TMC. In Tamil Nadu, the CPIM will contest the elections as part of the DMK-led alliance. In Assam, the CPIM will contest the elections in cooperation with all secular opposition parties including the Congress to defeat the incumbent BJP government in the state, which is sharpening communal polarization, destabilizing social harmony and heaping miseries on the people,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury announced after the two day-long Central Committee meet. CPI(M) politburo member Nilotpal Basu rejected claims of a unilateral move and said, “Don’t think we have decided it on our own. There is a strong signal from state Congress units for a joint fight against BJP-RSS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-open-to-bengal-alliance-with-congress/story-l7BG4xTPOHmyKNn67ctfJN.html
01-11-2020||India||UP government planning law to ‘regulate’ interfaith marriages, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that his government is planning to introduce a law to regulate interfaith marriages involving Muslim men and Hindu women, citing a high court order to promise that his administration would secure and protect women in the state. Adityanath also pledged that public land encroached upon by criminals and mafia would be used to build houses for the poor. He made the announcements while campaigning for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates in for the upcoming assembly bypolls. In his speech, Adityanath cited an Allahabad high court order, passed on October 30, where a single-judge bench held that religious conversion solely for the purpose of marriage is not valid under law. The case pertained to a Muslim woman who converted to marry a Hindu man, and the couple approached the court for police protection. “The Allahabad high court has said that for marriages, changing religion isn’t necessary. The government too has decided to check ‘love jihad’ with all its might. An effective law would be made that would ensure that those who cheat gullible women by hiding their identity would be effectively dealt with,” the CM said. Love Jihad is a term used by right-wing workers to describe interfaith relationships between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February this year, the government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies. To be sure, the HC order didn’t use the term in its order. “I want to warn all such people that if they don’t mend their ways, they would have to set out on a ‘Ram naam satya hai’ journey,” he said. ‘Ram naam satya hai’ (Ram is the eternal truth) is the chant Hindus raise while lending a shoulder to the bier during last rites. “Many of our sisters and daughters became victims of `love jihad’. They were deceived by people using forged names and identity,’’ he pointed out. Interfaith relationships have become a hot-button issue in several states, including Uttar Pradesh, where Hindu activists allege that Muslim men “lure” gullible women for conversion. Many experts reject these allegations and say that adult men and women are free to convert for relationships. “Is this the first time he (CM Yogi Adityanath) used this kind of language? It’s been over three years now. Earlier he had said Thok Do (do encounter killing), and now this. Samajwadi Party is against crime but firmly believes that it is the job of the judiciary to give punishments... He has been using this kind of language and making tall claims and lies. But all kinds of crimes have skyrocketed in his regime. Innocent are getting killed, killers are getting protection,” said Samajwadi Party state spokesperson and former minister, Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-planning-law-to-regulate-interfaith-marriages-says-yogi-adityanath/story-RT4Vg2RDiDM9Injg2qND4M.html
01-11-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia slams previous Congress government over graft||Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Saturday he did not expect that there would be rampant corruption in the previous Congress regime in Madhya Pradesh when he sought votes for a development-oriented government in 2018. Scindia was addressing an election meeting at Shadora in Ashok Nagar, a part of the Guna parliamentary constituency that he represented in the Lok Sabha from 2002 to 2019. Scindia said, “Kamal Nath ji is known as a world-level industrialist but not a single industry was set up during his term of 15 months. Instead, he ran a transfer industry in Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat) which is a temple of democracy. There was an auction of posts. I had begged for votes from you not to form a government of corruption. But liquor, transfer and other mafia operated with impunity under the Congress government.” He said the situation had come to such a sorry pass that public representatives couldn’t have their voice heard in the government for development projects in their constituencies. When public representatives wanted to meet the then chief minister Kamal Nath in this regard the door was slammed in their face with an assertion that there was no money for development work, Scindia said.“He didn’t visit Ashok Nagar even once during 15 months of his tenure. He was confined to his air-conditioned office in Vallabh Bhavan all the time. About ₹7,500 crore in respect of a crop insurance scheme could be released to farmers only when Shivraj Singh Chouhan became chief minister and I made a request to him. When I raised my voice... I was told to take to the streets. I did take to the streets and brought down the corrupt government.”Addressing the gathering, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a dig at state Congress chief Kamal Nath and said, “On one hand we comply with all the instructions of ECI but on the other hand there is Kamal Nath whose tag of star campaigner was snatched by the commission which didn’t find him fit for the status as he passed an objectionable remark against a woman minister in my cabinet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jyotiraditya-scindia-slams-previous-congress-government-over-graft/story-XsV2gaDQIQKCd9LDLpgUQO.html
01-11-2020||India||Kamal Nath approaches Supreme Court against Election Commission decision to revoke his star campaigner status||Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath approached the Supreme Court on Saturday challenging an order of the Election Commission to revoke his “star campaigner” status for violations of the model code of conduct ahead of bypolls to 28 assembly constituencies in the state. “For repeated violation of the model code of conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission revokes the status of leader of political party (star campaigner) of Kamal Nath,” EC said in its order on Friday.The commission has found Nath guilty of violating para 2 of Part 1 of General Conditions of Model Code of Conduct for Guidance of Political Parties and Candidates which states, “Parties and candidates shall refrain from criticism of all aspects of private life, not connected with the public activities of the leaders or workers of the parties.”The poll body has taken note of the Congress leader’s speech on October 13 in which he said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan treated the “mafia” and “milawatkhor” (adulterators) like gods. On October 26, the commission warned Nath against using derogatory terms, shortly after he referred to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Imarti Devi as an “item” during a rally.According to Nath, no notice was issued to him on his October 13 speech. This was clearly a violation of principles of natural justice, his petition stated. On his “item” comment, Nath said he submitted his reply to EC that his remark was completely misunderstood. Based on his response, EC issued an advisory on October 26 asking him to refrain from such comments in future.In his petition to set aside the EC order, Nath said, “It is clear that the order has been passed in complete violation of natural justice, without any application of mind, and is arbitrary and unreasoned.” Nath’s lawyer Varun Chopra said, “Between the date when EC issued advisory (October 26) and the order revoking star campaigner status (October 30) there is no fresh violation of MCC by Kamal Nath. Freedom of speech of a campaigner is a fundamental right which the Election Commission has abrogated at the fag end of the election campaign. We want the Court to lay down the principle whether the Commission was right to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-approaches-supreme-court-against-election-commission-decision-to-revoke-his-star-campaigner-status/story-rUwsiRiu2xfbo0oM8vP3yN.html
01-11-2020||India||Centre plans to brief diplomatic corps on efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccines||The government will brief the Delhi-based diplomatic corps next week on efforts to develop vaccines for Covid-19 and explore potential partnerships for manufacturing and delivery of vaccines, people familiar with developments said on Saturday. The briefing, to be done on November 6 by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, is set to be attended by envoys and senior members of the diplomatic corps. Niti Aayog member VK Paul, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and other senior officials are expected to be present at the briefing, being seen as the one of the key Covid-19-related interactions handled by the external affairs ministry this year. The interaction will be New Delhi’s first such outreach to the international community on vaccines when countries are eagerly awaiting a successful candidate. Officials and diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity said India is also looking for partners to co-produce vaccines so that they can be manufactured faster and distributed on a larger scale. The Narendra Modi government is set to propose five models for vaccine cooperation with friendly countries and key neighbours, with India having entered late stage trials for two indigenous vaccines and the Oxford AstraZeneca candidate, which will be made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAccording to top officials involved in finalising these models, New Delhi could offer free supply or trial partnerships to South Asian, European, West Asian, African and Latin American countries for the vaccine to ensure they can ramp up their drive to protect their populations from Covid-19. The countries will be carefully chosen to include key neighbours, countries where large numbers of Indians are studying or working, and those that have been supportive of India at international forums such as the UN. The move is also aimed at building on India’s image as a key supplier of pharmaceutical products in the early stages of the pandemic, and to help the country emerge as a major player in the post-Covid-19 world order, the people cited above said. It also fits in with the government’s drive to create resilient and diverse supply and value chains, the people said. On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced India is prepared to mass produce Covid-19 vaccines for domestic consumption once scientists approve the trials. “Not one, not two, as many as three coronavirus vaccines are being tested in India,” he said from the Red Fort in his customary Independence Day speech. The Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine is in the third or final phase of trials and is widely considered a frontrunner in the global race to tackle the virus that has already infected 45 million people and resulted in 1.19 million deaths worldwide. The two Indian vaccine candidates – from Zydus-Cadila and Bharat Biotech – have entered the second phase of human trials. Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India, recently said trials of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine in India should be over by December and it could be launched in the country in January, subject to UK trials that are on the verge of being completed. While a large share of vaccines will be used in India, with healthcare workers identified as priority recipients, PM Modi said in his speech to the UN General Assembly in September that the country’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will also be used to help all countries in fighting the pandemic. “India will also help all countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. In this connection, India has organised two training sessions for neighbouring countries that were joined by about 90 health experts and scientists. This programme will be expanded to include other countries. An Indian delegation visited Dhaka during October 17-19 for discussions on vaccine development in India and modalities for clinical trials in Bangladesh. Officials from India and Myanmar have had a virtual interaction on cooperation on vaccines, and the two sides are expected to decide on modalities. “In due course, depending on trials in India, we propose to expand our cooperation with other countries also in clinical trials and capacity building for vaccine development, production and delivery,” Srivastava said. Amid the pandemic, India has provided medicines and medical equipment to more than 150 countries, including grants to 82 countries worth around Rs 80 crore. It also expedited approvals for export of drugs and deployed medical rapid response teams to countries such as Kuwait, the Maldives, Mauritius and Comoros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-brief-diplomatic-corps-on-efforts-to-develop-covid-19-vaccines/story-dvf7SPy8WXINRiuscB0ZPN.html
01-11-2020||India||House panel on Personal Data Protection summons Ola, Uber, Jio, Airtel||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Personal Data Protection has summoned cab hailing apps Ola and Uber, and telecom giants Bharti Airtel, Jio Infocom, Jio Platforms and Truecaller for its next set of meetings to be held in the first week of November, according to the Lok Sabha website.The Committee has asked the companies to make detailed submissions about their policies related to data collection, data protection, artificial intelligence and privacy of consumers, people familiar with the matter said.The JPC, led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Meenakshi Lekhi, already heard from Twitter, Amazon, Google, PayTm and Facebook on the issue last week.The JPC is meeting large tech companies to understand their view on personal data protection. India’s Personal Data Protection bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha last December. Among other provisions, it proposed a national regulator to protect the personal data of individuals.A key topic that may be discussed in meetings of the panel this week is a provision of the draft data bill that asks tech-giants to share non-personal data, comprising elements such as traffic density mapped by companies like Google maps and Uber, with the government when asked.The government, which presented its draft non-personalized data-sharing framework in July, defines it as “any data that is not related to an identified or identifiable natural person, or is personal data that has been anonymised”.The government has argued such sharing of data will help formulate better and more efficient policies. The framework talks about the creation of a data market for sharing of data that will be regulated. In case a business claims that the data can’t be shared, it has to justify its decision it to the regulator.This particular provision was controversial with pushback from industry leaders who said companies use non-personal data to boost revenue and may suffer losses. Earlier this week, the panel asked tech giant Google and fin-tech company One 97 Communications, which runs Paytm, to explain their relationship with China, according to people familiar with the matter.Google officials reiterated that the company walked out of China on its own, but the panel was keen to know if its products or services have any links with China since Google owns Android, the software used by many Chinese phone makers.Paytm, the people said, admitted that Chinese company Alibaba is an investor but that none of the investors has a say in the company’s running.One of the people quoted above added that Google officials were grilled about the need for regulating the company, especially on the content part of its business.According to one member of the JPC, Google maintained that India should avoid data localisation requirement as it is ill-fitted to protect privacy and security. The tech giant also claimed that the move to localise data is not in sync with open trade commitments and modern data protection standard, this person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-on-personal-data-protection-summons-ola-uber-jio-airtel/story-vArVrgKfSblFHpOFjKDSVL.html
01-11-2020||India||Ex-BDC member shot dead in UP, cop held||A sub-inspector was arrested and a constable transferred after they allegedly shot dead a former member of the Block Development Council in Bhadras village of Ghatampur area late on Friday night, police officials said on Saturday. The police action was taken after the victim’s family said that the policemen reached the spot where the victim was playing cards and shot him at close range, Kanpur (rural) superintendent of police Brijesh Shrivastava said.The deceased was identified as Pappu Bajpai, 40, who was an active member of the Samajwadi Party and also served as a head of the Bhadras village.According to people present on the spot, Bajpai was playing cards with a group of people in an open field late on Friday. Two men showed up and fearing that they were police officials people started running during which Bajpai was shot from close range, said the people. Sub-Inspector Premveer Singh Yadav has been arrested on charges of murdering the former BDC member, Srivastava said. Constable Deepanshu, who accompanied the SI, has been sent to the reserve police lines for not apprising his seniors about the incident, he added.The incident has sparked a controversy in Ghatampur, which is scheduled to go to polls on November 3. The Samajwadi Party has sought the arrest of all officials involved in the crime. BJP minister Chandrika Upadhyaya met Bajpai’s family and assured transparent investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bdc-member-shot-dead-in-up-cop-held/story-XiOX9ID1yGOdnvt5dgabsI.html
01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan introduces 4 bills to counter farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced four bills to counter the farm laws recently enacted by the Central government.Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal tabled the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 during the special session of the Rajasthan Assembly.According to the statement of objects, the bills seek to “protect the interest of farmers, farm labourers, those engaged in ancillary and incidental activities relating to production, sale and marketing of agricultural produce as also consumers and for adherence to the minimum support price mechanism”.Addressing reporters outside the assembly, state health minister Raghu Sharma said that the state government wanted to protect the interest of farmers with the new laws.Similar bills have been introduced in Punjab and Chhattisgarh assemblies following widespread protests by various farm bodies against the central laws pushed through in Parliament during the monsoon session.The Chhattisgarh assembly on October 27 approved the Chhattisgarh Krishi Upaj Mandi (Amendment) Bill 2020 that declared the entire state as a market for selling agriculture produce. Earlier on October 20, Punjab government passed four bills and a resolution to counter Centre’s three agriculture marketing laws. Both states have Congress governments.The Congress leadership had earlier suggested that states where it is in power should pass laws of their own to counter the central legislations.Hitting out at the Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Satish Poonia said, “The fact is, the state government cannot bring law against a central law by calling a special session but Ashok Gehlot is conspiring to mislead farmers and to please Sonia Gandhi.”BJP MLA Pratap Singh Singhvi said the government is lying about its intention of ensuring minimum support price. “Farmers of bajra (pearl millet) are forced to sell their produce at ₹1400-1500 per quintal against the MSP of ₹2150 because the state government did not send a proposal to Centre for procurement under Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA),” said the six-time legislator.Experts said that amendments to Central laws by a state assembly were not possible. Political commentator Avadhesh Akodia said, “Even if the Rajasthan assembly passes these amendment bills, they are unlikely to get the President’s assent.” The speaker adjourned the House until Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-introduces-4-bills-to-counter-farm-laws/story-VluQg7CHvqLMjQkyIwiY7L.html
