03-11-2020||India||In foreign secretary’s London speech, a message on Indo-Pacific and ‘rise of China’||The rise of China and the need for global rebalancing have contributed to the current focus on the Indo-Pacific, a region through which 90 percent of India’s international trade travels, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday.Speaking at the think tank Policy Exchange in London on the theme “India’s vision of the Indo-Pacific”, Shringla outlined New Delhi’s plans to work with other countries across the region to ensure a rules-based order, maritime security and stability.“The Indo-Pacific ocean system carries an estimated 65 percent of world trade and contributes 60 percent of global GDP. Ninety percent of India’s international trade travels on its waters, he said, noting that the shift in the economic trajectory from the Atlantic to the Indo-Pacific has been “hugely consequential”.He added, “The rise of China and the imperative for a global rebalancing have added to the mix. A rules-based international order is achievable only with a rules-based Indo-Pacific.”India, he said, will work for an “Indo-Pacific guided by norms and governed by rules, with freedom of navigation, open connectivity, and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states”.Also read: Military talks with China to resolve border row likely on November 6Shringla, who is in the UK as part of a three-nation tour that also took him to France and Germany, focused on the growing cooperation between India and its neighbours as well as countries such as the US, Australia and Japan across the Indo-Pacific, both to protect freedom of navigation and to boost trade.“We have sought to strengthen security and freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific by becoming a net security provider – for instance in peacekeeping efforts or anti-piracy operations in the Gulf of Aden,” he said. In the past six years, India has provided coastal surveillance radar systems to Mauritius, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, the Maldives, Myanmar and Bangladesh, and all these countries, as well as Mozambique and Tanzania, use Indian-made patrol boats, he said.Mobile defence training teams have been deputed to 11 countries, from Vietnam to South Africa and Myanmar, and the Indian Navy’s Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean Region has enhanced maritime domain awareness among partners.India has also developed capacities for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR), and notable missions in the Indo-Pacific included “Operation Rahat” in Yemen in 2015, when India evacuated 6,710 people, including 1,947 citizens of more than 40 countries.Amid the pandemic, India sent rapid response medical teams to countries as far apart as Kuwait and the Maldives and maintained food supply lines for Gulf nations and smaller island states such as Seychelles and Comoros.In a tacit reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Shringla said India has promoted infrastructure, connectivity, economic projects and supply chains while “prioritising the needs of the host community and the ethic of equity, environmental sustainability and social viability”. Like Germany, India too believes in fair competition, avoiding over-indebtedness on the part of recipient countries and ensuring transparency and sustainability while developing connectivity, he added.For India, the Indo-Pacific stretches from the western coast of North America to the eastern shores of Africa, and the country’s strategy for the region was spelt out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a speech in Singapore in 2018 as the “SAGAR” or “security and growth for all in the region” doctrine, Shringla said. This includes securing supply chains, “no disproportionate dependence on a single country” and ensuring prosperity for all stakeholder nations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-foreign-secretary-s-london-speech-a-message-on-indo-pacific-rise-of-china/story-9uxldjI0VFr2fibN2EXJeL.html
03-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Marwahi assembly bypoll records voter turnout of 77% amid security, Covid-related restrictions||The Marwahi assembly bypoll recorded a high voter turnout of 77% on Wednesday amid tight security arrangements and other protocols related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak across India. Voters exercised their franchise from 7am to 6pm. Results for the Marwahi assembly bypoll would be declared on November 10.A poll official situated in Raipur said, “Polling in Marwahi started at 7 am and went smoothly till the deadline at 6 pm. Total around 77%polling has been registered till 6 pm and still polling is going on at some booths.” The final turnout was expected rise late in the evening, the official addedMarwahi which is reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs) has an electorate strength of 1,91,004 comprising 93,725 men, 97,265 women and four belonging to the third gender.A total of 286 polling stations were set up in the constituency out of which 126 were categorised as sensitive.As many as 1,400 security personnel were deployed for election duty across all stations.Top contenders from Marwahi in 2020 were K K Dhruw from the Congress and Gambheer Singh from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The by-poll was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) MLA and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi passed away in May this year. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel led the campaign for Congress and visited the constituency four times last month. The party highlighted several pro-farmer and pro-tribal initiatives of the state government including the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, cow dung procurement scheme, distribution of forest rights certificates, and relief measures to combat Covid-19.Raman Singh- national vice president of BJP and also former chief minister of Chhattisgarh was in charge of the party’s outreach in the state. BJP targeted the ruling Congress government alleging it failed on all fronts and the law and order situation had deteriorated.Marwahi, once a stronghold of the Jogis, did not see any participation from the family in the 2020 bypoll after Ajit Jogi’s son Amit’s nomination from the JCC was rejected due to a case of a fake caste certificate. Nomination papers of Amit’s wife Richa were also cancelled by the district collector on the same ground.In the 2018 assembly polls, Ajit won the constituency by a thumping majority of 74,041 votes. The second spot was bagged by Archana Porte of the BJP and she secured 27,579 votes. The difference between the winner and runner-up was 46,462 votes. Congress came third in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-marwahi-assembly-bypoll-records-voter-turnout-of-77-amid-security-covid-related-restrictions/story-tW3SUrroAnhwIJ6eyLACqO.html
03-11-2020||India||First timers in Lucknow keep it safe this Karwa Chauth!||Festival of Karwa Chauth is going to be a very different affair this year, especially for the ones who recently tied the knot. Among the many who are indulging in these festivities for the first time and are trying to keep their spirits high shares their take on the celebrations during the ongoing pandemic.For youngster Prachi Singh this is the first time she will be celebrating all the festivals with her new family, “Living life in pandemic itself is a challenge. And celebrating festivals is a tricky affair for all of us. This will be my first Karwa Chauth and I had never thought to celebrate it in such circumstances. Still, I would do my best to carry out the traditions of the family and celebrate in best possible. While fasting I would be praying for my husband as well as the entire family. As it’s a tough time for all of us and we all need to be safe and happy.”Prakhar and Aishwarya Chauhan got married during the unlock phase in June and for them celebrations are important yet they following all Covid-19 guidelines is their priority. “I got my mehndi done yesterday night at home from a professional with precautions in place. Since I’m a doctor, I’m well aware how do take best safety measures from the virus while fasting as it’s important to keep myself hydrated. To keep the day special for me as no many guests will be visiting us due the pandemic, my husband and in-laws are planning a festival full of gifts along with my favourite Chinese dinner,” shared Aishwarya.This year many would be avoiding celebrating the festival in group, where all the married women of the locality get together and offer prayers for their husband’s longevity and complete all the rituals together. Homemaker Ratika Verma feels that the best way to celebrate is to stay home and have a private ceremony. “This is my third Karwa Chauth and unlike last year it’s going to be a different situation for me as well as the other women folks in my locality. I can’t imagine celebrating alone in my apartment, last year we all had so much fun in the society compound during the festivities. Also this year we are joined by two new brides in our society building but sadly with no group celebrations they too have to celebrate the day in their respective homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/first-timers-in-lucknow-keep-it-safe-this-karwa-chauth/story-sD2PMWHIJZDP1qdxzpCKTO.html
03-11-2020||India||Railways to implement artificial intelligence, data analytics for better operational efficiency||The railways is set to go big with artificial intelligence and data analytics to improve its operational efficiency and has tied up with the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad to analyse the data generated by the national transporter, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said.He said the railways will set up a Centre for Excellence in this regard in the next three months.The Railway Board has taken a decision to appoint a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) in every zonal railways whose mandate will be to keep track of emerging technologies in analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) and use it in the rail system, Yadav said.“We have passengers-related data, train operations-related data, freight data and even asset-related data. We want to analyse all this data with the help of AI and analytics and use it in our Passenger Reservation System (PRS), introduction of new trains and even predictive asset maintenance. We have tied up with the Indian School of Business (ISB) for this,” he said.The Indian School of Business in Hyderabad has been assigned to plan an introductory capacity building program and formulate a report on the industrial practices of AI on rail transport and benchmarking. It will also develop a report on establishing the centre for excellence and an advanced capacity building program.Meanwhile, the railways has already trained 88 officials over the last two months for this purpose and such training will be provided for identified officials in every zone and division.The training modules include cloud computing, data science, big data analytics, AI using reinforcement learning and AI for autonomous vehicles. According to officials, the railways has not only planned to have a CTO in zonal headquarters, but also an assistant chief technology officer (ACTO) in divisions directly reporting to the General Manager and Divisional Railway Managers respectively.Six to ten officers in divisions and about 20 in zonal headquarters will be identified for training in data analytics and AI. They will be formally trained in institutes like IITs, ISB, IIMs, IIIT in the two subjects (of data analytics and AI).The railways is also looking at development of data sharing protocols with the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS), RailTel and others, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-implement-artificial-intelligence-data-analytics-for-better-operational-efficiency/story-iyMP1Yh5WyZKSP05dj8qOM.html
03-11-2020||India||Odisha bans sale, use of firecrackers amid Covid-19||The Odisha government on Tuesday banned the sale and use of firecrackers across the state during the festive season to check air pollution which can aggravate health conditions of Covid-19 patients.The period of the ban is from November 10 to 30, according to a government order.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The people of the state burst firecrackers on the occasion of Deepavali and Kartik Purnima, which fell on November 14 and 30 respectively this year.Chief Secretary A K Tripathy issued a direction to prohibit sale and use of firecrackers in all parts of the state from November 10 to 30. “Any person found violating this order shall be punished under the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other relevant laws,” the order said.“Considering the potentially harmful consequences of burning of crackers amidst Covid-l9 pandemic situation and approaching winter, Government of Odisha, therefore, prohibits the sale and use of fire crackers from 10th to 30th of November,2020 in public interest,” the chief secretary said.Deepavali is the festival of lights and it may be celebrated in the traditional way by lighting of earthen lamps, candles and other traditional lighting materials.Stating that the spread of Covid-19 pandemic has been controlled in Odisha to a significant extent, the order said that the people at large supported the government in controlling the situation.Though the number of active cases has shown a dip in the state, the danger is still very much present, Tripathy said adding that Covid-19 resurfaced in some parts of the country and in the world forcing them to re-impose lockdowns and other extreme measures to contain the situation and further spread of the disease.Tripathy also pointed out that the international experience shows that the coming winter season may see further spread of the pandemic. It is generally observed that elderly people, children, persons with comorbidities and others develop respiratory problems during winter, he said.This apart, the air pollution, higher concentration of Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) in the air aggravates the respiratory problems.“It is a well-known fact that burning of the fire crackers releases copious amounts of harmful chemicals like nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, which have severe impact on the respiratory health of vulnerable groups,” he said. Such pollutants can further aggravate health conditions of Covid-19 positive persons besides persons staying in home isolation, he said.The chief secretary also issued an instruction to the local administrations and police to take measures for the implementation of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bans-sale-use-of-firecrackers-amid-covid-19/story-J09bboO5jJjY0qj3bl4tIP.html
03-11-2020||India||Amit Shah to visit West Bengal on Nov 5 to prep for 2021 Assembly polls||Union Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah will be on a two-day visit to West Bengal from November 5 to boost the party’s preparations for assembly elections scheduled to be held next year, an officer bearer in the party’s state unit said on Tuesday.Sharing details of the Shah’s visit, BJP’s West Bengal unit general secretary Locket Chatterjee said the party’s former president will held number of meetings in Bankura and Kolkata with booth workers, influencers, social leaders and party workers.On November 5, the first day of his visit, Shah will visit Bankura to meet party workers and leaders from the different sections of the society. The party workers from two zones, Rarh and Hooghly-Midnapore, covering over 70 assembly seats from the southern region of West Bengal, will attend the meeting, she said.The next day he will hold a number of meetings in the state capital, with party workers in Kolkata, office bearers from more than 80 assembly constituencies from Nabadwip in south central Bengal and Kolkata region, Chatterjee said.“There is excitement in workers across Bengal as Amit Shahji is coming to the state. His arrival and his advice will boost the party’s preparedness for the 2021 assembly polls in West Bengal,” she said.Sources in the party said Shah will meet party workers and leaders mainly from south and south-western region of the state, as BJP still has a lot of ground to gain in these parts compared to the north, from where it has 12 MPs out of its total tally of 18.By winning 18 Lok Sabha seats out of the total 42 in West Bengal in 2019 general elections, the BJP has emerged as the main challenger for the ruling TMC in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-visit-west-bengal-on-nov-5-to-prep-for-2021-assembly-polls/story-hIXoouKKnhYWrmBfwhZYcN.html
03-11-2020||India||Bengal govt urges people not to burst firecrackers during Kali puja, Diwali||The West Bengal government on Tuesday appealed to people to avoid bursting firecrackers during the upcoming Kali Puja and Diwali festivals in order to check air pollution which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients.“With everybody’s cooperation, we want to hold the Kali Puja and Diwali festivals avoiding firecrackers. The administration appeals to people to avoid firecrackers,” Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said.No procession will be allowed during the immersion of the Kali idols, he said after holding a meeting with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard.Bandyopadhyay said that Kali puja pandals should be open, following Covid-19 safety protocols.“Puja committees should ensure that visitors wear masks, maintain physical distancing and hygiene,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-urges-people-not-to-burst-firecrackers-during-kali-puja-diwali/story-MQDNngGrWTrLj9U56IxSZO.html
03-11-2020||India||Military talks with China to resolve border row likely on November 6||Talks with China to reduce friction in the sensitive eastern Ladakh theatre may resume soon, with the eighth round of military dialogue between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) expected to take place this week, officials familiar with the ongoing border row said on Tuesday. There are indications that the dialogue could take place along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Chushul sector on November 6, the officials said. Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the seventh time on October 12, with the Indian side demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre. The eighth round of talks will be led for the first time by the new commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General PGK Menon. Both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh sector and are likely to hold forward positions along the LAC through the harsh winter months. India has made vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its forward deployed soldiers, including the supply of specialised winter clothing sourced from the United States, the officials said. India has imported more than 15,000 sets of extended cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) from the US, with the emergency supply made by activating the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Association (LEMOA), the officials said. India signed the LEMOA, the first of the three foundational agreements proposed by Washington to deepen bilateral military cooperation, with the US in August 2016. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on October 28 said that talks with China for peaceful resolution of the border crisis would continue even as Indian troops are “standing firm” in forward areas. Addressing the army’s top leadership during the army commanders’ conference last month, Singh said that soldiers would be equipped with best weapons and gear to carry out their duties. The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results.The latest round of military talks comes at a time when China is closely tracking the Malabar exercise, kicked off by the navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday amid Chinese sabre-rattling in the Indo-Pacific region. The 24th edition of the Malabar exercise is being held in two phases - the first phase in the Bay of Bengal from November 3 to 6 and the second phase to be held off India’s west coast in mid-November. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-talks-with-china-to-resolve-border-row-likely-on-november-6/story-soLF49XVH1Q9yNewW2jShJ.html
03-11-2020||India||Karnataka assembly bypolls: 39.15 per cent polling at RR||Polling for the Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira assembly by-elections in Karnataka held under the shadow of coronavirus concluded peacefully without any major glitches on Tuesday. Poor voter turnout marked the Rajarajeshwari Nagar bypoll with a polling percentage of only 39.15, whereas in Sira 77.34 per cent voting took place till 5 pm, according to the office of the Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar.The death of Sira JD(S) MLA B Satyanarayana in August and resignation of RR Nagar Congress MLA Munirathna from the assembly last year led to the bypolls.Till 9 am the voting did not pick up in both the constituencies as about 8 per cent voting took place. It picked up in Sira at 11 am with 23.63 per cent but there was slight increase in RR Nagar with 14.44 per cent polling.By 3 pm, the voting percentage was 62.1 in Sira and 32.41 in RR Nagar.According to information received from the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, polling started at 7 am and will continue till 6 pm in the two constituencies with a voting population of 6,78,012, including 3,26,114 women. There are 1,008 polling stations, comprising 678 in RR Nagar and 330 in Sira, Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar said in a statement. In view of the pandemic, standard protocol of face masks was made mandatory for the voters as well as the polling staff. Arrangements were made for thermal screening and hand sanitisers made available at the polling stations. Security was beefed up around the polling stations. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation) had made separate arrangements for coronavirus- infected people to cast their votes in RR Nagar. There are 31 candidates in the fray in the bypolls -- 15 in Sira and 16 in RR Nagar, including those from the Congress, BJP and the JD(S). In RR Nagar, the BJP has fielded former Congress MLA Munirathna as its candidate whereas the Congress has given ticket to H Kusuma, wife of former IAS officer late D K Ravi in the seat traditionally held by the party. The JD(S) has fielded V Krishnamurthy. In Sira, the BJP, Congress and JD(S) have fielded radiologist Dr Rakesh Gowda, former minister T B Jayachandra and former (JD-S) MLA B Satyanarayana’s wife Ammajamma respectively. In the 224-seat assembly, BJP has 116 MLAs minus the speaker, Congress 67 and JD(S) 33, BSP one and there are two independents. There is also a nominated member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-bypolls-39-15-per-cent-polling-at-rr/story-6yadlLLjsEpalKdE9UNrlJ.html
03-11-2020||India||Army chief off to Nepal, visit expected to ease ties after border row||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will head for Kathmandu on Wednesday on a three-day visit that is expected to smoothen bilateral ties with Nepal after a bitter border row, especially by building on the traditionally strong military relationship between the two countries, officials familiar with developments said on Tuesday. Naravane will be in Nepal during November 4-6, when he will meet his Nepalese counterpart General Purna Chandra Thapa and top civilian leaders. Nepal’s President Vidya Devi Bhandari will confer the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army to Naravane at an investiture ceremony on November 6, the officials said. Bilateral ties were hit in May after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a key border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the row. Naravane’s visit is expected to lay the groundwork for much-anticipated talks between the two sides on the border issue, the officials said. “I am delighted to be visiting Nepal and to meet my counterpart General Purna Chandra Thapa. I am sure that this visit will go a long way in strengthening the bonds and friendships that the two armies cherish,” Naravane said on the eve of his Nepal visit. Also read: Gilgit-Baltistan - Pak plays the role of supplicant to Chinese expansionHe said he would be calling on the Nepali PM and it was a great honour for him to be conferred the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army by President Bhandari. Naravane’s visit comes days after Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel made a low-key visit to Kathmandu during which he met Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. The spokesperson of the Indian embassy in Kathmandu, Naveen Kumar, on Tuesday said that the army chief’s visit would deepen the long-standing and customary bonds of friendship between the two armies. “His visit will provide an opportunity for both sides to discuss the bilateral defence partnership and explore avenues to further strengthen it for mutual benefit,” the Indian embassy in Kathmandu tweeted. The officials said the army chief is expected to interact with Indian Army pensioners in Nepal during the visit - there are 136,000 pensioners in that country and form part of the strong links between the two sides. This will be Naravane’s second visit with a diplomatic purpose after his recent tour of Myanmar where he accompanied foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and was part of talks on security cooperation and developmental issues. India’s assistance to Myanmar currently stands at $1.4 billion, and New Delhi will provide debt service relief under the G20 debt service suspension initiative to Myanmar from May to December to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-off-to-nepal-visit-expected-to-ease-ties-after-border-row/story-PRuPUg7OXJpPqlaQWcRNWI.html
03-11-2020||India||Haryana: 68% turnout recorded in Baroda bypoll||Baroda in Haryana, where polling was held on Tuesday for the bypoll, recorded 68 per cent voter turnout, according to data from election authorities.The polling started at 7 am and concluded at 6 pm. It was held amid tight security and three companies of paramilitary forces were deployed to ensure peaceful polling.The seat had fallen vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda. In the 2019 assembly elections, the seat had recorded 69.43 per cent voting.The results will be announced on November 10.Fourteen candidates, including Olympian wrestler and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Yogeshwar Dutt, were in the fray for the Baroda assembly seat.Dutt is trying his luck for the second time as he contested against Congress’ Indu Raj Narwal.At the Baroda assembly seat, the election is being seen as the direct fight between Congress and BJP. Congress has won four times from Baroda in the past.A win in Baroda will take the BJP’s tally to 41 while if Congress wins, its tally will remain unchanged at 31 as the seat was held by Congress’ Hooda.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Baroda bypoll would change the direction of Haryana politics.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-68-turnout-recorded-in-baroda-bypoll/story-yQLb20nmWCSkeToqa7eQQK.html
03-11-2020||India||Gujarat: Amid decline in Covid-19 cases, demand for Remdesivir, oxygen falls||Amid fall in the new number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Gujarat, the Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) on Tuesday said the demand for oxygen and drugs like Remdesivir has fallen. Gujarat has been adding less than 1,000 cases in its daily Covid-19 tally since the last week. On Friday, 954 fresh cases and six more related deaths were logged which pushed the tally and death toll to 175,633 and 3,734 respectively, the state’s health department showed. The active cases have climbed to 12,451 while nearly 160,000 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far. According to news agency PTI, FDCA commissioner H G Koshiya said the demand for medical oxygen decreased to 135 tons per day in October compared to 240 tons per day in September. “Cases of coronavirus in the state are declining and the demand and consumption of medical oxygen, Remdesivir injections and Favipiravir tablets, which are useful in its treatment, has seen a big decline,” Koshiya added. Both Remdesivir and Favipiravir are being used to combat the disease. In September, 26 lakh Favipiravir tablets (200 mg) which were prescribed for mild cases were consumed. Their consumption further came down to four lakh in October. Also the consumption of this tablet at 400 mg declined to 2.8 lakh in October as compared to six lakh in September.Koshiya highlighted that the number of Remdesivir injections sold in the open market came down to around 83,000 in October from1.80 lakh in September and its use in government hospitals in the state also came down from 30,000 in October from 40,000 in September. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-amid-decline-in-covid-19-cases-demand-for-remdesivir-oxygen-falls/story-8TMs0lTQ44TNSE0EevXmdL.html
03-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 states, badly hit by Covid-19, show decline in infection, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.4 states, badly hit by Covid-19, show decline in infection, says govtThe Union health ministry on Tuesday said that four worst-hit states - which have recorded the highest caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covie-19) - have seen a drop in the infection rate. Read moreGilgit-Baltistan: Pakistan plays the role of supplicant to Chinese expansion | AnalysisPakistan prime minister Imran Khan was most worried about Chinese reaction when India announced abrogation of Article 370, which altered Jammu and Kashmir’s status in August last year. Read more‘India’s growth story intact despite Covid-19’: GovtThe government said on Tuesday that India’s growth story is intact despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs SRH: ‘Looks like I’m fit and fine,’ Rohit Sharma comments on his fitness as he returns for Mumbai IndiansThere has been a lot of talk about Rohit Sharma’s injury in the past week. India’s limited-overs vice-captain was left out of all the squads for Team India’s tour of Australia due to an injury and he missed the last four matches for Mumbai Indians as well. Read moreYou can get one year of Disney+Hotstar subscription free: Here’s howAdding to the list of free perks and offers that many telecom operators dole out to customers to keep them is an annual subscription to Disney+Hotstar from Airtel. Read moreDwayne Johnson shares video of young boy persevering at breaking karate board. Wholesome clip is viralDwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson often shares uplifting and motivational content on his social media handles. Read moreKarwa Chauth 2020 | Deepika Padukone, Kangana Ranaut, Anushka Sharma, Sara Ali Khan: These Bollywood divas are giving us out-of-the-box Karwa Chauth outfit inspirationKarwa Chauth is one of the most awaited Indian festivals for most married women in Hindu culture. Read moreMP bypolls explained: What’s at stake for Shivraj Chouhan & Kamal NathIn Madhyra Pradesh, 28 assembly seats are up for grabs and it’s a battle of prestige for CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, former CM Kamal Nath and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-states-badly-hit-by-covid-19-show-decline-in-infection-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-m6lKVOQ0q6uBmYVuvFgJ2O.html
03-11-2020||India||Gujarat Assembly by-poll ends, 57.98% turnout recorded||By-election to eight Assembly seats in Gujarat concluded on November 3. The polling ended at around 6 pm and 57.98% voter turnout was recorded, as per the early figures shared by election authorities.The eight seats where by-polls were held are Abdasa, Limdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada (ST), Karjan, Dangs (ST) and Kaprada (ST). The seats fell vacant after Congress MLAs representing them quit their respective parties before the Rajya Sabha elections in June.Five of those candidates joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and were fielded against Congress in today’s by-polls. These five candidates are Brijesh Merja (Morbi), Akshay Patel (Karjan), Jitu Chaudhary (Kaprada), Pradyumansinh Jadeja (Abdasa) and J V Kakadiya (Dhari).A total of 81 candidates were in the fray for eight seats which collectively had 18.75 lakh registered voters. As the voting was conducted amid the Covid-19 pandemic, election authorities had set up 3,024 polling booths, much more than usual.Disposable hand gloves and sanitisers were also provided to voters at the time of the polling.The counting of ballots will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-assembly-by-poll-ends-57-98-turnout-recorded/story-Ufouuf3jxT9H3dBBGMSzqN.html
03-11-2020||India||Delhi records 6,725 new cases of Covid-19, its highest single-day spike||National capital Delhi recorded 6,725 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, which took the total number of cases to 4,03,096, according to health bulletin issued by the state government. This is the highest-ever single-day spike in Delhi.The infection claimed 48 lives in Delhi, the bulletin further said.There are 36,375 active case in the national capital and 3,60,069 recoveries.The Union Health Ministry had on Tuesday said that Delhi, along with Kerala, West Bengal and Manipur, have shown a rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases between October 3 and November 3.Top officials from the Union and the Delhi governments met on Monday to discuss a recalibration of testing, treating and surveillance strategies amid the surge in number of cases.The meeting was attended by top bureaucrats from the Union home ministry, Union health ministry, Niti Aayog, the Delhi government, and Delhi Police where the officials reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. The central officials stressed on the need to make testing more pinpointed, and called new awareness campaigns targeted at people in the 20-40 age bracket at a time when people have started moving about more freely and “pandemic fatigue” has started to set in.Several indicators now reinforce the fact that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,269 cases on average every day. The peak seven-day average was at 4,174 at the height of the second wave on September 17 and 3,446 at the height of the first, which was on June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-6-725-new-cases-of-covid-19-its-highest-single-day-spike/story-x4d3d1jIdYNTdlev8D5JLO.html
03-11-2020||India||4 states, badly hit by Covid-19, show decline in infection, says govt||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that four worst-hit states - which have recorded the highest caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covie-19) - have seen a drop in the infection rate. These states are Maharashtra, Karnataka Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference where he shared the data from October 3 and November 4.He said that in the same period, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and Manipur recorded a worrying trend of increase in the number of Covid-19 infections.Bhushan said that the country still needs to save the gains secured in its fight against the pandemic.Around 80 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories, which include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, according to health ministry’s data. Out of this, Maharashtra has single-handedly contributed more than 10,000 recoveries in the last 24 hours, followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries.Officials from the government’s National Task Force and NITI Aayog were also present at the press conference with Bhushan. They cautioned against the virus’ susceptibility and asked people to get tested upon showing symptoms.“We are susceptible (to the virus) to a very large extent and the situation in America and Europe is showing (that). We don’t know the behaviour of the virus completely. So, we need to save the gains that we have earned in our fight against the pandemic till now,” said NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul, who also heads the National Task Force on Covid-19.Requesting people to follow basic Covid-19 protocols, Paul added, “In these times, even the smallest of symptoms, such as cold, cough and sore throat is Covid-19 unless proven otherwise. “It might be other flu too, but if we miss even one positive case, that may result in thousands of cases.”India’s Covid-19 tally reached 8.2 million on Tuesday after 38,310 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, in addition to 490 new fatalities which pushed the death toll to 1,23,097. The number of active cases in the country remained below six lakh for the fifth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-badly-hit-by-covid-19-show-decline-in-infection-says-govt/story-VworhjbuaZHmIBbGmEMggK.html
03-11-2020||India||‘Facilitate return of Indian workers, professionals’: Jaishankar tells Gulf states||India on Tuesday asked the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to facilitate the return of a large number of Indian workers and professionals who want to resume work amid the easing of Covid-19-related restrictions.External affairs minister S Jaishankar raised the issue during India’s annual political dialogue with the GCC troika, which was held virtually. Leaders from the two sides carried out a detailed review of ties and expressed satisfaction that India and the six GCC states had continued their close cooperation during the pandemic.Jaishankar “mentioned that a large number of Indian workers and professionals are now eager to return to the GCC countries to resume their work”, and “urged the GCC leadership to facilitate their return through sustainable travel bubble arrangements with India,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.More than eight million Indians live and work in West Asia, a majority of them within the region covered by the GCC, which includes Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Saudi Arabia has an Indian expatriate population of about 2.6 million, while UAE is home to some 3.4 million Indians.Also read: Gilgit-Baltistan - Pak plays the role of supplicant to Chinese expansionThousands of Indians had travelled back from these countries in the initial stages of the pandemic, some to visit their families and others following job losses. The GCC states are also among India’s key suppliers of energy, and annual remittances from Indians in these countries are worth an estimated $4.8 billion.Jaishankar also thanked the GCC states for taking care of the large Indian diaspora during the pandemic, and noted that India had taken “special care to ensure the return of Indian health professionals to GCC countries and for the supply of medicines and other essential items”.The GCC was represented at dialogue by GCC secretary-general Nayef Falah M Al-Hajraf, Bahrain’s foreign minister Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani, and the UAE’s minister of state for foreign affairs Anwar bin Mohammed Gargash. Senior representatives from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar also joined the meeting.Jaishankar informed the GCC leaders of the improving Covid-19-related situation in India, both in terms of healthcare and the economy, and hoped for the early return of normalcy in trade with the GCC. India had ensured that supply chains from New Delhi to the Gulf were not disrupted despite lockdowns during the pandemic, he said.He also informed the GCC leaders about India’s progress in Covid-19 vaccine development and in developing and manufacturing diagnostic and other equipment related to Covid-19. “Both sides reaffirmed that they will continue to work together to tackle the Covid-19 situation,” the statement said.The leaders also exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual concern. They agreed to strengthen the India-GCC partnership in political, economic and other domains. The GCC states welcomed India’s inclusion as a non-permanent member in the UN Security Council for 2021-22, and both sides agreed to work together to reform multilateral institutions to reflect the realities of the 21st century and to address challenges such as the pandemic, climate change, sustainable development and terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facilitate-return-of-indian-workers-professionals-jaishankar-tells-gulf-states/story-LV5NnNOZgTWOnfFZnaqvYK.html
03-11-2020||India||Odisha bypoll: Voter turnout at 70%, hundreds boycott over lack of development||A little more than 55 percent of the voters in the by-poll to Odisha’s Balasore Sadar and Tirtol assembly constituencies had cast their votes till 3 pm today even as hundreds of voters in both the constituencies boycotted the polls over lack of development.By 6 pm, 71 percent of the 2.3 lakh voters in Balasore Sadar of Balasore district and 69.9 percent of the 2.37 lakh voters in Tirtol assembly constituency had exercised their voting rights.across over 700 polling booths. The number of voters in each polling booth has been restricted to 1,000 to avoid crowding.In 2019 assembly polls, 70.88 percent of the voters in Balasore Sadar constituency had cast their votes while in Tirtol, it was 73 percent. However, the final voting figures are likely to cross last year’s numbers. Around 3,500 polling personnel, 800 ASHA workers and an equal number of volunteers have been engaged for poll duty.Also read: Voters’ woes in Bihar polls: Many find their names in dead persons’ listIn Jagatsinghpur district, an elderly woman collapsed on her way to a polling booth during Tirtol by-poll and later died at a hospital. Nagari Sethi of Redhua village was on her way to the polling station when she collapsed following which she was rescued by her family members and taken to the Redhua Community Health Centre for treatment. As the woman’s condition deteriorated, she was then shifted to the Jagatsinghpur District Headquarters Hospital, where doctors declared her dead.In Balasore district, police detained a former zilla parishad member of Mayurbhanj for allegedly distributing money among voters at a tribal area of Balasore town while voting for the by-poll was underway. The former ZP member from BJD was allegedly distributing cash among people along with her supporters when some villagers opposed it. The police later detained her.In Tirtol, voters of some villages in two panchayats under Tirtol block boycotted the by-poll alleging the government apathy towards local issues such as lack of all-weather roads. Voters of Hajinagar under ward no-19 did not cast their votes. People in four villages under Gopalpur grampanchayat of Tirtol block also refused to be part of the poll process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bypoll-voter-turnout-nears-70-hundreds-boycott-over-lack-of-development/story-1uv3BI0QbnwwjOTQeuVCIL.html
03-11-2020||India||Capt Amarinder Singh to lead dharna at Rajghat against farm laws after President declines meeting request||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will lead a “relay dharna” of Congress MLAs at Delhi’s Rajghat on Wednesday after President Ram Nath Kovind’s refusal to meet a delegation led by him over the Centre’s farm laws. Singh had sought an appointment with the President on Wednesday to seek assent to the bills recently passed by the state assembly in a bid to negate the Centre’s new farm laws. But Rashtrapati Bhavan has declined his request for appointment, the state government said on Tuesday. The CM on Tuesday said the protest in Delhi will highlight the situation in the state because of the suspension of goods trains by the Centre. The Railways has stopped running trains to Punjab, saying the farmers protesting against the farm laws are still blocking some tracks. But the state government maintains that they have eased the blockade and are allowing goods trains to run. Thermal power plants are shutting down in the state because of lack of coal, the Punjab government said. The CM said since section 144 of the CrPC – which prohibits assembly of people – is in force in the national capital, MLAs will go from Delhi’s Punjab Bhawan to Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘samadhi’ in groups of four to hold a relay protest. Singh will lead the first batch at 10.30 am. Apart from the MLAs from the ruling Congress, Singh has urged Punjab legislators from other parties to participate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capt-amarinder-singh-to-lead-dharna-at-rajghat-against-farm-laws-after-president-declines-meeting-request/story-tg0sNAHp4uI0JY8KGIIw2J.html
03-11-2020||India||Indian troops at LAC to get clothes for extreme cold weather from US||In a major boost to India’s preparedness to take on the Chinese on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indian Army has received the initial consignment of extreme cold weather clothing from the USA for its troops deployed on the China border. “An initial lot of extreme cold weather clothing from the American defence forces have been received and are being used by our troops there,” government sources told ANI here.The sources said that the Indian Army maintains a stock of 60,000 of these extreme cold weather clothing sets for troops deployed in entire Ladakh including both western fronts in Siachen and Eastern Ladakh sector.This year, there was an additional requirement of around 30,000 of these sets as close to 90,000 troops are deployed in the region in view of the aggression by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the LAC.The emergency acquisition of the extreme cold weather clothing will help the Indian Army troops to get through the harsh winters in the Ladakh sector.The Indian side has deployed two additional divisions on the LAC that have been brought to the sector from plains and a mountain division which has been training for high-altitude operations for many years now.India is getting a lot of equipment from America including a number of assault rifles for the special forces as well as the SiGSauer assault rifles for the infantry troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-troops-at-lac-to-get-clothes-for-extreme-cold-weather-from-us/story-rHezRl33J7soIV7sPRkeGK.html
03-11-2020||India||Some countries have still barred entry of Indians amid Covid-19, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Some countries have still not removed restrictions on the entry of Indian nationals and the central government is ready to fly passengers to these countries whenever they ease their limits, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday.Saudi Arabia is one such country that does not allow airlines to bring passengers from India currently amid the coronavirus pandemic.“We are operating international flights under VBM (Vande Bharat Mission) since May 6, 2020. However, some countries, including some in the Gulf region, have still not removed restrictions on the entry of Indian nationals,” Puri said on Twitter.“We are ready to fly passengers to these countries whenever they ease restrictions,” he added.On October 22, the minister had said that the average fares on special flights operating between Kerala and Bahrain are between Rs 30,000 and Rs 39,000 as the Gulf country allows only 750 passengers to come from India per week.Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.India started scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-countries-have-still-barred-entry-of-indians-amid-covid-19-says-hardeep-singh-puri/story-l2JsdJhNswwlGiPpa5EUJP.html
03-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate nears 92%: Health ministry||India’s rate of recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has improved to 92 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. Speaking about the milestone, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the country’s positivity rate is 7.4 per cent.India currently has 5,41,000 active cases and as many as 7,603,121 people have recovered from the viral disease so far.“Cases per million population are at 5,991. Covid-19 deaths are at 89 deaths per million population which is lower if compared globally,” said Bhushan.“Weekly positivity rate is at 4.4% while daily positivity rate is at 3.7%,” he added.India’s total caseload of the Covid-19 disease reached 8,267,623 on Tuesday after 38,310 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours. It was the lowest single-day tally since last Tuesday when the country reported more than 36,000 cases in a day.It was the lowest single-day count since mid-July. From a daily average of around 90,000, the number of cases has been falling steadily.“We have observed a declining trend for weekly new cases over the last 7 weeks. There’s a major fall in weekly new cases,” the health ministry also said. “Health care systems are not unnecessarily burdened with Covid-19 cases,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-nears-92-health-ministry/story-wZoxHE7apEzWaZ2GG9tZbP.html
03-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi finishes campaigning for third and final phase of Bihar polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar Assembly Election 2020: ‘Democracy rejects dynastic rule,’ says PM as he ends campaignPrime Minister Narendra Modi wrapped up the campaign for the third and final phase of the ongoing Bihar polls, which are slated to be held on November 7 (Saturday), on Tuesday. He once again targeted the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, who are part of the Grand Alliance (GA), or the mahagathbandhan, which also includes the Left parties, during the campaign and also tried to woo the women voters by thanking them for their continued support to him. Read moreDelhi riots case: Accused say they’re denied basic facilities, court calls for jail inspectionA Delhi court on Tuesday expressed displeasure with the city prison authorities after seven out of 15 accused in the conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots alleged that they were being denied basic facilities like warm clothes and slippers. Read moreGoa: Amid protests against railway line, minister says coal handling won’t be expandedAmid protests against the expansion of the railway line from Goa to Karnataka, state environment Nilesh Cabral said the government has no plans for expanding the coal handling capacity. Cabral admitted that while consultants had recommended the expansion of the capacity, those plans had been shelved. Read moreFresh Covid cases dip, but high number of critical patients worries Pune administrationThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday (November 1) reported 377 new Covid positives and 579 critical patients with 335 on oxygen support and 244 in ICU without ventilator. The high number of critical cases has left the concerned administration to appeal to doctors to focus on these patients to bring down the case fatality rate which continues to be over 2.6% as recorded on Sunday for the city. Read moreFrance to reinstate Paris evening curfew as Covid-19 worsensThe French government will reimpose an evening curfew on Paris, and possibly the Ile-de-France region around the capital, to tackle worsening Covid-19 figures, government spokesman Gabriel Attal said on Tuesday. The evening curfew on Paris, which would start at 9 pm, would come on top of a new, national lockdown imposed last week by President Emmanuel Macron, Attal said. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘We know how funny this game is,’ Ajinkya Rahane reveals what Ricky Ponting had said to him before the seasonDelhi Capitals were in spot of bother on Monday as they needed to win to seal their position in the Indian Premier League 2020 playoffs. They had lost their last four and the batsmen were struggling to get going. In their run-chase of 153, DC lost Prithvi Shaw early and it looked like things could go downhill for the team. But DC had put their faith in the experience of Ajinkya Rahane. Read moreKajal Aggarwal drops more unseen pics from pre-wedding festivities. See hereKajal Aggarwal is now married to Gautam Kitchlu who even introduced her as Mrs Kitchlu on Instagram after their dream wedding on October 30. Kajal has now been updating her fans with all the pre-wedding festivities like satsang and gaur pooja that preceded the highly guarded wedding at The Taj Mahal Palace hotel in Mumbai. Read moreKarwa Chauth 2020: Significance, Date and Muhurat TimeKarwa Chauth 2020, is a popular Hindu festival celebrated predominantly in Northern India, and this year the festival will be celebrated across the country on November 4. The festival is a celebration of marriage, during which the wife fasts for the day as prayer for a healthy and long life for her husband. Read moreUS election 2020: Wondering why paneer tikka is trending on Twitter? Here’s the reasonAmid US Elections 2020, tons of things are trending on Twitter. If you’ve been on the micro-blogging platform recently, you may have noticed paneer tikka is among them too. In case you’re wondering why, it’s thanks to a tweet by Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. Read moreMercedes launches ‘Made-in-India’ AMG GLC 43 Coupe at ₹76.70 lakhMercedes-Benz on Tuesday officially brought AMG closer home to India by launching its first locally-assembled peformance sports car - AMG GLC 43 Coupe - at ₹76.70 lakh (ex showroom). This marks the start of local assembly of AMG products from Mercedes at its Chakan plant near Pune. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-finishes-campaigning-for-third-and-final-phase-of-bihar-polls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CEjQO7Y1guDzkYDu5CmmuL.html
03-11-2020||India||Odisha’s anti-cannabis ops to go high-tech with satellite imagery and AI||Even as cannabis seizure in Odisha touches a record high with police alone seizing more than 1,100 quintal this year, the state government is now planning to use high-resolution satellite imagery and artificial intelligence to auto detect the massive cannabis plantation for destruction. On Saturday, Odisha police seized a record 13 quintals of ganja worth Rs 2 crore from two different places in Koraput district. The seizure made from an under-construction house at Hanumal village under the Machakund police station and a mini truck at Debata Chhak under the Padua police station of Koraput was the highest ever single-day catch. Other agencies like the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), state excise as well as Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have also tasted success this year. Cannabis means the flowering or fruiting tops of the cannabis plant (excluding the seeds and leaves when not accompanied by the tops) as well as charas, whether crude or purified, obtained from the cannabis plant and also includes concentrated preparation and resin known as hashish oil or liquid hashish. On average, 1,500 hemp plants can be grown in an acre. Upon harvesting, each hemp plant produces at least 500 gm of ganja. Locally, the ganja is sold at about 2,000 per kg. Odisha is one of the leading cannabis producing states in India. Now flush with success of rising seizures, Odisha is planning to use remote-sensing technology, machine-learning algorithm and artificial intelligence to destroy large swathes of cannabis plantations in Malkangiri, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Kandhamal, Boudh, Rayagada, Gajapati, Angul and Nayagarh districts. Though more than four crore hemp plants, whose value is estimated at approximately Rs 34,000 crore, have been destroyed in the past five years, the plantation is still widespread in those districts. “In the initial phase, the excise and police department officials will create a master record for all the cannabis plantation sites in Odisha by geo-tagging and geo-fencing. Based on those parameters, machine learning algorithms will be trained to identify cannabis plantations from high-resolution satellite imagery. Satellite images will be processed for radiometric, atmospheric, and geometric rectification, and will be used for the classification of cannabis,” said excise commissioner Anjan Kumar Manik. As cannabis plantation activities start from October onwards, officials said high spatial and temporal resolution satellite images and advanced algorithms for image processing and spatial modelling would be able to produce reliable geographic information for law enforcement agencies. Officials said use of high-resolution satellite imageries at regular intervals and machine learning algorithms would auto detect the cannabis plantation and help raise alerts for the authorities through a mobile application. The satellite data would help the authorities view the map of the whole state and administrative boundaries, marked with illegal plantation sites. Apart from using satellite imagery, the government is also planning to start a citizen reporting module in which people can take the images and videos of any illegal plantation and report through the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-anti-cannabis-ops-to-go-high-tech-with-satellite-imagery-and-ai/story-rjuaOKjV7w40Z8nA1p0jPK.html
03-11-2020||India||Odisha bypolls: 41.36% voter turnout in Balasore, 39.68 in Tirtol||The voter turnout till 1 pm was recorded at 41.36 percent in Balasore and 39.68 percent in Tirtol bypoll on Tuesday. The elections are being held in adherence with Covid-19 protocols.The voting for by-elections in the Balasore Sadar assembly constituency was conducted at FM College, Motiganj, Radhakrishna Hindi High School, and Bateswar.A triangular contest is being witnessed in these bypolls as Congress candidate Mamata Kundu, BJP candidate Manasa Kumar Dutta and Biju Janata Dal’s Swarup Das are contesting from here.Inside the polling booth, voters were sanitised, free masks and hand gloves were distributed and social distancing norms were adhered to as per the Covid-19 protocols. “There is good support from the government to assist the voters amid the pandemic. Proper arrangements for social distancing and sanitisation available at the booth,” Anil Surya, a voter, told ANI.Another bye-election for the Tirtol assembly constituency is being held in the Jagatsinghpur district of Odhisa today. The voter turnout reached 26.24 percent at 12 noon in Odisha. Voting began for the bye-election on 54 Assembly seats spread across 10 states on Tuesday.28 seats in Madhya Pradesh, 8 in Gujarat, 7 in Uttar Pradesh, 2 each in Odisha, Nagaland, Karnataka, and Jharkhand, and one seat each in Chhattisgarh, Telangana, and Haryana going to polls today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bypolls-41-36-voter-turnout-in-balasore-39-68-in-tirtol/story-AjT44M8iZJXztIJYhQrP1K.html
03-11-2020||India||Oil gains on weaker dollar after OPEC+ edges toward taper delay||Oil gained, following a broader risk-on sentiment in markets and as OPEC+ inches closer to delaying a planned easing of output cuts.Futures in New York rallied near $38 a barrel after rising 2.9% in the previous session. Equities were rallying ahead of the US election, while the dollar lost almost 0.5%, adding to positive sentiment in crude.On Monday, Energy Minister Alexander Novak met with Russian producers to discuss delaying an easing of production cuts by three months. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies have been dropping hints for weeks that its plan to add almost 2 million barrels a day of supply from January is being reconsidered as demand falters.The rest of the week promises to be as turbulent as the start with Americans heading to the polls on Tuesday for an election that could reshape US policy on everything from fiscal stimulus to Iran and fracking. China, meanwhile, remains the bright spot for global demand, with authorities raising the quota for use of overseas oil by non-state entities next year by more than 20%.“All eyes will be on the US election today and tomorrow,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at SEB AB. “It would definitely be a relief for the market if it did not have to worry about an additional 1.9 million barrels a day of supply coming into the market at the start of January,” Schieldrop said of OPEC+’s plans to delay its output hike.The rise in the Chinese import quota, which is equivalent to about 823,000 barrels a day, is largely due to refining capacity expansions by Zhejiang Petrochemical and Shenghong Petrochemical Group. Chinese oil buying has picked up in recent weeks with traders hoarding cargoes of everything from Russian to Angolan crude in preparation for the new quota.Even as OPEC and its allies look likely to delay adding more output, some members -- including Iraq and Nigeria -- are seemingly undermining the group’s efforts to shore up oil markets. Production from OPEC jumped by 470,000 barrels a day in October to 24.74 million a day, according to a Bloomberg survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-gains-on-weaker-dollar-after-opec-edges-toward-taper-delay/story-cZzamy7oF9PSDDhxqxzgYI.html
03-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister asked to appear before Mumbai Police on Nov 10||Mumbai Police have issued a second notice to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel summoning the sisters to be present before it on November 10 in connection with a case filed against them for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks, a report by ANI said. On October 21, the Bandra Police had summoned the sisters on October 26 and 27 to record their statements.“We have issued notices to Ranaut and her sister, asking them to appear before the police in connection with the FIR registered against them. They have been asked to remain present on Monday and Tuesday,” an official said, according to ANI. But Ranaut’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee sent a reply to the police station stating that the sisters are in Himachal Pradesh and are busy with the wedding preparations of their younger brother in their hometown and sought time till November 15 to appear before the court.Read more: Sonu Sood gives a piece of advice to man who wants Shah Rukh Khan-style birthday celebrationBombay High Court had ordered that Ranaut and Chandel must be booked after Bandra metropolitan magistrate JY Ghule took cognizance of the complaint registered by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, Munawwarali Sahil Sayyed. In his complaint, Sayyed referred to social media posts made by Kangana Ranaut and her sister and accused them of posting “very objectionable” comments that have hurt not only his religious sentiments but are also very hurtful to other artists in Bollywood.He said that Kangana and her sister have been defaming Bollywood for the last two months by calling it a “hub of nepotism”, “favouritism”, etc, through her tweets and television interviews. The complainant also accused the sisters of spreading communal hatred, using offensive language and making derogatory comments about Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in their tweets and interviews.The first information report (FIR) against Kangana and her sister was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 295A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-asked-to-appear-before-mumbai-police-on-nov-10/story-OEoAuYW8qKcc2f3ffKXl0N.html
03-11-2020||India||Hyderabadi businessman stabbed to death in Georgia in US, three arrested||A 37-year-old man from Hyderabad was stabbed to death outside his house in Thomaston city of Georgia in the US late on Saturday night (at around 10 am on Sunday morning in India), his family members said. Mohammed Arif Mohiuddin, a native of Chanchalguda in the old city of Hyderabad, who was running a grocery shop, was stabbed by unknown attackers when he opened the door of his house. His family in Hyderabad was informed of the murder on Monday. Mohiuddin is survived by his wife Mehnaaz Fatima and a 10-month old baby. He had been in Georgia for the last 10 years and had last visited Hyderabad in January to see his new-born.According to his family members, CCTV footage showed that Mohiuddin was assaulted by four miscreants.“Initially, we suspected the hand of his business partners with whom Mohiuddin had some differences. Later, we came to know that the killers had nothing to do with him. They might have killed him for money,” said a close relative of Fatima.She said the family had received information on Monday night that the police had arrested three men while the fourth suspect was still absconding. “We are yet to get further details about the accused and their motive,” the relative said. Fatima said her husband had spoken to her around 9 am on Sunday (Saturday night in the US) and said he would call back after half an hour on reaching home. But I did not get the call even after two hours,” she said. Later, Fatima called up his sister-in-law and other friends in Georgia, who in turn enquired with the locals and found out that Mohiuddin was murdered. “They told me that the police had shifted his body to a nearby hospital,” she said. Fatima wrote to Union external affairs minister Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar requesting him to arrange an emergency visa for her and her father-in-law Khaja Moizuddin to fly to the US to attend the last rites of her husband. She also urged her to ask the Indian embassy in Washington and the Indian consulate in Atlanta to inquire into his murder. Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) party spokesperson Amjadullah Khan said he had also requested the external affairs ministry for help to the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabadi-businessman-stabbed-to-death-in-georgia-in-us-three-arrested/story-7BflaCDNEBFcSywwj3PtPK.html
03-11-2020||India||J&K: Peoples’ Democratic Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to visit Jammu on November 7||A delegation of the Peoples’ Democratic Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which was formed last month to fight for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, will visit the erstwhile state’s Jammu region over the weekend amid anger over notification of rules to allow outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in the Union Territory. The status under Constitution’s Articles 370 and 35A, which was scrapped last year, prevented outsiders from buying land in the region.Former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti; Sajjad Lone and Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami will be part of the delegation. “The PAGD leadership will visit Jammu on November 7 and meet leaders of the Jammu province and the prominent people to know the ground realities,” said a leader of Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party.Also read | All of us have united to restore special status of Jammu and Kashmir: Omar Abdullah in LadakhAnother leader said the delegation could also visit some other districts of the Jammu province. “Once the first meeting is held in Jammu, the leadership will decide about the further programme.”A delegation of PAGD on Friday visited Drass and Kargil in Ladakh under former chief minister Omar Abdullah’s leadership and vowed to fight for the restoration of the special status and Jammu & Kashmir’s unification.The PAGD also plans to hold its first convention in Srinagar this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-peoples-democratic-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-to-visit-jammu-on-november-7/story-CGWvrE8n0DpVPD7OSBYs3K.html
03-11-2020||India||Bengal keen to run galloping local trains at half capacity under Covid SOPs||The West Bengal government may allow galloping local trains with only half the passengers top state government officials have confirmed after a meeting with railway authorities on Monday. The railway authorities have been asked to come up with a detailed calendar on running of local trains. A final decision would be taken in a meeting between state government officials and railway officials on November 5. “We have to follow Covid-19 protocol. But we also need to consider and accommodate the public interest. We would plan and come up with a detailed calendar on how, when and on which routes trains may run on galloping mode,” said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, chief secretary of West Bengal A galloping local train does not stop at all stations on the route and the strategy could be used to ensure that the number of passengers can be controlled in line with Covid SOPs.Under Covid protocol only 600 passengers would be allowed in one local train which has a seating capacity of 1,200 passengers. Local trains are the lifelines connecting the cities of Kolkata and Howrah with towns and villages of adjoining districts. More than two million passengers use the two stations – Howrah and Sealdah - every day that receive both express trains and local trains. There have been protests at various railway stations on the outskirts of Kolkata and in other districts to allow passengers to board special trains that are being operated only for railway staff. While people blocked railway tracks on a level crossing near the Grand Trunk Road at Baidyabati in Hooghly on Monday, protests also raged in other stations as well. On Saturday the security forces had allegedly lathi charged passengers who tried to forcefully enter the Howrah station to board special trains for railway staff. “We may start with 10%–15% and then take it up 25% soon,” said a senior railway official present at Monday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-keen-to-run-galloping-local-trains-at-half-capacity-under-covid-sops/story-5cDga47eg0jxACiojYXgnO.html
03-11-2020||India||Cong complains to EC after history sheeter enters polling booth in Haryana’s Baroda||The Congress on Tuesday filed a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) against a history sheeter who allegedly entered a polling booth at Madina village during the bypoll in the Baroda constituency of Sonepat district.In his complaint, Mukesh Kumar, election agent of Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal, said Ramesh Lohar was trying to influence voters by visiting booth number 176 at Madina Village.“He is not a voter nor an authorised person. The BJP is trying to capture the booth. We have filed a complaint with he Election Commission of India to register an FIR against him,” he said. Indu Raj Narwal said that Lohar has beenmtaking rounds of various booth in the constituency accompanied by former Haryana minister Manish Grover.“ Both of them are unauthorised persons and they cannot enter the polling booths. We will file a complaint against Grover too with the Election Commission,” he said. Last week, Lohar accompanied BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt during campaigning at Mirzapur Kheri village, nearly 15 km from Gohana.Lohar was with Dutt, wrestler-turned BJP leader Babita Phogat and six others in an open jeep while canvassing.Dutt had said he had no idea when Lohar boarded his jeep and denied any links with him. “This can be a conspiracy of the Congress to send that man to board my open jeep to tarnish my image,” he had said.In 2019, Lohar and Haryana’s former minister of state for cooperatives Manish Grover were booked by the Shivaji Nagar police station in Rohtak for alleged booth capturing at a polling station during the general elections. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written a letter to the chief election commissioner seeking appropriate action against the duo for allegedly intimidating voters in Rohtak.The police had seized 15 rounds of .32 calibre ammunition, sticks and registration number plates of vehicles from Lohar’s SUV during checking outside the booth after which he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-complains-to-ec-after-history-sheeter-enters-polling-booth-in-haryana-s-baroda/story-dazl4te4SoimNRFWc1QBrN.html
03-11-2020||India||Odisha tribal man who spent 20 years in Pakistani jail set to return home||A tribal man from Odisha who had wandered off the border into Pakistan two decades ago will be returning home this month after spending 20 years in a jail in Lahore.Forty-five-year-old Birju Kulu of Jangatoli village of Sundargarh district had gone missing from his home almost 24 years ago under mysterious circumstances. He was said to be mentally unstable and was then working in a hotel in Ranchi. However, the family did not file any missing persons report with local police and did not pursue the matter.“No one knows for sure how he reached Pakistan. But he seems to have somehow reached Amritsar and from there wandered off the border. He was caught by Pakistan authorities and treated as a prisoner of war. The family did not have any inkling of him till he was handed over to Indian authorities at the border on October 26 as per the usual practice of handing over of such prisoners who are not involved in any criminal activities,” said Sundargarh’s superintendent of police Sagarika Nath.Nath said she received a call last week from the ministry of external affairs about Kulu’s release from a jail in Lahore and was asked to get his family address checked as he had given his Sundargarh address to Pakistani authorities. The Sundargarh police then enquired about Kulu and informed the family that he had “inadvertently” crossed into Pakistan and spent 20 years in Lahore jail on suspicion of being a spy.Officials said his family had given up all hope of seeing him again. “His parents have died in the meanwhile. Only his sister and uncles are alive. His elder sister was very happy when the district administration officials informed her about Birju’s whereabouts,” said Biswajit Mohapatra, additional district magistrate of Sundargarh. Kulu’s sister spoke with her brother over a video call. Mohapatra said Kulu is now undergoing treatment at a hospital in Amritsar after testing positive for Covid-19. “Once he is discharged from the hospital, we would make arrangements to bring him back to his village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-man-who-spent-20-years-in-pakistani-jail-set-to-return-home/story-zryZp8XSSgPHiNWkqevJlM.html
03-11-2020||India||Those who brought jungle raj in Bihar, don’t want you to say ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ or ‘Jai Shri Ram’: PM Modi says in Saharsa||Proponents of ‘jungle raj’ in Bihar do not want the people of the state to chant ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ or ‘Jai Shri Ram’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday as he addressed an election rally in Saharsa, which will vote in third and final phase of the assembly elections on November 7. In the second address of the day, PM Modi urged voters to reject the ‘jungle raj’ or lawlessness brought about by the opposition. “There is a group of people that doesn’t want you to say ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ or ‘Jai Shri Ram.’ All of them have now come together and asking for votes from the people of Bihar. There’s a need to give a befitting answer to such people in during the Bihar elections,” PM Modi said in Saharsa.Prime Minister Modi also asserted that Bihar will vote the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to power once again, as polling in the second phase of the Bihar assembly elections was underway in the eastern state. The Prime Minister said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led NDA is committed to a government which will work for its development and for the poor in the state as he addressed a public meeting in Saharsa.Also read | ‘Modi wins because he cares for India’s mothers, daughters’: PM at Forbesganj rally“The people of Bihar have decided to form the NDA government,” he said as began the address by urging people to chant Bharat Mata ki Jai and said a few lines in Maithili. “Every citizen of Bihar is well aware of the betrayal by the jungle raj against the capability of Bihar. Those who repeatedly chanted the name of the poor kept the poor away from elections. The poor of Bihar did not have the right to form a government of their own,” he said.Click here for full Bihar assembly elections 2020 coverageThe people of Bihar, the Prime Minister said, are committed to Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) and Aatmanirbhar Bihar. “Over the years, the foundation of Bihar has been laid which has been inspired by a new emerging, self-reliant and glorious past. Now is the time to build a grand and modern Bihar on this strong foundation,” he said. “In the past decade, the NDA government under the leadership of Nitishji has laid a strong foundation for self-reliant Bihar. Basic facilities like electricity, water and roads have reached from village to village in Bihar today. Today, Bihar is one of the states where electricity consumption is the highest,” he added.The Prime Minister listed the schemes and projects started by his government, including Jan Dhan Yojana and the Mudra Yojana, as he urged people to vote for the NDA. “Due to the Jan Dhan Yojana, hundreds of crores of rupees have been deposited directly into the bank accounts of millions of sisters of Bihar during this crisis in Corona. This is the Jan Dhan Yojana, due to which, even during the Corona period, direct help has reached the bank account of millions of farmer families of Bihar,” he said.Earlier in the day, PM Modi said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had spent the last decade meeting the people’s needs and was now focused on taking care of their aspirations. He also dismissed suggestions of anti-incumbency against the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar while addressing a rally in Forbesganj, a north Bihar town in Araria district.“The last decade was spent in fulfilling avashyaktaaein (needs). The current one shall be devoted to meeting the aakankshaaein (aspirations),” he said. “We succeeded in bringing gas cylinders to every household. Now we shall be graduating to gas pipelines. In the decade that went by, we built roads, now we are building airports and giving a facelift to the existing ones,” he added.Modi also asserted that trends of the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections and the second that was underway suggested that voters of the state had rejected “double yuvraaj”, an expression he has coined for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD’s) Tejashwi Yadav. “In Bihar, rangbaazi (rowdyism) and rangdaari (extortion) are losing and vikas (development) and kanoon kaa raaj (rule of law) is winning, parivarvad (dynasty rule) is being defeated by jantantra (democracy),” he asserted.Training his guns at the Congress, Modi accused the opposition party of having always made false promises of poverty eradication, farm loan waiver and one rank-one pension for retired servicemen. “This is the reason why the party is now left with less than 100 MPs in both Houses of Parliament combined. In states like UP and Bihar they have been relegated to the third, fourth or fifth position and are piggybacking other parties for survival,” he added.The Prime Minister also praised people for the impressive voter turnout in the first phase of elections and the second phase so far despite the coronavirus pandemic. “It is an occasion for the world, all the think tanks across the world, to take note and understand the deep roots of democracy in India”. He also praised the Election Commission and poll officials for conducting the mammoth exercise amid the crisis.Millions of people are voting in the second phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020 which is underway in 94 constituencies. In phase 1, held on October 28, 71 constituencies went to vote. The third and final phase of voting will be held November 7 and votes will be counted on November 10.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-for-a-modern-bihar-says-pm-modi-at-saharsa/story-ffTAGzKYMGqmrggIg6EjvI.html
03-11-2020||India||Gap between India’s recovered, active Covid-19 cases crosses 7 million: Govt||The government said on Tuesday the gap between the active and recovered cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed the 7 million mark even as the country’s caseload surged to 8.26 million. The active cases of Covid-19 fell below 550,000 on Tuesday morning and the number of recoveries rose to 7,603,121, the Union health ministry said.Also Read | India reports another low in daily Covid-19 cases in months at 38,310; recoveries over 7.6 million“India’s active cases have fallen under 5.5 lakhs today whereas total recovered cases have crossed 76 lakhs. The gap between active cases and recovered cases has crossed 70 lakh today,” the ministry shared on its official Twitter handle. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s Active Cases have fallen under 5.5 lakhs today whereas Total recovered cases have crossed 76 lakhs (76,03,121). The gap between active cases and recovered cases has crossed 70 lakh today. pic.twitter.com/ISFplHdzeCThe ministry also shared a graph showing the progression of the gap between recovered and active cases per day, from October 20 to November 3. The graph shows the gap rising progressively from 5,984,790 (6,733,328 recovered and 748,538 active cases) on October 20 to 7,061,716 (7,603,121 recovered and 541,405 active cases) on November 3.In the last 24 hours, India logged 58,323 recoveries, while the number of active cases fell to 541,405 from 561,908 on Monday, according to data released by the Union health ministry on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, India’s total caseload of the Covid-19 disease reached 8,267,623 after 38,310 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, the lowest single-day tally since last Tuesday. In fact, the 36,470 cases India reported on October 27, were its lowest single-day count since mid-July.Also Read | What you need to know about Covid-19 todayAlso, with 490 fresh fatalities, the death toll rose to 123,097. Recovered cases, active cases and deaths contribute 91.96%, 6.55% and 1.49% respectively of India’s total number of Covid-19 cases.While India continues to be the second worst-hit country in the world after the United States and ahead of Brazil, it also has the highest number of recovered cases globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-between-india-s-recovered-active-covid-19-cases-crosses-7-million-govt/story-scxPi1L5FcWY8CNvgrwgOL.html
03-11-2020||India||Bengaluru police arrest 10 drug peddlers, seize narcotics worth Rs 90 lakh||The Bengaluru police have arrested 10 people including a Nigerian national and seized drugs worth Rs 90 lakhs from them. The drug peddlers allegedly were procuring the narcotic from the dark net.Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said Monday that the accused used Tor Browser - which sends data encrypted - to browse the dark web and brought drugs online using bitcoins. The drugs were being shipped to the country through India Post as gift and festive packets to avoid suspicion.The police claimed that the drugs were later sold in the city primarily to college students and technology industry professionals. The seized narcotics include 660 LSD papers, 386 MDMA, 180 tablets of ecstasy, 12 grams of crystal MDMA and 10 grams of cocaine. Bengaluru police said that they conducted raids across the city including Indiranagar, HAL, HSR Layout and various other places after a tip off from the Customs department.The arrested include Zaman Anjameen, Mohammed Ali, Amal Baiju, Phoenix D Souza, Sarthak, Nitin, Karthik Gowda, S Sahzi, Venkat Varun and a Nigerian national Sanni O. Cases have been registered against them in eight different police stations across the city under whose jurisdiction they were arrested. All of them have been charged under various sections of NDPS act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-arrest-10-drug-peddlers-seize-narcotics-worth-rs-90-lakh/story-K7ttaUVwI9vwtUEvSbLPoM.html
03-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Madhya Pradesh mulls law against interfaith marriages and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After UP, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh mulls law against interfaith marriagesMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that a law would be enacted to curb interfaith marriages, if required. The CM made the remark on the eve of MP assembly bypolls in reply to questions from media persons on Monday evening. Read more‘Big void in the world of music’: PM Modi, vice president condole violin maestro TN Krishnan’s deathPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the demise of violin maestro and Padma awardee TN Krishnan and conveyed condolences to his family, noting that his demise left a “big void in the world of music.” Krishnan passed away in Chennai at the age of 92 on Monday. Read moreWhite House fenced up, Trump warns of violence as America votesPresident Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden wrapped up their campaigns on Monday as a ring of unscalable fence went up around the White House in Washington DC in anticipation of unrest on election night in a grim reminder of a country on edge.Read more‘That will be the policy’: MS Dhoni reveals CSK’s strategy for next IPLChennai Super Kings did not have the best of seasons in the Indian Premier League in 2020. The perennial title contenders were the first team to get eliminated from the playoffs race. Read moreGlobal sales in October rise for Kia, Sonet in India bolsters prospectsIndia is fast becoming a key focus area for Kia Motors Corporation with the company expecting the rapidly expanding SUV line-up here to power its path ahead. Globally, Kia sold 265,714 units in October, a 6.1% increase compared to the same month last year. Read more‘We never thought we’d be saying this’: Burger King urges customers to order from McDonald’sPopular burger chain Burger King tweeted a message urging customers to “order from McDonald’s” and other fast food chains as well during the current situation. Read more‘Pakistan took advantage of pandemic to push cross-border terror’: India at UNIndia lashed out at Pakistan over cross-border terrorism and other issues at the United Nations. ‘While world has come to a standstill due to COVID, Pakistan has enhanced support to cross border terrorism taking advantage of it,” first secretary of India’s permanent mission at UN, Ashish Sharma said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-madhya-pradesh-mulls-law-against-interfaith-marriages-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Euuy5Bpw8RmdKnCcYgFaaM.html
03-11-2020||India||Rajiv Agarwal challenges Centre’s decision against him in the 2G spectrum allocation case||Kusegaon Fruits and Vegetable director Rajiv Agarwal, who had been acquitted in the 2G spectrum allocation case, on Monday, urged the Delhi High Court to issue a direction to the Centre to bring on record the documents containing the process to be followed before taking a decision to file an appeal.Arguing for Rajiv Agarwal, his advocate Vijay Aggarwal told Justice Brijesh Sethi that it is important to see whether the action of the executive is within the parameters of the law and that the decision passes the test of reasonableness. If the administrative order is irrational or has been arrived at within taking into consideration relevant factors or suffers from procedural irregularities or if the same is based on distorted or illogical grounds, the counsel argued.Advocate Aggarwal relied upon Wednesbury’s principle, which lays down that the decision-making process is susceptible to challenge in a Writ Jurisdiction, in case the same suffers from arbitrariness or procedural irregularities.Rajiv Agarwal has challenged the process of decision-making in passing order by the central government giving approval to the agency to file an appeal against the acquittal of the accused. The court will hear the matter today as another acquitted individual, former telecom secretary Siddharth Behura will make his submission on Tuesday.The High Court is currently dealing with CBI appeal challenging the acquittal of all accused including Raja in the 2G spectrum allocation case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-agarwal-challenges-centre-s-decision-against-him-in-the-2g-spectrum-allocation-case/story-jv24zTqh8phABNvJpgO4RK.html
03-11-2020||India||BJP MLA seeks police action against Amitabh over KBC question||A BJP MLA in Maharashtra on Tuesday approached police seeking action against megastar Amitabh Bachchan and makers of TV show ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati 12’ for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments.Abhimanyu Pawar, BJP legislator from Ausa in Latur district, in a complaint to Latur SP Nikhil Pingle said action should be taken against Bachchan and Sony Entertainment Television over a question asked during Friday’s Karamveer special episode.“There was an attempt to insult Hindus and create discord between Hindus and Buddhists who have been living in harmony,” Pawar tweeted, posting a copy of his two-page letter to the police official. The episode had social activist Bezwada Wilson and actor Anup Soni in the hot seat opposite Bachchan, who asked the folliwng question, worth Rs 6.40 lakh: On 25th December 1927, Dr B R Ambedkar and his followers burned copies of which scripture? The options were: (A) Vishnu Purana (B) Bhagavad Gita, (C) Rigved and (D) Manusmriti.Bachchan then said, “In 1927, Ambedkar condemned the ancient Hindu text Manusmriti to ideologically justify caste discrimination and untouchability and burned its copies.” “All the four options pertained to Hindu religion. It is clear that the motive behind this question was to hurt the sentiments of Hindus,” Pawar said in his police complaint.“This question spreads the message that Hindu religious scriptures are meant for burning and triggers enmity between Hindus and followers of Buddhism,” said Pawar, who was a close aide of Devendra Fadnavis while he was Maharashtra chief minister.The KBC episode question annoyed some netizens who accused the show of running a “leftist propaganda”, while others said it hurt Hindu sentiments. Filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri shared a clip from the show on micro-blogging site Twitter, claiming KBC was “hijacked by Commies”. “Innocent kids, learn this is how culture wars are won. Its called coding,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-seeks-police-action-against-amitabh-over-kbc-question/story-NMMlxdwCKig39zl4S3KkGO.html
03-11-2020||India||Polling turnout begins to rise in Marwahi assembly bypoll in Chhattisgarh||The bypoll for the Marwahi assembly bypoll in Chhattisgarh recorded 21.52% polling till 11 am, an official said Tuesday. Polling is being held amid the tight security and Covid-19 protocol. Officials said that all the protocols of Covid-19 were in place in all 286 booths of the constituency and Covid-19-infected voters can cast their votes in the last one hour of polling. Marwahi is a reserved seat for scheduled tribes. There is a direct fight between Congress and the BJP in the bypoll that was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi passed away in May this year. The constituency has been the bastion of Jogi for last two decades but this is the first time in last 20 years when the Jogis are not in the fray because Amit Jogi’s nomination was rejected. Jogi’s nomination was rejected following a high-power committee’s report which found that he was not a tribal. The nomination papers of Jogi’s wife Richa Jogi, who had filed nomination for the same seat, were also cancelled by the district collector on the same ground A total of 1,91,004 voters, comprising 93,725 males, 97,265 females and four from the third gender, are eligible to vote in the constituency. As many as 286 polling stations have been set up, of which 126 have been categorised as sensitive. Around 1,400 security personnel have been deployed for the bypoll, results of which will be announced on November 10. The main fight is between Congress nominee K K Dhruw, a former medical officer from the area, and BJP’s Gambheer Singh, a former professor at the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Medical College, Raipur. In the 2018 Assembly polls, Ajit Jogi had polled 74,041 votes in Marwahi, beating the BJP’s Archana Porte by a margin of 46,462 votes, with the Congress coming third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-turnout-begins-to-rise-in-marwahi-assembly-bypoll-in-chhattisgarh/story-lOrbvP6r4PAnnQnr78GYmO.html
03-11-2020||India||Counting underway for Jaipur municipal election 2020||Counting of votes of the elections held in two phases in the six municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota in Rajasthan is underway on Tuesday. A total of 2,238 candidates are in the fray for the 560 wards of the six newly-formed municipal corporations of Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. An Election Commission spokesperson said the counting of votes started from 9 am and the process was underway. A total of 60.42 per cent voters had cast their votes in Jaipur Heritage, Kota North and Jodhpur North in the first phase last Thursday to elect ward councilors of these corporations. In the second phase, 59.96 per cent voters had cast their votes in Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South Municipal Corporation on Sunday. According to the spokesperson, notification for the post of mayor of these corporations will be released on Wednesday. The last date for submission of nomination papers is Thursday. They will be scrutinised the next day, they will be able to withdraw their names on Saturday. Voting for the mayor will be held from 10 am to 2 pm next Tuesday, while the counting of votes will take place immediately after the end of the voting. Similarly, the election for the deputy mayor will take place next Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-underway-for-jaipur-municipal-election-2020/story-1qnCqZo0uBw0p76tpV5LeJ.html
03-11-2020||India||Jharkhand by-elections: 30% polling in state till 11am||Voters came out in big numbers to exercise their franchise on Tuesday morning for Jharkhand assembly’s bypolls for Dumka and Bermo constituencies and were unfazed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The voting for the assembly bypolls, like the rest of the country, started at 7 am on Tuesday. Election Commission of India’s (ECI) data showed that 32.62% and 28.55% of the electorates had cast their votes till 11 am in Dumka and Bermo constituencies, respectively.Bermo and Dumka had recorded 60.91% and 66.89% of polling, respectively, in last year’s Jharkhand assembly polls.Also read | Heavy security, social distancing as voting underway in 28 assembly seats in MPThe ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has fielded Basant Soren, the younger son of party patriarch Shibu Soren from Dumka, the party’s traditional stronghold. The Congress has nominated Jaimangal Singh, the son of the deceased six-term party legislator Rajendra Singh from Bermo. The move has drawn the opposition’s flak for indulging in dynasty politics.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is banking on its old faces. It has fielded former state minister Lois Marandi and two term-legislator Yogeshwar Mahto Batul from Dumka and Bermo constituencies, respectively.The electoral outcome is unlikely to have any impact on the state government. The ruling JMM, the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) coalition are firmly in the saddle in the 81-member Jharkhand legislative assembly. The combine has 78 legislators in the assembly, whose current strength is 78. Besides Dumka and Bermo constituencies, one more assembly seat fell vacant in October because of the death of the JMM lawmaker and minority affairs minister, Haji Hussain Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-bypolls-30-polling-in-state-till-11am/story-gRQ7ADld77WaRd3QZy2tSK.html
03-11-2020||India||Zydus Cadila files investigational new drug application for Covid-19 treatment||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Tuesday said it has filed the investigational new drug (IND) application for ZYIL1, positioned for management of critically ill Covid-19 patients. “Following up on its initiatives to fight Covid-19 with diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics, the company is now focussing on cutting edge research to bring targeted therapies... it has filed the IND application of ZYIL1, a novel oral small molecule,” the company said in a regulatory filing. Zydus Cadila said ZYIL1 will bridge a critical unmet healthcare need in several inflammatory diseases including the current pandemic of Covid-19 and address complications caused by chronic and uncontrolled inflammation. The company said it has completed all IND enabling preclinical studies and has filed the IND application to advance this drug candidate towards the clinic. Zydus Cadila said ZYIL1, has demonstrated promising efficacy in a number of validated pre-clinical models of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Sepsis and acute lung injury models of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Shares of Cadila Healthcare were trading 7.88 per cent higher at Rs 442.45 apiece on BSE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-files-investigational-new-drug-application-for-covid-19-treatment/story-gLBfttU8NikW0SVheO4D9J.html
03-11-2020||India||‘Big void in the world of music’: PM Modi, vice president condole violin maestro TN Krishnan’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the demise of violin maestro and Padma awardee TN Krishnan and conveyed condolences to his family, noting that his demise left a “big void in the world of music.” Krishnan passed away in Chennai at the age of 92 on Monday. Born on October 6, 1926, in Kerala and later settled in Chennai, Krishnan entered the music world as a child prodigy and performed till his last days.“The demise of noted violinist TN Krishnan leaves a big void in the world of music. His works beautifully encapsulated a wide range of emotions and strands of our culture. He was also an outstanding mentor to young musicians. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted on Tuesday.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu also paid his last respects on Twitter. “Distressed to learn about the passing away of legendary violinist, Sri T N Krishnan. His death is a big loss to the music world, particularly Carnatic music. He was known to capture the essence of ragas & had enthralled the audience for decades with soul-stirring music,” Venkaiah Naidu tweeted.Union home minister Amit Shah also condoled the violinist’s death. “Saddened on the passing away of Violin maestro Shri TN Krishnan ji. As a gifted musician, TN Krishnan ji captured the imagination of several generations with his breathtaking compositions. My deepest condolences are with this family and followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti,” Shah posted on Twitter.Born Tripunithura Narayanaiyer Krishnan, the maestro learnt music from his father A Narayana Iyer. He gave his first solo violin concert in Thiruvananthapuram in 1939 as an 11-year-old. He accompanied great musicians such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Musiri Subramania Iyer, Alathur Brothers, GN Balasubramaniam, Madurai Mani Iyer, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, MD Ramanathan and Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer.Krishnan also excelled as a teacher as he was the professor of music at the Music College, Chennai. Later, he became the Dean of School of Music and Fine Arts, University of Delhi. He also received many awards like Padma Bhushan, Padma Vibhushan and Sangeetha Kalanidhi. He is survived by his wife Kamala, son Sriram and daughter Viji.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-void-in-the-world-of-music-pm-modi-vice-president-condole-violin-maestro-tn-krishnan-s-death/story-BgVP9WxbeY5P7vdYJBWhRO.html
03-11-2020||India||Murder accused in Ujjain jail allegedly dies by suicide, 4 jail guards suspended||A 40-year-old murder accused allegedly committed suicide in Ujjain jail by jumping off the jail watchtower on Monday, police said. Ujjain Jail superintendent Alka Sonkar suspended four jail guards for dereliction of duty. “The accused was lodged in the jail for the past one-and-a-half months for allegedly killing a history sheeter Durlabh Kashyap on September 7 in a gang war,” said Sonkar. “The jail inmates were released from barracks in the morning as a part of the routine practice inside the jail campus. The murder accused climbed up the roof of the control room and from the roof, he climbed the watchtower. He died of head injuries which he sustained due to falling from a height,” she added. She further said the man was said to be in a state of depression for the past two days but the jail administration will investigate the matter to know the reason behind his extreme step. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the incident, police said. However, the family of the accused alleged that there was foul play behind the death of the accused. “My son was killed by jail authorities. He was tortured in the jail,” said the father of the deceased and demanded a high-level inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-accused-in-ujjain-jail-allegedly-dies-by-suicide-4-jail-guards-suspended/story-ydKO5cmJ209HCavBp5yPmO.html
03-11-2020||India||Congress hopes to retain Baroda seat in Haryana bypoll||Voting in the high-stakes Baroda bye-election in Haryana began on Tuesday morning amid tight security. The fate of 14 candidates will be decided by a total of 1.78 lakh eligible voters. Till 9 am, a total of 13% voter turnout was reported.Voters started queuing up outside the polling booths from 6.30 am and the polling began at 7 am. Voting will end at 6:00pm in the assembly seat of Sonepat district, officials said.Despite a multi-cornered fight, the main contest is between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress in the constituency. The seat fell vacant following the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12.While the BJP has fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Sri Krishan Hooda in the 2019 assembly election, the Congress has put its money on a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad. The INLD is backing Joginder Singh Malik and Raj Kumar Saini of the Loktantra Suraksha party is also testing his fate in this Jat dominated seat.BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt offered prayers at a small temple before casting his vote. Dutt, said the people should come out of their homes and cast their vote after seeing the achievements of each nominee.Indu Raj Narwal said he will cast his vote at his native village Rindhana around 4 pm as he is busy in moving around other polling stations.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda accused the BJP of purchasing votes with the help of money power.“Our workers held two BJP persons who were distributing money at Madina village in the constituency but the election commission is yet to take any action. The BJP has reached to such a low level that it distributed money, liquor and gave gas cylinders to poor voters to influence the Baroda election. But our party will secure a thumping majority,” he added.A total of 1.78 lakh voters - 97,819 males, 80,429 females and two transgenders will exercise their voting rights, according to figures released by the election commission officials. Of these, 5,092 voters are above 80 years of age and 1,860 service electors.As many as 280 polling booths have been set up and 151 of them are categorised as vulnerable. Security personnel, including three companies of paramilitary forces, have been deployed to ensure peaceful polling, officials said.One lakh single-use gloves for voters to put on when they press the EVM button to cast their votes, 57,500 surgical masks, 3,500 face shields, 1,650 bottles of hand sanitiser (500 ml each) and 3,500 each personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 face masks have been arranged for the polling takes place amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hopes-to-retain-baroda-seat-in-haryana-bypoll/story-8IDf2vZy8KxwmXEzGDAR7L.html
03-11-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s mental health may have deteriorated after sisters gave medicines: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police have informed Bombay High Court they were duty-bound to book actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters as the complaint lodged against them by Rhea Chakraborty “disclosed commission of offence”, according to news agency PTI.The force made the admission on Monday in an affidavit in the high court seeking dismissal of the petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh to quash the first information report (FIR) lodged against them for alleged forgery and fabrication of a medical prescription for their brother, PTI added. They were booked by Bandra Police in September after Rhea Chakraborty lodged a complaint against Rajput’s sisters. Also read | Rhea Chakraborty’s accusations against Sushant’s sisters ‘speculative’, says CBIBandra Police’s senior inspector Nikhil Kapse in the affidavit refuted the allegations that the police were damaging the reputation of the petitioners or any deceased person. The affidavit said that the police were not trying to “influence or derail” the probe being carried out by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by registering the FIR against Rajput’s sisters. “The FIR (against Priyanka and Meetu) was registered based on the information provided by the first informant (Chakraborty) disclosing commission of offence,” the affidavit said, according to PTI. Also read | Sushant Singh Rajput death: Why is CBI silent on status of probe, asks Maharashtra CongressThe affidavit also claimed Chakraborty had said in her complaint that a fake and fabricated medical prescription was sent by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh with the help of a Delhi-based doctor wherein medicines for anxiety were prescribed to Rajput. “FIR lodged at Mumbai seeks investigation into alleged offence of conspiracy, forgery, cheating and conspiracy by petitioners sisters of Sushant Singh Rajput, Dr Tarun Kumar and others for fabricating medical prescription to procure and administer controlled drugs/psychotropic substances to Sushant Singh Rajput without his actual examination. FIR also seeks investigations into the possibility of deterioration of his mental health and eventual suicide pursuant to the said conspiracy,” the affidavit said, according to Live Law.Also read | Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash untraceable: Official“This version of the informant disclosed cognisable offences warranting investigation and requiring no preliminary enquiry. Therefore, the Mumbai Police were duty-bound to register the FIR,” the affidavit said. It added that the police, in keeping with the order passed by the Supreme Court, referred all relevant documents pertaining to the FIR to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Rajput’s death case, after its registration. The police opposed the stand taken by CBI that they should not have registered the FIR in the same case that the central agency was already probing.“The case being probed by the CBI is one registered by the deceased’s father in Bihar. On the other hand, the FIR lodged by the Mumbai police is by Rhea Chakraborty seeking investigation for forgery, cheating and criminal conspiracy against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka and Meetu and doctor Tarun Kumar,” the affidavit said. It is now for the CBI to investigate both the FIRs and to file appropriate reports, it added. A bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik will take up the plea for hearing on Wednesday. Rajput was found dead in his house in Bandra on June 14 this year.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-mental-health-may-have-deteriorated-after-sisters-gave-medicines-mumbai-police/story-JUtzX6PxiBROSPVtouEzxK.html
03-11-2020||India||Kamla Nehru Education Society is fake, says rebel Congress MLA in UP||Rebel Congress MLA in Uttar Pradesh Aditi Singh has urged Economic Offences Wing (EOW) to take a serious note of alleged gross irregularities in the style of functioning of Kamla Nehru Education Society, Rae Bareli, and take strict action immediately.“The style of functioning of Kamla Nehru Education Society, Rae Bareli, registration number 765, is not satisfactory. A lot of irregularities have come to notice in its commercial and economic activities. The society is using its functioning to victimise people. The irregularities in economic activities indicate that Kamla Nehru Education Society is a fake society. I, therefore, request you to take a serious note of the issue and take strict action against Kamla Nehru Education Society,” said Singh in her letter dated November 2 to director general, EOW, RP Singh.Singh, MLA from Rae Bareli, has also claimed that instead of using land allocated to promote education for girls, the society was trying to sell the land.“Land was taken in the name of promoting education for girls. It did not use the land even decades later and is now trying to sell the same. I have sent a letter to EOW for a probe into irregularities in the utilization of funds,” said Singh in a tweet later.Singh said the society was linked to Nehru-Gandhi family and senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid was one of its members. When contacted, Khurshid said he was not aware of the accusations made by Aditi Singh.“As far as I remember, I am a member of one such society. They are very good people and doing some very good work. Office bearers of the society take care of the day-to-day work and they will respond to whatever accusations have been made. Everyone is not obviously involved in day-to-day functioning,” said Khurshid on the phone. Other members of the society could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamla-nehru-education-society-is-fake-says-rebel-congress-mla-in-up/story-qPXTZhe1Sgg6PS6qClyrnO.html
03-11-2020||India||India reports another low in daily Covid-19 cases in months at 38,310; recoveries over 7.6 million||India reported 38,310 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), another lowest in months, and 490 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Tuesday, which have taken the country’s tally to over 8.26 million. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease also fell to 541,405 from 561,908 on Monday morning, data showed.Last Tuesday, there were 36,470 daily Covid-19 cases. “Active Cases comprise only 6.83% of the total positive cases of the country. In a span of just two months, the percentage of active cases have reduced more than 3 times. On 3rd September, the percentage of active cases were 21.16%,” the health ministry had said in a release on Monday.Also read | Scientists find evidence that coronavirus superspreading is fat-tailedThere were 45,321 confirmed cases in the country on Monday morning and, 80% of the new cases were from 10 states as Union territories. The ministry has said that Kerala surged to first place with 7,025 new cases while Delhi and Maharashtra, both reported more than 5,000 daily new infections.Also read | Toxic air from fires is set to make India’s Covid-19 fight deadlierThere were 7,603,121 recoveries across the country between Monday and Tuesday morning as 58,323 patients were discharged from hospitals or they completed their home recuperation. The government has claimed that India continues to occupy the top global position as the country with the maximum number of recoveries. The total recoveries had crossed 7.5 million on Monday as 53,285 patients were cured of the viral disease.Also read | From CureVac candidate’s immune response in humans to unwilling RussiansThe ministry said on Monday that 78% of the recoveries were from 10 states as Union territories. Kerala and Karnataka have contributed the highest number to these with more than 8,000 cases and Delhi and West Bengal follow with more than 4,000 cases, according to the ministry’s data.Of the 496 deaths on Monday morning, 10 states as Union territories account for 82% of fatalities in the past 24 hours. The ministry has said that 22% of the fatalities reported on Monday are from Maharashtra with 113 deaths followed by West Bengal with 59.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-another-low-in-daily-covid-19-cases-in-months-at-38-310-recoveries-over-7-6-million/story-kQTiYK6UJpdcn2AkJDg2UO.html
03-11-2020||India||Second Covid-19 peak in Mumbai to be less severe comparatively, says TIFR||Hospitalisations due to Covid-19 will be much higher if Mumbai opens up in the first week of November as opposed to the first week of January 2021, suggests a report of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.Their report further highlights that the next peak in Covid cases in Mumbai will be substantially reduced in effect as compared to the peak in the pandemic cases the city witnessed in mid-May and June 2020. Researchers also suggested that by mid-January 2021, the percentage of population infected in the city slums will be around 80% whereas in non-slum areas will stand at around 55%. This further indicates that the city will have almost reached the “herd immunity” stage by then. “By this we mean that new infections and related medical indicators in the city will be substantially reduced compared to their peak values recorded previously,” said Dr Sandeep Juneja, dean, TIFR’s School of Technology and Computer Science. “It is almost like we are living in two different cities within the same city. While the slums were first to get infected and witness widespread infections between April and June, thereafter the infections are primarily in non-slum areas,” he said.“The curve of medical indicators for Mumbai such as hospitalisations, critical patients, reported cases and fatalities had begun to stabilize during June and July and reduced further in August. However, there was an increase in medical indicators towards the end of August, presumably due to increased intermingling due to Ganpati festival. We now predict that during Diwali, despite increased intermingling, the corresponding infections will be less in comparison.” The predictions are based largely Indian Institute of Science (IISc)-TIFR agent based simulator method which had previously predicted the dip in the Covid-graph in June as well as an increase in cases in August-end. The simulation method uses medical indicators as well as other details to develop long-term projections for Mumbai under realistic scenarios related to Mumbai’s opening of workplaces and the public transportation through local trains and buses.Based on their report, the researchers have further recommended gradual reopening of offices and other workplaces in order to control infections and that schools and colleges reopen only in the first week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-19-peak-in-mumbai-to-be-less-severe-comparatively-says-tifr/story-iFOCWBfVkRSl5hDnuxRisN.html
03-11-2020||India||Heavy security, social distancing as voting underway in 28 assembly seats in MP||Millions of voters on Tuesday queued up in 28 assembly constituencies across 19 districts of Madhya Pradesh for the crucial by-polls, which will decide the fate of the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the central state.Polling began at 7am and will conclude at 6pm amid heavy police and para-military force deployment in all the assembly constituencies. The fate of as many as 355 candidates, including 22 women, is in the hands of more than 6.35 million voters casting their ballot at 9,361 polling centres in the 28 constituencies. Out of the 28 seats, 16 of fall under the Gwalior-Chambal region.The BJP has 107 MLAs in 230-member state assembly against the Congress’ 87, the Bahujan Samaj Party’s 2, lone Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA and four Independent MLAs. One of the seats is vacant. The BJP will need eight MLAs to reach the majority mark of 115 and Congress needs to win all the 28 seats to get to the majority mark if both the parties don’t need any support from the BSP, SP or independent MLAs.The elections are a crucial test for senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia who made a Twitter appeal to voters on Monday. “I request you all to vote in favour of the BJP candidates and thus strengthen Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Every vote cast in favour of BJP will contribute to making of a prosperous Madhya Pradesh and strong India,” Scindia had tweeted.Kamal Nath, the president of the Congress’ Madhya Pradesh unit also tweeted ahead of the by-polls. “The by-polls will be known as a different chapter in MP’s history. People will definitely give a befitting reply to those who betrayed them,” Nath said.Read more| MP bypolls 2020: Why are they important and what do the numbers say?Poll officials have said tight security arrangements have been made in all the constituencies and urged voters to follow Covid-19 norms in the polling booths. “As many as 84 companies of central paramilitary have been deployed at the polling booths besides 2,500 special armed force (SAF) jawans, 10,000 police personnel from the district police force, 7,000 home guards and 10,000 special police officers,” Arun Kumar Tomar, the additional chief electoral officer of Madhya Pradesh, said.“Out of the total polling centres 3,038 polling centres have been declared critical and 358 hamlets have been identified as vulnerable hamlets. To ensure a free, fair and peaceful polling 250 flying squads and 173 static surveillance teams. There are 293 police check-posts. As many as 1493 illegal weapons have been seized and more than 1.52 lakh licenced arms were deposited in police stations,” Tomar added.“There will not be any queue of voters in view of Covid situation as per instructions from the ECI. Instead, voters will be given coupons on entering the polling centres and a voter will be called to cast his vote in accordance with the serial number on his coupon,” Manish Singh, the collector and returning officer in Indore, said in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The second phase of polling in the Bihar assembly elections and voting for 54 other assembly seats in 10 states including Madhya Pradesh is also underway in the first electoral test for political parties in the post-Covid-19 era. The counting will be conducted on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-security-social-distancing-as-voting-underway-in-28-assembly-seats-in-mp/story-wtwAr0wMLxe4QykU5W5rVL.html
03-11-2020||India||Mercury dips further in Delhi, reaches 10°C||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degree Celsius (C) on Tuesday morning, which was 5 degrees C below normal. This temperature was updated by India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 8.30am. “There are cold wave conditions already over Delhi, but will be declared on day 2 if same criteria is fulfilled,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.On Monday, the minimum temperature recorded was 10.8 degrees C.The minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal over all of north-west India, except some parts of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), Uttarakhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP), where it is likely to be nearly normal to above normal, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.Experts said the fall in minimum temperature in Delhi-national capital region (NCR) is due to a combination of factors, including incursion of cold air from the Himalayas and subsidence of cold air over the region.“Climatologically, we are moving towards winter. Temperature will gradually fall. However, there is subsidence of air over the Delhi-NCR, which is bringing down minimum temperature. There are cold northerly winds, but they are not as strong,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, on Monday. Subsidence, Mohapatra explained, is the downward movement of cold and dry air closer to the surface.Rainfall activity is also likely to increase because of the influence of strengthening of north-easterly winds. Widespread rainfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorms and lightning is likely to occur over Tamil Nadu (TN) and Kerala from Wednesday (November 4).Heavy rainfall is likely to occur over TN from between Wednesday and Friday (November 4 and 6); over Kerala till Thursday (November 5); and over south interior Karnataka on Wednesday and Thursday (November 4 and 5).Dry weather is likely to prevail over the rest of the country during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dips-further-in-delhi-reaches-10-2-c/story-QguDzfZCgrELs0N6UV51oM.html
03-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi AQI rises, reaches very poor category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesDelhi AQI rises, reaches very poor category on TuesdayThe air quality index (AQI) in the national capital on Tuesday worsened again and reached the “very poor’ category. The hourly average AQI as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 371. The AQI between 301 and 400 is considered in the “very poor” category. Read moreFirst phase of the Malabar exercise starts today: All you need to knowThe first phase of the three-day quadrilateral naval exercise called ‘Malabar’ will begin on Tuesday. India, the United States, Japan and Australia will conduct the exercise in the Bay of Bengal. The exercise will demonstrate high-levels of synergy and coordination between the navies of these four countries, officials familiar with the development said. Read moreState of economy: Why it’s best to reserve conclusionMost institutional and private forecasts expect the Indian economy to contract at a double-digit rate in the current fiscal year. This, despite the fact that the economy has been showing a sequential (month on month) improvement compared to the situation when it was locked down. Read more‘India capable of beating Australia’: Sourav GangulyAfter months of negotiations with Cricket Australia to confirm India’s tour of Australia, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly expects the Test leg – which consists of four matches -- to be a stern challenge for Virat Kohli’s India; but a challenge which they can overcome. Read moreOn Shah Rukh Khan’s birthday, Dubai’s Burj Khalifa honours star: ‘Nice to see myself on the biggest, tallest screen in the world’Actor Shah Rukh Khan celebrated his 55th birthday in Dubai with family and friends. While good wishes came in from around the world, the authorities at Dubai’s iconic Burj Khalifa decided to honour the star by displaying his image and a birthday wish on its outer wall. Read moreUS election 2020: America heads for Election day amidst chaosWhile most polls predict Biden to emerge as the winner in the November 3rd Presidential elections in America, the mood of the nation is far from clear. Long delays are being expected in results as close to 92 million voters have cast their vote via mail or in early ballot. Meanwhile, there are reports of right-wing supporters being encouraged to carry fire arms to polling booths. Watch hereWatch: Mariah Carey says it’s time to play All I Want for Christmas Is You on loopNow that Halloween is over, do you know what time it is? Yes, it is time for eggnog lattes and gingerbread cookies because the holiday season is finally upon us. And probably the most significant spreader for the festive spirit is Mariah Carey’s beloved track All I Want for Christmas Is You. If you were someone who was waiting to belt out to the tune, then wait no more. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-aqi-rises-reaches-very-poor-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Wc0tGvvn7Yx4sgsRlVyJsI.html
03-11-2020||India||Rajya Sabha elections: BJP adds 9 more members to its tally||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has added nine members to its quota in the Rajya Sabha (RS), as its strength in the Upper House has increased to 92.At present, the BJP is the single-largest party in the RS and along with its allies in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, the combined strength is over 100 lawmakers. However, it is still 31 lawmakers short of the halfway mark of 123 in the 243-member Upper House.On Monday, nine of BJP’s candidates—eight from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and one from neighbouring Uttarakhand—were declared elected unopposed to the Upper House. Naresh Bansal was declared elected unopposed to the Upper House from Uttarakhand. Earlier, Congress’s Raj Babbar represented this seat. Also read | Rajya Sabha panels’ performance improvesBansal, who served as the state BJP working president last year, was also the general secretary organisation between 2002 and 2009.In UP, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, sitting members of Parliament (MPs) Neeraj Shekar, Arun Singh, Geeta Shakya, Haridwar Dubey, Brij Lal, BL Verma and Seema Dwivedi were elected to the Upper house. Samajwadi Party’s (SP) Ram Gopal Yadav was re-elected unopposed. Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) Ramji Gautam was also elected to the RS without any electoral contest.The Congress and the BSP’s strength have come down by two members each in the RS, while that of the SP by four MPs.The Congress has 39 and 51 MPs in the RS and the Lok Sabha, respectively.In the Lok Sabha, the Congress does not have a single MP from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-elections-bjp-adds-9-more-members-to-its-tally/story-Qu1hK9MesiFHutcc6sJhZI.html
03-11-2020||India||Rajasthan assembly passes 3 farm bills||The Rajasthan assembly on Monday passed three bills by a voice vote after an eight-hour debate to counter new farms laws cleared by Parliament, following in the footsteps of the Congress-ruled Punjab and Chhattisgarh.The bills fail to assure the minimum support price (MSP) for major crops sold at agriculture produce mandis or bought by private players, contrary to Punjab’s bills. The MSP assurance was provided for contract farming. That too for just seven crops. However, like Punjab, Rajasthan provides for three to seven years of imprisonment for harassing farmers.Harassment will be treated as committed when the trader does not accept the delivery of the farm produce agreed upon or, having accepted the delivery, does not make the payment to the farmer in accordance with the terms of the agreement or within three days from the date of receipt of delivery of goods, whichever is earlier. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal introduced The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members walked out as the bills were passed.However, the bills become law only after the Governor’s assent, who may withhold and decide to refer them to the President. Political commentator Avadhesh Akodia said that Article 254(2) of the Constitution allows a state to make changes to central legislation on a subject on the concurrent list only if it gets Presidential assent. Several BJP leaders also said that the state government did not have a right to make amendment to central laws. Parliament recently enacted farm laws deregulating the sale of agriculture produce, a move the central government said was needed to usher in reforms in the farm sector. Several farmer unions and the opposition Congress claimed that the move will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system.During the debate on the bills, leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the central laws were enacted after taking into account recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, which talked about one nation, one market; contract farming; and abolition of indirect mandi taxes.“Farmers were free to sell their produce anywhere in the country and you are saying that you have freed them. You have worked to handover agriculture mandis directly into the hands of corporate houses,” Dhariwal said. Kisan mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat said the state government should make MSP mandatory for every sale and purchase of crops in the mandis too||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-assembly-passes-3-farm-bills/story-QVgws93Qgf9bJvziENkNHI.html
03-11-2020||India||Rajya Sabha panels’ performance improves||The Rajya Sabha might have suffered frequent disruptions in the past several sessions, but the eight standing committees under the Upper House have improved their performance. A review of the functioning of the panels over the past three years shows that they spent more times discussing issues and that, for the first time, the average sitting exceeded two hours (this was in 2019-20) before the pandemic drastically reduced attendance this year. Indian Parliament has 24 department-related standing committees that review the functioning of the union government. All central ministries and departments come under the purview of these panels; 16 panels are headed by Lok Sabha MPs and the remaining are under the Rajya Sabha’s jurisdiction and headed by its MPs. Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu asked for performance reviews of the functioning of the panels on parameters such as attendance, quorum and the preparation of reports to ensure transparency and accountability. The latest review showed that these panels met for an average duration of 2 hours 10 minutes in 2019-20, an improvement over the average of 1 hour 51 minutes in 2017-18 and 1 hour 25 minutes in 2018-19. House panels are multi-party bodies that examine bills and submit report to Parliament. Their suggestions are not binding upon the government but they provide important policy roadmaps and talking points for MPs. If the government decides not to accept a panel’s suggestions, it has to reply to Parliament, justifying its decisions. The functioning of these panels also assume importance as the members usually go beyond partisan lines to draft reports. The review also showed that FY19-20 saw the best attendance rate of 49% in the past three years. While average attendance crossed the halfway mark with 50.7% for the first time during the first half of 2019-20, it tumbled to 41% in the last few months of FY19-20. The review showed that nearly two in five meetings saw more than 50% attendance—a stark departure from corresponding proportions of 14% and 30% during the previous two years. The number of meetings held without quorum, or the minimum required attendance, declined to 10% in 2019-20. The eight committees spent more than 254 hours in FY19-20 and clocked a total of 571 hours in 300 meetings over the three years. While home affairs panel held the longest meeting (more than 47 hours) in 2017-20, the HRD panel spent the maximum time in sittings -- 100 hrs. The industry panel spent the least time—just 36 hours 11 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-panels-performance-improves/story-qUb7ZrrLI2VPG3xmU0yv9J.html
03-11-2020||India||First phase of Malabar exercise starts today: All you need to know||The first phase of the three-day quadrilateral naval exercise Malabar will begin on Tuesday. India, the United States, Japan and Australia will conduct the exercise in the Bay of Bengal. The exercise will demonstrate high-levels of synergy and coordination between the navies of these four countries, officials familiar with the development said.Also Read: Australia will participate in Malabar naval exercise with India, US and Japan: GovtShowcasing the countries’ resolve to support an open Indo-Pacific region, the exercise focuses on increasing the four countries’ cooperation in the area that has been witnessing increasing Chinese military aggression.Here is all you need to know about the Malabar exercise:1. The first phase of the Malabar would see complex and advanced naval exercises comprising surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, officials said. Cross-deck flying and weapon firing operations are also a part of this quadrilateral exercise, they added.2. Malabar’s 24th edition is being conducted as a “non-contact, at sea only” affair in the view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, an official familiar with the developments said. “The first phase will witness the participation of Indian Navy units with USN Ship USS John S McCain (a guided-missile destroyer), RAN Ship HMAS Ballarat (long-range frigate) with integral MH-60 helicopter, and JMSDF Ship JS Onami (destroyer) with an integral SH-60 helicopter,” he added.3. “INS Ranvijay, multi-role frigate INS Shivalik, off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya, fleet tanker INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj will be deployed by the Indian side which is being led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan (Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet) during this phase,” the official said.4. The Malabar, which originally started in 1992 as a bilateral exercise between India and the United States, welcomed Japan as a permanent member in 2015. On October 20 this year, it was announced that Australia too will again participate in the exercise. Australia last participated in the Malabar exercise in 2007.5. According to Australian defence minister Linda Reynolds, Malabar 2020 marked a milestone opportunity for the Australian Defence Force (ADF). “High-end military exercises like MALABAR are key to enhancing Australia’s maritime capabilities, building interoperability with our close partners, and demonstrating our collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” Reynolds was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-naval-exercise-2020-first-phase-of-the-malabar-exercise-starts-today/story-iQV6I06yUUMyy3az9IntPL.html
03-11-2020||India||Assam resident dies in Mizoram police custody, CM Sonowal writes to Amit Shah||The ongoing border row between Assam and Mizoram took a turn for worse on Monday with the death of an Assam resident allegedly in the custody of Mizoram police. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah informing him about the abduction and death of Intazul Laskar. He also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the family of the victim. Following the development, Sonowal directed newly appointed chief secretary Jishnu Barua and director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to rush to the border area and take stock of the situation there. Expressing concern about the boundary row, the CM asked the police to remain alert and thwart all attempts to vitiate peace along the boundary between the two states. According to reports, Intazul, a resident of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam which lies along the border with Mizoram, was allegedly abducted by miscreants on Sunday morning. “It is now confirmed that Intazul, who was abducted from the Assam side, died in custody of police in Kolasib district of Mizoram. The exact details of how he died will be known after thorough investigation,” BL Meena, superintendent of police, Cachar, said. “We are trying to get the deceased’s body back and are in talks with Kolasib district officials. A case under section 365 of IPC for abduction has been registered at Dholai police station and investigation is underway,” he added. Kolasib’s superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte told PTI that Intazul Laskar (45), a well- known drug peddler, was apprehended on Sunday evening when he crossed the inter-state border to deliver a consignment and later died at a health facility.The Mizoram government has termed the death of Intazul as unfortunate and asked the Assam government to ensure safety and security of Mizos residing in Assam following the incident. The Mizoram home department wrote to Assam asking to “prevent any retaliatory attacks by vested parties and anti-social elements within Assam especially on the inter-state border on the issue of the unfortunate death of a resident of Lailapur at Vairengte this (Monday) morning”. The situation along the border between two states have remained tense for the past week after residents of Assam blocked the NH 306 to Mizoram demanding withdrawal of personnel of the Mizoram police and India Reserve Battalion from the disputed areas along the boundary. While Assam maintains that security personnel from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory and have started construction, the Mizoram side claims the areas belong to them and have refused to call back its personnel till normalcy returns. Last month, several people on both sides of the border were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Locals on the Assam side had blocked the highway in protest against the incident. On October 21, senior officials of both states had a meeting in Assam’s Silchar where they had agreed to restore normalcy in the border areas. Mizoram had assured it would call back its troops which had entered Assam side. Following this, trucks had started plying between both states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-resident-dies-in-mizoram-police-custody-cm-sonowal-writes-to-amit-shah/story-EKgIZmqu9tyf6i1vYJ4ZxK.html
03-11-2020||India||Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC feels the heat of TMC veterans||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who was roped in by Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee to set things right in the party is now facing the heat instead from a section of the party’s veterans who have lashed out against his agency I-PAC. On Sunday TMC MLA from Barrackpore launched a veiled attack against Kishor’s team , before announcing that he would not contest the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal.“An outsider agency is teaching me how to do politics. I entered politics when I was in class 6 and today, I am 62 years old. But unfortunately, I get to hear from an employee of that agency that I don’t need to worry about votes because the agency has been roped in to fight the elections for us. They are asking me about my caste as they want to introduce caste-based politics. I told them that this is not Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh or Delhi,” said Silbhadra Dutta, TMCs lawmaker from Barrackpore assembly constituency. Kishor, who earlier helped the Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the YSR Congress Party win elections, was roped in by Banerjee after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22. The BJP poses a challenge to Banerjee in the run-up to the assembly polls. While Dutta was more subtle with his comments and didn’t name I-PAC, another TMC MLA had directly hit out at I-PAC earlier in October warning that it is not good for a political party if an agency gives directions on how the party should be run. “If I-PAC, a contract agency, gives directions on how to run the party then it is not good for the party. If any political party wants a contract agency to run the party then there is 100% chance that the party would suffer. The workers should handle the work of the organization,” said Mihir Goswami, TMC MLA from Cooch Behar south. A senior TMC leader on conditions of anonymity said that state transport minister’s Suvendu Adhikary’s perceived dislike of I-PAC’s interventions in organisational affairs was one of the many reasons that led to the widely speculated rift between the minister and the party. “In 1995, I was councillor of an undivided Congress. I did not drop in using a parachute. Nor did I take an elevator. I took the stairs, step by step. No one can stop us,” Adhikary said while addressing a function in east Midnapore on Saturday that did not have TMC banners. With eye set on the crucial 2021 Bengal assembly polls the TMC chief Mamata Banerjee recently carried out a major reshuffle in the party to bring in some new faces and axing some old guards. Insiders said that much of the inputs behind this reshuffle had come from Kishor and his team’s year-long assessment of the ground realities. While IPAC refused to comment on this, TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy said: “They are our party veterans. But one has to abide by the party’s guidelines and accept whatever the party is thinking or doing. An individual is not above the party.” The TMC is making attempts to extend an olive branch to the veterans who are apparently unhappy with the recent developments. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and tribal development minister Binoy Krishna Burman recently met Goswami. The TMC leaders, however, failed to meet Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-s-i-pac-feels-the-heat-of-tmc-veterans/story-mz0Sy3MGzIBaziWt8KYZKI.html
03-11-2020||India||GJM’s Binoy Tamang, Anit Thapa to meet Mamata Banerjee: What could it mean for TMC, BJP and West Bengal polls?||Amid growing discontent in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) faction led by Binoy Tamang, after Bimal Gurung resurfaced last week and pledged support to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to meet Binoy Tamang and Gorkha Territorial Administration chairperson Anit Thapa on Tuesday. On October 21, Bimal Gurung made a dramatic appearance in Kolkata and quit the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA, aligning with the ruling TMC.What happened on October 21?Making his first public appearance in three years, GJM leader Bimal Gurung broke ties with the National Democratic Alliance and said that the BJP had not fulfilled its promise of Gorkhaland; thereby extending his party’s support to the TMC for the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections due next year. Gurung had been absconding since 2017 after he was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a grenade attack at Kalimpong Police station and an explosion in Darjeeling’s Chowk Bazaar area, during the 104-day shutdown demanding separate statehood for Gorkhas - Gorkhaland.Is GJM important in West Bengal?The GJM was formed in 2007 and has played a crucial role in West Bengal politics as it has a powerful role in the Darjeeling hills. In 2016, the GJM again won three assembly seats from Darjeeling and once again intensified its demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland. But after the Gorkhaland demand agitation in 2017, GJM broke into two factions — one headed by Binoy Tamang that supported the TMC, and the other led by Bimal Gurung which supported the BJP. Now, by resurfacing Bimal Gurung has also supported the TMC.Read more: CPI(M) open to Bengal alliance with CongressDoes the TMC need GJM’s support?With the TMC winning the support of the GJM, it could jeopardise the BJP’s 2021 electoral plans in north Bengal. For the BJP, the region has been very crucial as in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won 18 seats in West Bengal which included 7 of the 8 constituencies in north Bengal. On the other hand, the TMC did not win a single seat in north Bengal. This is why Mamata Banerjee has welcomed Bimal Gurung which has irked the Tamang-led faction of the GJM as it has always supported the TMC. Subsequently, supporters of Tamang took out rallies in the Hills opposing Gurung’s return. The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, currently enjoying political control over Darjeeling and has vowed not to allow Gurung to enter the Hills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gjm-s-binoy-tamang-anit-thapa-to-meet-mamata-banerjee-what-could-it-mean-for-tmc-bjp-and-west-bengal-polls/story-WEyEZAptSyYMYPjIZ9JQpL.html
03-11-2020||India||Four booked over offering namaz at Mathura temple||The Uttar Pradesh Police has registered a first information report (FIR) in Mathura against two Muslim members of Khudai Khidmatgar, a non-violent resistance organisation which traces its roots back to India’s freedom struggle, for allegedly offering “namaz” on the premises of the Nand Baba temple in the holy city. Two other Hindu members from the organisation have been named co-accused in a case registered on Sunday evening by Kanha Goswami, a priest of the temple, and two other priests, Mukesh Goswami and SD Shiv Hari. According to the FIR, the four accused -- Faizal Khan, Chand Mohammad, Alok Ratan and Neelesh Gupta -- reached the temple at about 12.30pm on October 29 and performed the “84 kos parikrama” that is common in Hindu prayers in the Mathura’s Braj area.“[Later] photographs of the two Muslims offering ‘namaz’ in the temple premises were uploaded on social media by Faizal Khan. This has hurt Hindu sentiments,” alleged Goswami. “No permission was sought from the priests or administration for offering ‘namaz’. Also, the photos of the ‘namaz’ were made viral on social media,” Goswami said in the FIR, adding that these images could be misused to fan communal tensions.Khudai Khidmatgar, which means or “servants of God”, is a resistance movement once led by Abdul Gaffar Khan, and resisted the British Raj. Abdul Gaffar Khan, a Pashtun activist who fought for India’s Independence, was popularly known as “Frontier Gandhi”. The Delhi-based organisation is now run by Faizal Khan.Locals in Barsana said that the four came for the ‘84 kos parikrama’ -- which is religious circumambulation done to please Lord Krishna. Faizal Khan, these people said, was well versed in Hindu mythology and narrated couplets from the Ramcharitmanas, an epic poem by Tuslsidas based on the Ramayana. Mathura police have taken Faizal into custody from Jamina Nagar in Delhi, from where he runs the Khudai Khidmatgar organisationHT’s attempts to contact someone from Khudai Khidmatgar failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-booked-over-offering-namaz-at-mathura-temple/story-koLMEJPpJuPE7gouNPm8KN.html
03-11-2020||India||AG denies nod to contempt case against Andhra CM||Attorney General KK Venugopal has refused to grant consent for initiating contempt proceedings against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy over his letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) making wild allegations against the second most senior judge of the Supreme Court, Justice NV Ramana -- although he agreed that the duos conduct was “contumacious” and that the timing was “suspect”. The demand to initiate contempt came from BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay who wanted action against Reddy and his Principal Advisor Ajeya Kallam. Upadhyay in his letter to Venugopal, referred to the contents of a letter written by Reddy to CJI SA Bobde on October 6, in which he accused Justice Ramana of working against his government. Upadhyay mentioned that the Andhra Pradesh CM is an accused in at least 31 cases concerning offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act pending before the special court in Telangana. The contents of the letter were released to the media by Kallam in a press conference on October 10.The government’s chief law officer’s decision was driven by the fact that the matter is already before the Chief Justice of India. Venugopal said: “Prima facie, the conduct of the said persons is contumacious. However, what has to be noted is, that the entire case of contempt arises out of the letter dated October 6 written by the CM directly to the CJI and the subsequent press conference held by Sh Kallam. The CJI is therefore seized of the matter... it would not be appropriate for me to deal with the matter.”Upadhyay in his letter addressed to AG had said, “the timing of the letter, the contents of the same, the rush to spill it to the public while the matter was pending with the Chief Justice and the separate Statement read out by Sh Kallam make it manifestly clear that this was done to interfere with the course of justice and lower the authority of the Court.” He referred to a PIL filed by him pending with the bench headed by Justice Ramana where orders were recently passed to fast-track criminal trials against all sitting and former legislators (MPs and MLAs). “I am of the opinion that the timing itself of the letter, as well as it being placed in the public domain through a press conference could certainly be said to be suspect...,” Venugopal agreed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-denies-nod-to-contempt-case-against-andhra-cm/story-o2LD1PbjivjxB6ZTmXvIiP.html
03-11-2020||India||Germany to send warship to patrol Indian Ocean||Germany’s defence minister announced one of the country’s warships will patrol the Indian Ocean as part of plans to manage China’s influence in the region even as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla held talks in Berlin on Monday to boost cooperation in areas ranging from post-pandemic recovery to the Indo-Pacific. Shringla, who held back-to-back meetings in Berlin with his German counterpart Miguel Berger, other senior officials and representatives of think tanks, highlighted the scope of working together for trade and investment, creation of diversified supply changes and counter-terrorism. Ahead of Shringla’s arrival in Berlin as part of a three-nation tour, German defence minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer told The Sydney Morning Herald that a German frigate is set to patrol the Indian Ocean next year and the country’s naval presence in the Indo-Pacific will help safeguard the rules-based order. “We hope to be able to deploy next year,” she said. “We will be spending more on defence in 2021 than in 2020 despite the fact that [the Covid-19 pandemic] has hit our budgets. Now the key is to translate this into real muscle.” Kramp-Karrenbauer said Germany is working within NATO to expand relations with like-minded states such as Australia. “I am convinced territorial disputes, violations of international law and China’s ambitions for global supremacy can only be approached multilaterally,” she said. These moves come close on the heels of Germany unveiling its Indo-Pacific policy in September, when foreign minister Heiko Maas said latent conflicts in the region “would have global repercussions were they to erupt”. Shringla told his German government interlocutors that India has faced multiple challenges in recent months because of the pandemic, “tensions on our northern border and the ever-present menace of terrorism on our western border”. India has noted that Germany’s Indo-Pacific guidelines recognise the need to diversify supply chains, and both countries have a “clear convergence of interest in this area”, he said. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said Germany’s focus on the Indo-Pacific is a natural extension of its commercial and strategic interests, and the activities of its partners such as France in the region. “Germany is one of the most powerful military players in the European Union after the exit of the UK and key European players are realising the importance of the Indo-Pacific,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-to-send-warship-to-patrol-indian-ocean/story-Qq1oPwrtchQMII6iBMyK2K.html
03-11-2020||India||Malabar exercise kicks off today in Bay of Bengal||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the first phase of the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday at a time of Chinese sabre-rattling in the Indo-Pacific region and military tensions with India in the eastern Ladakh theatre, officials said on Monday, The 24th edition of the Malabar exercise is scheduled in two phases with the first phase set to kick-start off Visakhapatnam in Bay of Bengal from November 3-6, the Indian Navy said in a statement on Monday. “Phase-1 of Malabar 20 will witness participation of Indian Navy units with United States Ship (USS) John S McCain (guided-missile destroyer), Her Majesty’s Australian Ship (HMAS) Ballarat (long-range frigate) with integral MH-60 helicopter, and Japan Maritime Self Defence Ship (JMSDF) Onami (destroyer) with integral SH-60 helicopter,” it said. Indian and US aircraft carriers will not feature in the first phase and are likely to be deployed in the second phase of the exercise in the Arabian Sea in mid-November. The Malabar exercises began in 1992 at a time when Chinese and American economic and even security association was close, said security affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd).In the last 15 years, the security matrix has changed for several nations vis-a vis-China, and this includes most ASEAN countries and the four Quad countries, he said. “So, it does look like Malabar’s rejuvenation with four participants after 2007 will have a significance that is different from decades ago. It is an important step to build operational compatibilities that contribute towards deterrence against an expansionist China. At the same time, bilateral ties between armed forces of all four members would also continue to be important,” Shrikhande said. Led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet, the Indian participation in the first phase of the drills will include destroyer INS Ranvijay, frigate INS Shivalik, off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya, fleet support ship INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj, the Indian Navy said. “In addition, advanced jet trainer Hawk, long-range maritime patrol aircraft P-8I, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise,” the statement added. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue, or Quad, that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. The first phase would witness complex and advanced naval exercises, including surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, cross-deck flying and weapon firing exercises, officials said. The exercise comes after the Quad Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and follows the India-US 2+2 dialogue on October 26-27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-exercise-kicks-off-today-in-bay-of-bengal/story-2BvmMgvDGlugM5S92KtsNP.html
03-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US heads into elections on Tuesday having become the first country to cross 100,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a day just recently, and with the seven-day average of daily new cases at an all-time high of around 82,000.The US has seen in excess of 9.2 million cases, and around 231,000 deaths – both are the highest for any country – and it is evident that every aspect of the country’s response to the pandemic has been mismanaged. President Donald Trump’s response to the pandemic – he himself was infected by the virus – has veered from denial to bluff-and-bluster to outrage over China, where the virus first emerged.VOTING IN THE TIME OF PANDEMICIt isn’t clear if Covid-19 will affect the outcome of the US election, but what is clear is that the pandemic has already affected the electoral process, with a record number of mail-in ballots It isn’t clear whether Covid-19, and the US’s response to it, will affect the outcome of this election; what is clear is that the pandemic has already affected the electoral process in the country, with a record number of mail-in ballots, the counting of which could mean a delay in results, prompting lawsuits – Trump has already said his team will challenge the process and his campaign has claimed (wrongly) that votes counted after November 3 are illegitimate or invalid. Trump and his supporters have also attacked the US’s top expert on infectious diseases Dr Anthony S Fauci, and over the weekend the President hinted that he may “fire Fauci” as a crowd at the rally he was addressing in Florida suggested he do. Whichever way you look at it, this is an election whose story, when it is told, will be inextricably linked to the story of the virus itself, its impact on lives and the economy, and the country’s response to it.Interestingly, on Monday, even as the World Health Organization’s (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was going into self-quarantine after coming in touch with a person who tested positive for Covid-19, details emerged that the organisation may have mismanaged the process of tracing the provenance of the virus, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan. WHO’s initial response to the pandemic has already come under criticism for several reasons – including accepting Beijing’s narrative of there being no human transmission of the virus, delaying the process of declaring the coronavirus disease a pandemic, and dragging its feet on admitting that the virus could be transmitted by air – but it is likely the new revelations, in an article in the New York Times will prove even more damning. WHO’S HANDLING UNDER FIRE The WHO may have mismanaged the process of tracing the provenance of the virus, according to an article in the New York Times, which is likely to prove even more damning for the UN bodyThese concern the contours of the investigation WHO will conduct into the origin of the virus, and the terms it has negotiated with Beijing, which has been its usual opaque self when it comes to sharing information on what really happened in Wuhan, and also initially opposed attempts for an international investigation. NYT reports details of the terms negotiated by WHO with China for its investigation in its Monday article, citing “documents, which have never been made public” that “show that WHO experts will review and ‘augment, rather than duplicate’, studies undertaken by China”. The article goes on to add that a key phase of the investigation, which will look for and interview early patients and infected people (going back to those affected in December), and also trace the “supply chain” of “wildlife sold at the Wuhan market”, will be “led by Chinese scientists, with outsiders reviewing their work remotely”.The revelations are likely to increase criticism of WHO and Dr Tedros. The US has already exited WHO but continues to rail against the organisation; many other countries have asked for reforms in WHO, whose deal with China – which has recorded a total of 86,021 cases, a number the US is recording every day now -- may well mean that the world never finds out how it all began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-uzOccTRNV9E9EL9mR5umqO.html
03-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre, Delhi huddle as third wave gets steeper||Delhi broke its record for the highest number of Covid-19 cases to be added on a weekend, data released on Monday showed, as alarm grows over the scale of the outbreak in the Capital, forcing top officials from the Union and the Delhi governments to meet on Monday and discuss a recalibration of testing, treating and surveillance strategies.In a meeting of top bureaucrats from the Union home ministry, Union health ministry, Niti Aayog, the Delhi government, and Delhi Police, to review the situation, the central officials stressed on the need to make testing more pinpointed, and called new awareness campaigns targeted at people in the 20-40 age bracket at a time when people have started moving about more freely and “pandemic fatigue” has started to set in. Several indicators now reinforce the fact that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,269 cases on average every day, the highest this number has been since the first case was recorded on March 2. Peak seven-day average was at 4,174 at the height of the second wave on September 17 and 3,446 at the height of the first, which was on June 26.Similarly, the proportion of tests that turned positive was at 10.91%, according to Monday’s data. Taken as an average over the week, the test positivity rate is 10.3% – a jump of 5 percentage points in less than a month (it was 5.3% on October 8) as the proportion of more accurate molecular RT-PCR tests has increased.The trend is well reflected in Sunday numbers – from 1,947 new cases in the 24 hours ending October 4, this number grew to more than double for the corresponding period on November 1 to 4,001. Sundays follow a distinct pattern from other days of the week since there are fewer tests done, and though the total case load is suppressed, offer a good yardstick of the growth of the disease.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev, who was a part of Monday’s meeting headed by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, said a revised strategy was now being devised to handle the spread of the deadly pathogen. “The recent surge in the number of active cases was attributed to the festival season, which has witnessed greater movement of people, accompanied by laxity in adhering to the basic principles of safe Covid behaviour,” the Union home ministry said in a statement following the meeting on Monday.“Testing, tracing, surveillance, hospital management and IEC-cum-enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour will be the crux of the revised strategy. Inputs of the expert panel headed by Dr (VK) Paul will also be included,” said Dev said, adding that the Delhi administration will now work on the new road map with the Union home and health ministries. People familiar with the matter said the Delhi administration was advised to launch targeted RT-PCR testing to cover sensitive, high-risk locations such as railway stations, interstate bus terminuses, marketplaces, restaurants and salons.“Targeted testing is already being carried out, but a revised strategy will be prepared by the MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare), Delhi government, National Centre for Disease Control and Indian Council of Medical Research soon with suggestions from the expert panel. Delhi government officials informed in the meeting that targeted testing is being carried out at some level by setting camps at ISBTs, railway stations, markets and containment zones,” a Delhi government official said, asking not to be named.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.The surge in cases is not unexpected. In early October, a report by the expert committee on Covid-19 headed by Niti Aayog’s VK Paul cautioned that the Capital could face as many as 15,000 Covid-19 cases per day due to festival crowding and winter conditions. That perfect storm of factors now appears to be here: More people are crowding markets for festival shopping, winter conditions have set in and the air has become more polluted. The Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 is known to survive better in the cold, and pollution is a known risk factor, often also causing symptoms similar to a coronavirus infection, making people less likely to pay attention on time.This comes at a time when imposing another lockdown is being seen as highly unlikely given the economic damage done by the summer shutdown, although experts say there may be little else that authorities can do at this point.“A lockdown now might be effective in bringing down cases, but it will not be well accepted by people. The only way now to protect against infection is to ensure 100% mask wearing in public. We haven’t been able to do it so far and that is because people are just told they should wear mask. I believe they will be more willing to follow through if they are explained why it is necessary to wear mask and how it would protect them and their families,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.A second expert said the authorities must consider the option of bringing back some curbs like it has been done in other countries. “A study recently published in the Lancet that looks at such interventions found that shutting down schools and offices can effectively control infection. So, we need to keep schools and colleges closed. We should also close non-essential services such as cinema hall, restaurants and pubs. I would say even the metro because people are not following preventive measures in there too,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims).According to an official who asked not to be named, home secretary Bhalla and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday stressed on the need for the Delhi government to “substantially augment” bed and hospital facilities. “Different hospitals earlier showed variation in death rates. We told them to identify hospitals with higher death rates and take appropriate steps. It would be more helpful,” said the official. They also pointed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s IEC (inform-educate-communicate) campaign, asking Delhi officials to target people in the 20-40 age bracket since they seemed to be the ones stepping out most often.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-delhi-huddle-as-third-wave-gets-steeper/story-y3J5CM0rcXnGfDu0kUfHEN.html
03-11-2020||India||State of economy: Why it’s best to reserve conclusion||Most institutional and private forecasts expect the Indian economy to contract at a double-digit rate in the current fiscal year. This, despite the fact that the economy has been showing a sequential (month on month) improvement compared to the situation when it was locked down. However, some high frequency economic indicators suggest that not only is the economy showing sequential improvement, it might actually have surpassed last year’s levels, albeit in some areas. Does this mean that India’s economic performance will end up being better than projected?Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman hinted as much when she said last week that India’s economic growth could be negative or near-zero this year. A holistic reading of the statistics and expert opinion seem to suggest that one should wait for the ongoing festive season to end before reaching any conclusions on the economy’s growth prospects for the full year.1. October surprises pleasantlyAt least three economic indicators for the month of October suggest that economic activity received a big boost last month. Goods and Services Tax collections crossed the psychological ?1 lakh crore mark for the first time since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in the month of March. Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing reached its highest ever value of 58.9 in October. This is the third consecutive month when PMI manufacturing has shown a sequential improvement and stayed above 50. A PMI greater than 50 signifies coming expansion in economic activity. PMI services for October will be released over the next few days. It reached a value of 49.8 in September. October could be the first month after the lockdown when both PMI manufacturing and services are in the expansion zone. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (Nibri) increased to 84.4 for the week ending November 1, the highest value since the imposition of the lockdown; 100 indicates pre-pandemic levels of activity !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();2. Does a high PMI necessarily translate into high manufacturing growth?To be sure, PMI numbers do not capture economic activity in the entire economy and are based on responses of a few economic units. Whether or not there is a revival in manufacturing will be known only after the Gross Value Added (GVA) in manufacturing numbers are released. The September quarter numbers will be released by the end of November. How useful is PMI manufacturing in predicting movements in GVA manufacturing? An HT analysis of data since the quarter ending September 2013 (the earliest period for which data is available at the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy database) shows that PMI being in the expansion zone does not guarantee a high growth rate in GVA manufacturing. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); If one were to exclude the June 2020 quarter, GVA manufacturing contracted in four quarters during this period: June 2017 and three consecutive quarters from September 2019 to March 2020. In each of these quarters, the average value of PMI manufacturing was greater than 50. On the other hand, even though PMI manufacturing was less than 50 in the quarter ending September 2013, manufacturing grew at 3.65%. This fact underlines the need for caution in taking a manufacturing revival for granted because of a buoyancy in PMI numbers3. Is the government generating economic headwinds instead of tailwinds?That the central government’s fiscal response to the pandemic’s economic shock has been inadequate in terms of direct fiscal stimuli is accepted by most observers. To be sure, the fiscal year is still not over, and the finance minister in an interview to HT said that she is open to the possibility of a second stimulus to the economy. Central government accounts until September, the latest period for which data is available with the finance ministry, suggest that the government is cutting back on fiscal support rather than enhancing it. Total spending by the central government in the months of August and September was lower than it was in the corresponding period last year. The shortfall in capital expenditure, which is more critical in generating long-term growth, is bigger. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Experts are sceptical about a second fiscal stimulus. A research note issued on November 2, by Samiran Chakraborty, chief economist at Citigroup Global Marekts India Pvt Ltd, said: “There is some market expectation that as the economy has opened up more now, the government would be in a position to announce another round of stimulus. We have been mostly of the view that the government has a conservative fiscal stance and was not building in large fiscal stimulus in our forecasts. With the February 2021 budget making process starting in November, the focus of any further fiscal action could be deferred to the February budget. We are now biased towards any fiscal action to favour infra spending rather than of the populist/redistributive variety. In our view, the govt needs to first spend the budgeted amount.”4. What about demand?The only long-term driver of sustained economic growth is demand. It is on this front that uncertainty remains. October and November could see a one-time boost in spending because of the festive demand. A good kharif harvest, which is already underway in most parts of the country, could signal a sustained rural boost to demand in the economy. But there is also the question of the employment generation ability of the ongoing sequential recovery.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();For example, the press release issued by IHS Markit, the agency which conducts the PMI survey, says that even though the PMI value has been increasing, October was the seventh consecutive month of fall in employment numbers. A fall in employment also means falling incomes and therefore demand, which could jeopardise future growth. The December round of RBI’s Consumer Confidence Survey, which includes indicators on both essential and non-essential consumer spending, will offer a crucial insight on what is happening to consumer demand in the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-of-economy-why-it-s-best-to-reserve-conclusion/story-0ozYTDXR1g2sXQMXo6cFEN.html
03-11-2020||India||Illicit liquor weakens prohibition impact in Bihar||In December 2012, the woman of Konar, a nondescript village 12 kms from Sasaram, found that young children were drinking liquor out of pouches strewn everywhere. The Bihar government had recently permitted liquor stores in every panchayat, angering local women who said they were regularly molested by drunken men, especially after dark.Earlier that month, a medical student was brutally gang raped and attacked in Delhi; as news of the violent crime reached Konar, it galvanised the woman who mostly came from marginalised communities. They organised themselves into groups and started demonstrating for a ban on the sale of liquor. “Liquor was one of the reasons for the gang rape episode in Delhi. So, after receiving numerous complaints from rural women, who were silently suffering the daily taunts, we decided to begin an agitation,” said Sunita Devi, the founder of Pragatisheel Mahila Manch (PMM), a social platform floated by women against alcoholism. The movement started in Konar spread like wildfire across the state with thousands of women and activists holding demonstrations across the state, demanding prohibition. Women came out on the streets and thronged political meetings, with slogans against liquor. “We opposed the policy of the state government to issue liberally permission for liquor shops in every panchayat. This ruined the youth and children,” added Devi. In the 2015 assembly election, prohibition was one of the key election issues and a central plank of chief minister Nitish Kumar. The buzz around the demand helped push up women voter turnout to 59.92%. In at least 30 assembly constituencies, the turnout of women voters crossed 70%. After Nitish Kumar -- who was with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) at the time -- came back to power, he quickly instituted a slew of measures such as 35% reservation for women in state government jobs and panchayat bodies, and free bicycles and school dress to girls. And then, in April 2016, Bihar banned the sale and storage of liquor, becoming the second state after Gujarat to completely impose prohibition. Four years later as another assembly election comes around, the women of Konar are ambivalent about the impact of their movement because they feel a thriving illicit liquor mafia has undercut its achievements. “We cannot forget the days when most of our family income was spent on liquor. That changed after prohibition. However, things are back to square one now, albeit illegally. The ban has remained only on paper and liquor smuggling is rampant,” said Phudena Devi who actively organised the anti-liquor protests in 2012 and 2013. .Shanti Devi, of neighbouring Sitabigha village, agreed. She said the village lost 100 men to illicit liquor in the last six-seven years. “The purpose of our agitation has been lost. People are now indulging in illegal trade of liquor. Some poor children are also involved in it,” she alleged.In four years, Bihar confiscated 41.06 lakh litres of IMFL and country made liquor, often hiring road rollers to smash bottles of liquor. But experts warned that only a small fraction of the smuggled liquor was being seized; even then, in many cases, bottles disappeared from police godowns -- in 2018,police in Kaimur district claimed that rats drank 11,000 litres of smuggled alcohol. For Santi Devi, the liquor ban yielded mixed results. “Alcohol is easily available for anyone who wants to drink,” she said. “Still there are instances of domestic violence. But it is not as brazen as it used to be and it has helped families,” she added. The support base of women voters, which boosted Kumar in 2015, is also sore about the economic crash and migrant crisis during the nationwide lockdown earlier this year. “Nitish only got support from the rural women. Women belonging to middle and upper class were not with him when he announced prohibition. The rural women who backed him, have become vocal critics due to loss of jobs of their male family members during the lockdown,” said DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute for Social Studies. Shefali Roy, professor of political science at Patna University, said the enthusiasm of women voters -- visible in 2015 -- was missing this time. “The silent force behind Nitish Kumar’s victory was the women during the last elections. In gratification to the move of banning alcohol, women outnumbered men in the voting process. However, this was quite a transitory period. Very soon women realised their mistake, when illegal consumption and sale of alcohol made headlines,” she said. Janata Dal (United ) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said women voters continued to stand with Kumar. “Women voters began associating with Nitish Kumar ever since he began empowering them. The improvement of law and order has had its effect on them in rural areas as well. Prohibition further strengthened their faith in Nitish Kumar. We are sure, they (the women) will stand by us,” he said. “The purpose of prohibition has not been served. Women are also disillusioned by this falsehood. They are also fed up with rampant illegal sale of liquor. So, we don’t see any gain to Nitish Kumar from this law,” said Premchandra Mishra, Congress MLC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illicit-liquor-weakens-prohibition-impact-in-bihar/story-lcupFWM3bTZXf4NuWPqRPI.html
03-11-2020||India||Centre, Delhi huddle as third wave gets steeper||: Delhi broke its record for the highest number of Covid-19 cases to be added on a weekend, data released on Monday showed, as alarm grows over the scale of the outbreak in the Capital, forcing top officials from the Union and the Delhi governments to meet on Monday and discuss a recalibration of testing, treating and surveillance strategies.In a meeting of top bureaucrats from the Union home ministry, Union health ministry, Niti Aayog, the Delhi government, and Delhi Police, to review the situation, the central officials stressed on the need to make testing more pinpointed, and called new awareness campaigns targeted at people in the 20-40 age bracket at a time when people have started moving about more freely and “pandemic fatigue” has started to set in. Several indicators now reinforce the fact that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,269 cases on average every day, the highest this number has been since the first case was recorded on March 2. Peak seven-day average was at 4,174 at the height of the second wave on September 17 and 3,446 at the height of the first, which was on June 26.Similarly, the proportion of tests that turned positive was at 10.91%, according to Monday’s data. Taken as an average over the week, the test positivity rate is 10.3% – a jump of 5 percentage points in less than a month (it was 5.3% on October 8) as the proportion of more accurate molecular RT-PCR tests has increased.The trend is well reflected in Sunday numbers – from 1,947 new cases in the 24 hours ending October 4, this number grew to more than double for the corresponding period on November 1 to 4,001. Sundays follow a distinct pattern from other days of the week since there are fewer tests done, and though the total case load is suppressed, offer a good yardstick of the growth of the disease.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev, who was a part of Monday’s meeting headed by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, said a revised strategy was now being devised to handle the spread of the deadly pathogen.“The recent surge in the number of active cases was attributed to the festival season, which has witnessed greater movement of people, accompanied by laxity in adhering to the basic principles of safe Covid behaviour,” the Union home ministry said in a statement following the meeting on Monday.“Testing, tracing, surveillance, hospital management and IEC-cum-enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour will be the crux of the revised strategy. Inputs of the expert panel headed by Dr (VK) Paul will also be included,” said Dev said, adding that the Delhi administration will now work on the new road map with the Union home and health ministries. People familiar with the matter said the Delhi administration was advised to launch targeted RT-PCR testing to cover sensitive, high-risk locations such as railway stations, interstate bus terminuses, marketplaces, restaurants and salons.“Targeted testing is already being carried out, but a revised strategy will be prepared by the MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare), Delhi government, National Centre for Disease Control and Indian Council of Medical Research soon with suggestions from the expert panel. Delhi government officials informed in the meeting that targeted testing is being carried out at some level by setting camps at ISBTs, railway stations, markets and containment zones,” a Delhi government official said, asking not to be named.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.The surge in cases is not unexpected. In early October, a report by the expert committee on Covid-19 headed by Niti Aayog’s VK Paul cautioned that the Capital could face as many as 15,000 Covid-19 cases per day due to festival crowding and winter conditions.That perfect storm of factors now appears to be here: More people are crowding markets for festival shopping, winter conditions have set in and the air has become more polluted. The Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 is known to survive better in the cold, and pollution is a known risk factor, often also causing symptoms similar to a coronavirus infection, making people less likely to pay attention on time.This comes at a time when imposing another lockdown is being seen as highly unlikely given the economic damage done by the summer shutdown, although experts say there may be little else that authorities can do at this point.“A lockdown now might be effective in bringing down cases, but it will not be well accepted by people. The only way now to protect against infection is to ensure 100% mask wearing in public. We haven’t been able to do it so far and that is because people are just told they should wear mask. I believe they will be more willing to follow through if they are explained why it is necessary to wear mask and how it would protect them and their families,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.A second expert said the authorities must consider the option of bringing back some curbs like it has been done in other countries. “A study recently published in the Lancet that looks at such interventions found that shutting down schools and offices can effectively control infection. So, we need to keep schools and colleges closed. We should also close non-essential services such as cinema hall, restaurants and pubs. I would say even the metro because people are not following preventive measures in there too,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims).According to an official who asked not to be named, home secretary Bhalla and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday stressed on the need for the Delhi government to “substantially augment” bed and hospital facilities. “Different hospitals earlier showed variation in death rates. We told them to identify hospitals with higher death rates and take appropriate steps. It would be more helpful,” said the official. They also pointed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s IEC (inform-educate-communicate) campaign, asking Delhi officials to target people in the 20-40 age bracket since they seemed to be the ones stepping out most often.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-delhi-huddle-as-third-wave-gets-steeper/story-eBlSO8pKi6Mqb5tv94FeIL.html
03-11-2020||India||Delhi, Jaipur among 26 cities facing grave water risk: Study||Delhi, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Amritsar and 26 other Indian cities could face a very high water risk in the next few decades according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature’s Water Risk Filter released on Monday. WWF’s new water risk scenarios estimate that hundreds of millions of people in cities across the globe could face dramatically increased water risks – unless urgent action is taken to mitigate and adapt to climate change.The filter is a tool to various risks including physical scarcity of water due to say aridity; water depletion; pollution etc, fragmentation of river ecosystems; projections for flooding, regulatory and policy risks, climate change etc. Overall, the entire India is at high risk due to various factors as per the assessment’s mapping. By 2050, many parts of India including north, west and peninsular India are likely to experience extreme water risk.WWF Water Risk Filter’s country profile for India states that major environmental problems like deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; desertification; air pollution from industrial effluents and vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage and runoff of agricultural pesticides impact water quality in India.Sejal Worah, Programme Director, WWF India, said “The future of India’s environment lies in its cities. As India rapidly urbanises, cities will be at the forefront both for India’s growth and for sustainability. For cities to break away from the current vicious loop of flooding and water scarcity, nature-based solutions like restoration of urban watersheds and wetlands could offer solutions. This is our chance to re-evolve and re-imagine what the future of the cities could be.”“Although in their upper reaches most rivers are of good quality, the importance of water use for cities, agriculture and industries, and the lack of wastewater treatment plants in the middle and lower reaches of most rivers, cause a major degradation of surface water quality,” the country profile states.According to the scenarios in the WWF Water Risk Filter, 100 cities that are expected to suffer the greatest rise in water risk by 2050 are home to at least 350 million people as well as nationally and globally important economies. Populations in areas of high-water risk could rise from 17% in 2020 to 51% by 2050. China accounts for almost half of the cities at high water risk. Beijing, Jakarta, Johannesburg, Istanbul, Hong Kong, Mecca and Rio de Janeiro are also in the list.“Indian cities are at very high water risk because in the landscape planning high rises and industries but there is no holistic planning. Ecological factors are not properly considered during city planning. So the water catchments and flow lines change due to urbanisation. There is a very fragile equilibrium which has to be maintained. This is particularly true for new cities that are coming up with little planning,” said Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor, department of geology, Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-jaipur-among-26-cities-facing-grave-water-risk-study/story-FoCu6mN03DyqbCOCnV019M.html
03-11-2020||India||Judges need gender sensitisation, says Attorney general KK Venugopal||Attorney general KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Monday that a recent direction given by a high court judge asking an alleged molester to get a “rakhi” tied by his victim if he wanted bail needs to be condemned as the judge was indulging in “plain drama”. During the festival of Raksha Bandhan, sisters tie rakhis on the wrist of their brothers. Venugopal cited the example to stress on the imperative for gender sensitisation of judicial officers so as to arrest a trend of judges trivialising sexual offences and harming the dignity of victims. He agreed to give suggestions for the court to pass an order sending out the message that orders such as the “rakhi” one are not permissible.The country’s top law officer was assisting the court in a petition filed by nine women lawyers who appealed against a July 30 order of a Madhya Pradesh high court judge giving bail to a sexual offender on the condition that he would request the woman to tie a rakhi on his wrist on Raksha Bandhan and promise to protect her dignity in the future. The Supreme Court heard the petition on October 16 and requested Venugopal to assist it on the question of whether an order could be passed against judges from passing similar rulings. The petition, filed by advocate Aparna Bhatt, listed several instances where high courts and trial courts had been insensitive to the plight of the victim while passing such orders. Venugopal said: “This petition serves as an opportunity for the court to educate judges of subordinate courts and high courts on the issue of gender sensitisation. This should be introduced at the time of their recruitment. This is necessary as it could be one way to lay down (for judges) what is permissible and (what is) non-permissible.”On the July 30 order passed by the MP high court judge, Venugopal said: “On the face of it, the judge seems to have got carried away. The judge should have restricted himself to facts of the case. There are judgments of the court providing restraint on judges while dealing with cases. All this seems to be plain drama and it has to be condemned.”The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari, and Sanjeev Khanna asked the A-G and other lawyers appearing in the case to submit a short note on the conditions that could be made part of a judicial order laying down “permissible” standards. “The discretion on imposing conditions for bail need to be delineated. Once what is permissible is defined, then automatically everything outside it will be impermissible.”Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh representing the nine woman petitioners, pointed out during the previous hearing that orders such as the Madhya Pradesh one, are totally against the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). “The judge is aiming at reconciliation when the accused in sexual crimes need to be severely dealt with,” Parikh said. Violence against women, particularly sexual violence, is an extremely serious offence and needs to be dealt with strongly by the courts, the petition stated.The petition also annexed a Karnataka high court order of June 22, questioning the character of the woman who alleged a man of raping her in the office after she had a few drinks with him. The order was modified after widespread protests. On September 2, the Madhya Pradesh high court granted bail to a rapist who said he wanted to marry the victim. Supporting the petition, an application moved by a retired judge and a senior lawyer was also heard by the Supreme Court. The application pointed out similar instances where HCs and trial judges have made objectionable statements that tend to dilute or obliterate the heinousness of the crime, thus favouring the accused to get the benefit of acquittal or imposition of lesser sentence. The application was argued by senior advocate Dushyant Dave. The bench posted the matter for hearing on November 27. The A-G and other lawyers appearing in the case agreed to supply short notes to the court indicating the conditions not to be imposed by judges while granting bail in sexual offences. “Admitting a problem exits is the beginning of finding a solution to the problem of bias against women. The statement of the Attorney General is a beginning of the solution as he has candidly admitted the need for sensitisation of judges on the issue of sexual violence. I welcome his statement drawing attention to the real problem. Women are held responsible for their own sexual abuse on the ground that they somehow asked for it . There is only one solution to the problem “mind your language”. Training training and more training is the only solution to the problem. While training of police has received some attention, but training of judges has not. But training by itself is not enough. We need binding guidelines of dos and don’ts for judges, when it comes to gender-based violence, by the Supreme Court. We need a gender audit of our courts. We need to clean up the language of gender bias and replace it with the language of rights of women to rights of women to the autonomy of decision making and the right to non-discrimination based on sex. This will mean holding perpetrators accountable for their crime not tying rakhi’s around their victims,” said lawyer-activist Indira Jaising.“The suggestions made by the A-G are very significant and need to be adopted. After all, gender justice is inherent in the constitutional principles of equality and non-discrimination. An orientation towards viewing women as equal citizens entitled to all freedoms and rights should be a mandatory non- negotiable for all judicial officers,” said advocate Vrinda Grover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-need-gender-sensitisation-says-ag/story-v7r9jMOGv6vcJGUBc1PgPM.html
03-11-2020||India||Hathras case: Allahabad HC orders CBI to file status report by November 25||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file a status report on the investigation into the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras by November 25, when the case will be taken up hearing.The high court order came on a day when the Uttar Pradesh government filed an affidavit in the court regarding the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be adopted when dealing with incidents such as the one in Hathras, including cremation and burial of the dead. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar and the former superintendent of police Vikram Vir, who was suspended from service on October 2 till further orders, also appeared before the court and submitted their affidavits. A two-judge bench of justices Pankaj Mithal and Rajan Roy heard CBI counsel SP Raju, who is also the additional solicitor general of the central government, and Uttar Pradesh additional advocate general Vinod Kumar Shahi.“The government has submitted an affidavit regarding SOPs to be adopted to deal with Hathras-like incidents, which includes cremation and burial of the dead,” said Shahi, adding that this was subject to the court’s approval. He did not give details of what the SOPs are. The state government also informed the HC that Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel have been deployed at the victim’s home in Hathras as per the directions of the Supreme Court, and a compensation of ₹25 lakh had also been transferred to the bank account of the victim’s father.Advocate Seema Kushwaha, who appeared on behalf of the victim’s family, requested the court for a permanent residence for the family members of the victim in Delhi and a job for one family member.While additional director general of police (law and order) Praveen Kumar and secretary (home) Tarun Gaba appeared before the court on behalf of the state government, senior advocate Jaideep Narain Mathur appeared as amicus curiae (friend of the court). On September 14, the 19-year-old Dalit victim was raped by four members of the Thakur caste in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29.At 2.30am the next day, the police forcibly cremated the body without the family’s consent in a field near the village. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”. On October 12, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court criticised the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to forcibly cremate the Dalit rape victim.So far, UP Police has arrested four upper-caste men -- Sandeep Singh, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush Sikarwar – for their alleged role in the incident. The accused are lodged in Delhi’s Alipur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-hc-orders-cbi-to-file-status-report-by-nov-25/story-OMkOl1HbaoGc25yOmK7wEN.html
03-11-2020||India||No manufacturing units in new industrial areas: Arvind Kejriwal||No manufacturing unit will be allowed in any new industrial area in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, announcing what he called a “historic and significant” step aimed at reducing pollution levels in the national capital in the long run. Only high-tech and services industries will be permitted in these areas and they will be offered space at cheaper rates, he said at an online press briefing, hoping that the move will also boost Delhi’s economy by attracting firms that would have otherwise preferred the satellites towns of Noida and Gurugram. He also said the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs has approved the proposal by changing the definition of “industries” in the Delhi Master Plan 2021, which lays down the development vision for the city, and issued a notification on October 29 allowing information technology (IT) firms, media companies, knowledge parks, research and development (R&D) centres, vocational training centres and even educational institutes in new industrial areas. Previously, only manufacturing units were allowed at such sites. “Delhi will be able to get rid of polluting industries within its industrial areas. We shared the proposal with the Centre three-four years ago. I want to personally thank Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who took this historic step for Delhi. This will be an important step in creating a pollution-free and neat, clean and green Delhi,” Kejriwal said.  He added that the manufacturing units in Delhi’s existing 29 industrial areas will continue to operate, but they will have the option to shift to hi-tech or service sector activities. The new rule will be effective only for the new industrial areas, which, as of now, include a proposed multi-level industrial hub at Ranikhera, a knowledge park at Baprola and a 920-acre integrated industrial township in northwest Delhi’s Kanjhawala, a senior government official said. In all, these three proposed industrial areas will be able to house at least 7,000 units. The official, who did not want to be named, said new licenses for manufacturing units in the already operational industrial areas such as Narela and Bawana will continue to be issued. Apart from the 29 existing industrial areas, there are four full-flatted factory complexes, from where a number of industries, including manufacturing units, operate. Besides, there are also 24 industrial clusters, which have been notified for redevelopment under the Master Plan. In total, there are around 75,000 industrial units operating in Delhi, according to the official cited above. “The units operating from these areas deal in iron, steel, plastic and so on, which are major sources of pollution in the national capital. The existing rules of setting up a factory will continue to apply in all these old areas. But factories here will now have an additional option to shift to hi-tech or service industry. “It is only in the three planned upcoming industrial areas that only hi-tech and service industries will be allowed. These upcoming areas have also got relaxation in building heights. Compared to the existing rule of six-storey (buildings), we will be able to build even eight-storey (buildings) or more depending on clearance…,” said the official. At his online briefing, Kejriwal reiterated that the “landmark” move will help control the problem of pollution in the city, which faces a public health emergency triggered by toxic air every year during the festival season and the winter months. “In the coming days, we hope that all these manufacturing industries will be shut down and more and more service industries will be opened in Delhi. The main economy of Delhi is service-based. All the service-based industries were earlier in the office category in Delhi and could only be opened in commercial areas. The rates in commercial areas were very high…These offices earlier preferred Gurugram and Noida, and not Delhi,” Kejriwal said. He added that now office-owners will not have to shift to others cities and that they will be able to avail cheap and spacious locations in Delhi’s industrial areas. Chartered accountants, lawyers, media companies, hardware and software firms, industries integrating and manipulating the interfaces of computer and telecom facilities, customer interaction services, finance and accounting, ad and marketing agencies, placement services and equity research services are some of the businesses that are allowed to set up shop in the new industrial areas. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the decision can help reduce local air pollution in the long run. “But as seen earlier, moving polluting units out-shifts pollution across the border, but it stays in the air-shed of the region. Delhi will also have to address small-scale and informal industrial units and recyclers in other areas that do not have access to clean fuels and pollution control technologies,” she said. Roychowdhury added that Delhi will have to implement its policy on approved clean fuels with zero tolerance in the informal sector. “Also, open burning of industrial hazardous waste, as noted in Mundka and Bawana areas, are of serious concern. This initiative should be taken forward to ensure access to affordable clean fuels and compliance across the industry sector in the entire NCR (National Capital Region),” she said. R K Gupta, the general secretary of the Mayapuri Industrial Welfare Association, said it has come as a setback for the manufacturing industry.”The priority of the government is GST collections and since Delhi is a large market area, there is no problem on that front. The dispensation is not very industry-friendly,” he claimed.Ashok Gupta from the traders’ association in Karawal Nagar said the issue of air pollution has to be dealt with a heavy hand.“Everyone is reeling under the effects of extreme pollution. There is no doubt about it. The manufacturing industries can come up outside Delhi. There is no problem in that,” he said.Brijesh Goyal, the Delhi convenor of AAP’s trade and industry wing, said there are around 3.5 lakh small and big manufacturing units in the national capital.He said the government’s move will generate employment and increase the government’s tax collection. “This is a good step that the service sector will be recognised as an industry. No action will be taken against the existing manufacturing units,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-manufacturing-units-in-new-industrial-areas-kejriwal/story-u3ix0w9GvSniciXknDPDBP.html
03-11-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: 28 Assembly seats to witness contest||Bypolls in 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh will be held on Tuesday, amid speculation over the prospects of supporters of Congressman-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who are in the poll arena on BJP ticket.Bypolls for 54 Assembly seats in 10 states are being held on Tuesday and Madhya Pradesh accounts for almost half of these seats.The by-elections in Madhya Pradesh were necessitated after 22 MLAs of the erstwhile Congress government switched over to the BJP in March 2020, leading to the fall of Kamal Naths 15-month-old government.Three other Congress MLAs followed the lead of Scindia and his supporters, and joined the BJP. Another three seats in the Assembly are vacant due to the deaths of incumbent MLAs.Voting for by-elections in Madhya Pradesh will be held from 7 am to 6 pm on Tuesday while adhering to the Covid-19 restrictions, an official said on Monday.The last hour of voting will be for Covid-19 patients and people suspected to be suffering from the disease, state additional chief electoral officer Arun Tomar told PTI.A total of 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, are in the fray for bypolls to 28 seats in the state.Around 33,000 security personnel have been deployed in 19 districts where these constituencies fall and all preparations have been made to hold free and fair polls, the official said.He said 250 flying squads, 173 static surveillance teams and 293 police check-posts have been pressed into service.There are total 63.67 lakh voters in the 28 Assembly constituencies, he said.As many as 9,361 booths have been set up for people to exercise their franchise and out of these, 3,038 are placed under the ‘critical’ category, he added.Campaigning for the bypolls was marked by acrimonious exchanges between the main rivals BJP and Congress.In most of the seats, there is a direct fight between the BJP and Congress, while in two or three seats of Gwalior Chambal region, a triangular contest is on the cards in the wake of the BSP’s presence there, political observers said.Also Read | In Madhya Pradesh manifesto, BJP pledges free vaccineMadhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, state BJP chief V D Sharma, and former chief minister Uma Bharti were BJP’s prominent campaigners.State Congress president and former CM Kamal Nath, Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh and party leader from Rajasthan Sachin Pilot toured the state to campaign for Congress nominees.It is for the first time in Madhya Pradesh that bypolls are being held in as many as 28 Assembly seats in the 230-member House in one go, an official said.Congress MLAs who quit from 25 seats are now in the fray as BJP candidates. One more Congress MLA resigned recently.The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House.The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-28-assembly-seats-to-witness-contest/story-ZaspWcb4IywVo58KUt9KGM.html
03-11-2020||India||Bypolls: 54 seats in 10 states to witness voting amid Covid-19 precautions, crucial contest in Madhya Pradesh||Voting will be held on Tuesday for by-elections to 54 assembly constituencies in 10 states including 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh where the BJP is locked in a keenly-fought contest with the Congress to save its government. Extensive arrangements have been made due to the Covid-19 pandemic including personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for election staff, more polling booths, thermal screening, sanitisers, masks and gloves for voters and markings to ensure social distancing, officials said. Voting will be held from 7 AM to 6 PM, except in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Nagaland where the timings are different, and the number of people allowed in a polling booth has been restricted. Voters who are Covid-19 positive will be allowed to vote separately in the last hour, officials said. Counting of votes will be held on November 10. All eyes are riveted on Madhya Pradesh where the BJP which has 107 MLAs in the assembly, with an effective strength of 229, needs at least eight more MLAs for a simple majority.The stakes are high for the Congress too as it had sitting MLAs in 27 seats out of 28 in the state. Twenty-five of them had resigned early this year and joined the BJP after a rebellion by Jyotiraditya Scindia, leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath Government. They are now in the fray as BJP candidates, while in three other seats the by-election was necessitated due to the demise of the sitting legislators. Overall, the Congress had sitting MLAs in 38 seats out of the 54, while the BJP had eight. The saffron party is fielding 31 candidates in MP, Gujarat and Karnataka who had won from the Congress ticket but switched sides and resigned, necessitating the byelections in those seats. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP, which has a comfortable majority in the Assembly, is locked in a battle of prestige on the seven seats – six of which it had won in the last election while one was with the Samajwadi Party. In Gujarat, the bypolls are being held in eight seats after the Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls in June this year. Five of them later joined the ruling BJP and are contesting again. Assembly bypolls will also be held in Chhattisgarh (1 seat), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (2), Karnataka (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (2) and Telangana (1).Also Read | 11 states to go to by-polls on Tuesday; keen contest in MP, UP, Gujarat, Karnataka A total of 355 candidates, including 12 state ministers, are contesting in Madhya Pradesh, where bypolls are being held for so many seats in one go for the first time. In most of the seats, there is a direct fight between the BJP and Congress, while in two or three seats of the Gwalior Chambal region, a triangular contest is on the cards in the wake of the BSP’s presence there, political observers said. Around 33,000 security personnel have been deployed in 19 districts where these constituencies fall. There are a total of 63.67 lakh voters. BJP and Congress workers clashed on Monday in bypoll-bound Badnawar in Dhar district, leaving six with minor injuries, police said. As many as 9,361 booths have been set up for people to exercise their franchise and out of these, 3,038 are placed under the ‘critical’ category. There are 88 candidates in seven seats in Uttar Pradesh. The bypolls will also be the first electoral test for the Azad Samaj Party, which evolved from the political movement of the Bhim Army led by Chandrashekhar Azad. The Azad Samaj Party has fielded Md Yameen as its candidate from Bulandshahr. The seven assembly seats include Naugaon Sadat, which fell vacant after the death of cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan. The BJP has fielded his wife Sangeeta Chauhan for the bypolls. In Ghatampur (Kanpur), the bypolls were necessitated due to the death of sitting MLA and cabinet minister Kamal Rani Varun. Chetan Chauhan and Kamal Rani Varun had succumbed to Covid-19. The Bangarmau (Unnao) seat fell vacant following the conviction of Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. A total of 81 candidates are there in the eight seats in Gujarat, which collectively have 18.75 lakh voters, state Chief Electoral Officer S Murali Krishna told reporters in Gandhinagar. The voting process would also be webcast live from 900 polling booths, the official said. In Karnataka, voting will be held in Rajarajeshwari Nagar in Bengaluru Urban district and Sira in Tumakuru district, where a total of 31 candidates are fighting.Also Read | BS Yediyurappa promises cabinet expansion soon after assembly bypolls They have 6,78,012 voters including 3,26,114 women. The death of Sira MLA B Satyanarayana, who was from the JD(S), and the resignation of RR Nagar Congress MLA Munirathna from the assembly, last year, led to the bye-elections. In RR Nagar, the BJP has fielded former Congress MLA Munirathna whereas the Congress has given ticket to H Kusuma, wife of former IAS officer late D K Ravi in the seat traditionally held by the party. The JD(S) has fielded V Krishnamurthy. The RR Nagar has become a prestigious issue for both the Congress and the BJP. The BJP had earlier held this constituency, which Munirathna had wrested as the Congress MLA. The constituency is part of the Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha constituency which is represented by D K Suresh, who is the brother of Congress state chief D K Shivakumar. In Sira, the BJP, Congress and JD(S) have fielded radiologist Dr Rakesh Gowda, former minister T B Jayachandra and former (JD-S) MLA B Satyanarayana’s wife Ammajamma respectively. The BJP has never won the election from there, but this time, the party is trying to turn the tables on the Congress and the JD(S). Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son and BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra led the election campaign here. In Chhattisgarh, voting in Marwahi assembly bypolls, earlier represented by veteran leader Ajit Jogi, would be held with a straight fight between the ruling Congress and the main opposition BJP. Polling will be held between 8 AM and 6 PM and all Covid-19-related guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) will be strictly followed, officials said. The bypoll for the Scheduled Tribes (ST)-reserved constituency was necessitated following the death of sitting JCC (J) legislator and former chief minister Ajit Jogi on May 29. The seat will this time see a fight between the Congress and the BJP after the nomination papers of Amit Jogi, the son of Ajit Jogi, and his wife Richa were rejected by the returning officer, who said their caste certificates were invalid. A total of 1.80 lakh eligible voters will decide the fate of 14 candidates, including wrestler and BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, in the Baroda assembly bypolls in Haryana. The Baroda seat fell vacant in April after the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda, who had won the seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls.” In Telangana’s Dubbak Assembly, though over 20 candidates are in the fray, the main contest is among the candidates of the TRS, BJP and the Congress. The byelection is necessitated by the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy due to health problems in August this year and the TRS has fielded his widow Solipeta Sujatha as its candidate. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s home turf Dumka will see a contest between his younger brother Basant Soren and former cabinet minister Lois Marandi of the BJP. It is expected to be a straight fight between BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahato and Anup Singh of the Congress in Bermo seat in Bokaro district. In Odisha, the BJD and the BJP are fighting for Tirtol and Balasore seats won by the two parties, respectively, in the 2019 assembly elections. Altogether eight candidates are in contesting the by-election to two Assembly seats in Nagaland -- three from the Southern Angami-1 seat and five from Pungro-Kiphire constituency.Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) nominee Medo Yhokha, Opposition Naga Peoples Front (NPF) candidate Kikovi Kirha and Independent candidate Seyievilie Peter Zashumo are contesting from the 14-Southern Angami-I seat.Also Read | All Covid arrangements in place for Nagaland assembly bypolls, says CEO SinhaFor Pungro-Kiphire seat, the five candidates are Khaseo Anar of Congress party, BJP nominee Lirimong Sangtam and three Independent candidates - K Shellumthong, T. Yangseo Sangtam and Kiusumew Yimchunger. The Southern Angami-I seat fell vacant following the demise of Speaker of Nagaland Assembly, Vikho-o Yhoshu on December 30, 2019 due to lung cancer.The Pungro-Kiphire seat was declared vacant following the death of sitting opposition Naga Peoples Front MLA, T. Torechu after prolonged illness.The voting will be held from 6 AM to 4 PM in these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-in-india-54-seats-in-10-states-to-witness-voting-amid-covid-19-precautions-crucial-contest-in-madhya-pradesh/story-pYDrcAw6eaZH5wk2DAis6I.html
03-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh bypolls today, multi-corner contests to decide fate of 88 candidates||The multi-corner contests in the by-elections to seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh will be held on Tuesday (November 3) amid directives from the Election Commission of India (ECI) to strictly implement the Covid-19 guidelines during voting.The state’s chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said that 24.34 lakh voters, including 13.03 lakh men, 11.30 lakh women and 130 transgenders, will decide the fate of 88 candidates, including nine women, in the bypolls.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress have fielded candidates in all the seven constituencies - Naugawan Sadat (Amroha), Bulandshahr, Tundla (Firozabad), Bangarmau (Unnao), Ghatampur (Kanpur), Deoria and Malhani (Jaunpur). Though the campaigning ended on Sunday, the leaders of various political parties held press conferences and released press statements to woo the voters on Monday.Shukla said that the ECI has made elaborate arrangements to ensure the polling remains impartial and peaceful.Polling will begin at 7 am and continue till 6 pm. The personnel on duty will be equipped with protective gear, thermal scanners, face shields, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, gloves and sanitisers, said Shukla.The voters will undergo thermal scanning and a voter guide will be distributed at the polling stations on the dos and don’ts in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, he added.The ECI has set up 3,655 polling stations and 1,755 polling centres in the seven assembly segments. In view of the coronavirus disease pandemic, a maximum of 1,000 voters will be allowed at a polling station.In all, 5,127 EVM (electronic voting machine) control units, 6,710 EVM ballot units and 5,492 VVPAT (voter verified paper audit trail) machines will be used in the polling.The poll panel has deployed central paramilitary forces, appointed seven general observers, seven expenditure observers, 310 sector magistrates, 46 zonal magistrates, 76 static magistrates, 333 micro-observers for conducting peaceful and impartial polling, Shukla said.It will also conduct webcasting of polling at 371 critical booths in the seven assembly constituencies, said the returning officer.The highest number of candidates, 18, are in fray in Bulandshahar, 16 in Malhani, 14 each in Deoria and Naugawan Sadat, 10 each in Tundla and Bangarmau and six in Ghatampur.The Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Deoria and Malhani seats fell vacant after the death of sitting MLAs Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Prasanath Yadav respectively.Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of the then sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar following his conviction in a rape case on December 20, 2019.While six of these seats were held by the BJP, the SP bagged one seat in the 2017 assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-on-tuesday-muti-corner-contests-to-decide-fate-of-88-candidates/story-YECtBQ5Oki38CcAcrhE4XI.html
