04-11-2020||India||Siddaramaiah’s big prediction for BS Yediyurappa’s fate after bypoll results||Former chief minister and leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah on Wednesday claimed that chief minister BS Yediyurappa would be removed from the post by his party after bypoll results. Siddaramiah made this claim while speaking to reporters in Mysuru and said: ‘I am very confident that Yediyurappa will be moved out. I am saying this based on information I have from Delhi,” he added without revealing his sources.The Congress leader claimed that the corruption allegations he had made against the CM as well as the likely defeat in the bypolls would lead to a change in the leadership at the helm of the state. Reacting to Siddaramiah’s statement, chief minister Yediyurappa denied that any such change in leadership was in the offing and asked the opposition leader “to stop making irresponsible statements”.Yediyruappa also claimed that he was 100% confident of victory in both Sira and RR Nagar seats which went to bypolls. Responding to a question on the long-delayed cabinet expansion, the CM said if required he would “go to Delhi to meet the party high command after bypoll results”. The bypoll results are scheduled on 10 November.Meanwhile, the Karnataka unit of the BJP is holding a one-day meeting of its state executive committee in Mangalore on Thursday in which all senior leaders of the party, including the CM and state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel are participating. The meeting is likely to discuss various issues, including the current political scenario, in the state, implementation of the NEP, the flood situation in the state, a proposal to bring a law against ‘love-jihad’ as well as candidates for the one Lok Sabha, one Rajya Sabha and two assembly seats which are vacant and likely to face polls soon.The Belgavi Lok Sabha seat is vacant after Union minister Suresh Angadi succumbed to Covid. Similarly, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti too died due to the virus. Elections are likely to be held for the Maski and Basva Kalyan assembly seats. The executive committee is likely to recommend candidate names to the party high command for these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-s-big-prediction-for-bs-yediyurappa-s-fate-after-bypoll-results/story-hOu4B39zUbBtU8BSUl00tI.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami, 2 others sent to 14-day judicial custody in 2018 suicide abetment case||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others sent were to 14-day judicial custody in 2018 suicide abetment case by a Mumbai court late Wednesday night. Senior counsel and Arnab Goswami’s lawyer Abad Ponda, said that they have moved a bail application, which is likely to be heard on Thursday. Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai’s Lower Parel this morning in connection with the death of an interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. The 53-year-old interior designer had in his suicide note alleged that he and his mother were forced to ends their lives because he was not paid his dues worth to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda owners of two different firms, police said. The designer and his mother were found dead at their farmhouse in Kavir village of Alibaug Taluka in May 2018. The case, which was closed by Raigad Police in 2019, was reopened when Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by Naik’s daughter, Adnya.Goswami was taken to Alibaug near Mumbai in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, where he was later produced before a local court. The news anchor told the court that he was assaulted by the police personnel who came to arrest him following which he was taken back to the police station where a civil surgeon was asked to verify the claims. The court later rejected Goswami’s allegations.The officer, who had earlier investigated abetment to suicide case was also arrested by the police on Wednesday. He will face inquiry, police was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The investigating officer had filed a closure report, saying there was no evidence, PTI added.A fresh first information report (FIR) was also filed against the Republic TV editor, his wife and two others by the Mumbai Police on Wednesday evening for resisting police officials who came to arrest him in the morning.While the Maharashtra government and Opposition parties are at loggerheads over Goswami’s arrest, the interior designer’s family has hailed the move with his daughter saying “We can’t forget the year 2018. We want to thank Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-2-others-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-in-2018-suicide-abetment-case/story-U4xzxPeVfKfIb5IDhzy6iM.html
04-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik asks authorities to prevent second wave of Covid-19 in Odisha||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday told officials to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines in the state in order to avoid a second wave of infection after mid-December.Patnaik said this while reviewing the prevailing corona situation in the state. He said the state should remain on alert from today in order to avoid the second wave.“There should be no relaxation in implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines even as less positive cases are reported for some days,” he said.The chief minister directed officials to strictly enforce the pandemic restrictions in order to avoid the second wave of infection and further lockdown. He also asked the district collectors and SPs to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 norms.While thanking the people for adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines during the celebration of Durga Puja, Patnaik also appealed to the citizens to repeat the performance during the Diwali festival.He said to implement the curbs during the Diwali, observers will soon visit different districts. He said there is no opportunity to lower the guard at this juncture when the Covid-19 second wave has already hit places like Delhi, Kerala and several European countries.“We have to adhere to the guideline like mandatory mask wearing, maintain social distance and handwashing in order to avoid the second wave as well as possible lockdown like situation,” Patnaik said.Keeping in view the health complications in people after recovery from the Covid-19, the chief minister asked the Health and Family Welfare department to train para-medical staff and doctors to treat such cases.Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said a task force is formed to prepare a standard protocol for the care of the post Covid complications in the people.The chief minister said the economic activities should not slow down due to the pandemic and the officials must focus on livelihood schemes like MGNREGA, Mission Shakti and Urban Wage Employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-asks-authorities-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-in-odisha/story-MnQV5JeUruBIuP3MjmaiOK.html
04-11-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar, 2 others named in ED’s money laundering chargesheet||Twenty one months after a multi-agency probe was launched into the alleged irregularities in disbursement of loans by former ICICI Bank managing director (MD) Chanda Kochhar, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against the former top banker, her husband Deepak Kochhar and Videocon Group Chairman Venugopal Dhoot for allegedly using a web of companies to launder the money received as bribe from Videocon Group, people familiar with the development said. This is the first ever chargesheet against Chanda Kochhar, who had to step down in October 2018 from the ICICI Bank after allegations of multiple irregularities surfaced against her. The ED filed its chargesheet under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a Mumbai special court on Tuesday, listing evidence and details of companies which were used to launder the ill-gotten money, people cited above said.It took five huge trunks to carry documents in court along with the chargesheet.The court has listed the matter for November 11, asking all accused to be present. Deepak Kochhar was arrested by the ED on September 7. Currently, he is in judicial custody. Apart from Kochhars, at least half a dozen companies – including Deepak Kochhar’s NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL), Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) and Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd (SEPL) have also been named in the chargesheet. It also provides details about the companies directly or indirectly controlled by Kochhars. The ED probe has revealed that after ICICI Bank disbursed a loan of around Rs 300 crore - Rs 283.45 crore was the actual disbursed amount - to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) on September 7, 2009, Rs 64 crore were transferred to Kochhar’s company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) through Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd (SEPL) the very next day. NRL was started by Videocon’s founder, chairman and MD Venugopal Dhoot and Kochhar. Though initially, Dhoot had started SEPL, later he had transferred its control to Kochhar, said an official who didn’t wish to be named.“The accounting entries were made in the books of SEPL by creating provisioning of Rs 32 lakh (of the Rs 64 crore transferred by VIEL to NRL through SEPL) and its reversal follows a pattern of events in ICICI Bank pertaining to allegations against Chanda Kocchar,” said this officer. According to the second ED officer, “Chanda Kochhar was part of the decision-making process and chairperson/member of the recommending/sanctioning committees for other loans sanctioned to Videocon Group by ICICI Bank.”Kochhar’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said on Wednesday: “ED filing five trunks itself is an evidence that they do not have a case and that is why they are just creating a mountain of papers which is not worth even the ink and paper used.” Aggarwal had, last month, termed Deepak Kochhar’s arrest as illegal. Venugopal Dhoot refused to comment on the chargesheet. Investigation against Chanda Kochhar dates back to December 8, 2017, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first registered a preliminary enquiry against her to investigate the irregularities in loans disbursed by the private bank during her tenure. The central anti-corruption agency filed a First Information Report (FIR) naming her accused on January 1, 2019 and alleged that there were irregularities in six high value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore disbursed to Videocon group between June 2009 and October 2011.The CBI had also alleged that Kochhars got Rs 64 crore bribe from Dhoot, a day after the bank disbursed a loan of Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) on August 26, 2009. Based on the CBI FIR, the ED launched a money laundering probe in February 2019 and interrogated Chanda Kochhar on multiple occasions during which she claimed that she had nothing to do with her husband’s business. While taking custody of Deepak Kochhar in September this year, the ED had informed a court that an “elaborate web of entities” was used by him for laundering the bribe amount of Rs 64 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-2-others-named-in-ed-s-money-laundering-chargesheet/story-XL76tygEIVJ2NRDOIwKTxL.html
04-11-2020||India||ED summons Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday summoned Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran in connection with certain appointments in the information technology ministry.A political appointee, considered close to the CM, he was asked to appear in the ED office in Kochi on Friday. The summons came on the day the state government revoked the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation to file cases in the state. The CM’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, is in the custody of the ED in connection with the gold smuggling case. While investigating the gold smuggling case, probe agencies came across alleged irregularities and commissions in some other projects also. According to officials who are part of the multi-agency probe, Raveendran was summoned on the basis of the statement of Sivasankar. A party leader from Kannur (north Kerala), Raveendran had served under many ministers earlier. He was the secretary of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan when he was the home minister in the VS Achuthanandan government.When Sivasankar was arrested on October 28, the government quickly distanced itself from him but in Raveendran’s case it will be difficult for the party to drop him. Besides the government, the party (CPI(M) is also in big trouble after the arrest of secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drugs case. Kodiyeri courted trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture.”His name also figured prominently in the call list of Mohammad. In the remand report, the ED said he pumped in at least Rs 5 crore in drug business which began in 2015. Kodiyeri’s arrest has landed the ruling party in big embarrassment and there are reports his father expressed desire to quit but central leaders prevailed over him, saying it will give an impression that charges were right and the party knew about his shoddy deals. The ED had raided his house and seven other establishments close to him on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-s-additional-private-secretary/story-fRQSixO0ioNE5urbQzpaHL.html
04-11-2020||India||Maoist in jail for 6 years gets bail from Orissa High Court after SC nudge||A key Maoist leader, who has been in jail for six years, in Odisha was on Wednesday granted bail by the Orissa High Court, a week after the Supreme Court asked it to dispose of his bail petition expeditiously.The single judge bench of justice AK Mishra, granted bail to 47-year-old Nachika Linga’s lawyer Prashant Jena said the court did not set any conditions for his bail and left it to the trial court in Koraput for the same. Linga is likely to be released once the trial court executes the order.Linga, who headed the Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh, an overground organisation of CPI-Maoists in Narayanpatna and Bandhugaon blocks of Odisha’s Koraput district, had surrendered before the Odisha police in October 2014 near his village Podapadar. The Maoists, who had joined hands with Linga, had accused him of weakening the tribal agitation by joining hands with the BJD.A bonded labourer in Narayanpatna, Linga shot to prominence in 2006 when he formed the Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh that captured some 50 acres of non-tribal land in the Podapadar gram panchayat of Narayanpatna block of Koraput district. He was swiftly arrested and charged with several cases, including one of being a Maoist.He was acquitted of all charges in 2008. In 2008, he, along with some CMAS members, formed another outfit called Ghenua Bahini whose members wore red shirts and were armed with traditional tribal weapons like bows and arrows. His group forcibly encroached lands of non-tribals, snatched their valuables and left many of them homeless.In 2009, he became the most wanted man for the Odisha police when he launched an armed attack on Narayanpatna police station leading to police firing that resulted in death of two tribals and injury to the inspector of the police station. With the help of Maoists, he had almost become successful in turning Narayanpatna into a Maoist fortress till Odisha police struck back and took control of the area after three years.Of the 45 cases pending against him, Linga had been acquitted in 44 cases. The trial in the 2009 Narayanpatna police station attack is still going on.Linga’s lawyer Prashant Jena said he had first moved for bail petition before the Orissa HC in 2018 and then moved the SC in 2019 after his bail petition was rejected. The apex court in March this year had asked the trial court in Koraput to finish trial in the Narayanpatna case within six weeks or give him bail if the same could not be done in time. When the trial could not be finished within six weeks, Linga moved the trial court in Koraput seeking bail in April. However, the same was rejected amid Covid-19 lockdown. The case finally went up to SC which on October 28 ordered Orissa High Court to conduct the bail hearing as it concerned the liberty of a person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-in-jail-for-6-years-gets-bail-from-orissa-high-court/story-TbKt9Utt1Kw7qJALMWZpmK.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After TRP row, Govt sets up committee for ‘transparent’ ratings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After TRP manipulation row, Centre sets up committee for ‘transparent’ ratings The information and broadcasting ministry has set up a four-member committee to make “recommendations for a robust, transparent and accountable ratings system (for television) in India”. The committee consists of Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi V Vempatti, Dr Shailabh from IIT Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay from C-DOT and professor Pulak Ghosh from the Centre for Public Policy. It has to submit its report in two months. Read moreMan’s body in mortuary for 18 days as BJP and Trinamool slug it out in courtThe body of Madan Ghorui, a villager from Patashpur in East Midnapore district, is lying in a morgue since October 16 because of a legal battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government. Read moreRajnath Singh slams Congress’ ‘silence’ over Pak minister’s Pulwama boastDefence minister Rajnath Singh, during an election rally in Muzaffarpur for the third round of Bihar polls, on Wednesday slammed the Congress for having raised “doubts” on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s abilities in the aftermath of the Pulwama attack. Read moreSourav Ganguly hopeful of hosting next IPL in India but ‘yet to decide’ on mega auctionBCCI president Sourav Ganguly expressed hope that the next edition of IPL in April-May will be played in India. “Hopefully the vaccine will be out by that time and we can host it,” Ganguly told Hindustan Times in an interview.The current edition of IPL is being played in the UAE due to the pandemic situation in India. IPL 2020, the 13th edition of the tournament was originally planned in India from March 29 but had to be postponed till September and finally moved out of India and into UAE. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh shared her video dancing to GOAT. Now she shares her story with worldYou may have seen and marvelled at her dance videos on Instagram. You may even remember the video where she danced on Diljit Dosanjh’s GOAT that the singer himself shared on his Insta account. Now, dancer Ravi Bala Sharma, 62, has shared her story and what led to her posting dance videos on Instagram in a post shared on the Humans of Bombay (HOB) page. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sisters say that Rhea Chakraborty filed FIR against them to ‘wreak vengeance’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters -- Priyanka and Meetu Singh -- have issued a rejoinder to actor Rhea Chakraborty’s reply to their petition to quash an FIR against them. Rhea, who was dating Sushant at the time of his death, has accused them of illegally obtaining medicines for Sushant, days before his death by suicide. Read moreAmazon India partners with HP Gas to book, make payments for LPG cylindersAmazon India on Wednesday announced a partnership with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited. With this partnership, Amazon customers in India will be able to book and pay for their HP gas cylinder refills. Read moreKarwa Chauth 2020: Muhurat and city-wise moonrise time across IndiaKarwa Chauth is a major Hindu festival and this year it will take place today, November 4. The festival is observed by married women, predominantly in Northern India. On this day women fast from sunrise till sunset, without consuming even a drop of water, as prayer for the long lives of their husbands. Read moreNationalism, Patriotism and Polls: Shashi TharoorIn the midst of key elections in the US and India, comes a new book by Politician and author Shashi Tharoor. The book called ‘Battle of Belonging’ explores the differences between these ideas and how it is framing the political narrative right now. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-trp-row-govt-sets-up-committee-for-transparent-ratings-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0QpJ58oV61BcYEKwtXSVMP.html
04-11-2020||India||Second batch of IAF Rafale aircraft arrives in India from France||The second batch of Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets arrived in India directly from France on Wednesday.“Second batch of IAF #Rafale aircraft arrived in India at 8:14 pm on 04 Nov 20 after flying non-stop from France,” the IAF wrote on Twitter.  Second batch of IAF #Rafale aircraft arrived in India at 8:14 pm on 04 Nov 20 after flying non-stop from France.An official had earlier said, “The three jets will not have a stopover on their way. They will be refueled by French and Indian tankers during the journey. The jets are expected to reach Ambala after a one-day break at Jamnagar,” the officials said.The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF had reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10.An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, reviewed the progress of the Rafale project in France last month ahead of the arrival of the second batch of fighters, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 16. The arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan, officials had earlier said.The IAF is expecting three to four Rafale jets being delivered every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end.The Rafale fighters are the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997. They have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF.Rafale fighter jets are currently being operated in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China amid the border standoff. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-batch-of-iaf-rafale-aircraft-arrive-in-india-from-france/story-Mc1T57B3M5HLCleoYDxq3K.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Crossing all limits of decency’: Nadda lashes out at Amarinder Singh govt over protests against farm laws in Punjab||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has written a letter to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh about the ongoing protests in the state against the farm last passed by Parliament. In the letter, Nadda has held Amarinder government for the situation in the case and claimed it is not doing anything to control the protests.“You and your party started opposing these acts crossing all limits of decency and propriety. You and your party openly encouraged agitations against these acts in the state of Punjab, participated in dharnas and rallies and openly issued very provocative statements encouraging agitations against these acts,” Nadda said in the letter.“Your government added fuel to the fire by openly declaring that you will not lodge any FIR against the agitators, even if they indulge in road dharnas, Railway Tracks blocking etc,” he added. My response to open letter of Punjab CM @capt_amarinder ,that he had written to me on 1st November 2020, as per media reports, although till this moment I have not received any such letter from his side, still I am replying to his letter received by me through this media. (1/2) pic.twitter.com/olrOJNRrgpThe farmers have been protesting against the farm laws in Punjab since September 24 when they started blocking railway tracks and stations demanding repeal of the three agriculture related bills.The railways said on Wednesday that it has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore as protests on train tracks continued at 32 places across Punjab.According to data from the national transporter, over 2,225 freight rakes carrying vital commodities could not be operated till date due to the blockades caused by the protesters. Around 1,350 trains have been forced to be cancelled or diverted, it said.Nadda lashed out at Singh for allowing these protests. “Captain Amarinder Singh Ji, as the chief minister of the state, you would appreciate that no one can be allowed to block roads, railway tracks in any agitation and if any agitation has to be carried out, it has to be at places other than the roads, railway tracks, railway stations. This has been reiterated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in 2009,” he said in the letter.“However, I am pained to say that you, your party and your government in Punjab have shown little respect and regard for the directions of the Supreme Court and openly encouraged blockade of roads, railway tracks and railway stations,” the BJP chief added.Farmers in Punjab have been protesring against the three farm laws - The Farmers’ Produce and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020; The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - claiming they would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses.But Nadda said that the BJP govermment at the Centre respects the farmers. “The farmers of Punjab have always been a pride of the nation and it is for this reason that the central government accords the highest priority in matters of MSP procurement to the state,” said Nadda.He also reminded Singh that his Congress party had promised about enacting such laws in its election manifesto.The chief minister, meanwhile, was in Delhi on Wednesday where he staged a dharna (sit-in protest) against the Centre’s new farm legislation and accused the BJP-led government of meting out “step-motherly” treatment towards the state.However, the farmer bodies in Punjab asserted tha there were presently no blockades of railway tracks and the platforms would be vacated. They also slammed the Centre over the power crisis in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crossing-all-limits-of-decency-nadda-lashes-out-at-amarinder-singh-govt-over-protests-against-farm-laws-in-punjab/story-cmo01T3MndYbh1q1lja9YN.html
04-11-2020||India||Spurious liquor kills 20 in 3 days in Haryana’s Sonipat: Police||Seven persons died in the last 24 hours after allegedly consuming suspected spurious liquor in four different localities of Sonipat city in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the death toll to over 20 in the last three days, police said.Sonipat Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Virender Singh said seven more deaths were reported on Wednesday in four Sonipat city colonies - Mayur Vihar, Shastri Colony, Pragati Colony and Indian Colony.“Over 14 persons died in the last two days and their families cremated them without informing us. After seven more persons died today, the family members of the earlier victims informed us about the incident. We have sent four bodies for post-mortem to ascertain whether they consumed liquor or not. We are waiting for the viscera report. We suspect the deaths have taken place due to consumption of spurious liquor,” the DSP said.Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia and superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa visited these four colonies and interacted with the families of the deceased, mostly poor labourers.The police conducted raids at a make-shift shop on the Gohana road in Sonepat and recovered bottles of illicit liquor.Sonepat SP Randhawa said they have recorded the statement of one, Mahender Singh, who is admitted at a private hospital in Sonepat.“He told us that he bought illicit liquor and consumed it. When he complained of chest pain, his family members rushed him to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added.Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said he suspected these deaths might have happened after consuming spurious liquor.“The family members did not come forward to report about the deaths till Wednesday. I have ordered an investigation into the incident. I have directed the officials to take stern action against people selling poisonous substances,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurious-liquor-kills-20-in-3-days-in-haryana-s-sonipat-police/story-TLm7xjjTRbMQk732TchaaI.html
04-11-2020||India||Centre sets up committee for ‘transparent’ TRPs amid manipulation row||The information and broadcasting ministry has set up a four-member committee to make “recommendations for a robust, transparent and accountable ratings system (for television) in India”. The committee consists of Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi V Vempatti, Dr Shailabh from IIT Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay from C-DOT and professor Pulak Ghosh from the Centre for Public Policy. It has to submit its report in two months. The decision comes a little over two weeks after the Parliamentary panel on Information Technology, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, took up the issue of Television Rating Points (TRPs). The panel had noted that TRPs can be “easily manipulated”, amid allegations of a scam involving certain news channels.The committee will study past recommendations made by various forums on the subject of television ratings systems in India and recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. They have been tasked with suggesting steps to enhance competition in the sector and undertake a review of present guidelines to see if they have met the test of time and needs of the stakeholders. “Based on the operation of the guidelines for a few years, there is a need to have a fresh look on the guidelines… keeping in view the recent recommendations of TRAI, technological advancements/interventions to address the system and further straighten the procedures for a credible and transparent ratings system,” the ministry said in its order dated November 4. Hindustan Times on October 16 reported that the Press Council of India (PCI) chairman Justice CK Prasad, information and broadcasting ministry secretary Amit Khare and other senior officials briefed the panel on the issue amid a controversy that certain news channels have manipulated the TRPs. The panel had also unanimously agreed that the TRP is not a robust method to measure viewership. “It is not in tune with current technologies,” a person familiar with the matter had said.“Due to converging technologies, it is difficult to have a regulatory framework. There is no uniformity of content and this is required,” said the person mentioned above.To specific questions, officials told the panel members that the current system to ascertain TRP is “not very scientific and accurate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-committee-for-transparent-trps-amid-manipulation-row/story-HxiCblK7BprmzXPCYBAm2K.html
04-11-2020||India||Man’s body in mortuary for 18 days as BJP and Trinamool slug it out in court||The body of Madan Ghorui, a villager from Patashpur in East Midnapore district, is lying in a morgue since October 16 because of a legal battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government. The BJP said Ghorui was a party supporter and alleged that he died because of torture in judicial custody. This triggered a legal battle at the Calcutta High Court and Ghorui’s body was sent back to the morgue hours after it was handed over to his family following post mortem examination. On Tuesday, the court ordered that a second post mortem examination be done by Thursday to ascertain the cause of death. Ghorui was arrested on September 27 in connection with an alleged kidnapping of a minor girl in which one of his relatives was the accused. He died of illness at SSKM hospital in Kolkata on October 13, said the police. The body was handed over to Ghorui’s family on the morning of October 16 after a post mortem examination. Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee staged a demonstration near the party’s state headquarters on Central Avenue with the body kept in a hearse. She demanded an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Within hours, a legal battle started with the Calcutta High Court issuing back-to-back orders on separate petitions moved by the BJP and the state government. “We have not witnessed something like this in recent history,” said one of the public prosecutors who did not wish to be quoted. After hearing a plea moved by the brother of the deceased, who demanded investigation into the alleged custodial death, the single bench of justice Rajasekhar Mantha on October 16 ordered a second post mortem examination. The government told the judge that Ghorui fell ill in judicial custody in East Midnapore district and was taken to a local hospital and later shifted to SSKM Hospital. Challenging the single-bench ruling, the state government moved the division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee on the evening of October 16. The division bench ordered a stay on the second post mortem examination and referred the case back to the single bench. It said the government should be given time to prepare its reply and in the meantime the body must be preserved. During the next hearing on October 20, Swapan Ghorui, the brother of the deceased and the one who signed the petition, demanded an investigation and alleged foul play by the administration. The single-bench once again ordered a second post mortem examination. The government challenged this and moved the division bench. On Tuesday, the division bench upheld the order of the single-bench. The single-judge bench had ruled that the second post mortem examination should be done at Kolkata’s R G Kar Hospital under the supervision of the department’s head and the entire process must be recorded on video. The division bench on Tuesday said that two members from Ghorui‘s family can be present during the examination which has to be conducted by a committee of experts from R G Kar Hospital. The two-judge bench also said that the post mortem examination report as well as all documents relating to Ghorui’s treatment at SSKM Hospital and Contai hospital, where he was admitted first, have to be submitted before the bench on November 10. “The police could not find the accused and arrested my brother. We were not informed that he had fallen ill. All we want now is to take the body home and perform the last rites. My brother’s wife and son are going through a turmoil,” Swapan Ghorui said on Tuesday. Education minister Partha Chatterjee alleged that the BJP is making an issue out of every death. The BJP staged a demonstration on Central Avenue on Wednesday afternoon as well, alleging that the law and order situation in the state has collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-s-body-in-morgue-for-18-days-as-bjp-and-trinamool-slug-it-out-in-court/story-VKLS9mhCAdko7aE4rBdsGN.html
04-11-2020||India||Fresh FIR against Arnab Goswami, wife for resisting police officials who came to arrest him||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday evening filed a fresh FIR against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami for resisting police officials who came to arrest him.Sections 353, 504, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been invoked in the news FIR has that been filed.Goswami was arrested in Mumbai on Wednesday morning for allegedly abetting suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer in 2018, a Mumbai Police official said.The police said that the designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead in May 2018. According to a suicide note, Anvay alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Arnab and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - owners of two different firms, they added.Goswami was produced before a court in Mumbai after his arrest where his lawyer claimed that the journalist was assaulted by two police officials who went to arrest him at his residence.He further said that Goswami’s family members were pushed and the house was cordoned off for three hours. “There are abrasions on his left hand and an existing injury on his hand was tried to be torn apart by police,” said the lawyer Gaurav Parker.Many central ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have condemned the arrest.While BJP chief JP Nadda drew a parallel to the Emergency in 1975, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman slammed the Maharashtra government and questioned where were media associations now.The BJP workers in Maharashtra have decided to wear black badges or black clothes until Goswami is released.The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) also condemened the manner in which Goswami was arrested.The ruling Shiv Sena, meanwhile, dismissed the opposition BJP’s allegations of “politics of revenge” and “muzzling of the press freedom” in the case. Sena leader Sanjay Raut told reporters the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Sena, NCP and Congress has never acted vindictively against anyone since it came to power last year.He also claimed that the state government or any political party had nothing to do with the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-fir-filed-against-arnab-goswami-his-wife-for-resisting-police-officials-who-came-to-arrest-him/story-O0ckfBtKFrC2oqg7TqZ19H.html
04-11-2020||India||Rs 1,200 crore losses amid protest along tracks in Punjab, says railways||Amid tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs 1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted.Trains have been suspended in the state for over a month from September 25 due to the agitation over farm bills, cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled and diverted leading to losses of Rs 45 crore due to cancellation of the passenger trains.Protests along railway tracks in Punjab are currently still underway in 32 places due to which train movement remains suspended, said the railway ministry on Wednesday.“Agitators have continued dharna at platforms/near railway tracks. Train movement again suspended due to operational and safety considerations as agitators have suddenly stopped some train movements and sporadic blockade continued at various places like especially around Jandiala, Nabha, Talwandi Sabo and Bathinda,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.“All passenger trains passing through the state of Punjab have been adversely impacted too. Till date more than 1,350 passenger trains have been cancelled, diverted or short terminated. This has caused tremendous inconvenience to travellers in Covid times,” he added.According to the Centre, all inward and outward goods transportation, including essential commodities, has adversely been affected in the northern states and Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal PradeshAccording to the railway ministry, a number of freight trains, including loaded good trains, remain stuck due to the suspension for nearly 15-20 days.“Many freight customers, after having suffered business losses, are getting diverted to other modes of transportation. Outward loading too has been affected from the Punjab area. Movement of foodgrain, container, automobile, cement, pet coke, fertilizer, etc has taken a hit; average loss of loading per day in Punjab is 40 rakes per day,” the ministry spokesperson said.“Inward traffic to Punjab has been affected (Outward from other than Punjab Area) and now container, cement, gypsum, fertilizer, POL, etc, are not being able to reach key locations in Punjab. Over all, the average loss per day is about 30 rakes per day,” he added.The Centre’s statement also comes on the day the Punjab CM led a relay dharna of MLAs at Delhi’s Rajghat after the President declined to give time for a meeting. The CM claimed to have sought time “to highlight the state’s power crisis and critical essential supplies situation” amid tussle with the Centre over resumption of trains.Railway minister Piyush Goyal on October 26, had written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, seeking Punjab government’s assurance of the safety of trains and their crew members to restore freight services, hours after the CM asked him to intervene in resuming the same.Goyal, in his letter, had alleged sporadic obstruction of tracks was still continuing at many places, especially around Amritsar and outside the power plants at Naba and Talwandi Saboo, and also outside the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) silo at Moga. HT has reviewed the letter.Goyal also said some of the freight trains and empty coaching rakes were obstructed again on October 23 after which railway drivers and guards refused to operate trains in Punjab unless they are assured that trains will not be obstructed.The Punjab chief minister on Monday also wrote an open letter to BJP president JP Nadda, seeking intervention to stop the suspension of goods trains by the railways. “What is needed at this critical moment is for all of us to put aside any temptations we may be harbouring to promote our political interests,” the Punjab CM wrote.Earlier in October, CM Singh had appealed to farmers to relax their ongoing ‘Rail Roko’ protest to allow goods trains to pass-through. He had, however, reiterated his government’s support to the farmers in their fight against the farm reform laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-200-crore-losses-amid-protest-along-tracks-in-punjab-says-railways/story-ACRiJ4fEasaTZB1VQJzWEK.html
04-11-2020||India||India test-fires long range Pinaka rocket system, will be deployed to counter China||India on Wednesday successfully flight-tested the enhanced version of Pinaka multi-barrel rocket system (MRLS). Indigenously developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the enhanced Pinaka along with guidance Pinaka will cover the range between 60 to 90 kilometres and will be deployed by the Indian Army.The test-flight was carried out from Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha.The DRDO said that this new rocket system has a longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant (Mk-1), which will now be phased out. The design and development has been carried out by Pune-based laboratories of DRDO, Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL).Watch: DRDO successfully test-fires advanced version of Pinaka rockets “A total of six rockets were launched in quick succession and the tests met complete mission objectives,” the DRDO said after the test-fire.All the flight articles were tracked by range instruments such as telemetry, radar and Electro Optical Tracking Systems (EOTS) which confirmed the flight performance, it further said.The enhanced version of the Pinaka rocket would replace the existing Pinaka Mk-1 rockets. While Mk-1 had a range of 36 km, this enhanced variant can hit a target 45 to 60 km away and has been developed as per requirements of the Indian Army. The DRDO had last year tested guided Pinaka rocket system which has a range of 70-90 km, but this improved version of Mk-1, which was test-fired today, can fill a critical gap of hitting targets that are not so far away. The guided Pinaka is more of a missile that can be pin-pointed on the target. “The enhanced Pinaka has been developed to counter the People’s Liberation Army threat in East Ladakh with the Chinese deploying large number of rocket regiments in support of artillery guns. The rocket regiments are central to Chinese war fighting for saturation bombardment of the targets. The enhanced Pinaka and guided Pinaka have both been cleared for deployment on the borders,”said a senior DRDO official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-enhanced-version-of-pinaka-rocket-system/story-waLts08Nqlq01cwHhACqjN.html
04-11-2020||India||Govt says domestic airlines can operate 60% of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights till February 24 next year||The Indian government on Wednesday said that domestic airlines can operate 60 per cent of their pre-Covid flights till February 24 next year, news agency PTI reported.The decision has been taken by the civil aviation ministry due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, PTI further reported.The number of daily Covid-19 cases have been dropping in India over the past few weeks. But on Wednesday, it recorde a 20 per cent jump in the daily caseload, according to Union health ministry data.In the last 24 hours (till Wednesday morning), India recorded 46,253 fresh cases of the infection as against 38,310 on Tuesday, according to health ministry.The total active cases on Wednesday morning stood at 5,33,787 while the total tally reached 83,13,877.The civil aviation ministry had last month announced increasing the limited domestic flight operations from 45 per cent to 60 per cent.The government had resumed domestic flight operations on May 25, two months after the national lockdown was announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. The operations began in a calibrated manner with 30 per cent capacity to ensure social distancing was followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-domestic-airlines-can-operate-60-of-their-pre-covid-domestic-passenger-flights-till-february-24-next-year/story-ScrAoAiTvbEMDpKZFlOPnL.html
04-11-2020||India||Thankful to police for action against Arnab Goswami: Anvay Naik’s family||Soon after Alibag police arrested Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami for abetting the suicide of 53-year interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018, his wife and daughter Akshata and Adnya Naik thanked the Maharashtra police for taking action in the case.“We can’t forget the year 2018. We want to thank Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra,” Akshata told reporters.“My husband in his suicide note had mentioned three names but no action was taken against them. Arnab Goswami is behind my husband’s death and I request every single Indian not to help him. Maharashtra police’s action is justice for us,” said Akshata Naik.Adnya said, “My father spent his money, energy, blood and sweat on the project. Despite all that, Goswami ensured my father did not get his dues. He continuously threatened my father saying that he will finish his career and my career.” Adnya also levelled allegations against the former investigating officer in the case Suresh Wadare.“Between February and March 2019 we had gone to Alibag police station to collect my father’s suicide note and chemical analysis report. The investigation officer Suresh Wadare asked us to sign a paper and when we read it we found that they had mentioned a line the paper which read ‘We have filed this complaint to take revenge and now we want to take our case back.’ I remember this line but not the entire content. After reading the paper, I tried to take a picture of that which the officer opposed and then he tore the page and asked us to leave,” Adnya said.Adnya also alleged that Arnaab was treated with privilege when he did not deserve it.“Why was Arnab given privilege as an accused? Is he some god? His statement was recorded in the joint CP’s office in Mumbai police commissionerate. We met former Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Barve at that time. We met Anil Paraskar, SP Raigad several times and also wrote to PMO India. But no one helped us,” She said her father’s case had been closed and she and her mother were not even aware of it.“On my father’s death anniversary on May 5, 2020, we decided to raise our voice for justice and we uploaded some videos. Few days later Republic issued a statement on their Twitter handle saying that police had filed closure report in this case. It is then that we came to know that our case has been closed. The investigation was botched up earlier,” added Adnya.She claimed they had filed four complaints after they started getting threats. “We have filed four complaints in 2020. Two at Murbad and two at Dadar police station after my mother and I started getting threats and people started following us,” said AdnyaWhen a journalist questioned them on which political party has supported them, Akshata said, “We don’t want to make it a political issue. We just want justice and a fair investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thankful-to-police-for-action-against-arnab-goswami-anvay-naik-s-family/story-qpIVp5MWg9yiTSiSai1wtL.html
04-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt allows cinema halls to open with 50% occupancy from Nov 5||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed the reopening of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and yoga institutes outside the containment zones from November 5 (Thursday). These places have been shut for over seven months in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic which has been particularly severe in Maharashtra.Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and drama theatres have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity, as per the state government order. However, outside eatables will not be allowed inside the auditorium.All these establishments were closed since lockdown was imposed to contain coronavirus in March. Last month, the state government had allowed hotels and bars to reopen.Follow live updates on coronavirus here The Maharashtra government has also allowed yoga centres that are outside the containment zones to reopen from November 5. Swimming pools too can resume operations for training purposes of state, national and international level sportsperson, the order said.Other indoor sports facilities such as badminton halls, tennis, squash courts, indoor shooting ranges will also be allowed to operate from Thursday.The order has asked these places to ensure Covid-19 protocols, like physical distancing and sanitisation, are followed.The remaining lockdown restrictions have already been extended till November 30.The government’s move comes at a time when Maharashtra has nearly 1.69 million cases and over 44,000 people have died of the disease. Over 1.5 million people have recovered from the infection either in home isolation or have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-allows-cinema-halls-to-open-with-50-occupancy-from-nov-5/story-y6Sw2NBeBuwsnBAyRlGRcP.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Presidency in US hinges on tight races in northern battleground states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times US Election 2020: Presidency hinges on tight races in northern battleground statesThe fate of the United States presidency hung in the balance Wednesday morning, as President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden battled for three familiar battleground states — Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — that could prove crucial in determining who wins the White House. Read moreDelhi reporting third Covid-19 wave, says CM Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the national capital is reporting a “third wave” of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The CM said that the Delhi government would move the Supreme Court (SC) later on Wednesday to vacate the stay imposed by the Delhi high court (HC) on the city administration’s order of reserving 80% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals. Read moreUS Election 2020: Outcome unlikely to impact ties between two countries, says foreign secretary Harsh ShringlaThe outcome of the American presidential election is unlikely to impact India’s relationship with the US as it is based on bipartisan support, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said.Presidential candidate Joe Biden has made it “very clear that he values a strong India-US strategic partnership”, and this is common to both Biden and US President Donald Trump, Shringla said in an interview with DW News channel. Read moreFarm laws: At Jantar Mantar protest, Punjab CM flays those calling his state anti-nationalPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday came down heavily on those calling his state “anti-national” and asserted that tens and thousands of Punjabi soldiers are deployed in borders along China and Pakistan to preserve the peace of the country. “Please don’t think Punjab is out to disturb the peace of the country. It is not. We are there to preserve the peace of the country. We have given blood many times in the past and we will never shy away from doing so in future,’ Singh said. Read moreICC ODI Rankings: Babar Azam closes in on Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma after heroics against ZimbabwePakistan captain Babar Azam showcased a dominant performance in the three-match ODI series against Zimbabwe. Azam scored 221 runs in the series in 3 games including a sensational knock of 125 in the 2nd ODI. Because of his batting efforts, the batsman gained 8 points to reach a total of 837 points. While Babar remained at the third position in the rankings behind Virat Kohli (871) and Rohit Sharma (855), he managed to close the gap with the two Indian stars. Read moreAditi Rao Hydari in an Aztec tie up crop-top and denims make us absolutely love the flirty feminine vibesSetting the mercury soaring again with her hot glamorous looks is Padmaavat actor Aditi Rao Hydari and this time with her sultry boho-chic look. After nailing some sartorial festive looks that were hands down fashion inspiration this week, Aditi was recently seen stepping up casual glam by channeling bohemian vibes and we are totally digging for the flirty feminine vibes it sent across. Read moreMahindra Thar 2020 surges past 20,000, waiting period extends to 7 monthsMahindra Thar 2020 SUV is continuing its trend of setting the bookings chart on fire since it was officially launched on October 2. In the little over a month, Mahindra and Mahindra has received over 20,000 bookings for Thar 2020, making it one of the most successful launches of the year and product from the car maker. Read more‘How many voices will you suppress Sonia Sena?’: Kangana on Arnab’s arrestKangana Ranaut has lashed out at the Maharashtra government over the arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami. In a video message posted on Twitter, Kangana questioned how many voices would the Maharashtra government suppress and added that many free speech greats have been hanged before them. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-presidency-in-us-hinges-on-tight-races-in-northern-battleground-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F6zCCciL6Ze302HYfhg0JP.html
04-11-2020||India||Bineesh Kodiyeri’s residence, many locations in Kerala raided in drug case||The house of Bineesh Kodiyeri - son of the state secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Kodiyeri Balakrishnan - and seven other spots in Thiruvananthapuram were raided on Wednesday by the Enforcement Directorate probing the money laundering case related to Bengaluru drug haul even as the state government withdrew general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation. A joint team of ED and Income Tax searched the house of Kodiyeri and business establishments of his friends and partners simultaneously. The central agencies were given the Central Reserve Police Force protection. There were intelligence reports that left youth outfits may protest against the raid. Arrested on October 29, Kodiyeri is under the ED custody in Bengaluru. He landed in trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), saying that Kodiyeri had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later his name also figured in the call list of Mohammad. He was arraigned as the sixth accused in the money laundering case connected to drug haul. During investigation in the gold smuggling case, multiple agencies also found that drug and smuggling cases were interconnected. One of the accused in gold smuggling KT Ramees and alleged drug peddler Mohammad were thick friends. They also found that Ramees had made several trips to Bengaluru before his arrest. The ED suspects that huge properties owned by Kodiyeri in Kerala and Karnataka might have been bought with the proceeds of narcotics and gold smuggling.Meanwhile, the government has decided to withdraw the general consent given to the CBI to investigate cases in the state like four other opposition-ruled states.“We will not allow free run of central agencies in the state. They are in a race to portray the state government in bad light,” said state law minister AK Balan.Last month, the state government had to rush to the High Court to quash the CBI probe into the Life Mission project. The court stayed it for two months. It is a scheme to build free dwelling units for the homeless, but irregularities came to light when central agencies were probing the gold smuggling case. When lockers of the main accused in the smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, were opened they got Rs one crore cash and two kg gold. Later she reportedly told agencies that this was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’, which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakkanchery in the Thrissur district. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI later registered a case under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). But the state government maintained that it will not come under the purview of the FCRA and moved the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bineesh-kodiyeri-s-residence-many-locations-in-kerala-raided-in-drug-case/story-Wlrl3AAoA9rvkLrqtqUSdM.html
04-11-2020||India||Gujarat: Death toll due to fire in godown rises to 12||The death toll due to a fire at a godown storing chemicals located at the Piplaj road in the outskirts of Ahmedabad rose to 12 on Wednesday night, news agency ANI reported. The rescue operations have been completed. Officials earlier stated that the incident occurred when portion of a godown storing chemicals collapsed after a power explosion ripped through it. Fire brigade personnel rushed to the spot on learning about the explosion and rescued 18 people from the debris and shifted them to LG Hospital in ‘108’ ambulances, chief fire officer MF Dastur said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Ashok Munia mentioned that an investigation has been ordered into this incident. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences and said authorities were providing all possible assistance to the affected. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected”, Modi tweeted.  Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected.President Ram Nath Kovind too took to Twitter and said he was distressed to learn about the loss of lives and wished speedy recovery for those injured. “Distressed to learn about the loss of lives in a fire that broke out in a godown in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” Kovind tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-killed-as-godown-collapses-after-explosion-in-gujarat/story-qwjsJGVmD1MivtUsIV3nSI.html
04-11-2020||India||News Broadcasters Association condemns manner of Arnab Goswami’s arrest||The arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami has been criticised by the News Broadcasters Association (NBA). Condemning the manner in which Goswami was arrested, the NBA urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that the journalist is treated fairly.“Even though the NBA does not agree with his type of journalism, we denounce retaliatory action, if any by the authorities against a media editor. Media is not above the law but due process must be followed,” it said.The association, headed by senior journalist Rajat Sharma, further urged Thackeray to ensure that the state’s power is not misused for vendetta.The NBA is a regulatory body formed by current affairs and news television broadcasters in India in 2007.Goswami was arrested by the police from his residence in Lower Parel in the early hours of Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer named Anvay Naik in 2018.The police also arrested Firoz Shaikh, founder of IcastX Technologies Pvt Ltd, and Nitesh Sarda, founder of Smartworks who were the other two accused in the case.The police said that they found a suicide note in which Anvay alleged that he was forced to end his life because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.The designer’s wife and daughter addressed a press conference on Wednesday afternoon and thanked the Maharashtra Police for taking the requisite action. They claimed the case was suppressed and no action was taken during Devendra Fadnavis’ tenure as chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-broadcasters-association-condemns-manner-of-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-ctvh5awYCr3ou0np0G0zPO.html
04-11-2020||India||Harassed by stalker, woman in MP’s Hoshangabad dies by suicide||A 20-year-old woman died by suicide on Tuesday in Hoshangabad, 76 km north of Bhopal, after she was allegedly harassed by a stalker, police said. Police arrested the alleged stalker Taleem Khan, 25, a photographer, late Tuesday night after the woman accused him in her suicide note, said Santosh Singh Gaur, superintendent of police (SP), Hoshangabad. A few days ago, the woman’s brother beat Taleem Khan for allegedly harassing his sister but no police complaint was lodged by the family members, said the SP. He said, “The woman, who was a first year student of Bachelor of Science (BSc), and the accused used to live in the same locality but they interacted a few times over Instagram. The woman used to treat him like her brother but Taleem started harassing her.” “Taleem used to follow her and used to pass obscene comments. He was forcing her for marriage. The woman was upset with regular harassment and killed herself. She was found hanging from a ceiling fan of her room on Tuesday morning,” said Manju Chauhan, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Hoshangabad. Taleem was arrested on Tuesday night for sexually harassing her and for abetting suicide. He was produced in a court which sent him to judicial remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassed-by-stalker-woman-in-mp-s-hoshangabad-dies-by-suicide/story-mVvnSZNEEK6Xavh0LQT9LO.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Assaulted by police during arrest’, claims Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami||Hours after he was arrested, Republic TV editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami was produced before a court in Mumbai on Wednesday where he claimed that he was assaulted by police officials.Goswami said told the court that he suffered injuries on his hand, back and finger due to the assault. Following his allegation, he was sent back to the Alibaug police station where a civil surgeon has been asked to verify the claims. Goswami’s lawyer Gaurav Parker said that he will be produced again in the court this evening. The news anchor was arrested on Wednesday morning from his Mumbai house in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. The mother-son duo was found dead in May 2018. Anvay was found dead at his first floor residence while his mother’s body was found on the ground floor on the bed. According to a suicide note, Anvay alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Arnab and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - owners of two different firms. Also Read| ‘No one is above the law’: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Arnab Goswami’s arrestIn 2018, the Alibaug police had filed a case of abetment to suicide but in 2019 the case was closed by Raigad Police.The arrest comes at a time when an investigation against Goswami is underway in the TRP fraud case.While Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut asserted that due law and procedures were followed in the arrest of Goswami, many BJP leaders have come out in support of the journalist terming the incident “shameful”.BJP chief JP Nadda drew a parallel to the Emergency in 1975, saying, “India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.”Also Read: Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrestUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also slammed the Maharashtra government and questioned where were media associations now. “Is the #MVA government in Maharashtra replaying #IndiraGandhi’s Emergency? Where are self-appointed guardians of #FoE in this #ArnabGoswami episode, which goes above & beyond ideological/political differences with a fellow journalist? No media ‘guilds’/Associations/Unions today?” she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assaulted-by-police-during-arrest-claims-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami/story-GAQ6piv57rsb9TGpAMaUDL.html
04-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand cops on alert against possible protests over French President’s remarks||Uttarakhand police has issued a high alert in all the 13 districts of the state to prevent any possible violence over the controversial remarks by French President on Islam after terror attacks following a row over cartoons of prophet Mohammed, officials said on Tuesday.The move came after certain Muslim groups held protests against President Emmanuel Macron a few days ago in Dehradun and other cities of the state. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police confirmed the development and said, “The alert has been issued as a precautionary measure to prevent any possible violence over the French President’s statements.” Kumar said, “I have directed all the senior superintendents of police and superintendents of police of the districts to ensure that law and order is maintained. I have asked them to take strict action against anyone indulging in violence in the ongoing festive season.” Another police officer privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity, “The alert was issued on the directions received on the same from the ministry of home affairs to ensure law and order in the country. We have followed the directions and taking necessary action to prevent any untoward incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cops-on-alert-against-possible-protests-over-french-president-s-remarks/story-YwOMXYKJM8n99xZbdbK2KP.html
04-11-2020||India||Farm laws: At Jantar Mantar protest, Punjab CM flays those calling his state anti-national||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday came down heavily on those calling his state “anti-national” and asserted that tens and thousands of Punjabi soldiers are deployed in borders along China and Pakistan to preserve the peace of the country. “Please don’t think Punjab is out to disturb the peace of the country. It is not. We are there to preserve the peace of the country. We have given blood many times in the past and we will never shy away from doing so in future,’ Singh said. He made the remark while addressing a gathering at a protest launched by lawmakers from Punjab against the Centre’s recently-enacted farm laws at Jantar Mantar in the national capital.Also read | Chhattisgarh passes amendment bill to counter Centre’s farm billsThe protests was organised after President Ram Nath Kovind reportedly refused to meet a delegation from the state, led by CM Singh, on three farm bills passed by the state assembly in October. Earlier on Wednesday morning, Singh along with some Congress Members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators from Punjab paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat in the national capital. “Never think that Punjab will do anything anti-national. We have Pakistan as our neighbour, which is continuously trying to provoke us by sending up to three drones daily to drop arms and ammunition. These weapons are likely to go into the hands of criminals and anti-nationals. We have shared our inputs and apprehensions with the Central government. We don’t want trouble in Punjab because it is a border state. If law and order situation worsens in Punjab, then it will impact the country’s security,” Singh added. Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu also joined the protest, indicating a thaw in his ties with the CM at the intervention of the Congress leadership. Lok Insaaf Party legislator Simranjit Singh Bains, Punjabi Ekta Party lawmaker Sukhpal Khaira and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) legislator Parminder Singh Dhindsa were also present on the occasion. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers’ organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporate entities. The claim has been denied by the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws would be beneficial for farmers and would also increase their income. The three farm bills -- the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September. In October, the Punjab assembly adopted a resolution, rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws and passed three bills to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. Singh urged President Kovind to give his assent to the farm bills submitted to Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore on October 20. The CM invoked former Union minister Arun Jaitley and said the late Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had asked the BJP-ruled states in 2016 to make their own laws on Concurrent List of Business in line with the provisions in the Constitution to override the land acquisition law passed by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2013. “The bills are with the Raj Bhavan. I don’t know why the Governor is holding back these bills. He has no role to play. A Governor is only a post box and it is his duty to forward any such bill to the President. He doesn’t have to give any comments,” the CM said. “I wanted to meet President Kovind because he is the head of our country and it is my duty to brief him on both law and order and food security situation in my state. It is for him to take a call. We hope that he will give his assent to the bills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-at-jantar-mantar-protest-punjab-cm-flays-those-calling-his-state-anti-national/story-YseTCYzFzLjxnoZ4dWzfxL.html
04-11-2020||India||Minor girl in Bhopal allegedly raped for 7 years by brother-in-law||A minor girl was allegedly raped in Bhopal for seven years by her brother-in-law after she lost her parents, police said Tuesday. Police registered an FIR against the 32-year-old man under section 376 (rape) of IPC and under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on Tuesday. Police are trying to nab the accused, who is absconding, said Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal (South). The crime came to light after the 16-year-old survivor shared her ordeal with her friend, with whom she works as a volunteer in a non-government organisation (NGO). The friend informed her seniors in the NGO. The NGO members counselled the girl and helped her in lodging the complaint with the police, said the SP. “The victim lost her parents when she was just 9-year-old in 2014. Her elder sister and her husband, who is the accused, took her and her elder brother to their home to take care of them. The accused raped her after a few weeks of taking the girl home. He raped her many a time at a rented accommodation of his friend. He threatened her of dire consequences if she reported the crime to anyone. A few years ago, the girl shifted to some other place with her brother, who got a job. The girl also started working with the NGO since a few months ago,” said the officer. The girl recently shared her ordeal with her friend. When some NGO members to whom her friend conveyed the girl’s sufferings at her brother-in-law’s hand they talked to the girl but she did not open up. However, after counselling she mustered courage to tell them what had happened to her all these years. She lodged a complaint with TT Nagar police station on Monday, said Manoj Dave, town inspector TT Nagar police station. “An investigation is going on,” Dave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-in-bhopal-allegedly-raped-for-7-years-by-brother-in-law/story-wsK86EJrPagmKmssTftB5K.html
04-11-2020||India||In BHU hospital, pregnant women undergo ‘garbh sanskar’ therapy for ‘cultured, virtuous’ babies||The faculty of Ayurveda, Banaras Hindu University and Sir Sundar Lal Hospital, IMS-BHU have started a garbh sanskar therapy for pregnant women to inculcate good values in the unborn child while it is in its mother’s womb. Designed by a professor of Ayurveda, the garbh sanskar is being imparted to pregnant women in the department of prasuti tantra (obstetrics) in the faculty of Ayurveda, the exercise began in the last week of September.Medical superintendent of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital of BHU, Prof SK Mathur said, “Garbh sanskar is not a new thing. In Ayurveda, it has been performed since long. In the absence of its scientific validation, the practice didn’t get due importance. Now, garbh sanskar therapy has been restarted in the department of prasuti tantra (obstetrics), in the faculty of Ayurveda.” “It is a proven fact that good environment and good music have a very positive impact on the mind. Under garbh sanskar, pregnant women will be advised to listen to good music, read good literature and watch motivational and positive serials. Impact of these things on the baby in the mother’s womb will be examined through scientific techniques,” Prof Mathur said. He said, “We are trying to scientifically validate the practice of garbh sanskar.” Dr Sunita Suman, head, department of Prasuti Tantra, faculty of Ayurveda, IMS-BHU is in-charge of the garbh sanskar therapy .“Four to five pregnant women are explained about the Garbh Sanskar and are given Garbh Sankar therapy at the department daily,” she said.Dr Anuradha Roy, assistant professor at department of prasuti tantra, faculty of Ayurveda, IMS-BHU, said, “There are 16 sanskaras mentioned in Ayurveda and one of them is garbh sanskar. Various mythological stories support the importance of garbh sanskar that means educating a child in the mother’s womb.” For example, Abhimanyu learned the breaking of six circles of chakravyuh (phalanx) in his mother’s womb, according to the epic Mahabharat. “Garbh sanskar is parenting of a child in the mother’s womb where garbh means ‘womb’ and ‘sanskar’ is the ethics or the values. Garbh sanskar is teaching the baby ethics inside the mother’s womb,” Dr Roy said. Dr Roy has framed and developed an online model course on garbh sanskar which is available on the BHU portal. She said garbh sanskar helped give birth to a “cultured, vigorous, virtuous, healthy, beautiful child with a divine soul and high IQ”. It was scientifically proven that external stimuli and hormonal release from the mother had stronger effects on the intra-uterine fetus, she said. “Garbh sanskar includes month wise ante-natal care, diet and regime plan according to month of pregnancy, music therapy (advice of listening good classical and spiritual music), yogasana, mantra chanting, specific linen and textile clothing, counseling etc all as per Ayurveda,” she said. Dr Roy said Ayurveda always emphasized on ‘pregnancy by choice and not by chance’ and intrauterine fetus was just like clay which could be moulded the desired way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bhu-hospital-pregnant-women-undergo-garbh-sanskar-therapy-for-cultured-virtuous-babies/story-OltH4G5DHRcYRSh1r3OgZO.html
04-11-2020||India||UNESCO declares Panna Tiger Reserve a biosphere reserve||Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Madhya Pradesh (MP) was included in the global network of biosphere reserves by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) last week, said an official report. Union Minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javdekar congratulated PTR authorities via a social media post for their stellar effort to conserve tigers. The post accompanied a 50-second video of tigers in the reserve. The UNESCO’s recognition cited PTR as a critical tiger habitat. “The area has undergone substantial ecosystem restoration in the buffer zone. With only three urban centres and over 300 villages, agriculture is the main source of income together with horticulture, forestry and cultural and eco-tourism,” the UNESCO stated. Also read | Roosting site with rare vultures found near Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve“PTR was notified as a biosphere reserve by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC ) in 2011 and after nine years the UNESCO included it in the Man and Biosphere programme,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), (wildlife), MP. “It’s a proud moment for us because the MP forest department did a lot of hard work to create a conducive environment in PTR to reintroduce the population of tigers. In 2008, PTR had lost all its tigers. The forest department had reintroduced a male and a female tiger in 2009 and within a decade the animal’s population increased to over 50,” Kumar said. “Local villages also played a key role in conservation. Panna Nature Club authorities tried to sensitise local villagers about PTR’s vegetation and wildlife. The villagers responded in a positive manner and the landscape did not report a single man-animal conflict through the years,” he said However, Kumar expressed concern about poaching, as a tiger was recently killed by a poacher in the reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-declares-panna-tiger-reserve-a-biosphere-reserve/story-UeIXY6iH9nlAfvI0CRvlsM.html
04-11-2020||India||Kerala withdraws consent to CBI for probes in state||Kerala on Wednesday joined the list of non-BJP-ruled states of West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra to withdraw its general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The decision, which was on the table for quite some time, was finalised in the Cabinet meeting. From now on, the probe agency will have to seek prior permission from the state government before registering a case in the state.Recently, Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government decided to block the CBI in the stats. The decision saw an uproar as the decision was announced a day after CBI decided to investigate the TRP scam in Maharashtra. The state government is at a critical juncture where it is raging several wars against the Centre. Blocking CBI in the state, therefore, was seen as a salvo against the Centre which raised doubt over Mumbai Police’s investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Also Read: Maharashtra withdraws consent to CBI for probes in stateCBI comes under the DSPE Act and it requires states to give the agency a general consent to act against central government employees within a state as public order and police come under the state governments, which routinely renew this permission.In late 2018, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh withdrew the general consent to CBI for investigations, alleging that the Centre was misusing the agency to harass opponents. However, the government of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, which came into power in Andhra 2019, reversed the decision.Chhattisgarh, ruled by the Congress, withdrew the general consent to CBI in January 2019. And in July 2020, the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan followed suit.The Kerala government and the CBI are at odds owing to the latter’s ongoing probe into Life Mission, a state housing project for the homeless. The CBI was probing alleged irregularities in this project. In October, the Kerala high court stayed CBI investigation considering a plea by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-withdraws-consent-to-cbi-for-probes-in-state/story-P5e1yvYPMcggE1Gs7nnybP.html
04-11-2020||India||Man hacks wife to death with axe in Uttarakhand’s Almora district||In a shocking incident, a 45-year-old man allegedly killed his wife by hacking her with an axe at his house in Binta area of Almora district on Monday, police said. The accused was arrested by the revenue police on Monday evening, and then sent to jail on Tuesday, said officials. Leena Chandra Dhami, tehsildar and revenue police officer said that the incident happened on Monday noon at a remote village of Binta area of the district in which the accused Dayakishan Joshi hacked his wife Bina Joshi.“After receiving information, revenue police reached the village and nabbed Joshi from his house. The weapons including the axe and a stick used in the crime were also recovered from the spot. Later during interrogation, Joshi confessed to the crime,” said Dhami. She also said that during the initial probe, Joshi’s daughter told police that he killed her mother after being enraged over her talking to someone over the phone. “Bina was speaking to someone over the phone when Joshi confronted her to tell him the name of the person she was speaking to, but she didn’t. That enraged him after which he killed her. The initial investigation suggests that he killed her after suspecting her character,” said Dhami. “The accused was presented in the local court on Tuesday which later sent him to jail,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-hacks-wife-to-death-with-axe-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-district/story-MYP3wLQE4Cm14e8BOS0pVO.html
04-11-2020||India||‘No one is above the law’: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Speaking on the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said “no one is above the law,” adding that the state police will “work as per the law.”Also Read | Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case“No one is above the law. Maharashtra Police will work as per the law,” Deshmukh said, hours after Goswami was arrested by Maharashtra Police in connection with a 2018 alleged abetment to suicide case. No one is above the law. Maharashtra Police will work as per the law: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh https://t.co/qJ9p67TxIV pic.twitter.com/UsvIhmrgs8In May, Deshmukh, as Maharashtra’s home minister, had ordered a re-investigation into alleged death by suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. In a suicide note, Naik had written he was taking the step as he was not being paid collective dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.Following this, an FIR was registered by Alibaug Police against the three, including Goswami, but the case was closed by Raigad Police in 2019 before being its reopening was ordered by Deshmukh.Also Read | Arnab Goswami detained: All you need to know about abetment to suicide caseEarlier, speaking on the arrest, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, too, had said the arrest of Goswami followed “due law and procedure.” The Sena is one of the three parties currently governing Maharashtra, with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)--to which Deshmukh belongs--and the Congress being the other two.Also Read | Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrestGoswami’s arrest, which follows months of tussle with the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police over his channel’s coverage of a host of issues, has kicked up a political storm. Several leaders from the state’s opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as well as central ministers, including Union home minister Amit Shah, have condemned his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-is-above-the-law-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-on-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-wzH6DmzG0stU9DGSCBNCpL.html
04-11-2020||India||Deepika Padukone’s ‘former’ manager questioned by NCB in Mumbai||Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash on Wednesday reached the Narcotics Control Bureau office in Mumbai after being allegedly untraceable for days. Karishma Prakash was summoned by the NCB after it claimed to have seized 1.7 gm of hashish during a raid ar her residence. The agency had said Prakash went missing after she didn’t reply to the summons of the agency.Prakash applied for an anticipatory bail before her questioning on Wednesday. A Mumbai court ordered that Prakash can’t be arrested till November 7.Meanwhile, reports claimed that Karishma has already resigned from the talent agency, KWAN. Hence, she is not associated with Deepika Padukone any more. According to news agency ANI, NCB has also summoned the employees of KWAN Talent Agency, which has become one of the foci of the Bollywood drug probe. The alleged drug links of Bollywood celebs, including A-listers, came to the fore following the federal agency’s investigation into the death of Rajput on June 14 at his apartment in Mumbai’s residence. Many celebrities including Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor have been questioned by NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepika-padukone-s-former-manager-questioned-by-ncb-in-mumbai/story-s2EkZKIjlaaG5SczCCv4WK.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Blatant misuse of state power’: Amit Shah slams arrest of Arnab Goswami||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday took to Twitter to slam the arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami in connection with a two-year-old case of abetment to suicide.The Republic Television editor, who is at loggerheads with the Maharashtra state government over a slew of recent incidents including Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation, TRP scam etc, was detained by Alibaugh Police on Wednesday morning. Republic Television has alleged that he and his family members were manhandled by the police. Later he was arrested and was being taken to Alibaugh.Several Union ministers including Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani denounced the attack on press freedom. BJP chief JP Nadda too termed the arrest as ‘shameful’.  Congress and its allies have shamed democracy once again.Blatant misuse of state power against Republic TV & Arnab Goswami is an attack on individual freedom and the 4th pillar of democracy.It reminds us of the Emergency. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED.Blaming the Congress and allies for “shaming democracy”, Amit Shah said the incident is a “blatant misuse of state power” against Republic TV and Arnab Goswami. “It reminds us of the Emergency. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED,” the Union minister tweeted.The Republic Television has issued a statement and said all allegations against Arnab Goswami are unfounded. A 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide in Alibaug in May 2018. A suicide note purportedly written by Anvay was found in which he said that Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda —had not paid him Rs 5.40 crore which led to his financial constraints.“ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd has paid over 90 per cent of the amounts due to deceased Anvay Naik’s company Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd as per the terms of the work orders issued, over two years ago. The remaining sum was to be paid on completion of the pending work which has since not been undertaken. Repeated attempts were made by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd to make the balance payment to CDPL, for full and final settlement of all claims. We have full correspondence regarding this matter and proof that the absence of shareholders or directors in CDPL, has made all such attempts infructuous,” the television channel said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blatant-misuse-of-state-power-amit-shah-slams-arrest-of-arnab-goswami/story-GzWXk4BNymuivG4EVjPZfI.html
04-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: Internal tussle in Congress delays legislative council nominations||A tussle among senior Congress leaders over a Dalit candidate has held back the party’s list for nominations to the legislative council in Maharashtra, people familiar with the development said.There are 12 vacancies in the Maharashtra legislative council, the upper house in the state legislature, from the governor’s quota and each constituent of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) -- the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress – will be nominating four candidates each. Under Article 171 of the Constitution, the Governor can nominate to the legislative council members having special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service. While the Shiv Sena and the NCP have finalised their respective lists, the Congress is still struggling to give final shape to its set of nominations and delayed the nominations. Also read | Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over ‘poor development’ in BiharThe Congress has finalised its three names – Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant and Muzaffar Hussain – and is now trying to resolve its internal tussle over the fourth seat. A Congress functionary said the party high command had vetoed the recommendations of the state unit after a section of Dalit leaders, including Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut, objected to the short-listing of Anirudha Dhonduji Wankar, an artist who contested the last year’s assembly elections from Chandrapur constituency as a candidate of the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). The Dalit leaders have urged the Congress high command to reconsider the decision to nominate him to the legislative council since he was an “outsider” and had “frequently switched sides” claiming that he was in the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) before joining the VBA. The infuriated Dalit leaders have insisted that party loyalists only should be given the nomination and also threatened to resign if their concerns are overlooked. The functionary further said Wankar’s nomination is being pushed by former Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan while the party’s Scheduled Caste department, headed by Raut, had suggested the names of Rajendra Karwade and Ramesh Bagwe. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has taken the feedback from party in-charge HK Patil and state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat and asked them to also suggest few other names, he added. While the Shiv Sena is said to have nominated actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who quit the Congress last year after losing the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Mumbai North, as one of its candidates, the NCP has recommended the names of former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, Dalit singer Anand Shinde, Dhangar leader Yashpal Bhinge and Raju Shetti, the head of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers’ organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-internal-tussle-in-congress-delays-legislative-council-nominations/story-KPLFLVHVt4qwL5yj0uR1pL.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested: Shameful, says BJP chief JP Nadda; ‘Who speaks if you are next’, asks Smriti Irani||The arrest of journalist, Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in a two-year old case of suicide abetment has created a stir on Wednesday morning. The journalist was first detained from his Mumbai residence and then arrested.BJP president JP Nadda took to Twitter and denounced the arrest without mincing ay word. Drawing a parallel to Emergency, he wrote, “India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.”Also Read: Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrest India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.“Every person who believes in a free press and freedom of expression is furious at the Maharashtra Government’s bullying and harassment of Arnab Goswami. This is yet another instance of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi-directed antic of silencing those who disagree with them. Shameful!” he added.Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani too condemned the arrest and blamed the Congress for the arrest.“Emergency came to an end in 1977 but the tendency of imposing it still persists. After Shiv Sena, which stood by the emergency and Congress, the party which imposed it joined hands in the state, the tendency has surfaced. Such attempts of suppressing the voice against government is detrimental to democracy. Country has always stood against such attempts,” former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted in Marathi.Though there has been no statement from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on this arrest so far, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut quashed all these “vendetta” allegations and said that whatever has been done has followed due course of law.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant termed the arrest as a tribute to late Anway Naik. “Anway Naik and his mother were compelled to commit suicide after Arnab’s channel failed to pay his dues worth Rs 80 lakh. The Fadnavis government failed to investigate the case and do justice with the family of the deceased. There was a lot of political pressure on the then Fadnavis government to hush up the case for the obvious reasons. The Modi government was protecting Arnab just because his channel was taking their agenda forward. Instead of condemning the action against the culprit, the BJP should feel ashamed for their failure to accord justice to Naik family. We welcome the action taken by the MVA government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-arrested-shameful-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-who-speaks-if-you-are-next-asks-smriti-irani/story-GrIKydNoV1sGVvgDXFKbzH.html
04-11-2020||India||6-year-old in Jharkhand suspected of polio, samples sent to Kolkata’s IIS||The World Health Organization (WHO) coordinator in Jharkhand on Monday sent samples of 6-year-old boy a suspected of being by polio virus to the Indian Institute of Serology (IIS) in Kolkata to find whether it was the first confirmed case of polio in the past few years, officials said on Tuesday.The WHO had declared India polio-free in 2014 following a sustained aggressive programme of administering polio vaccine to newborns across the country by the Central government. However, in West Singhbhum district, where every second child is malnourished, samples of 64 children since 2014 have been sent to IIS for polio tests. Polio virus was not found in any of these samples tested till date. Polio is mostly prevalent among children under 15 years of age. “This is the first suspected case of polio from Manoharpur-Anandpur block in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand. We have sent the stool sample of the 6-year-old boy to IIS-Kolkata for testing. The report will come in 15 days from IIS which will conclusively tell us if this is the first confirmed case of polio. If the presence of polio virus is not detected, we will further try to diagnose the reasons for the boy’s problems,” Dr Suman, WHO coordinator for Chaibasa, said.She said they would have to go for differential diagnosis to find out the exact reason for the weak and flabby muscles of the boy – acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) – if polio virus is not found in the testing.“Apart from polio, guillain barre syndrome (GBS), transverse myelitis, traumatic neuritis, transient paralysis, facial palsy and paresis too may lead to AFP. There is no reason to panic as of now because samples of 64 suspected cases of polio were sent to IIS from Chaibasa during the past three years and none have tested positive so far,” Dr Suman said.In 2018, 13 samples for suspected cases of polio 32 samples in 2019 from West Singhbhum were sent for testing to IIS-Kolkata. This year, 19 samples have been sent for testing so far. None of the samples since 2018 have tested positive.West Singhbhum district civil surgeon Dr OP Gupta said the doctors in Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela suspected that the boy had polio after testing there and sent their report to the Chaibasa Sadar Hospital (CSH). “We immediately decided to get tests done at IIS and informed the district WHO coordinator,” Dr Gupta said.The boy had been suffering from high fever for almost three weeks when he was admitted in Manoharpur CHC on October 16.He was then referred to IGH Rourkela on October 18 where doctors suspected that he was suffering from polio and informed the WHO wing in Rourkela, which intimated WHO Chaibasa wing. Block coordinator handed over the sample to WHO official Himanshu Bhusan on October 31.According to a 2018 study report by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), the tribal dominated West Singhbhum district has one of the highest infant mortality rate (IMR) of 56, under 5 mortality rate (U5MR) of 96 in the country. Around 60% children below five years here are malnourished, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-year-old-in-jharkhand-suspected-of-polio-samples-sent-to-kolkata-s-iis/story-kuqUb4qnRXNYfOHTPqOSaP.html
04-11-2020||India||CISF personnel at airports to use palm-top devices to register prohibited items||Around 1,000 prohibited items are recovered daily by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel from passengers travelling from airports in Mumbai and other cities.So far, CISF personnel has been keeping a manual record of the seized items along with the passengers’ details. But the time-consuming process is set for a makeover soon.CISF personnel will receive palm-top devices, which will be connected to Automated Tray Retrieval System (ATRS), and will help them record the data quickly and efficiently. At present, a pilot project is in progress at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad. Also read | Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycottThe new system will help CISF authorities to disengage their personnel in maintaining voluminous data and focus on their core responsibility of security mechanisms.“The personnel posted at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad has been provided with hand-held palmtop devices for e- registration of seized items from passengers’ baggage due to security concerns,” said a CISF official. “The technology helps in entering and saving data of explosive trace detector (ETD) items removed electronically. The new mechanism will make it more convenient and faster than the existing manual entry of seized items in registers,” said a CISF official from Hyderabad. “We will provide our staff with a dedicated web portal that will download data and maintain records. The palmtop device is an Android-based mobile application (app) and will be connected to X-ray Baggage Inspection Systems (X-BIS) machine,” he added. CISF, which is in charge of security at most of the major airports in the country, has around 10,000 personnel deployed at airports in Delhi and Mumbai. “CISF personnel is also posted at Taj Santacruz, which is located within the premises of Terminal-1 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The palm-top devices will give CISF personnel more time for security work,” said an official posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-personnel-at-airports-to-use-palm-top-devices-to-register-prohibited-items/story-AkioadqbrdmT4Fwo8ZhAlJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami detained: All you need to know about abetment to suicide case||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday detained by the Mumbai Police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case, marking yet another turn in his ongoing face-off with the force, as well as the Maharashtra government.Also Read: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami detained in 2018 suicide abetment caseGoswami, after being assaulted by the Mumbai Police, as alleged by the Republic TV, has been detained under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to abetment to suicide. The channel has also accused the police of assaulting his family, including his son.Here’s all you need to know about the 2018 abetment to suicide case:1. In May 2018, almost a year after Republic TV was launched, a 53-year-old interior designer, Anvay Naik, and his mother, committed suicide. In his suicide note, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid dues collectively amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.2. Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. After Naik and his mother’s suicide, Alibaug Police booked Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda for allegedly abetting their suicide.3. While Shaikh is from IcastX/Skimedia, a media services firm, Sarda is the founder of Smart Work. As per an FIR registered by the Alibaug Police, Shaikh didn’t pay Rs 4 crore while Sarda owed Naik Rs 55 lakh. 4. Meanwhile, ARG Outlier Media, which owns Republic TV, did not pay Naik Rs 83 lakh, the FIR further alleged.5. The case was closed by Raigad Police last year. However, in May, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by Naik’s daughter, Adnya.6. The Maharashtra unit of the Congress, one of the three ruling parties in the state, had also put out a video of Naik’s wife, in which she reiterated the allegation against Goswami, which had led to an FIR being registered against him.7. Responding to the reopening of the case, Republic TV had put out a statement, hitting out at the Congress and accusing it of indulging in a “larger vindictive exercise against Republic Media Network.” The channel further claimed 90% dues had been paid to Naik and it had evidence to prove it had made repeated attempts to make a final settlement.8. Goswami and the Maharashtra government have been at loggerheads over a host of issues in recent days. Republic TV has been particularly critical of the state police’s handling of the Palghar lynching case, the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and was recently accused by the force of being involved in a ‘TRP scam.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-detained-all-you-need-to-know-about-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-KCQ0EbYsbqrIv7fKsi4f7H.html
04-11-2020||India||Karnataka to enact law against religious conversion for marriage: BJP Gen Secy||After Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh said they are considering laws against interfaith marriages, Karnataka became the fourth BJP-ruled state to take a similar stand.BJP’s national general secretary in-charge of South India, CT Ravi said Tuesday that the state government would bring a law to ban religious conversion for the sake of marriage. He also said that anyone involved in conversion activity shall face swift and severe punishment.Ravi recently resigned as the tourism minister of the state after being elevated as the national general secretary in the new team of BJP chief JP Nadda but the resignation is yet to be accepted formally by the Governor. “On lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of Our Sisters. Any one involved in the act of conversion shall face severe & swift punishment,” he said in a tweet.On Monday, deputy CM Ashwath Narayan had also said that the state would examine similar legislation being proposed in Uttar Pradesh before taking any concrete decision on religious conversion.Last month, the Allahabad High Court dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married. Interfaith relationships, euphemistically called love jihad by Hindu activists, have become a controversial issue in several states where Hindu right wingers allege that Muslim men “lure” gullible women for conversion. Many experts reject these allegations and say that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion.In February, the Union home ministry told Parliament that there was no definition of the term love jihad and no such cases were reported by agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-enact-law-against-religious-conversion-for-marriage-bjp-gen-secy/story-wmV323mgUCN4hTKoSMyDUP.html
04-11-2020||India||Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday asserted that the arrest of Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami followed due law and procedures. “Police can take action if they have evidence against anyone,” Raut said as questions were being raised over the sudden arrest of the journalist at a time when he has criticised the Maharashtra state government over Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation, and the TRP scam probe against him.“Since the formation of the Thackeray government, no action has been taken against anyone for revenge,” Raut added after Union minister Prakash Javadekar slammed Maharashtra Police’s action as an attack on press freedom.Training his gun on the Congress which is part of the Uddhav Thackeray-led naha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, Javadekar said Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are still fostering the mindset of Emergency. “We condemn the Congress, led by Sonia Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi, for its fascist and emergency mindset, which is on display in Maharashtra. People will give a befitting reply in a democratic manner,” the Union minister tweeted pointing towards a revenge theory behind Goswami’s arrest in a two-year-old case of abetment to suicide.Union minister Smriti Irani too came in support of Arnab Goswami. “Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next ?” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-followed-law-no-revenge-under-sena-government-says-sanjay-raut-on-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-8SuAnWaVHKwNaE4gF5r7SJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Do not overuse experimental therapies, warn AIIMS doctors||Doctors at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have warned against overusing drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the absence of adequate evidence.“...metanalysis that has a very small number of patients tend to sway opinion. There is a need to look critically. If you see the robust studies, it raises questions about the utility of these drugs. ...even without antivirals and other experimental drugs patients recovered on their own with supportive treatment. So, there has to be a judicious use and doctors have to consider when not to use these medicines,” said AIIMS director Randeep Guleria at a virtual interactive session of doctors from across the country to discuss trends in Covid-19 treatment.Doctors cited data and said 300 patients with moderate to severe symptoms were given steroids – the only medicine to have shown benefits in reducing mortality. Only about one-third were given the antiviral drug Remdesivir.Also read | Active Covid-19 cases declining, but surge in four states: Govt“The medicine was roughly given to one-third of the patients in moderate as well as severe categories. It was given only to those who presented within one week of symptoms and might benefit from it,” said Dr Sujay HS, a resident doctor from the department of medicine, AIIMS.Dr Manish Soneja, an additional professor from the same department, while presenting the evidence on some of the experimental therapies being used in India, said that randomised control trials did not show benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, or convalescent plasma therapy. Nonetheless, Remdesivir has since received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration.Dr Soneja said well-designed randomised control trials were needed to prove the efficacy of antiviral medicine Favipiravir and anti-parasitic Ivermectin.“A laboratory study had shown that Ivermectin reduces the viral load by 5,000 times in 48 hours. However, the doses needed for that is 35 times what is usually prescribed and may be toxic. Whether it is effective at the current dosage, we do not know. We will need randomised control trial to see. As for Tocilizumab, a cohort study has shown 10% lower mortality in ICU [intensive care unit] patients if given within two days of admission. However, two randomised control trials from France and Italy did not show any major benefits,” said Dr Soneja.The doctors have also reviewed the status of vaccine development. “Currently, there are 193 vaccine candidates across the world in different stages of development. Of these, 42 are in clinical phases [meaning they are being trialed on humans]. Ten vaccines are in the advanced phase III trial needed before approval. And two Russian vaccines have been approved without phase III trial,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine, AIIMS. He is leading a trial on Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at AIIMS, Delhi.As per data, 33% of all the vaccines under development are subunit vaccines wherein the viral protein is injected to generate an immune response. This is followed by 12% vaccines using a non-replicating viral vector that uses another virus without its ability to cause disease to deliver the antigen of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.The doctors said Hydroxychloroquine has failed as an experimental treatment since it did not show any impact in three randomised control trials, which are the gold standard for evaluating new therapies. India still recommends the use of the medicine for the treatment of mild Covid-19 patients as well as a prophylaxis to prevent the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-do-not-overuse-experimental-therapies-warn-aiims-doctors/story-WN9GiN6GDrwrFXiuxzT03O.html
04-11-2020||India||India reports 46,253 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, 20% higher than Tuesday||Within 24 hours, India registered a 20 per cent jump in the fresh Covid-19 cases as on Wednesday 46,253 fresh cases were registered against 38,310 on Tuesday. However, this is not disrupting the number active cases as 53,357 people have been discharged in the last 24 hours. The total active cases on Wednesday stand at 5,33,787 while the total tally is 83,13,877. On November 3, 12,09,609 samples have been tested.According to health ministry data, there has been a continuous decline in the average daily new cases for the last seven weeks. Between September 16 and 22, the daily new cases used to hover around 90,346. which came down to around 60,000 between October 14 and 20. Between October 28 and November 30, the average has come down to 45,884.The average daily new deaths have also come down in the last seven weeks. Health ministry data reveals average daily death used to be 1,165 between September 16 and 22. Between October 14 and 20, it came down to 763. between October 28 and November 3, it has been 513.The states have been asked to proactively pursue Test-Track-Trace and Treat strategy during the ongoing festive season.Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Manipur are the four states that are showing a rise in the number of active cases defying the national trend of a steady decline. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh are reporting a decline in the number of active cases in the last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-46-253-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-17-higher-than-tuesday/story-Qu7KboWIDflQRe2thdbH7K.html
04-11-2020||India||Amit Shah heads for Bengal to prep BJP for assembly polls||Union home minister Amit Shah will reach Kolkata this evening on a two-day visit to West Bengal to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s organizational preparedness for the 2021 state assembly election which is due in a few months.Buoyed by its impressive gain in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, in which the BJP had won 18 of the 42 parliamentary seats, the party is now eyeing for the West Bengal assembly. “Shah will be landing at the Kolkata International Airport today around 8:30 pm. He has a series of meetings over the next two days before he flies back to Delhi on November 6 evening,” said a senior party leader. While Shah did not campaign in Bihar for the assembly election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has addressed more than ten election rallies in the state since October. On October 22, Modi also addressed the people of Bengal on the occasion of Durga Sasthi virtually sounding the poll bugle. “Shah will address two rallies of BJP karyakartas, covering two of the party’s five organizational zones in each meeting. While the meeting on November 5 is in Bankura, the meeting on November 6 will take place in Kolkata,” said a senior leader. BJP president JP Nadda had addressed the karyakartas of north Bengal zone during his visit to the state before Durga Puja. On Thursday, Shah is scheduled to pay homage to 18th century tribal leader Birsa Munda at Bankura and have lunch in a tribal family in the district. On November 6 he is scheduled to visit the Dakhsineswar Temple and have lunch with a Matua (a Dalit population in Bengal) family at Rajarhat – New Town in the northern fringes of the city. The Matuas had extended their support to the BJP in the 2019 elections. “He is also likely to hold meetings with the BSF and CRPF and has expressed his willingness to meet Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty as part of the BJPs effort to reach out to intellectuals,” said the BJP leader. Shah’s visit to the state at this stage assumes significance because it is being viewed by senior leaders as an effort to stop internal rumblings and iron out differences between BJP leaders who earlier worked for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and those who joined in recent years, leaving the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Differences between Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy, the vice president (who switched over from the TMC) made news over the last two months. BJP leaders said the party’s central leaders want this to end so that a strong fight can be put up against the TMC in 2021. TMC MP Saugata Roy dismissed Shah’s engagement with the Matua community as inconsequential for the assembly polls,“Shah is coming to put an end to the rift that has surfaced in the Bengal BJP unit. Having lunch with a Matua or with a tribal family will not have any effect on the polls,” Roy said. The BJP has made some organisational changes in its Bengal unit and central leaders want the state unit to hit the road with full steam and subsequently intensify campaign for the crucial assembly election due in about five months. The entire campaign will be monitored from Delhi, a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-heads-for-bengal-to-prep-bjp-for-assembly-polls/story-gaxuS1fQd68hzi2vuA566I.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Reminds us of emergency days’: Prakash Javadekar after Arnab Goswami’s arrest||After Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami’s arrest, Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar slammed Maharashtra Police’s attack on press freedom and compared it to those of “Emergency days”. “We condemn the attack on press freedom in #Maharashtra. This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this,” the minister tweeted without taking the name of either Goswami or his channel.Later, he directly blamed the Congress, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi for the arrest. “We condemn the #Congress, led by Sonia Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi, for its fascist and emergency mindset, which is on display in #Maharashtra,” Javadekar tweeted mentioning Republic’s name.Also Read: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case We condemn the attack on press freedom in #Maharashtra. This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this.@PIB_India @DDNewslive @republic सोनिया गांधी और राहुल गाँधी के नेतृत्व में काम कर रही #कांग्रेस अभी भी आपातकालीन मनस्तिथि में है। इसी का सबूत आज महाराष्ट्र में उनकी सरकार ने दिखाया है। लोग ही इसका लोकतांत्रिक जवाब देंगे।@republicUnion minister Smriti Irani, too, voices support for Goswami. “Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next?” the minister tweeted. Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next ?On Wednesday morning, Goswami was detained and arrested by the Alibaugh Police in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. In 2018, a 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide blaming Arnab Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda — for not paying the dues running to crores for the interior services that their company Concorde Designs Private Limited rendered for them.A case of abetment to suicide was filed by the Alibaug Police but reports said in 2019 it got closed.In May 2020, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a fresh CID investigation into the case after Adnya Naik, daughter of Avnay Naik, approached him and complained that the Alibaug police had not investigated the “non-payment of dues from Arnab Goswami’s Republic”. The arrest of Arnab Goswami comes at a time when he is at a loggerheads with the state government over a chain of issues involving the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, TRP scam etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reminds-us-of-emergency-days-prakash-javadekar-after-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-6vLFYnrm2cGBTaX181bfeI.html
04-11-2020||India||Karnataka HC rejects bail plea of Kannada actor in Sandalwood drug case||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of three key accused the Sandalwood drug case -Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani alias Mahira and jeweller Prashanth Ranka. The three along with several others had been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NC) under various sections of NDPS Act. The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police and the NCB had jointly arrested Ragini on September 14 and Sanjjanaa two days later. The lawyer of the petitioners argued that no evidence had been found against them and that they should be immediately released.The counsel for prosecution, however, argued that since that digital evidence had been collected and are being processed, and since all the accused are influential people, any release could lead to destruction of evidence and thus prayed for their continued custody.After hearing all arguments, Justice Srinivasa Harish Kumar rejected the bail plea of the accused. All the three apart from seven other accused are lodged at the Parappana Agrahara Jail on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Some of the accused named in the charge sheet, including Aditya Alva the brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi, are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-kannada-actor-in-sandalwood-drug-case/story-63LFXqTDnX9COMto7RkvIO.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycott and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycottThe Delhi Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday beefed up security arrangements at the Indira Gandhi International airport after a banned outfit named ‘Sikhs for Justice’ (SFJ) called for obstruction of two Air India flights from Delhi to London scheduled on Thursday. Read MoreGurjar protests intensify in RajasthanMembers of the Gurjar community intensified their agitation seeking reservation in jobs and education in Rajasthan for the third straight day on Tuesday, disrupting both rail and road traffic, even as the state government said that its doors were open for talks with the agitating members. Read MoreUS Election 2020: Doordarshan rolls out 14-hour live coverageDoordarshan (DD) is rolling out a 14-hour live coverage of the ongoing US Presidential elections in the public broadcaster’s bid to expand its global footprint.DD has enlisted 22 guests, reporters on the ground, as the pubcaster aims to cover the election – held once in four years -- from coast to coast, people familiar with the matter said. Read MoreUS Presidential Election 2020: Trump and Biden in a close fight in key states Florida, TexasPolls have closed in key states of the US as the world watches a political spectacle unfold. The first projections of election results have begun to trickle in.While Republican candidate and incumbent President Donald Trump is seeking a return to office for a second term, Democrat leader Joe Biden has campaigned aggressively to grab the White House seat. Read More Govt: Over 1 million Covid-19 warriors trainedIndia has digitally trained 1.36 million Covid-19 warriors so far that are managing Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The online platform, Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform and Covid Trainings, started functioning in April, and one of the aim of the programme was to train the frontline workers in managing the outbreak. Read More‘Don’t think it is possible that Ravi Shastri was unaware about Rohit Sharma’s situation’: Virender Sehwag ‘doesn’t agree’ with India head coachThe controversy over Rohit Sharma not getting selected for the Australia tour saw a new twist on Tuesday when the right-handed batsman stepped out to play for Mumbai Indians against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League. Rohit was kept out of the three India squads because he was believed to injured, but the batsman at the toss said that he is ‘fit’. Read MoreTaarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah: Dilip Joshi says he was forbidden to repeat controversial ‘paagal aurat’ lineDilip Joshi, aka Jethalal from the popular show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, became the subject of memes with his iconic line - “Aye, paagal aurat (Crazy woman)!” However, in a recent chat, he revealed that the line stirred up a controversy. Read MoreWatch: Donald Trump dances, asking people to vote in US electionsDonald Trump, President of the United States of America, tweeted a video of himself dancing to the classic song YMCA by Village People. The caption on the video said ‘POTUS knows how to close a show’. The video contained clippings from various campaign rallies showing Trump dancing on stage. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-security-ramped-up-at-igi-airport-after-banned-outfit-calls-for-flights-boycott-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GMAb7gZa9JQv0C8JZl8IxL.html
04-11-2020||India||Air pollution as severe in villages as in urban India, reveals study||Outdoor pollution is not primarily an urban problem and ambient air is as toxic in rural parts of India as in the urban regions, found a new study part-funded by NASA that combined satellite data with modelling to estimate levels of small particulate matter (PM2.5 > 2.5 μm) that damage health and lead to early death.In the rest of India, the average PM2.5 levels are similar in rural and urban areas, found the study by researchers from the Colorado State University and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. It found that most people in India (84% of the population) are exposed to pollution well above the limit of India’s standard (40 μg/m3 ), and almost the entire country is exposed to levels higher than the WHO standard (10 μg/m3 ), with “a long tail of very high concentrations (>160 μg/m3 ) in the urban regions in the Indo-Gangetic plains and parts of non-urban areas in eastern and western India”.Also read | Toxic air from fires is set to make India’s Covid fight deadlierAround 16% of India’s population is not affected by this pollution (below 40 μg/m3 ), and that is mostly confined to the very north-western parts of India, the Western Ghats, and a few regions within India. The fraction that is below the WHO standards is very small (<0.001%), said the study, which has implications for air quality monitoring, regulations, public health, and policy. It was published in the journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) on Tuesday.“I was a little surprised (with the results), though our previous work was indicating this. We calculated these using satellite data, so no, there are no significant gaps,” said lead author R. Ravishankara, University Distinguished Professor, Departments of Chemistry and Atmospheric Science at Colorado State University, US, in an email.“Only the very north western part of India appears to be below the threshold for PM2.5. We have used premature mortality as the metric to measure the health impact. In addition to premature mortality, there are other negative impacts such as asthma, hospital visits, medical costs, etc,” said Ravishankaran.The findings are in line with the State of Global Air 2020 report released in October, which said that India had recorded the highest annual average PM2.5 concentration exposure in the world in 2019, followed by Nepal, Niger, Qatar and Nigeria.For the PNAS study, researchers calculated the annually averaged aerosol optical depth (AOD) from three satellite instruments (Methods) that were converted to surface PM2.5 abundances using PM2.5:AOD ratios from the GEOSChem chemical transport model. They then compared the satellite-derived daily and annual PM2.5 with the surface PM2.5 measured by India’s Central Pollution Control Board at 20 monitoring sites, most of which were in urban areas.The annual premature deaths attributable to PM2.5 alone for urban and rural India is 1.05 million, found the study, which factored in six causes of death: ischemic heart disease, stroke, lower respiratory infections, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer, and type-2 diabetes.Long-term exposure to outdoor and household air pollution contributed to over 1.67 million annual premature deaths from stroke, heart attack, diabetes, lung cancer, chronic lung diseases, and neonatal diseases, in India in 2019 according to State of Global Air Report 2020.The analysis revealed that the risk of premature deaths attributable to PM2.5 is similar in rural and urban regions, but there were more deaths in rural areas as it is home to 69% of the country’s population.“We have used premature mortality as the metric to measure the health impact. These are quantified in the paper. In addition to premature mortality, there are other negative impacts such as asthma, hospital visits, medical costs, etc,” said Ravisankaran.The findings suggest that efforts to monitor and curtail air pollution should not be limited to India’s urban areas. Enhancing monitoring and regulation in rural areas, which are virtually non-existent, could help better assess the risks and inform policy for pan-India reduction of PM2.5 levels keeping in mind the rural populations lower ability to reduce risks because of economic reasons.“The Global Burden of Disease 2019 shows us that possibly 100% of India is exposed to air that is not meeting the WHO guidelines, and anywhere between 69% to 85% of the population is exposed to air that doesn’t meet the national standard. Now there is a mix of satellite, chemical transport and ground monitor data to prove this. There are studies now showing that 30% to 50% of outdoor air pollution is contributed by household sources of emissions. The health impacts on both rural and urban populations could range from cardio-respiratory, cardiovascular conditions, diabetes, low birthweight, preterm birth and neonatal mortality,” said Kalpana Balakrishnan, the director of the Indian Council of Medical Research Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Climate and Health, Chennai.“My key message is: Please don’t forget non-urban India when dealing with air pollution. The second key message is: Science, measurements, and analyses can help overcome this problem with good information to the policymakers,” said Ravisankaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-as-severe-in-villages-as-in-urban-india-reveals-study/story-OvuzR1U64HEE2hsW8sANNM.html
04-11-2020||India||‘So much for the crores’, Tharoor, Omar Abdullah slam ‘Namo bromance’ after Donald Trump Jr’s map fiasco||US President’s son, Donald Trump junior, stirred a controversy on Tuesday after he tweeted a world map painted in red and blue. Red is the colour associated with the Republicans while blue stands for the Democrats. “Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction,” he had tweeted just ahead of the closing day. Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE pic.twitter.com/STmDSuQTMbThe map showed India with wrong border and painted in the colour of blue — along with China, Liberia and Mexico. The projected Democrat population in India however excludes Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast, evoking sharp criticism by Indian politicians. Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE pic.twitter.com/STmDSuQTMbSlamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s bonhomie with US incumbent President Donald Trump, who has recently termed India ‘filthy’ as far as India’s climate is concerned, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor referred to the Howdy, Modi and Namaste Trump events. “The price of Namo’s bromance: Kashmir & the NorthEast cut off from the rest of India, &the whole “filthy” place relegated by Don Jr to the realm of hostiles, along with China&Mexico. So much for the crores spent on obsequious serenading stadium events!” Tharoor tweeted.“So much for the friendship with Trump Senior. Junior has placed India firmly with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris though interestingly Jr. believes J&K & the NorthEast go against the rest of India and will vote Trump. Someone needs to take his colouring pencils away,” J&K former chief minister, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-much-for-the-crores-tharoor-omar-abdullah-slam-namo-bromance-after-donald-trump-jr-s-map-fiasco/story-SrFyYWNObLvoUNrHQImzPL.html
04-11-2020||India||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case||The Maharashtra Police on Wednesday morning arrested Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami from his Mumbai house in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. This comes at a time when the TRP scam investigation against Goswami is going on in Mumbai. #WATCH Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami detained and taken in a police van by Mumbai Police, earlier today pic.twitter.com/ytYAnpauG0This abetment to suicide case goes back to 2018 when a 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide in Alibaug in May 2018. A suicide note purportedly written by Anvay was found in which he said that Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda —had not paid him Rs 5.40 crore which led to his financial constraints. In 2018, the Alibaug police had filed a case of abetment to suicide but in 2019 the case was closed by Raigad Police. Watch: Arnab Goswami arrested; I&B Minister draws ‘emergency’ analogyIn May 2020, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a fresh CID investigation into the case after Adnya Naik, daughter of Avnay Naik, approached him and complained that the Alibaug police had not investigated the “non-payment of dues from Arnab Goswami’s Republic”.  Adnya Naik had complained to me that #AlibaugPolice had not investigated non-payment of dues from #ArnabGoswami's @republic which drove her entrepreneur father & grandmom to suicide in May 2018. I've ordered a CID re-investigation of the case.#MaharashtraGovernmentCaresAnvay was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited which rendered some services for Republic. Naik’s mother was also in the Board of Directors of the company. Anvay’s wife Akshata lodged a complained against Arnab Goswami as the suicide note contained his name, along with the others.The Republic TV at that time quashed the allegations of non-payment and attributed this to “malicious campaign”. It had claimed that all amounts due and payable under the contract were paid by Republic TV to Concorde Designs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-reaches-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami-s-house-attempts-to-detain-him/story-hKCZGIvDXnNr2rFp9XgHON.html
04-11-2020||India||US Election 2020: Doordarshan rolls out 14-hour live coverage||Doordarshan (DD) is rolling out a 14-hour live coverage of the ongoing US Presidential elections in the public broadcaster’s bid to expand its global footprint.DD has enlisted 22 guests, reporters on the ground, as the pubcaster aims to cover the election – held once in four years -- from coast to coast, people familiar with the matter said. The channel is holding live debates with the guests to discuss the importance of the US Presidential elections and play up the Indian angle in one of the most vibrant democracies in the world.“The channel is number one as far as the reach is concerned. Gradually, it is increasing its footprints in east Asia and Asia-Pacific regions,” said a person familiar with the matter. Also read | Biden wins in 10 states but Florida, North Carolina results most crucial“DD India has consolidated its position as an ideal platform to articulate the country’s voice on the world stage, thanks to an array of special programming that will be broadcast soon. The programmes will project the country’s soft power abroad along with narrating the new India growth story to the global audience,” the person added. Several other international initiatives are also in the works to further the pubcaster’s aim to reach a broader international audience. “DD India has come up with a template for current affairs programmes, as the country seeks to project its views to the global audience on international topics,” said the person mentioned above. “The channel aims to provide an alternative narrative to the Indian story and global headlines on a daily basis and seeks to emerge as the nation’s voice on the world stage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-election-2020-doordarshan-rolls-out-14-hour-live-coverage/story-2tNwd528LMwrGgpBV1AIwK.html
04-11-2020||India||Mizoram hands over body of Assam resident, national highway blockade continues||Amid continued tension along border areas between the two states, the Mizoram government on Tuesday handed over the body of an Assam resident who had died in police custody in the neighbouring state a day earlier. A large posse of Mizoram security personnel accompanied the body of Intazul Laskar and handed it over to senior district and police officials of Cachar district in Assam at Lailapur on the border between the two states. Laskar’s brother was also present during the handing over. The Assam government maintains the 45-year-ol Laskar was abducted from its territory on Sunday while Mizoram claims he was a drug dealer and had entered the state to smuggle in narcotics.“Nearly 250-300 security personnel from Mizoram accompanied the body of the deceased and handed it over to us at 10:30 am. We are conducting a magisterial inquest and post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death,” Dilip Kumar Dey, deputy inspector general of police, (Southern Range), Assam Police, said. The body was handed over to the deceased’s family on Tuesday evening for the last rites. The Assam Police have registered a case of abduction at Dholai police station and are conducting an investigation. “The situation on the border areas is tense but under control. Blockade of NH 306 connecting Mizoram by residents of Lailapur continues. Residents on the Assam side are very angry at Laskar’s death,” Dey said. The national highway has been blocked by Assam residents since October 28 demanding withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from the border areas. A case of unnatural death has also been lodged by Mizoram Police and a magisterial inquiry ordered in connection with Laskar’s death. “On November 1, Intyaz Ali aka Intazul Laskar was apprehended by volunteers of the Young Mizo Association while he was trying to sell drugs. While attempting to flee, he suffered injuries on his ankles. Later, excise officials seized 420 mg from him and arrested him,” ANI quoted Mizoram’s inspector general of police (IGP) John Neihlaia as saying.. “As this is death in custody, post mortem was done as per NHRC guidelines. A case of unnatural death has been registered and a magisterial inquiry also being held. The body was handed over to his (Laskar’s brother),” he added. The Mizoram police official maintained that Laskar was weak and died at Vairengte community health centre on November 2. On Tuesday, newly appointed Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua and Assam’s director general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta visited the border areas to take stock of the situation. They also met Laskar’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh as ex-gratia. “We will take all measures needed to protect our residents and ensure Assam’s territory is not encroached upon. Talks are on at the highest level to resolve the issue. Unlike Mizoram, we don’t want to indulge in uncivil behaviour, but will not tolerate injustice,” Mahanta told journalists. While Assam maintains that troops from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory, the Mizoram side claims the areas belong to them and have refused to call back its troops till normalcy returns. Last month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Assam and Mizoram share a 165 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-hands-over-body-of-assam-resident-national-highway-blockade-continues/story-OppI0pg5ZxKbzcCfiMPZ7K.html
04-11-2020||India||Puducherry joins govt’s borrowing plan for GST||Puducherry is the latest addition in the list of 21 states and two Union territories (UTs) to accept the Centre’s proposal to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of states, which is part of the estimated Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess, as the Union finance ministry on Monday announced the release a second tranche of Rs 6,000 crore to states and UTs. Seven states—Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal—are yet to accept the Centre’s proposal as they want full compensation of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, two government officials said requesting anonymity. The seven dissenting states are “The ministry of finance, Government of India, under its ‘Special Window to States for meeting the GST Compensation Cess shortfall,’ will be releasing an amount of Rs 6,000 crore as second tranche to 16 States and 3 Union Territories today,” the government stated in an official statement.The previous tranche was released on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-joins-govt-s-borrowing-plan-for-gst/story-gU62LvihzUqJKa8BZgyOYM.html
04-11-2020||India||4 chant hanuman Chalisa at UP Idgah, arrested||Police arrested four men Tuesday after they chanted ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ at an Idgah, a day after namaz offered on the premises of a temple here triggered a row.One of them claimed to be a local leader of BJP’s youth wing.Saurabh Nambardar, Raghav Mittal, Rauki and Kanha entered the Idgah on the Goverdhan-Barsana road and recited the Hindu prayer, police said. They were arrested under Section 151 of the CrPC for disturbing peace.Meanwhile, a Bharatiya Janata Party leader Manupal Bansal also entered a mosque and recited ‘Gayatri mantra’ and ‘Hanuman Chalisa’, in Khekra area of Baghpat district. Bansal, who is also associated with RSS-supported Population Solutions Foundation, said he did this to spread a message of communal harmony and sought permission from the ‘hafiz’ (religious leader) of the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-chant-hanuman-chalisa-at-up-idgah-arrested/story-CjRqNYRXzOJManRs08sg3J.html
04-11-2020||India||Gurjar protests intensify in Rajasthan||Members of the Gurjar community intensified their agitation seeking reservation in jobs and education in Rajasthan for the third straight day on Tuesday, disrupting both rail and road traffic, even as the state government said that its doors were open for talks with the agitating members.Protesters associated with the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti -- which began the movement for reservation in Bayana on Sunday saying the community comes under the Most Backward Class (MBC) -- blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route, leading to several trains being diverted. The Kota rail division officials said 17 passenger trains and 25 goods trains were diverted.On Monday, internet services were suspended across Bharatpur and Karauli district, and in nine tehsils of Jaipur districts. Gurjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla said the agitation will continue until their demands are met. Speaking to news agency ANI, Bainsla said, “The government should accept our demands as early as possible.”On Tuesday evening, senior IAS officer Niraj K Pavan reached Bayana to hold talks with Bainsla. Vijay Bainsla, Kirori Singh Bainsla’s son, said they are ready to hold talks with any government authority. “However, the talks will take place only on the railway tracks and not in any room,” he said. Meanwhile, additional director general of police (law and order) Saurabh Srivastava said additional forces have been deployed in Kota Rural, Tonk, Bundi and Jhalawar where members of the Gurjar community attempted to block roads. The state government had earlier authorised the collectors of eight districts in eastern Rajasthan to make preventive detentions under the National Security Act to maintain law and order. Addressing the Rajasthan assembly on Monday, health minister Raghu Sharma said the Congress government had given 2,491 jobs to Gurjar candidates so far, while 1,356 posts had been reserved for them in the ongoing recruitment. The state government had on October 26, 2018, passed a bill that increased the Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota from 21% to 26%. In December 2018, it also approved 1% reservation for Gurjars and four OBC groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurjar-protests-intensify-in-rajasthan/story-sqyeBk5sax0j0xJ03AfNiM.html
04-11-2020||India||Govt: Over 1 million Covid-19 warriors trained||India has digitally trained 1.36 million Covid-19 warriors so far that are managing Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The online platform, Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform and Covid Trainings, started functioning in April, and one of the aim of the programme was to train the frontline workers in managing the outbreak.Those being trained include doctors, nurses, allied and healthcare professionals, laboratory professionals, frontline workers other than health care workers, NCC cadets, and other volunteers. As of today, at least 2.9 million unit of courses have been enrolled by 1.36 million unique users from 729 districts, of which 1.9 unit courses have been completed, shows government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-over-1-million-covid-19-warriors-trained/story-gW9njpzwPk7mqlebDVWYUP.html
04-11-2020||India||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to lead protest at Rajghat||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced a relay protest of Congress lawmakers at Rajghat on Wednesday after President Ram Nath Kovind refused to meet a delegation led by him over the Centre’s controversial new farm laws and the northern state’s rapidly worsening power crisis. The chief minister’s office (CMO) on October 21 sought an appointment with the President on November 4 to urge him to grant his assent to Punjab’s farm bills passed last month by the state assembly in a bid to bypass the Centre’s new laws that ushered in reform in the agricultural sector but also sparked widespread protests in the state.But Rashtrapati Bhavan declined the appointment on Monday, pointing out that the state farm bills were still pending with the governor. The CMO sent another request the same day, but the President’s office declined this as well, saying it “cannot be accepted at this juncture for reasons cited earlier”.In response, Singh announced on Tuesday that he will lead a dharna to highlight the “power crisis and critical essential supplies situation”. The CM said as section 144 of the CrPC -- which prohibits assembly of people -- is in force in the Capital, MLAs will go from Delhi’s Punjab Bhawan to Mahatma Gandhi’s final resting place in Rajghat in groups of four to hold a relay protest. Singh will lead the first batch at 10.30 am. Singh also asked legislators of other parties to join the dharna in the interest of the state. The CM said the protest in Delhi will also highlight the power crisis and scarcity of essential supplies in the state due to the suspension of goods trains by the Centre.The Railways stopped running trains to Punjab from October 1, saying farmers protesting against the farm laws blocked tracks and attacked trains, leading to losses. But the state government says it has eased the blockade and allowed goods trains to run. “GVK has announced it will close down operations at 3pm on Tuesday since coal stocks have completely run out. The public and private power plants in the state have already shut down,” the CM said in a statement.On October 20, Punjab’s assembly unanimously passed four bills and a resolution to counter the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre in September, and pledged to safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big agribusinesses.Because the state laws are in conflict with the central laws, which have been signed by Kovind, they require presidential assent to be enacted. Some farmers organisations say the bills offer nothing substantial.BJP’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said Singh should stop political maneuvering. “The railways have requ-ested the Punjab government to get the train tracks vacated and he should ensure this as law and order is his responsibility. Who will be responsible if some mishap occurs? He (Singh) is only indulging in these political theatrics only to hide his failures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-to-lead-protest-at-rajghat/story-C1YJNiEVPEZ89Y9AxslHIK.html
04-11-2020||India||Soon, price info system for farmers||The Union government will set up a price information and market intelligence system for farm produce to enable price discovery for farmers in accordance with provisions of a set of laws enacted to liberalise agricultural trade, according to an agriculture ministry presentation seen by HT. “The government will employ the services of a central government economic organisation to develop this price information and market intelligence system for farmers,” a government official said, requesting anonymity. The agriculture ministry is also undertaking a massive drive to publicise the three controversial laws that have led to protests by farmers groups in some states. “Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has written to over 200,000 sarpanches (village heads) in multiple languages to spell out the various provisions of the laws and the benefits to farmers from the reforms,” the official cited above said. The agriculture ministry has marshalled over 100 resource persons from central and state governments to educate farmers on the three Acts that bring the full force of liberalisation to the agriculture sector. These resource persons attended a training session last month, the official said. He added that the price information and market intelligence system will be a web-based platform and will collate real-time data of production, arrivals of farm produce in markets, and demand and supply, to provide a profitable indicative price to farmers. The system will also have a mechanism to easily disseminate the price information to growers to help them negotiate better returns, possibly delivered on mobile handsets. “For farmers, price has always been the real issue. Regardless of whatever system one has, the government will ultimately have to intervene to make good losses through procurement whenever there is a price crash,” said RK Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.The NDA government on September 24 passed three bills -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 – despite protests by farmers’ outfits and opposition leaders. The reforms allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have angered farmers, particularly in Punjab, who fear the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price, leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. PM Narendra Modi has said, on several occasions, that the three laws have no bearing on the current system of assured prices, which will continue. But the Opposition has questioned why this has not been made explicit in the new laws.Three Congress-ruled states -- Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan -- have passed their own farm laws to override the Central provisions. These, however, may yet be open to legal interpretation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-price-info-system-for-farmers/story-82KncexBluzC9Hb0NdVdXN.html
04-11-2020||India||States granted Rs 2,200 crore to fight air pollution||The Union government approved the release of ₹2,200 crore to fight air pollution to 42 cities with a population in excess of a million -- money that will be used under the National Clean Air Programme to improve air quality in these cities.The money (transferred through states) will go towards capacity building of the local urban bodies and state pollution control boards. Delhi, with the worst air in the country, is not among the cities that will receive funds under this grant. While Delhi is among the 102 cities covered by NCAP, it has not received any funding under NCAP. Greater Mumbai has received the highest share of funds, ₹244 crore followed by Kolkata (₹192 crores), Bengaluru (₹139.5 crore) and Chennai (₹90 crore). A November 2 communication from the Finance Commission Division to the accounts officer at the Chief Controller of Accounts in the department of expenditure, ministry of finance details the allocation. The 2020-21 report of the finance commission had recommended the grant of ₹4,400 crore to NCAP. The programme, launched in January last year, aims to reduce by 20-30%, the PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations in over a hundred cities compared to 2017 levels.The report released last November also explained Delhi’s exclusion. “We are also deeply concerned with the issue of ‘ease of breathing’ in the National Capital Region (NCR), especially the extremely hazardous levels of pollution in October-November of each year. One of the main reasons for this is the burning of crop residue in the surrounding states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. We are unable to make an allocation to address this as Delhi is not a state. Besides, the pollution hazard in the NCR is very unique as the air-shed contributing to pollution extends to three neighbouring states,” the Commission noted in the report, adding that it is “ therefore recommended that the Union Government constitute a high power committee, consisting of the ministries of Finance, Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, the Governments of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, to devise, implement and monitor a time-bound action plan for pollution mitigation under the National Clean Air Programme.”The state governments are supposed to directly transfer the grants to city administrations within 10 days of receipt. Any delay would mean that state will have to release the funds with interest. Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted on Tuesday: “The government, based on the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission has released ₹2,200 crores as the first instalments to 15 states for the improvement of air quality measures in their million plus cities. ” The 15th Finance Commission report specifies that the environment ministry in consultation with states will develop a city-wise and year wise targets for ambient air quality based on annual average concentration of PM 10 and PM 2.5 ; and monitor and evaluate improvement and recommend disbursal of grants accordingly to cities. “The second instalment shall be disbursed against the stipulated performance-based outcomes in terms of year-on-year improvement in air quality in January 2021,” the report states.But MoEFCC is yet to come out with benchmarks for monitoring of use of funds and improvement in air quality; the deadline for this was April. “MoEFCC is in the final stages of formulating a framework for monitoring the use of funds. In fact, Central Pollution Control Board is developing the framework with the state governments. The Finance Commission report is very clear that the second instalment of the funds will be performance based. Delhi is not included in the list because it is a union territory. Finance Commission doesn’t provide these funds to UTs,” a senior environment ministry official said.Experts are concerned about how these substantial grants will be utilised. “The Finance Commission grants represent an important step forward. The allocations are substantial...,” said Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research. “There will be some challenges this year... Unfortunately, except for a few cities like Patna, most city action plans don’t yet lend themselves well for this effort. Some grantee cities like Chennai are not part of NCAP and therefore may be less prepared. There are some other sources of uncertainty as well. To what extent can polluting activities outside the direct jurisdiction of the urban local bodies be targeted through these grants?”.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “Centre’s decision to not give any funds to Delhi from ₹2,200 Cr... shows its pettiness and complete lack of political will when it comes to the problem of pollution in Delhi. Pollution is a health emergency for the entire of north India and it knows no boundaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-granted-rs-2-200-cr-to-fight-air-pollution/story-IcYI7rJHGinV9OzW5Nt70N.html
04-11-2020||India||PIL in medical bribery scam: NGO pays Rs 25 lakh fine asked by Supreme Court||After being slapped with a hefty fine of Rs 25 lakh in December 2017 by the top court for filing a PIL demanding judicial probe into a medical college bribery scam involving a sitting Orissa high court judge, the NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reform (CJAR) deposited the amount with the court making a parallel request to recall the order imposing cost.The application moved by CJAR will come up before a bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar on Wednesday. The NGO while depositing the demand draft of Rs 25 lakh said that it wanted the money to be utilized by the Supreme Court Bar Association Welfare Fund to help lawyers affected by the pandemic. At the same time, it pointed out that the December 1, 2017 order dismissing the PIL filed by the NGO as “frivolous” proved to be wrong subsequently. Explaining the delay to deposit the amount, the NGO said that the working committee (of CJAR) felt that despite lack of funds, the SC Bar Association Welfare Fund was currently in need of funds to help advocates who have suffered due to lack of work during the pandemic and hence decided to deposit the cost “despite the unfairness of it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-medical-bribery-scam-ngo-pays-rs-25-lakh-fine-asked-by-supreme-court/story-oW58YmHKd4YmIagEa0UlmN.html
04-11-2020||India||Job woes abound in migrant hub||“We have to deliver every day unlike those who are in government jobs” Chandan Paswan, 30, waiting for someone to hire him for a day said. A resident of Dilarpur village in Katihar, Chandan returned from Delhi (in May) by a special train after the national lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease was enforced in late March.Madho Rishi, 50, of Nakkipur village, came back from Ludhiana by special train . “I am waiting for someone to hire me” he said, looking at this scribe with hope.“Yes, I can do all kinds of manual work” Yogi Mandal, 55 of Kolasi said, requesting just one chance. “Give me just one chance, I can assure you that I will never disappoint you.”All three, and many like them are at Katihar’s Mirchaibaribari Chowk also known as Labour Chowk on the Katihar-Purnia Road.Some walk to the spot; others cycle.“Our morning starts at 4 am every day and we reach here latest by 7 am covering 25 by cycle for a daylong job” said one of the workers. “Many days we have to return without a job.” Mostly unskilled, the workers charge anything between rs 250 and Rs 400 a day. There are at least 12 such points in Katihar town areas, but the Mirchaibari labour Chowk is the oldest, and also the most popular. Around 200-300 workers gather here everyday. “We hardly get work for 10 to 15 days in a month” now, said Anil Oraon, 32, from Modhra village, adding that this is probably because of the ongoing pandemic. He is happy that the state is proving them with free rations though. “We are alive because we get free ration” he said. As part of the Union government’s relief programme, every migrant worker’s family gets 5 kg free foodgrain per head and maximum of 25 kg per family besides they got Rs 1000 under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. Besides, government also launched a job programme, Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan for migrants to offer them works under 25 schemes worth Rs 50,000 crore. The scheme was originally launched for three months and then extended till November.Gulab Chandra Chouhan, 45, a resident of Para village says free rations can’t help them lead a dignified life. He wants work, but thinks the pandemic, not the government, is to blame. Md Ibrahim, 50, adds: “Elections can’t solve our problem; what can solve our problem is work.”Katihar has the maximum number of migrant workers who returned from other regions during the national lockdown. About 4,00,000 migrant workers returned to the region by trains and other means of transport; many have since returned to the big cities, bused away by contractors over the past few months. All told, around 2.5 million migrant workers returned to Bihar in the wake of the pandemic. Naresh Kumar Srivasatava, a political worker and a professor at Purnia University, said that “nobody can rule out the fact that the Central government has done a lot during the pandemic.”Katihar will go to the polls on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-woes-abound-in-migrant-hub/story-eHcYwkydEOBJaN3HmBhmTK.html
04-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over ‘poor development’ in state||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for growing unemployment in Bihar, saying workers who returned to the state in distress during the Covid-19 lockdown wouldn’t have had to go outside the state to earn a living in the first place had the two leaders kept their promise to create jobs.At an election meeting at Korha in Katihar ahead of the third phase of polling in the Bihar assembly elections on November 7, Gandhi pledged that the state government would work for a permanent solution to recurring floods in Bihar and facilitate the setting up of food processing units in the region, considered the maize bowl of Bihar, if the Grand Alliance of the Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal is voted to power.Farmers and labourers of this region, which accounts for 20% of maize production in the country, had been forced to migrate for jobs because the state and the central governments had failed to ensure that farm produce received profitable returns, Gandhi said.At Kishanganj, the Congress leader took a potshot over the Bihar CM’s act to intimidate the youngsters asking for jobs at his rallies and said that Nitish Kumar should not rebuke them. “They (youngsters) are asking genuine question. He (CM) should acknowledge that he had lied to them. The biggest question India is grappling with is how to provide jobs to the youth,” asked Rahul Gandhi.JDU spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said that Rahul Gandhi’s attack on the government for unemployment basically was a reflection of the GA’s desperation. “No one takes the Congress leader seriously after the 58-years of misrule by the Congress and later by RJD, which pushed Bihar in the distress.” State BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “People in the state are scared at the hint of jungle raj regime and unfeasible promises would anyway help the GA to get better this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-modi-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-over-poor-development-in-state/story-C5oEh15mNI3McqA9BdNRnN.html
04-11-2020||India||CBI asks US for info on convicted NRIs||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked United States’ Department of Justice (DOJ) to provide information and documents on Indian nationals, who commit crime on American soil and are prosecuted there, particularly the ones who plead guilty in economic and cyber crimes, so that their Indian links can be explored by law enforcement agencies in India, people familiar with the development said. Cases of Indian nationals being involved in duping American citizens, or running unfair online practices being probed by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) or local authorities in the US have come to notice lately which are being closely watched by Indian agencies. Indictment of six persons including an Indian national – Nishad Kunju (31) from Hyderabad by a US grand jury in September this year for conspiring to pay over $100,000 in commercial bribes to employees and contractors of Amazon is the latest instance where CBI and other agencies want to explore the Indian aspect. Another Indian national – Chirag Sachdeva pleaded guilty last month to the charges of participating in a telemarketing scheme to try to embezzle about $600,000 from seven elderly people in America. He was arrested by the FBI in February. In similar case, one Sudhish Kasaba Ramesh from India pleaded guilty earlier this year in the federal court in San Jose, California for intentionally accessing the protected computer of an information technology firm. Indian agencies feel there are many more such cases of online frauds or cyber crimes where Indian citizens, based in the US, are involved and there is possibility they park their illegal money in India, or have associates here, which needs further scrutiny, people cited above said. A senior DOJ official last week attended the three-day national conference on vigilance and corruption organized by the CBI, where the issue was taken up, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. “We have asked DOJ to provide the all the relevant documents on Indians arrested/convicted there,” said second officer. Lately, there has been enhanced cooperation between CBI and the DOJ. In fact, DOJ praised the premier anti-corruption probe agency earlier this month for conducting raids on six companies here in India as part of a parallel investigation in a technical support fraud scam masterminded by an American citizen working with various call centres here. Both the authorities are also informally collaborating on matters like investigation against Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya, who have investments in the US. Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Indian authorities understand that the only way they are likely to receive cooperation from their foreign counterparts, is being proactive themselves to enforcement and information requests. With the Internet fraud too has become globalised - one such example being the call centre’s in Mumbai/Ahmedabad that were defrauding US companies and authorities by impersonation. It is a step in the right direction for Indian authorities to investigate the use of Indian soil for misdeeds outside the country.” During the three-day conference, attended by over 600 officers from all the states and union territories, the agencies and senior government representatives also discussed the increasing role of informal channel like direct cooperation between police and agencies of various countries in gathering information; and the role of Interpol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-asks-us-for-info-on-convicted-nris/story-MsX6GVsEVbTvVJyJtQbzTM.html
04-11-2020||India||Interpol defers its General Assembly||Interpol has, for the first time in its history, decided to postpone its General Assembly (GA), which had been scheduled to take place in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in December, because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The 89th General Assembly of all 194-member countries of Interpol was to discuss cooperation in tackling terrorism, organised crime and criminal networks, among other aspects of policing. Interpol’s executive committee concluded that it is inadvisable and materially impossible to hold the GA anywhere in the world this year.“Due to legal, technical and logistical reasons, there is currently also no viable option for a virtual GA,” Interpol said in a statement.Interpol secretary general Jürgen Stock said: “The UAE authorities worked extremely hard to identify solutions to the problems presented by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, unfortunately it is not possible for the GA to go ahead as planned”. New dates for GA have not yet been announced. India is due to host the 91st GA of Interpol in 2022. It is yet to be ascertained if the postponement of this year’s GA will affect future annual meetings. The postponement implies that besides the budget, which exceptionally can be approved by the executive committee, all other statutory items would remain pending until the next session of GA, Interpol said. This includes elections to the executive committee and Commission for the Control (CCC) of Interpol’s files. The CCC decides cases of red notices after analysing presentations made by fugitives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interpol-defers-its-general-assembly/story-YyxHIWsZ3ZhkocnwC3YB5O.html
04-11-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases declining, but surge in four states: Govt||Even as active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are declining in the country, at least four states -- Manipur, Delhi, Kerala, and West Bengal -- are reporting a surge in the viral infection, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, citing data from the ministry, said that in Manipur, the number of active cases has gone up to 3,500 from 2,000 cases reported earlier, while Delhi saw a jump from 26,000 to 53,000 cases. “Kerala had reported 77,000 active cases earlier, which now stands at 86,000, and West Bengal saw an increase from 26,000 to 36,000 in the past week,” said Bhushan during a press conference.The health ministry is in constant touch with these states to ensure improved implementation of Covid-19 containment measures, he said.“It doesn’t matter whether numbers are going up or coming down, the strategy of test, track, trace and treat has to be universally followed. This strategy will not go out of fashion, and our primary focus should be to increase and enhance this, at least till the time we achieve case positivity rate of 5% or below,” said Bhushan, also cautioning that with more festivals coming up in the next few weeks, states should avoid a surge in infections during the festive season.According to the health ministry data, India has 541,000 active cases of Covid-19, which is about 6.8% of the total cases of the disease reported in the country. A major reason for active Covid-19 cases decreasing significantly was due to increased recoveries in the past five months, ministry officials said.The data shows that there were about 95,000 recoveries reported in June, which has now gone up to 7.6 million. “These figures are important as these show that our health care infrastructure is not overburdened due to Covid-19 because these active cases either land up at hospitals or spend time in home isolation. Medical monitoring is needed even for those under home isolation,” said Bhushan.When there were around a million active cases in mid-September, there was extra load on health care delivery system in the country. Some of the major states that have reported a significant decline in active cases in the month of November, as compared to October, are Maharashtra with 119,000 active cases this month from October’s 261,000.Karnataka has also seen great improvements too, with the 112,000 active cases reported in October declining to 44,000 in November.Andhra Pradesh saw a drop from 56,000 to 22,000 active cases, as did Tamil Nadu that saw a decline from 46,000 to 19,000 cases. In Uttar Pradesh, there were 49,000 active cases last month that has now come down to 23,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-declining-but-surge-in-four-states-govt/story-mNRkhiV1sclcVeC0ctSVKL.html
04-11-2020||India||Three new Rafale jets to arrive today||The second batch of the Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets will arrive at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat directly from France on Wednesday as the air force prepares to form its first Rafale squadron at Ambala, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. “The three jets will not have a stopover on their way. They will be refueled by French and Indian tankers during the journey. The jets are expected to reach Ambala after a one-day break at Jamnagar,” the officials said. An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, was in France last month to review the progress of the Rafale project ahead of the arrival of the second batch of fighters, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 16. The arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan, the officials said. The IAF is expecting three to four Rafale jets being delivered every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. The Rafale fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China at a time when talks have failed to reduce friction in the sensitive theatre. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria last month said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth ₹59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-new-rafale-jets-to-arrive-today/story-8orXQXOXMaYAdm7LsOaZjJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycott||The Delhi Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday beefed up security arrangements at the Indira Gandhi International airport after a banned outfit named ‘Sikhs for Justice’ (SFJ) called for obstruction of two Air India flights from Delhi to London scheduled on Thursday. The call was made through a video posted on twitter on Tuesday in which Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, introduced as general counsel of SFJ, appealed supporters to boycott flights AI 111 and AI531 from Delhi to London on Thursday. Immediately after the tweet, Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit alerted police at the Delhi airport and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that secures the airport.Senior officers from the Delhi police and CISF held meeting on Tuesday to review the security at the airport. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the security has been beefed up adequately. “We have increased number of pickets and every vehicle entering the airport is being checked. Armed plainclothes men have been deployed at the airport as well as in the terminal,” Ranjan said, adding that additional deployment has been made as required, keeping also in mind the festive season.Ranjan said if any incident takes place, action will be taken accordingly. Police have also alerted Air India and other officials at the airport.The MHA had declared the SFJ as an ‘unlawful association’ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-ramped-up-at-igi-airport-after-banned-outfit-calls-for-flights-boycott/story-2Jt5hn4dUB1TinkDRlT9CO.html
04-11-2020||India||Vista revamp will preserve heritage buildings: Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which involves construction of a new Parliament building and a Central Secretariat housing all government offices, will “protect and preserve” heritage buildings while keeping with the laws and environmental safeguards.Making opening arguments on a batch of public interest litigations (PIL) challenging clearances related to the project, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought to put at rest apprehensions that the project will destroy heritage buildings and alter the landscape of the area.Appearing for the Centre, Mehta said, “The petitioner’s arguments on heritage structure proceeds on a deliberately misunderstood factual position that heritage buildings are being demolished and a new project as “greenfield project” is coming up...The petitioner has purposefully misunderstood the ambit and scope of consultancy contract and presented a false picture that the respondents (Centre and statutory agencies) have abdicated its functioning to a private consultant.”“Heritage buildings will not be destroyed. The stress on them will be reduced by shifting out government offices from them into the newly planned Central Secretariat building,” he said.Mehta said the Parliament and common Central Secretariat projects are not integrated but mutually exclusive. “The construction of one does not depend on the other. The year 2022 coincides with the 75th year of India’s Independence by when the new Parliament building is sought to be completed. This was the urgency for beginning with the Parliament project.”The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna said, “The petitioners have argued that these plans that you prepared were not in public domain. The whole argument is built on the ground that nothing about the project is available in public domain.” Mehta said much of the information that he has shared with the court was available on government websites. The bench asked Mehta to give a list of such information available for public consumption on government websites.The bench asked Mehta about the need for undertaking a study, assessing the option of building a new Parliament as against refurbishing the existing Parliament. Mehta replied, “For us to decide that a new Parliament building is needed, we do not need a separate study.” He compared it by saying, “If feel the house I am living in is not acceptable, do I really need an expert to determine that?” On the allegation that the project will be a drain on public exchequer, the Centre said the government was paying a huge rent to maintain its offices in different buildings. In most buildings, office space was lying unused and commuting between these was proving to be a costly and time-consuming affair. The rent saved will work out to be roughly ₹1,000 crore annually, Mehta said, adding, “This will be a cost-saving project.” The petitions challenging the project have been filed by one Rajeev Suri and former Armyman Anuj Srivastava and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vista-revamp-will-preserve-heritage-buildings-centre-tells-sc/story-CB2jmlRmKREAR9tFigiX5J.html
04-11-2020||India||Supreme Court panel to set virtual hearing benchmarks||The Supreme Court’s e-committee has set up a panel that will focus on setting benchmarks and standards for digitising courts and providing virtual interface to litigants through videoconferencing and live streaming, its (the e-committee’s) chairman justice DY Chandrachud said. This panel will recommend rules, requirement of digital infrastructure, and budgetary allocation for implementing the projects, he added.As a first step, the panel, with the help of experts, has framed Model Rules for Videoconferencing for the benefit of high courts that are yet to frame Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to conduct courts through videoconferencing. At present, most high courts function through videoconferencing on a host of videoconferencing apps available in the public domain. The Supreme Court itself uses Vidyo while high courts prefer Zoom, Cisco Webex, Google Meet, or Jitsi, besides Vidyo.Justice Chandrachud, the chairman of the Supreme Court e-committee, said: “I have formed a broad-based committee that has already framed model rules for videoconferencing. The committee is also looking into live streaming and digitization and to have a National Best Practices Standards in this regard for the entire judiciary.”He added that while this committee has not reached the stage of framing rules for live streaming, where the Gujarat high court has taken the lead. “What the Gujarat High Court has done is to put its content on YouTube. That is an option which is available but the committee is looking at storing the data. It will be systematically done and not as an ad hoc approach.”The panel he has set up will be exploring the infrastructure required for live streaming and storage of data, technical standards, cost involved and other requirements. “The exercise is going on and there is no time frame fixed. How the data is to be stored and who should access it are questions that need to be gone into,” justice Chandrachud said. The composition of the broad-based committee is not known, but it includes domain experts.On October 26, during suo moto proceedings on framing of guidelines for the courts during Covid-19, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde sounded a note of caution on live streaming. “In principle, I agree that there should be live streaming but in practice, there can be negative use or abuse of live streaming,” he said. The CJI referred to a host of complaints he has to routinely deal with on virtual court proceedings held through videoconferencing.The seeds for live streaming were planted by the Supreme Court itself in a landmark judgment in September 2018 where the Court gave the necessary go-ahead for it in matters of national and constitutional importance that impact the public at large. This was the first step towards opening up courts as the three-judge bench in that decision (justice Chandrachud was a member) held: “Sunlight is the best disinfectant”.Attorney General KK Venugopal on October 26 suggested to a bench headed by CJI SA Bobde that the Supreme Court should follow the example of the Gujarat high court. He also referred to the 2018 judgement. In September this year, a Parliamentary Standing Committee submitted a report suggesting permanent virtual proceedings not only for courts but for tribunals in certain category of cases. Coining the benefits of digital justice as “cheaper and faster”, the Rajya Sabha panel chaired by BJP lawmaker Bhupendra Yadav said in its interim report: “This (virtual courts) will cut down the cost and increase efficiency in disposal of cases without unnecessarily being adjourned. Virtual courts can deliver faster results with fewer resources. They can also reduce commute time to courts and waiting time.”The Supreme Court has been conducting court hearings through videoconferencing since March. Though demands to resume physical court hearings have been raised by lawyer bodies, this has not been considered feasible in view of the growing number of coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-panel-to-set-virtual-hearing-benchmarks/story-iTT98hnrjkPVwjJXrmKEFP.html
04-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||By the end of October, we were supposed to have at least some data from the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine’s Phase 3 trials. That’s been delayed (not by much, according to some reports) even as it is increasingly becoming clear that the timelines most of us (and this includes executives in Big Pharma, government officials, health care experts, analysts, and journalists) have in mind for the availability of the first Covid-19 vaccines are far too aggressive, perhaps even impossible.VACCINE HOPES DELAYEDIt is becoming increasingly clear that the timelines most of us have in mind for the availability of the first Covid-19 vaccines are far too aggressive. Experts now say that a mid-2021 timeline for the vaccine is more realistic It could well turn out that I am wrong – it’s happened before – but many experts agree that a mid-2021 timeline for the vaccine is more realistic. Then there is the question of capacity and availability, and the challenges of distributing a vaccine. And at least for the first vaccines that will be available, there’s a very high likelihood that people who are fortunate enough to get a shot early will need a second shot before everyone in the world has had their first.Which brings us to the question I have been leading up to: What’s Plan B?Last Wednesday (October 28), provided one answer (actually, to my mind, the only one). That day, the Australian city of Melbourne emerged from a lockdown that lasted 112 days. It was a lockdown that involved shelter-in-place rules; closure of most stores, restaurants, and gyms; bar on social gatherings, indoor and outdoor, including weddings; and out-of-city travel restrictions (people couldn’t travel beyond 5km of their homes). WHAT’S PLAN B?Australia and New Zealand have both depended on lockdowns to crush the resurgence of the virus; and both have been relatively successful. Now most European nations are imposing stringent lockdowns to cope with a near-debilitating second waveOther parts of the state of Victoria also saw lockdowns, but none as stringent as Melbourne. The city’s hard lockdown (which was progressively eased) was controversial , but, imposed in the wake of a second wave of cases in Melbourne and Victoria, it was successful, with the number of cases going down to zero by last week. It isn’t just Australia which has depended on lockdowns to crush the virus; its neighbour New Zealand has, too, in what its recently re-elected Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern terms the country’s “go hard, go early” strategy.With most European nations now imposing stringent lockdowns – France’s is near total – to cope with a near-debilitating second wave of the pandemic, more people are beginning to look to the Australian and New Zealand approach (sure, it helps that both are relatively remote, sparsely populated, and islands). Not too long ago, many of these leaders wouldn’t even consider a second lockdown. The UK’s Boris Johnson, for instance, said a second lockdown in the country would be “disastrous”, especially in terms of its impact on the economy; over the weekend, he announced a stringent four-week one as it became clear that the country’s health system was within weeks of being drowned in cases.DEBATE OVER SCHOOLSSchools, however, will likely remain open through most of Europe. Research shows that in regions where there is no community transmission, it is alright to open schools, especially for young children. It’s older children who are more vulnerable, and could also end up transmitting the virus moreInterestingly, schools, even in France and the UK – both countries are seeing far more cases in the second round than they did in the first; the seven-day average of new cases in France is 43,000, around 10 times what it was during the peak of the first wave; in the UK, it is 22,000, around four times -- will remain open during the lockdown. And when Melbourne started easing restrictions, schools were among the first things it opened. Research conducted in several countries shows that in regions where there is no community transmission (or limited community transmission, a term preferred by India’s health ministry), it is alright to open schools, especially for young children (this would mean primary and middle school) because they are unlikely to spread the virus. It is older children who are more vulnerable, and could also end up transmitting the virus more. But I digress; the debate over whether or not schools are safe could fill an entire edition of Hindustan Times.The only viable Plan B, the only way to manage a sharp spike in cases that comes with a new wave of the pandemic, is a lockdown. No one likes lockdowns, but they seem to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-i9U72m4wdHGyD9qosNAHgL.html
04-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti vows to fight for Valley’s youth, restore J&K’s special status||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday vowed to safeguard the future of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir by striving for the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.In an interactive session with the youth wing of her party, she asked them to remain ready to fight for the “basic rights, integrity and injustice”, especially the decisions taken after August 5, 2019.Since her release after 14 months in detention, it was the PDP chief’s first interaction with the party’s youth arm at her residence, where she asked them about the situation in their respective areas.Extending their support to her, the youth leaders of the party said they will fight against the new laws and will never accept the unilateral changes made by the Centre after the scrapping of Article 370.Mehbooba later said that selected youth were called by the party for the special meet. “I wanted to hear from the youth about the political and economic situation in their areas.”People have been facing a lot of hardships since August 5 last year when the special powers of J&K were removed, said Mehbooba.“The central government’s policy since then has been anti-people and anti-J&K. Recently, it (government) introduced the provision to prematurely retire government employees after 22 years of service. The new land laws and domicile law were also discussed in this interaction,” she told the media.She told the youth that PDP will be on the forefront to face any situation. “I will be leading the youth in this fight. We have already fought with the task force, surrendered militants and Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). Today, our fight is for our own integrity and for resolution of the Kashmir issue. I will fight for the future of the youth.”Ever since Mehbooba’s release from detention, the PDP workers have been actively organising meetings and protests both in Kashmir and Jammu, despite many senior PDP leaders leaving the party. Recently, three senior leaders resigned from the party in the Jammu region. However, the PDP chief has been able to galvanise the party cadres since her release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mehbooba-vows-to-fight-for-valley-s-youth-restore-j-k-s-special-status/story-iOUohb9fI5olFs50MRs6aK.html
