05-11-2020||India||829 teachers, 575 students test Covid +ve after schools reopen in Andhra||The reopening of government schools in Andhra Pradesh from Monday has triggered a panic wave among both teachers and students, with the surfacing of Covid-19 cases in several places across the state. In the first phase, the government has thrown open schools for Classes 9 and 10 on alternate days, but only for half-a-day. According to official figures, 98.84% of the schools were opened with 87.78% of teachers turning up to take the classes. However, the attendance of students was not up to the expectations. Only 39.62% of students of Class 9 and 43.65% of students of Class 10 attended school in the first three days. What caused worry for the teachers and students is the surfacing of Covid-19 cases among teachers and students, when the health department officials conducted tests on them soon after the opening of classes, as per the instructions of the government. According to School Education Department officials, out of 1,89,148 teachers who turned up at the schools in the last three days, tests were conducted on 70,790 teachers till now and 829 tested positive for Covid-19. Similarly, tests were conducted on 95,763 students of Class 9 and 10, out of 3,92,000 students who attended the classes in the last three days. Out of them, 575 students tested positive. “This is not a very alarming number and most of them are asymptomatic. They were immediately sent to quarantine as per the health protocol and their condition is being monitored regularly,” School Education Commissioner V Chinna Veerabhadrudu told Hindustan Times. He said the highest number of cases surfaced in West Godavari district, where 262 out of 41,000 teachers tested positive. In Visakhapatnam, 4,527 teachers underwent testing and out of them 52 tested positive on Wednesday, he said. Similar cases of several teachers and students contracting coronavirus were reported from Guntur, Chittoor, Nellore and East Godavari districts. “There is nothing to panic for the teachers and students, as the percentage of the positive cases is well below the normal, compared to statewide positive cases. Since all precautions are being taken by the department, we are confident the number of positive cases will come down gradually,” Veerabhadrudu said. He said the decision to reopen the schools was taken keeping in view the loss of more than four months this academic year and the poor students. “While the private schools have been conducting at least online classes, we wanted to see that the students in government schools, who are mostly from poorer sections, should not lag behind,” the commissioner said. However, the surfacing of Covid-19 cases on reopening of schools has caused panic among teachers. “There are no precautionary measures in many schools – like provision of sanitisers in every class, sufficient water to wash hands periodically and proper hygiene in kitchens where mid-day meals are cooked and served. No money was released to the schools to take these measures,” said Shaik Sabjee, president of United Teachers’ Federation. He said though the schools were open to students once in two days and classes were run only for half-a-day, teachers were asked to come regularly. “There is every possibility of teachers contracting the virus during travel to schools and interacting with students and parents,” Sabjee said. He said the situation would be worse if the upper primary and primary schools were reopened from November 23 and December 14, respectively, because the students in that age group were more vulnerable. Telugu Desam Party lawmaker Anagani Satyaprasad on Thursday wrote to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to close down the reopened schools immediately in the wake of surfacing of several Covid-19 cases among teachers and students. Instead, the government could continue the online teaching for students, as was being done in various other states. CPI state secretary P Ramakrishna also demanded that the government rethink on continuing the schools in the wake of pandemic. “Especially in the interior areas and tribal areas, it is very difficult to monitor the health conditions of students and teachers,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/829-teachers-575-students-test-covid-ve-after-schools-reopen-in-andhra/story-qTNovVdvnao3HUjk3RMgOP.html
05-11-2020||India||At roundtable with global investors, PM Modi pitches atmanirbhar Bharat||India’s quest to become atmanirbhar (self-reliant) is a “well-planned economic strategy” to make the country a global manufacturing powerhouse, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told 20 major global investors and invited them to become part of a “New India” in-the-making that would be free of old practices.“Today, India is changing and for the better. From fiscal irresponsibility to fiscal prudence, from high inflation to low inflation, from reckless lending creating non-performing assets [NPAs] to merit-based lending, from infrastructure deficit to infrastructure surplus, from mis-managed urban growth to holistic and balanced growth and from physical to digital infrastructure,” he said at the virtual global investor roundtable on Thursday evening organised by the ministry of finance and the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF).The roundtable was focused on discussions around India’s economic and investment outlook, structural reforms and the government’s vision for the path to a $5 trillion economy, a person present in the meeting said requesting anonymity.“It was well-timed as pandemic-hit Indian economy is fast recovering from a record low and it is encouraging investments,” the person said. India, which is Asia’s third-largest economy after China and Japan, had seen a record 23.9% contraction in the first quarter of the current financial year because of the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions since March 25.“But, there are some definite signs of economic recovery,” he said. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection, an indicator of consumption, saw a 10% year-on-year jump in October and Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for both manufacturing (58.9) and services (54.1) show expansion last month.PM Modi said the world witnessed India’s grit and determination to fight the pandemic. “India has shown remarkable resilience in this pandemic, be it fighting the virus or ensuring economic stability,” he said.“I’m happy to see your eagerness to enhance your engagement with us,” PM said, adding that India is committed to sustainable growth. “Today, investors are moving towards companies which have a high Environmental, Social and Governance [ESG] score. India already has systems and companies which rank high on this. India believes in following the path of growth with equal focus on ESG,” he said.Soliciting investment, PM said, “I’m aware that I’m addressing some of the best financial brains. The ones who can convert new areas of innovation and growth into sustainable business propositions. At the same time, I am conscious of your requirement to provide the funds in your trust, the best and safest long-term returns.”According to a finance ministry official, large pension and sovereign wealth funds such as Australian Super, British Columbia Investment Management Corporation, Future Fund, GIC, Japan Post Bank, Japan Bank for International Cooperation, Korean Investment Corporation, Mubadala, Nippon Life, Pension Denmark, Qatar Investment Authority and US International Development Finance Corporation participated the virtual conference.The Prime Minister said India is the best place for generating long-term returns as it is among the countries that have the lowest corporate tax rates and enumerated policy decisions taken to enable private enterprise to flourish in the country.“Strategic disinvestment and monetization of assets on a scale not seen before. Historic decision to bring down our share in public sector undertakings to below 51 percent. Policy regimes for private participation in new sectors like coal, space, atomic energy, railways, civil aviation and defence. New Public Sector Undertakings Policy for a rationalized foot-print of public sector,” he said.“If you want returns with reliability, India is the place to be. If you want demand with democracy, India is the place to be. If you want stability with sustainability, India is the place to be. If you want growth with a green approach, India is the place to be,” he said.Inviting investors to participate in India’s growth, the PM said the country has the potential to catalyse global economic resurgence. “Any achievement by India will have a multiplier impact on world’s development and welfare. A strong and vibrant India can contribute to stabilization of the world economic order,” he said.Mark Machin, president and CEO of CPP Investments, remarked that the roundtable was very productive. “India is key to our long-horizon investment strategy, focused on growth markets, and we have a strong appetite to build on our existing investments across infrastructure, industrial and consumer sectors,” a finance ministry statement quoted him as saying.“India is an important market for CDPQ—we have invested several billions in sectors such as renewables, logistics, financial services and technology-enabled services—and we aim to strengthen our presence over the coming years,”Charles Emond, President and CEO of Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), said. “Pension fund investors dedicate large portions of their portfolios to assets expected to benefit from growing economies and markets. The structural reforms undertaken by India are likely to provide a strong foundation for such high growth well into the future,” Jase Auby, chief investment officer, Teacher Retirement System of Texas, USA said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, Founder and Managing Partner, DVS Advisors LLP, said the atmanirbhar Bharat is the core of the Prime Minister’s economic vision. “He has also highlighted the change in culture at the macro level from fiscal responsibility to fiscal prudence, unplanned urban growth to wholistic growth, physical infrastructure to digital infrastructure.”“The missing link for the atmanirbhar Bharat would be FTAs [free trade agreements] to boost export demand and additional measures to revive and sustain domestic demand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-roundtable-with-global-investors-pm-modi-pitches-atmanirbhar-bharat/story-K7xERqmNrvoE19UEh2yHtK.html
05-11-2020||India||‘I pursue acting as passion not as a profession…’||Mathura-born actor-writer Hitesh Bharadwaj feels that one has to give his all if he wants to be successful in a creative field.“Nobody can be flawless while acting or writing, as there is always scope to do better, but we can give our hundred per cent and make it perfect from our end. Also, I was sure that I wished to pursue my strong inclination towards arts and drama as a passion and not as a profession, otherwise, I would lose my creativity,” said the ‘Agar Tum Sath Ho’ actor.Bharadwaj started his career as a radio jockey and later started acting. “After my higher studies in Agra, I interviewed for the job of a radio jockey and joined a radio station. All was well but I knew this was not my calling, so I moved to Delhi and then Mumbai. I joined a channel as a VJ after doing a show for them. That’s how TV started. But my show ‘Agar Tum…’ gave me a creative satisfaction that made me fall in love with acting,” he said.After doing shows like ‘Surveen Guggal: Topper of the year,’ ‘Million dollar girl’ along with the film ‘Jaane kyon de yaaron’, currently Bharadwaj is enjoying playing an antagonist in a TV daily. “I’m enjoying playing a multi-layered character in the ongoing show ‘Choti Sarrdaarni’, and trust me, I’m loving every bit of it. Though I’m a writer too and have been writing for children’s shows for quite some time but acting is something that I enjoy the most and want to do more of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-pursue-acting-as-passion-not-as-a-profession/story-vLbhD4K7fNHxieLU3cgMlN.html
05-11-2020||India||Insulting remarks to SCs/STs within four walls not offence: Supreme Court||Insulting remarks made to a person belonging to Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes within four walls of the house with no witnesses does not amount to offence, the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it quashed the charges under the SC/ST Act against a man who had allegedly abused a woman within her building. The top court said that “all insults or intimidations to a person will not be an offence under the SC/ST Act unless such insult or intimidation is on account of victim belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe”. It added that an offence under the SC/ST Act would be made out when a member of the vulnerable section of the Society is subjected to “indignities, humiliations and harassment” in any place within public view. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi said, “In view of the facts, we find that the charges against the appellant under Section 3(1)(r) of the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 are not made out. Consequently, the charge-sheet to that extent is quashed. The appeal is disposed of in the above terms”. The bench said that the FIR in respect of other offences against one Hitesh Verma will be tried by the competent courts in accordance with law along with the criminal case, though separately initiated. The bench relied on its 2008 verdict and said that this Court had drawn distinction between the expression “public place” and “in any place within public view”. The top court said that it was held that if an offence is committed outside the building like in a lawn outside a house, which can be seen by someone from the road or lane outside the boundary wall, then that would certainly be a place within the public view. It said that as per the FIR, the allegations of abusing the informant (woman) are within the four walls of her building and it is not the case that there was any member of the public (not merely relatives or friends) at the time of the incident in the house. “Therefore, the basic ingredient that the words were uttered “in any place within public view” is not made out,” the bench said, adding that certain witnesses are named in the charge sheet but it could not be said that those were the persons present within the four walls of the building. “The offence is alleged to have taken place within the four walls of the building. Therefore, in view of the judgment of this Court in Swaran Singh (2008), it cannot be said to be a place within public view as none was said to be present within the four walls of the building as per the FIR and/or charge-sheet,” it said. Verma has challenged the Uttarakhand High Court order by which it had dismissed his plea for quashing the charge-sheet as well as the summoning orders. According to the state government, the FIR was lodged by the woman on December 11, 2019, for the incident having taken place on December 10, 2019 and the case was lodged against Verma and others under various sections of IPC and SC/ST Act.He invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court seeking to challenge the charge-sheet filed in the case against him and the order taking cognizance. The Counsel for Verma argued that the disputes relating to the property are pending before the Civil Court and that, the present FIR has been filed on patently false grounds by respondent No. 2 (woman) only to harass the appellant and to abuse of process of law. His counsel further argued that the report neither discloses the caste of the informant nor the allegations are that they were made in public view and also, the offending words are not purported to be made for the reason that the informant is a person belonging to Scheduled Caste. The counsel for state submitted that during investigations, certain persons have supported the version of the informant that Verma and his family were encroachers on the woman’s land. It noted that there is a dispute about the possession of the land which is the subject matter of civil dispute between the parties as per the woman herself and due to dispute, Verma and others were not permitting her to cultivate the land for the last six months. The top court said that since the matter is regarding possession of property pending before the civil court, any dispute arising on account of possession of the said property would not disclose an offence under the SC/ST law unless the victim is abused, intimated or harassed only for the reason that she belongs to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insulting-remarks-to-scs-sts-within-four-walls-not-offence-supreme-court/story-Y8LjqgCexsGEYawLEwLdcP.html
05-11-2020||India||Having played a singer, Shreya wants to be one in future!||Actor Shreya Chaudhry, who played a singer in the popular OTT series ‘Bandish Bandits’, wishes to record a single one day and compose its music as well. She said that it was during the course of the shooting of ‘Bandish Bandits’ that music grew on her. “I have been a bathroom singer and for the show I had to give a singing audition as well which made me very nervous. Later, we did a long workshop with my music trainer Akshat Parikh which brought me closer to music. I was told about a singer who for the last 15 years is trying to perfect a raag and now he says that he has just started understanding a little bit!” she said.Not just music, she wants to apply such hard work in her real life too! “So, I am trying to understand music and learn it. I started training with Akshat and during the lockdown, I attended regular online classes for three months. So, I am trying to learn and will next learn to play the piano. Though the music show fell in my lap but now I want to take it forward and maybe, a few years down the line, I will compose and sing for myself one day!”Shreya has inherited music from her parents. “My father is from Banda and Prayagraj (UP) while my mother is from Mumbai. My nani (maternal grandmother) is a trained classical musician. So, it’s in the family!”She became an overnight star but has been working for the last three years. “This is for the first time that I got such appreciation after my work reached a wide audience. I graduated in advertising, and on my friend’s suggestion, I auditioned for a cola brand and got selected. Then, I did modelling assignments, fashion weeks, ad films, feature film ‘Dear Maya’ with Manisha Koirala and then a short film ‘The Other Way’ directed by Imtiaz Ali.The actor feels besides hard work, one needs to be at the right place at the right time. “I was lucky that I did an ad with Anand (Tiwari, actor-director) and I expressed a desire to work with him. After a month, I got a call for an audition and after rounds of audition was selected. So, in my case, I got to work with Imtiyaz sir due to my film ‘Dear Maya’. I got ‘Bandish Bandits’ due to that ad with Anand which eventually never came out. So, I feel lucky!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/having-played-a-singer-shreya-wants-to-be-one-in-future/story-Zq8ZUQpXGs5cW1tqggvxiL.html
05-11-2020||India||On posters outside Covid-hit patients’ homes, SC seeks Centre’s reply||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) that demanded a stop to the prevailing practice of pasting posters outside the homes of persons infected by the coronavirus (Covid-19).A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah felt that the issue raised in the PIL filed by Kush Kalra was relevant after the Delhi High Court on November 3 directed the Delhi government to issue a circular in this regard. The petition stated that such an exercise undertaken by the Centre or states under the Disaster Management Act, stigmatised persons suffering from the disease and infringed their privacy and right to live with dignity protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.The bench asked the petitioner’s lawyer Chinmoy Pradip Sharma to supply a copy of the petition to the Solicitor General and asked Centre to consider this demand and file response in two weeks.It was Kalra who had earlier approached the Delhi High Court that led to the practice of affixing posters outside homes of Covid-19 infected persons in Delhi being discontinued. He sought similar orders for the entire country. According to his petition, due to these posters, the names of Covid-19 patients are forwarded by the health departments in states to the concerned resident welfare associations. Circulation of such names in WhatsApp groups leads to stigmatisation of such persons in their neighbourhood and community.During the hearing, Justice Bhushan observed that directions cannot be issued to each state. Instead, the Centre could consider issuing a common circular to all states and union territories.The petition claimed that the practice of affixing posters was a primitive one that commenced during the plague epidemic in the 1730s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-posters-outside-covid-hit-patients-homes-sc-seeks-centre-s-reply/story-IY9fEAhTkEpH5StWRr3hiK.html
05-11-2020||India||BJP has put J&K on sale, we will fight for Jammu: PDP||The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday said the BJP that had assured protection of land and jobs to the people has put J&K on sale and Jammu region will bear the maximum brunt. PDP general secretary and former MLC Surinder Choudhary, a close confidante of Mehbooba Mufti, said, “After being released from illegal detention for 14 months, Mufti has come to Jammu to meet party leaders and workers. Since civil society here also wanted to meet her, she will meet delegations of intellectuals, farmers, employees, Bar and at the PDP office on Friday.” He also informed that on Saturday she will attend PAGD meet at Bhatindi residence of NC patriarch Farooq Abdullah. “She has come here on a two-day visit and her motive is to hear the people because their hardships have multiplied under the BJP rule. The attention is being diverted from real issues. The BJP is doing nothing but announcing elections after elections,” he said. Mehbooba on Thursday met senior leaders of the party from Chenab Valley, Poonch and Rajouri regions. To a query, Choudhary said, “If Nagaland can have two flags why can’t J&K? Nagaland was given its flag only recently and we had it since long and the state flag was given to us by the Constitution of India.” When asked will PDP take part in the ensuing DDC polls, Choudhary said the party’s political affairs committee will take a final call on it. He also rejected that party president ever made any controversial statement with regard to the Tricolour. “She talked about special status, which has been illegally snatched from us. See what BJP has done. It is the same party that assured protection of land and jobs when the state was bifurcated into two UTs, but it has put J&K on sale. Jammu region will bear maximum brunt due to the new land laws,” he said. The former MLC also said that Jammu has always been discriminated against. “The BJP had promised to end the discrimination and if they are not going to do it then we will fight for it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-has-put-j-k-on-sale-we-will-fight-for-jammu-pdp/story-SRPzkMxiKxfeSKdKqcImgP.html
05-11-2020||India||Bihar election 2020: JD(U) makes battle for Valmiki Nagar interesting||One of the constituencies which will go into the third and final phase of assembly election in Bihar along with the remaining 77 is Valmiki Nagar. A part of the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency, Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Rinku Singh is the current MLA of Valmiki Nagar. He contested as an independent candidate in 2015 and now is fighting on a Janata Dal (United) ticket.The JD(U) is fighting this election in partnership with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Nitish Kumar is the chief ministerial face of the NDA.Apart from Dhirendra Pratap Singh, Rajesh Singh of the Congress and Mahendra Kumar Bharti of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) are also contesting the state election from Valmiki Nagar. The LJP, led by Chirag Paswan, is fighting this election alone.Situated in the West Champaran district, Valmiki Nagar has a total population of 494,717 which entirely belongs to the rural section. The ratio of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is at 14.7 and 18.93 respectively.The electorate strength of the constituency for the 2020 election is 3,31,582 comprising 1,78,156 men, 1,53,392 women and a total of 34 belonging to the third gender.A notable feature about Valmiki Nagar is that the constituency has not been any party’s bastion till now.In the 2015 election, independent candidate Dhirendra Pratap Singh won the constituency with a total of 66,860 votes and a vote share of 36.17 per cent .While Congress party’s Irshad Hussain secured the second place with 35,580 votes and a vote share of 18.01 per cent. The difference between the winner and runner up stood at a massive 35,580 votes.The constituency saw a voter turnout of nearly 63% out of a voting population of 2,95,342 voters which included 1,61,252 men and 1,34,055 women.The trends in the 2015 election show that Dhirendra Pratap Singh might emerge victorious in 2020 and as well and further make Valmiki Nagar as his stronghold.On Saturday, Bihar will enter its third and last phase of voting in 78 constituencies, campaigning for which ended on Thursday. Voting in the first and second phase happened on October 28 and November 3 in 71 and 94 constituencies respectively. Counting of votes and declaration of results for all 243 constituencies of the state will be done on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-2020-jd-u-makes-battle-for-valmiki-nagar-interesting/story-i5VukAfu0sdvioZtYy8usK.html
05-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Harsh Vardhan urges testing for those who report -ve in antigen test in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Harsh Vardhan urges testing for those who test -ve in antigen testAmid surge in coronavirus cases in Delhi, union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday asked the state government to ensure mandatory testing for all those who develop symptoms after testing negative on a rapid antigen test. Read moreEx-Karnataka minister arrested by CBI in BJP worker’s murder caseSenior Congress leader and former minister in the Siddaramaiah cabinet Vinay Kulkarni was arrested on Thursday from his residence at Barakotri in Dharwad district by the CBI probing the 2016 murder of a BJP Zilla Panchayat member Yogesh Gowda. Read more1,10,000 medical staff on priority to receive first round of Covid-19 vaccine The Pune district administration is now geared for the distribution of the Covid vaccination, under its “Negcav” (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19) programme, formed by the district administration. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs DC: Delhi Capitals players wear black arm bands during Qualifier 1, here’s whyShreyas Iyer-led Delhi Capitals team stepped out to the take the field wearing black arm bands during the first Qualifier of the Indian Premier League 2020 against Rohit Sharma’s Mumbai Indians on Thursday. The reason for wearing the black arm bands was that DC fast bowler Mohit Sharma had to fly back home before the match following the death of his father. Read moreEager fan slips something into Ananya Panday’s hand, as actor’s team tries to block herA paparazzi video that shows actor Ananya Panday being approached by an eager fan has been shared online. Ananya was exiting the Dharma Productions office when the fan approached her, in the presence of several photographers. Read more Brad Pitt visits Angelina Jolie’s home in a bid to end the ‘ugliness’ around bitter custody battle: ReportActor Brad Pitt visited his ex-wife Angelina Jolie at her Los Angeles home recently, amid their ongoing custody battle over their six kids. The actor reportedly arrived with the intention of ‘making peace’ with his former wife. Read more‘Our hearts have no wrinkles’: 69-year-old raps on buses in Colombian to make ends meet, spreads smiles in the processWith her pink cardigan and thick glasses, “Toothless Cindy” is becoming a musical sensation on Colombian public transport. Read moreWatch: Virat Kohli turns 32, cuts cake with wife Anushka Sharma by his sideCricketer Virat Kohli turned 32 on Thursday and celebrated his birthday in style. Kohli celebrated his birthday with his wife, actor Anushka Sharma, and others. His Royal Challengers Bangalore team also took part in the birthday bash. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-harsh-vardhan-urges-testing-for-those-who-report-ve-in-antigen-test-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I2sAhH22BRVHohFrt0HfKP.html
05-11-2020||India||Jharkhand joins non-BJP ruled states in withdrawing general consent to CBI||Jharkhand on Thursday withdrew the general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate cases in the state.The central agency will now require the approval of the Hemant Soren government to launch a probe that falls within the boundaries of state.“The powers vested on CBI were given dated 19th February 1996 by the erstwhile then Bihar Govt to CBI. The governments of West Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh and earlier Mizoram had recently withdrawn the general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), a kind of blanket nod for the agency to probe scheduled offences specified in the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act (DPSE) Act, 1946,” an order from the Jharkhand government said.Prior to this, non-BJP-ruled states like West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala had imposed a similar restrictions on CBI.CBI comes under the DSPE Act and it requires states to give the agency a general consent to act against central government employees within a state as public order and police come under the state governments, which routinely renew this permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-joins-list-of-non-bjp-ruled-states-to-withdraw-general-consent-to-cbi/story-ih8nlFTTC3Mj2TDArqKvjL.html
05-11-2020||India||Ex-Karnataka minister arrested by CBI in BJP worker’s murder case||Senior Congress leader and former minister in the Siddaramaiah cabinet Vinay Kulkarni was arrested on Thursday from his residence at Barakotri in Dharwad district by the CBI probing the 2016 murder of a BJP Zilla Panchayat member Yogesh Gowda. On June 15, 2016, Yogesh Gowda, a vocal critic of Kulkarni, had been hacked to death by five miscreants at Saptapur in Dharwad while exercising in a gym in a matter allegedly related to a property dispute. The CCTV installed on premises had captured the entire act. The five miscreants had been identified as close associates of the then minister Kulkarni.The BJP, which raised a hue and cry over the murder, handed over the case to the CBI in September last year after coming back to power in the state. In March, six people - Basvaraj Shivappa, Vikram Ballari, Keerti Kumar, Sandeep Saudatti, Vinayak K and Mahableshwar Hongal - had been arrested in connection with the murder.Kulkarni was detained in the morning by a six-member CBI team led by officer Rakesh Ranjan. After a nine-hour interrogation, he was arrested, produced before a magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. Kulkarni has been shifted to Belgavi’s Hindalga jail by the authorities.Even as Karnataka home minister Basvaraj Bommai defended the CBI move, saying that the law was just taking its course and Gowda’s wife Mallama welcomed the arrest, Kulkarni, in a brief statement to the media, claimed that the arrest was politically motivated. He received support from Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar. who said that central agencies were being misused to target opposition leaders.“The case had been investigated and closed by the local police more than two years back. The reopening and arrest of Kulkarni today is nothing but political vendetta,” Shivakumar said. The handing over of the case to the CBI was a promise made by the BJP even during the 2018 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-karnataka-minister-arrested-by-cbi-in-bjp-worker-s-murder-case/story-idnAdaOE046msZz5650NCJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Revised Covid guidelines issued by Centre for international arrivals||The government on Thursday issued a set of revised guidelines for international arrivals, under which travellers seeking exemption from institutional quarantine will need to submit a negative RT-PCR report 72 hours before undertaking the journey. The India-bound passengers can also undergo Covid-19 testing at the airports where the provisions are available.According to the guidelines issued by the Health ministry, passengers would need to give an undertaking on the portal or to the Ministry of Civil Aviation through concerned airlines before they are allowed to undertake the journey, stating that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo facility/ home quarantine/self-monitoring of their health for 14 days, or as warranted.“Only for compelling reasons/ cases of human distress such as pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) with children of the age of 10 years or below, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days,” it said. For seeking exemption, they would need to apply to the online portal at least 72 hours before boarding the flight to India. The decision taken by the government as communicated on the online portal will be final, it said. “Travellers may also seek exemption from institutional quarantine by submitting a negative RT-PCR test report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. The test report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration,” the guidelines said. The guidelines stated that international passengers arriving without an RT-PCR negative certificate and wishing to seek exemption from institutional quarantine may also avail the facility to undergo testing at the airports where such provisions exist.“International passengers arriving without RT-PCR negative certificate and not opting for RT PCR test at airport (if facility is available) /arriving at an airport where testing facility is not available will have to undergo mandatory 7 days’ institutional quarantine and 7 days’ home quarantine,” it said.“The passengers who have been exempted from institutional quarantine will show the same to the respective state counters on their cell phones/other mode before being allowed home quarantine for 14 days,” it said.The remaining passengers shall be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities, to be arranged by the respective State/UT Governments to undergo mandatory seven days’ institutional quarantine and seven days’ home quarantine, it said.These passengers shall be kept under institutional quarantine for a minimum period of seven days, the guidelines said. They will be tested as per ICMR protocol. If they are assessed as asymptomatic / pre-symptomatic/ very mild cases, they will be allowed home isolation or isolated at a Covid Care Centre (both public and private facilities) as appropriate, it said, adding that those with mild/ moderate/ severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid Health facilities and managed accordingly.International passengers arriving through seaports/land ports will also have to undergo the same protocol as above, except that facility for online registration is not available for such passengers currently, the guidelines said.“Such passengers shall submit the self-declaration form to the concerned authorities of Government of India at seaports/land ports on arrival. If found negative, they shall be advised to self-monitor their health for additional 7 days,” it said.Dos and Don’ts shall be provided along with ticket to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned, and all passengers will be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices at the time of boarding the flight. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board the flights after thermal screening. Suitable precautionary measures such as environmental sanitation and disinfection shall be ensured at the airports, the guidelines said.These revised guidelines supersede those issued on the subject on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revised-covid-guidelines-issued-by-centre-for-international-arrivals/story-IOyRjlTXrTaM8ZMrVMuBXJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Firecrackers banned during Diwali, Kali and Chhath Puja in Bengal: Court||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday banned the use of fireworks during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja in November to check the spread of coronavirus in Bengal.Earlier on October 19, the high court had banned the entry of visitors in Durga Puja pandals and mandated putting up of barricades, declaring them as no-entry zones. The result was that West Bengal witnessed a muted Durga Puja this year. “The high court has extended the Durga Puja restrictions on Kali Puja. Entry of visitors has been banned while capping the number of puja committee members who can enter the pandal at a time,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the lawyer who filed the PIL based on which the orders were passed.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said despite Durga Puja festivities there has been no alarming spike in Covid-19 cases. Earlier, doctors had warned there could be a three to four-fold rise in Covid-19 cases if restrictions were relaxed during the puja. “I would thank the administration and the puja committees for maintaining peace and following Covid-19 restrictions. Next we have the Kali Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Chhath Puja. We need to follow restrictions so that there is no further spread. There would be no immersion procession,” said Banerjee. While hardly any crackers are used during Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal - huge amount of crackers are used during the Kali Puja and Diwali every year leading to severe air pollution. The Air Quality Index of Kolkata turned poor after Diwali in 2019. Environment and health experts have warned that chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with severe infections and higher mortality. They feel that lungs compromised due to pollution could lead to complications like pneumonia during Covid-19.“The court has banned the sale and use of fireworks and crackers during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja this year. There would be no immersion processions this year,” said Chatterjee. In its preliminary observations, the bench also said that gathering of people at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhash Sarobar, two of the city’s largest lakes, should be avoided. “It is a welcome order. This would help to bring down the pollution after Diwali which could have aggravated the Covid-19 situation,” said Subhas Dutta, environment lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firecrackers-banned-during-diwali-kali-and-chhath-puja-in-bengal-court/story-oyogJRkH35PxlSiVhLQwpM.html
05-11-2020||India||Air pollution increases risk of mortality from Covid-19, NGT informed||Air pollution is an important cofactor increasing the risk of mortality from Covid-19 as per latest research, the National Green Tribunal was informed on Thursday.Senior advocate Raj Panjawani and advocate Shibhani Ghosh, who have been appointed by the tribunal as amicus curiae in a case related to ban on fire crackers, told a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel that particulate air pollution contributed 15 per cent to Covid-19 mortality worldwide.“The latest research on exposure to air pollution and risk of death from Covid-19 infection suggests that ‘air pollution is an important cofactor increasing the risk of mortality from Covid- 19’,” they said.  “The study also states that this finding should provide ‘extra motivation for combining ambitious policies to reduce air pollution with measures to control the transmission of Covid- 19’. The study estimates that particulate air pollution contributed 15 per cent to Covid-19 mortality worldwide,” they added.The amicus curiae referred to a study by Andrea Pozzer and others -- ‘Regional and global contributions of air pollution to risk of death from Covid-19’ -- and sought suspension of all licences issued by any authority for sale of all kinds of firecrackers.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association, opposed the submission of blanket ban on fire crackers and said there is no definite finding and the apex court is already seized of the matter.Advocate Balendu Shekhar, appearing for the Environment Ministry, told the NGT that there is no conclusive finding on relation of air pollution with Covid mortality and they have written to the ministry of health and the ministry of earth sciences seeking their opinion on the issue .The NGT reserved the order and said it will be uploaded on its website by November 9.The amicus referred to ‘State of Global Air 2020’ report released by the Health Effects Institute and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation’s Global Burden of Disease Project, which estimates that India witnessed 980,000 deaths attributable to PM2.5.  The report also states that the long-term exposure to air pollution can cause many of the health conditions associated with increased vulnerability to Covid-19, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and chronic obstructive lung disease, they said.The amicus told the tribunal that green crackers per se generate less pollution, nevertheless they are a major contributor towards pollution as reflected in the CPCB report.Consequently, the only alternative left under the circumstances is to take stern and surgical step to check the proliferation of all kinds of crackers in the interest of general public health and life particularly during this phase of severe Covid-19 pandemic, they said.The amicus sought suspension of all licences issued by any authority for sale of all kinds of firecrackers and if any person is found selling any kind of firecrackers would impliedly be an abettor to environmental pollution and liable for environmental damage of Rs 1 lakh.“In case of individuals found using or allowing the use of any kind of firecracker, the Hon’ble Tribunal may consider imposing a fine of not less than Rs 10,000,” the amicus suggested.The NGT had on November 2 issued notice to Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four State governments on whether use of fire crackers be banned from November 7 to 30 in the interest of public health and environment.The tribunal was hearing a plea by Indian Social Responsibility Network, filed through Santosh Gupta, seeking action against pollution by use of fire crackers in NCR during the time air quality is unsatisfactory with potential of severity of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-increases-risk-of-mortality-from-covid-19-ngt-informed/story-MGFIcGiCCp2yXSAD7w7oqM.html
05-11-2020||India||Farm law protests: Railways assured about removal of blockade along Punjab tracks||The Railway Board chairman on Thursday said that he has been assured about the removal of blockade along train tracks in Punjab. The train services have been suspended for over a month due to the protests over farm laws enacted by the Centre during the Parliament’s monsoon session in September. “We have been assured blockades along tracks in Punjab will be removed by tomorrow. DG RPF is reviewing safety of the tracks. We will resume all train services once the tracks come back in our control,” the Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said. He added that the railway ministry stated two conditions before the state government- there should be no compromise on safety, and blockades should be removed.As the tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state continued, the Indian Railways on Wednesday claimed losses of nearly Rs 1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted.Protests along railway tracks in Punjab were underway in 32 places due to which train movement remained suspended, said the railway ministry on Wednesday.Also Read: Farmers block Delhi-Amritsar highway to protest against farm laws“Agitators have continued dharna at platforms/near railway tracks. Train movement again suspended due to operational and safety considerations as agitators have suddenly stopped some train movements and sporadic blockade continued at various places like especially around Jandiala, Nabha, Talwandi Sabo and Bathinda,” a railway ministry spokesperson had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-railway-board-chairman-says-assurance-given-about-removal-of-blockade-along-train-tracks-in-punjab-by-tomorrow/story-abdGMJDFmn4UrEE3mckNuK.html
05-11-2020||India||No relief for TV anchor Arnab Goswami, high court to hear plea tomorrow||A division bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday refused a plea by Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, to be released immediately and posted his petition challenging his arrest by Alibag police in a 2018 abetment to suicide case for further hearing on Friday afternoon. Goswami was arrested by Alibag police on Wednesday morning and was remanded in judicial custody till November 18 by a chief judicial magistrate at Alibag. The TV anchor, who had filed for a bail before the magistrate, withdrew his bail plea on Thursday and had moved the high court seeking immediate release, contending his arrest and detention was completely illegal.His counsel, senior advocate Aabad Ponda, submitted that the case was closed by police in 2018 itself by filing an A-summary report (true but undetected) and it was not open to the police to reopen the case and start reinvestigation without a court order.“It (magisterial order accepting the summary report and closing the case) was a nail in the coffin,” Ponda said. Insisting that the case could not have been resurrected without a court order - order issued by the concerned magistrate or some higher court.The senior advocate also pointed out the Supreme Court rulings in support of his contention and submitted that the arrest of Goswami in “the dead case” was completely illegal. Ponda urged the court to release the Republic editor immediately, as according to him, detention of the journalist was not legally permissible at all.He said the high court had enough plenary powers and must come to the rescue of a citizen treated unfairly by the state.“This is a classic illustration of misuse of power by police and such arrest and detention cannot be tolerated even for a second,” he said, urging the court to release Goswami immediately on interim bail.But the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik refused to issue an order for immediate release stating that it “can’t pass an order without hearing the complainant and state”.The bench held this after senior advocate Amit Desai, representing the state government, requested for time to peruse the case papers. The bench, however, expressed inability to pass any interim order without granting the opportunity of hearing to the Maharashtra government, and the complainant, and posted the petition for further hearing on Friday on Desai’s request.The bench also issued notices to the state and also to the complainant Adnya Naik, daughter of Anvay Naik who had died by suicide in 2018.The bench felt it necessary to add the complainant as a party respondent to the petition, especially because she was not heard when the A-summary report was accepted and the case was closed by the judicial magistrate concerned.The bench said it did not want to make the same mistake in this proceeding and directed Goswami to add her as a party to the petition, so that she can put forth her side on Friday. The bench also posted for hearing a plea filed by Adnya Naik for the case to be reinvestigated. Interior designer, Anvay Naik died by suicide in Alibaug, Raigad. He was 53. His mother Kumud Naik too was also found dead at their home. In his suicide note, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid dues collectively amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. Along with Republic channel, Naik had dues with two other companies namely Smartworks and IcastX/Skimedia.After Naik’s suicide, his wife Akshata had lodged a complaint with Alibaug police against Arnab Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Nitish Sarda for allegedly abetting their suicide. Shaikh is connected to IcastX/Skimedia while Sarda is connected to Smart Works. Naik had alleged that he owes Rs 83 lakh to Goswami, Rs 55 lakhs to Sarda and Rs 4 crore to Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-relief-for-tv-anchor-arnab-goswami-high-court-to-hear-plea-tomorrow/story-WxYCFM7I189cSSl84nqZhN.html
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami’s arrest in suicide case appears illegal, observes court||The chief judicial magistrate court has observed that the arrest of Arnab Goswami and two others seemed illegal in connection with the suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik, while rejecting the plea of the prosecution for their custodial interrogation. In May 2018, almost a year after Republic TV was launched, Naik, and his mother were found dead at their farmhouse in Kavir village of Alibag taluka. Naik’s wife Akshata, 48, had then registered a complaint. A suicide note was found, police said, in which Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda. The Alibag police on Wednesday arrested Goswami, Republic TV’s editor-in-chief, Feroz Shaikh, owner of IcastX/Skimedia, and Nitesh Sarda, owner of Smartwork. The prosecution sought their maximum custody for further investigation. The plea was turned down by chief judicial Magistrate, Alibaug, Raigad – Sunayana S Pingale. Also Watch l Arnab Goswami moves HC; Sanjay Raut hits back at BJP l All the latest updates In her order, the judge said, “In view of the objections raised by the defense lawyers and grounds raised by the prosecution to seek police custody, the arrest itself appears illegal. After the careful screening of the document it appears that the connection between the incident which took place at that time, death of two persons, the relation between the deceased and their connection with the accused should have been determined before seeking police custody. Only if this chain of circumstances is intact, the connection of the incident with the accused can be established to seek police custody of the accused.” The magistrate court raised serious questions on the theory of suicide of Naik’s mother. The court questioned that if the prosecution case is believed to be true there is no reason established for the death of Naik’s mother. “Even if it is considered that the accused had to pay money to the deceased Anvay Naik and the other contractors were pestering him for payment, he was depressed, the question remains why did his mother Kumud Naik decide to end her life? The prosecution has no satisfactory answer on this issue. The chain of circumstances, between the death of Kumud and Anvay Naik, the reason behind their death and its connection with the accused is not completely established,” reads the order in Marathi. The court also raised questions on the decision for further investigation. The prosecution has failed to put forth grounds on why the previous investigation is incomplete and what issues remained for further investigation, the court added.“There is no prima facie intact chain of circumstances to connect the accused with the incident to send the accused to police custody. Hence the police had closed the case for want of evidence. The said closure report has not been challenged or set aside by any higher court and is still in existence. In such circumstances, there are no reasonable grounds to remand the accused to police custody,” reads the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-s-arrest-in-suicide-case-appears-illegal-observes-court/story-KxvvBo73PRMhuaViF2ttQM.html
05-11-2020||India||Govt allows museums and art galleries to open from Nov 10, SOPs say use of touch-based digital tech to be limited||The ministry of culture on Thursday issued guidelines for re-opening of museums, art galleries and exhibitions chalking out measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.While it has made sanitization of premises at regular intervals and wearing of masks by all visitors mandatory, the standard operating procedures (SoPs) have also barred use of audio guides unless they can be disinfected after every use.The guidelines state that lift operations are to be limited, preferably reserved for physically challenged or elderly persons. It has also advised limited use of touch-based digital technology except in cases where disinfection can be ensured after every use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-museums-and-art-galleries-to-open-from-nov-10-sops-say-use-of-touch-based-digital-tech-to-be-limited/story-0kw3shNcqjhSqXBAyHyTGI.html
05-11-2020||India||India committed to uphold rules-based international order: Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla||India will work with its international partners to uphold a rules-based order, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes while retaining strategic autonomy in decision-making, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. The Covid-19 pandemic, which Shringla described as the “most catastrophic event after World War 2”, has “uncovered the vulnerabilities of nations” and led to the emergence of plurilateral platforms to cope with new challenges, he said while delivering a lecture at an online event marking the diamond jubilee of the National Defence College. Speaking on the theme “Leveraging strategic autonomy in a turbulent world”, he said: “While there is a strong intent to cooperate, the need to retain strategic autonomy is even greater.” Without naming China, whose aggressive actions have resulted in efforts for coordinated responses by countries in the Indo-Pacific region, Shringla referred to India’s upcoming two-year stint in the UN Security Council and said: “We remain committed to upholding a rules-based international order underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes.” India’s objective will be advancing the security and economic interests of all countries against the backdrop of the Security Council’s dynamics having changed in the past decade. “As a rule-abiding democracy and positive contributor to the security of global commons, India aims to bring innovation and inclusive solutions to foster development. Reformed multilaterism is going to be a top priority for us,” he said. In this context, Shringla pointed to India’s role in supporting a fair and inclusive WTO, World Bank and IMF and its role in digital taxation negotiations. He also said India had emerged as a net security provider in its extended neighbourhood by being at the forefront of humanitarian assistance operations and cooperating with Indo-Pacific countries on maritime security, anti-piracy and marine pollution. However, Shringla cautioned that the global economic fallout of the pandemic will remain a challenge in the times to come, and require a carefully deliberate approach. “The breakdown of global supply chains has perhaps for the first time led us to think and explore alternative possibilities. India’s view has been to look at this challenge, not as a constraint, but as an opportunity for our economy as well as for rebalancing the international system,” he said. “While keeping our strategic autonomy, we recognise the value of profitable economic convergence and the need to diversify as a need of the hour,” he said, noting that this was reflected in India’s virtual summits with Australia, the European Union (EU), Denmark, and Sri Lanka, and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue consultations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-committed-to-uphold-rules-based-international-order-foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla/story-edKstgDAZkxJyTdN30icGO.html
05-11-2020||India||Country’s first batch of certified pilots ready to operate drones||Gurugram-based Redbird Flight Training Academy (RFTA) has become the first institute to have trained its first batch of pilots free of cost, including Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) manned by women pilots, amid the government’s push to encourage drone operations in the country. The government has been pushing for increasing the production of drones and their applications in various fields such as agriculture, disaster management, health care and law enforcement. RFTA also intends to take drone technology to remote corners of the country.Also read | Civil aviation ministry, DGCA grant conditional exemption to NCRTC for using dronesRFTA said in the first phase of the programme it would select 20 commercial pilot licence holders from Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Academy (IGRUA), who would be trained as drone instructors. In October, IGRUA, the government-run premier flying training institute, had joined hands with Delhi-based Drone Destination for the training of drone pilots.RFTA plans to train 40% women pilots for these jobs. It will also be roping in gram panchayats from 100 villages for the novel initiative. “We will let gram panchayats of 100 villages select their representatives, where four out of 10 will be women pilots, who will be trained free of cost. The move will empower women in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of using drone instructors for various applications such as land mapping and survey, disaster and crop management, women and public safety and making them self-reliant at the grassroots level,” RFTA said. The initiative is expected to be a stepping stone in the booming unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) industry along with providing means of livelihood to many people.“Just like the government’s Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) scheme, which was formulated to join the remote parts of India and promote the civil aviation industry, this initiative will also bring people closer to aviation,” RFTA added. “RFTA, a Union Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approved RPA training institute, is felicitating the country’s first batch of 15 certified drone pilots in Delhi on Friday (November 6). This is a landmark event in the Indian aviation history, as a comprehensive roll-out of drone pilot training programme initiated by RFTA ,” said an official from the MoCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-s-first-batch-of-certified-pilots-ready-to-operate-drones/story-O3XXBe2YGtMXRKQ0pYt8pI.html
05-11-2020||India||‘Urge you to overthrow Trinamool, let BJP build sonar Bangla’: Amit Shah||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should win more than 200 seats in the West Bengal assembly elections in 2021, Union home minister and the party’s former national president Amit Shah told leaders from 13 districts at a meeting in Bankura district on Thursday afternoon. A district BJP leader who attended the closed-door meeting said Shah asked the district and state leaders to strengthen the organization right down to the polling booth level to ensure that the BJP wins more than 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. Shah reportedly told the leaders that they should be determined to achieve this target instead of making just an effort. The minister surprised everyone by not wearing a mask although other BJP leaders around him followed the safety protocol. Halfway through the meeting, Shah took a break and went to Chaturdihi village with BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, national vice-president Mukul Roy and other leaders to have lunch at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a member of the local tribal community. Shah sat on the floor with others and had rice, chapati, dal and curry cooked in earthenware. He had all the items but stayed away from rosogolla, the traditional Bengali sweet, saying he had stopped taking sweet dishes. Significantly, former national secretary Rahul Sinha, who distanced himself from the party for more than two weeks after being dropped from the national committee, also attended the organisational meeting. About three hours before he had lunch at the tribal village, Shah said that the death knell of the Mamata Banerjee government has been sounded and the BJP will come to power with a two-third majority in the coming elections. “The manner in which the Mamata Banerjee government has neglected the poor, the farmers, the backward classes and the tribal people and have oppressed people, especially BJP workers, I can clearly see that its death knell has been sounded. In the coming days, the BJP will come to power with two-third majority and form the government,” Shah told the media shortly after garlanding the statue of Birsa Munda, the leader of the freedom movement carried out by tribal people in the region against the British Raj. “I appeal to the people to overthrow this government and give the BJP the opportunity to build sonar Bangla (a golden Bengal),” said Shah. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reacted to this while addressing an administrative meeting at the state secretariat in Kolkata around the same time when Shah was having lunch more than 200 km away. “We will not tolerate the politics of threat. People should stay within their limits. People of Bengal will not accept outsiders,” Banerjee said without naming Shah. Without naming the BJP, she said, “A party is spreading the pandemic while common people are following Covid-19 health restrictions.” Shah arrived in Kolkata on Wednesday night. He flew to Bankura in a chopper a little before noon on Thursday. “You (Mamata Banerjee) are wrong if you think that you can stop the BJP by stopping Central schemes in West Bengal. If you let people enjoy the benefits of these schemes they may at least spare some thoughts for you,” said Shah after the short garlanding ceremony of the Birsa Munda statue organised by the BJP. The BJP showed its best performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bankura district. It won two seats and stayed ahead of the TMC in almost all the assembly segments. “Amit Shah’s ambition of winning 200 assembly seats will remain a dream. Let BJP first find an acceptable face of its state leadership before contesting the polls,” TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urge-you-to-overthrow-trinamool-let-bjp-build-sonar-bangla-amit-shah/story-0ODf18iNwH8oohnSHYJoEI.html
05-11-2020||India||Centre set for record paddy buying this year to blunt farmers’ agitation||The Union government is on course to buy a record quantity of paddy this year with a sharply higher share of Punjab to blunt a politically-challenging farmers’ agitation against a set of laws enacted to liberalise the farm sector, projections of the food ministry show.Paddy is the main summer staple that drives the incomes of cultivators in states such as Punjab. The ministry’s official projections show the government’s total procurement for summer paddy (2020-21) will likely touch 74.2 million tonnes, up from the total quantity of 62.7 million procured during 2019-20, an increase of 18%.To be sure, production of kharif or summer crops this year is likely to be a record 144.5 million tonne, slightly higher than the 143.4 million tonne produced during the kharif season of 2019-20, according to an official forecast.Also read | ‘Officers will visit villages to buy entire paddy’: KCR messages farmersThe ministry has expanded its procurement operations, which refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at assured prices, for summer-sown crops to cover an estimated 10.5 million paddy growers, against last year’s 10.2 million.The government has also raised by 27% the number of paddy-purchase centres, which now stand at 39,122, up from 30,709 last year, official figures show.According to the ministry’s data, the government has bought, till November 4, over 22.4 million tonne of paddy, which is already 20.18% higher than the 18.6 million tonne procured during the corresponding period last year. Of the total purchases, Punjab’s share so far has been the highest at 15.8 million tonne, which is 70.52% of the total quantity procured.Farmers in Punjab are protesting against the reforms that allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. The government enacted three laws on September 24 to usher in these changes.The laws have angered farmers, particularly in Punjab, who fear the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price, leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, on several occasions, that the three laws have no bearing on the current system of procurement at assured prices, which will continue.To placate farmers, the government’s food buying agencies have launched large buying operations in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.Year-on-year comparisons show higher purchases. For instance, the government, till November 1, purchased 12.9 million tonne paddy in Punjab, which is 37% higher than the quantity procured during the corresponding period last year (9.4 million tonne).In Uttar Pradesh, paddy procurement till November 1, was higher by 413% at 390,920 tonne, against 76,254 tonne during the same period last year. The food ministry has also started procuring rice for the first time from Uttarakhand and so far, 405,174 tonne have been purchased.Till November 4, the paddy purchases have benefited nearly 1.8 million farmers, who have been paid MSP of Rs42,422.49 crore since procurement of crops began on September 27.“The higher procurement will likely overshoot the government’s storage capacity and make managing stocks difficult unless the government offloads more as food aid to the poor,” said analyst Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.From April to November 2020, the government has made an additional offering of free food under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), launched due to Covid-19. This has freed up storage capacities of bulging state-held granaries and made way for higher paddy procurement. The total allocation under the PMGKY is 32.1 million tonne. This included 21.4 million tonne of rice and 10.6 million tonne of wheat. As on September 1, total federally held food stocks stood at 77.3 million tonne, up from 71.2 million tonnes on the same date last year.The Centre has fixed an MSP for the so-called common variety paddy at Rs1,868 per quintal and for the A grade variety at Rs1,888 per quintal for the current year. The government had initially set a total rice procurement target of 49.5 million tonnes for the entire country for the 2020-21 kharif season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-for-record-paddy-buying-this-year-to-blunt-farmers-agitation/story-AC6eOaxvicSwvRoLddp4AL.html
05-11-2020||India||Mufti arrives in Jammu for PAGD meeting amid Sena, Bajrang Dal protests||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti arrived in Jammu on Thursday to attend a meeting of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which was formed last month to fight for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status.A spokesman for Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP) said the meeting will be held on Saturday at another former chief minister Farooq Abdullah’s residence. Former minister Sajad Lone and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader MY Tarigami will be among others who will attend the meeting.The meeting is being held amid anger over notification of rules to allow outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in the Union Territory. Jammu & Kashmir special status under Constitution’s Articles 370 and 35A, which was scrapped last year, prevented outsiders from buying land in the region.Also read | All of us have united to restore special status of Jammu and Kashmir: Omar Abdullah in LadakhA PAGD delegation is also expected to meet local leaders and the prominent people in Jammu. Another delegation of PAGD on Friday last visited Drass and Kargil in Ladakh under former chief minister Omar Abdullah’s leadership and vowed to fight for the restoration of the special status and Jammu & Kashmir’s unification.Shiv Sena and Bajrang Dal members staged a protest outside the Jammu airport as Mufti arrived there. They carried banners reading “Mehbooba Tiranga Uthao Ya Phir Wapis Jao [either pick up the Tricolour or go back]”.Mufti last month said members of her party would not hoist the Indian tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu & Kashmir. The erstwhile state’s special status provided for a separate flag.Rakesh Bajrangi, a local leader, said that they will not allow any Kashmiri leader to hold the PAGD meeting in Jammu. “Jammu is a land of nationalist people and we are not going to allow the Gupkar gang to spread their anti-national agenda here.”An additional police force was deployed at the airport to provide Mufti with a safe passage. The protesters showed her black flags as she left the airport.Three members of Mufti’s party from Jammu, Ved Mahajan, TS Bajwa and Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa, resigned over her remarks about the tricolour.Activists Sukesh C Khajuria and Aditi Sharma have also lodged complaints against Abdullah and Mufti for their alleged provocative remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-arrives-in-jammu-for-pagd-meeting-amid-sena-bajrang-dal-protests/story-wWKPczJIP2jIhRa5iRJtPK.html
05-11-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin against coronavirus could be launched in February: Govt scientist||A government-backed Covid-19 vaccine could be launched as early as February - months earlier than expected - as last-stage trials begin this month and studies have so far showed it is safe and effective, a senior government scientist told Reuters.Bharat Biotech, a private company that is developing COVAXIN with the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), had earlier hoped to launch it only in the second quarter of next year.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The vaccine has shown good efficacy,” senior ICMR scientist Rajni Kant, who is also a member of its Covid-19 task-force, said at the research body’s New Delhi headquarters on Thursday.“It is expected that by the beginning of next year, February or March, something would be available.”Bharat Biotech could not immediately be contacted.A launch in February would make COVAXIN the first India-made vaccine to be rolled out.India’s cases of coronavirus infections rose by 50,201 cases on Thursday to 8.36 million, second only to the United States. Deaths rose by 704, with the total now at 124,315. The daily rise in infections and deaths has slowed since a peak in mid-September.Kant, who is the head of ICMR’s research management, policy, planning and coordination cell, said it was up to the health ministry to decide if COVAXIN shots can be given to people even before the third-stage trials are over.“It has shown safety and efficacy in the phase 1 and 2 trials and in the animal studies - so it is safe but you can’t be 100% sure unless the phase 3 trials are over,” Kant said.“There may be some risk, if you are ready to take the risk, you can take the vaccine. If necessary, the government can think of giving the vaccine in an emergency situation.”Health minister Harsh Vardhan said in September the government was considering granting an emergency authorisation for a Covid-19 vaccine, particularly for the elderly and people in high-risk workplaces.Several leading vaccine candidates are already in final-stage testing. An experimental vaccine developed by Britain’s AstraZeneca is among the most advanced ones, and Britain expects to roll it out in late December or early 2021.AstraZeneca has signed several supply and manufacturing deals with companies and governments around the world, including with the Serum Institute of India.Other late-stage vaccines are developed by Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc with partner BioNTech SE, and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-against-coronavirus-could-be-launched-in-february-govt-scientist/story-ePHrf1GXj8KEGwowd7sKCP.html
05-11-2020||India||Jharkhand Speaker sets up court to hear JVM(P)’s merger under anti-defection law||Former Jharkhand chief minister and Rajdhanwar legislator Babulal Marandi is in trouble as Jharkhand assembly Speaker decided to hear the JVM (P) split and merger issue under the anti-defection law.A case regarding violation of the 10th schedule of the Constitution was lodged against Marandi and two other JVM(P) legislators - Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey on Tuesday and the first hearing has been scheduled for November 23.The lawmakers have been directed to give submission in the Speaker’s court on that day.Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato ordered to set up the court of hearing after going through their replies against notices that were served on them in August.The JVM (P) witnessed a split after the assembly polls when party chief Marandi decided to return to the BJP after the state poll results and merged his party with the saffron party in February after adopting a resolution at the party’s national convention.The BJP named Marandi as its legislature party leader and subsequently the Leader of the Opposition (LoP). However, the Speaker is yet to grant him the status of LoP. Yadav and Tirkey, who were suspended from JVM(P) before the party’s national convention had convened a meeting of their supporters and merged their group with the Congress.The Speaker was of the view that the subsequent mergers of the two JVM(P) factions was in violation of the 10th schedule. He said, “A thorough examination is necessary. It would have been wrong in proclaiming judgement without proper hearing.”Babulal Marandi, however, said the Speaker has adopted the coercion and harassment tactics. “The party’s merger with the BJP was done with the consent of two third working committee members. The election commission too approved the merger during the Rajya Sabha polls in June this year,” he added.BJP’s Jharkhand unit president Deepak Prakash said the matter was under Speaker’s purview. He also mentioned that the election commission had ordered the state assembly to consider Marandi as BJP legislator.Prakash said the Speaker should have decided on the matter then. “It was he who had allowed Marandi to vote as BJP voter,” he said. He said the BJP would take the next step in the matter soon.Bandhu Tirkey said the provision of 10th schedule would not be applicable in the case involving him and Yadav, as two third of the JVM(P) legislators joined the Congress.The JVM(P) had won three seats in the Jharkkhand assembly election and the Speaker had made separate seating arrangements for them in the House. Congress working president Rajesh Thakur said the Speaker is the custodian of state assembly and the party expects that he would take quick decision regarding the mergers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-speaker-sets-up-court-to-hear-jvm-p-s-merger-under-anti-defection-law/story-errFNPYfoY92bexgb2v2HL.html
05-11-2020||India||Countries need to work together against climate change: Prakash Javadekar||Underlining that climate change is an important issue that needs the attention of world leaders, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said all the countries need to work together to save the planet.“Climate change is a very important issue to be discussed world over and world action is needed on this. It is not like one country can make a difference. All countries will have to work in that direction,” Javadekar said in his keynote address while virtually chairing the ‘India CEO Forum On Climate Change’.Javadekar, who is the Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said the United Nation’s ecosystem will definitely take note of India’s corporate world’s wonderful initiative to adhere to and even declare their own plans for carbon neutrality. “My suggestion to the corporate world is to propagate what you’re doing and report to us, so we can do the same... India is walking the talk. India is 2 degrees compliant in action and in contributions. Therefore, we are asking world leaders and other countries that they should also walk the talk and be compliant with the Paris Agreement,” Javadekar said.“We will have 175 gigawatts of renewable power by 2022. Now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken it to a new height by setting a target of 450 GW by 2030. It’s a huge target and will account for a little over 40% of our installed energy capacity,” he added.The Union Minister said the country had in the Paris Agreement decided that it will restrict the temperature rise to 2 degree Celsius by 2100 and added that it had also declared that the country will reduce its emission intensity by 35%.Speaking about the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic impact, Javadekar said, “Demand is picking up and money is in the hands of the people. I am very sure that India will show the way how to deal with the pandemic. What we are seeing in Europe and America is worrisome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/countries-need-to-work-together-against-climate-change-prakash-javadekar/story-ksM9MKXZMAlLPzWB7SKpLI.html
05-11-2020||India||Death knell of Mamata Banerjee govt has been sounded: Amit Shah in Bengal||The days of the Mamata Banerjee government are numbered and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will come to power with two-third majority in the coming assembly election in West Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah said Thursday morning at Puyabagan in Bankura district. “The manner in which the Mamata Banerjee government has neglected the poor, the farmers, the backward classes and the tribal people and have oppressed people, especially BJP workers, I can clearly see that its death bell has been sounded. In the coming days the BJP will come to power with two-third majority and form the government,” Shah told the media shortly after garlanding the statue of Birsa Munda, the leader of the Independence movement carried out by tribal people in the region against the British Raj. “I appeal to the people to overthrow this government and give the BJP the opportunity to build sonar Bangla (a golden Bengal),” said Shah. Shah surprised everyone by not wearing a mask although other BJP leaders around him followed the safety protocol. Assembly elections will be held in West Bengal in about six months. Shah arrived at Kolkata on Wednesday night. He flew to Bankura in a chopper a little before noon on Thursday. He began his programme by garlanding the statue of Birsa Munda who is worshipped by tribal people. After the short garlanding ceremony, Shah went to Bankura town to address BJP leaders from 13 districts in an internal meeting to outline the strategy of the coming polls. “I started my two-day journey by garlanding the statue of Bhagwan (God) Birsa Munda. Since my arrival last night I have witnessed public outrage against the Mamata Banerjee government and people’s increasing faith in the Narendra Modi government. They know that only the social welfare projects started by the Modi government can change their lives,” said Shah. “The tribal people of Bengal are not getting the housing schemes started by the Centre. The poor are not getting healthcare facilities. The farmers are not getting the annual aid of Rs 6,000,” said Shah. “You (Mamata Banerjee) are wrong if you think that you can stop the BJP by stopping Central schemes in West Bengal. If you let people enjoy the benefits of these schemes they may at least spare some thoughts for you,” said Shah. The Union home minister was also scheduled to have lunch with a tribal family.The BJP showed its best performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bankura district. It won two seats and stayed ahead of the TMC in almost all the assembly segments. “Amit Shah is day dreaming,” TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said in Kolkata, reacting to Shah’s statement on the BJP coming to power. “If BJP is capable of building a golden Bengal why doesn’t it build a golden Uttar Pradesh? The BJP is a party of rich people. Having lunch at the home of a tribal family is just a drama. People of Bengal will never bring the BJP to power,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-knell-of-mamata-banerjee-govt-has-been-sounded-amit-shah-in-bengal/story-CVJMURgHBOeMCDfpYoBTqN.html
05-11-2020||India||Boat carrying 50 people capsizes in Bihar; 1 body recovered, 7 missing||A boat carrying nearly 50 people capsized in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district on Thursday, killing a 40-year-old woman, while seven others were feared drowned, officials said.The remaining people on the boat either swam to safety or were rescued by SDRF personnel, a senior official said.The incident took place in Naugachia police district, around 30 km from here, when agricultural labourers were crossing a river by a boat to go to their fields, Bhagalpur District Magistrate Pranav Kumar said.“One body has been recovered so far. She has been identified as Sunaina Devi, a resident of Tintanga in Gopalpur police station area in Naugachia. Seven people are still missing,” the DM told PTI.A team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has reached the spot and efforts were on to recover the seven missing persons, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-as-boat-carrying-50-capsizes-in-bihar-s-bhagalpur-several-feared-drowned/story-AU9JVGHA57Bc3EA1mtw2PI.html
05-11-2020||India||Deepika Padukone’s ex-manager quizzed by anti-drugs agency for 2nd day||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials are questioning Karishma Prakash, ex-manager of actor Deepika Padukone, for the second consecutive day over the alleged drug links in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Prakash reached the NCB office at Ballard Estate at 11.55 am on Thursday, confirmed NCB officials.She was interrogated by the central agency on Wednesday for nearly six hours.“Since her questioning could not be completed on Wednesday, she is being questioned again today. Her statement would also be recorded on Thursday,” said an NCB official.NCB officers refused to divulge the details of the questioning.Prakash presented herself before NCB investigators after the central agency had given an assurance to a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Tuesday that it would not take any coercive action against Prakash. Following this, Prakash, through her lawyer, had also informed the court that she will cooperate with the NCB investigation.While opposing Prakash in court, the NCB, through its counsel Atul Sarpande, had said that her name cropped up during the investigation of drug trial connected to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The agency had last week searched Prakash’s residence in Versova and recovered 1.7 grams hashish and three bottles of cannabidiol (CBD) oil.The NCB has so far arrested 25 people in the case. It is alleged that she was in contact with the peddlers arrested in the case. The anti-drugs agency had questioned Prakash on September 25 and 26 for approximately 12 hours as part of its probe into Rajput’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s staffers Samuel Miranda, Dipak Sawant, alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdul Basit Parihar were arrested in the course of the case. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on October 7, while her brother’s bail application was rejected. The special court on Tuesday extended his judicial custody till November 11.“Prakash had tendered her resignation (from her service in KWAN) on 21st of October with immediate effect and it was accepted. She now has nothing to do with KWAN or with any of the artists that the agency represents, including Deepika Padukone. The ongoing investigations are on Karishma Prakash as an individual,” a statement by Vijay Subramaniam, co-founder and CEO of Kwan reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepika-padukone-s-ex-manager-questioned-by-anti-drugs-agency-for-2nd-day/story-uVHBFb8xPffU5ZiGdcPmZK.html
05-11-2020||India||ED, Kerala police lock horns over raid at house of CPM leader’s son||Dramatic scenes unfolded outside the house of CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in the state capital on Thursday after relatives staged a sit-in saying his wife and minor child were kept in detention by Enforcement Directorate (ED) and were denied basic needs. The ED raid at Kodiyeri’s house in connection with a money laundering probe linked to a drug bust in Bengaluru had begun Wednesday noon . State Child Rights Commission chairman Manoj Kumar rushed to the spot on Thursday but the central agency did not allow him to enter the premises. But when ED officials were about to leave after the 26-hour raid was over, Kerala police personnel blocked them saying they had a complaint against them and entered into an argument. They were allowed to leave after ED officials showed a court order for the raid. The police said they sought details about the raid after a formal complaint was lodged by Bineesh’s relatives. The Child Rights Commission also said it will file a case against ED officials for “illegal detention of the child.” Bineesh’s wife Reneeta later told reporters that ED officials were trying to plant evidence in their house. She alleged that the ED tried to force her to sign a report in which the agency claimed to have found a credit card belonging to the alleged drug peddler Anoop Mohammad from her house. She claimed that the ED officials brought the card from outside and wanted to plant it in her house to show that it was seized from there. She said she refused to sign on the paper for which she was detained inside the house.The ED later said that Bineesh’s family members were not co-operating with the ongoing probe and it will inform the court about this. The Opposition Congress and BJP said it was a drama enacted by the ruling CPI(M) to browbeat the central agency. “The CPI(M) is trying to block the probe as it is about to reach chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The CPI(M) denied any move to interrupt the ongoing investigation. The ED began the search on Wednesday morning and it continued till 12 noon on Thursday .The central agency was given the Central Reserve Police Force protection after intelligence reports that protesters may interrupt the raid. Kodiyeri, who was arrested on October 29 is in the ED’s custody in Bengaluru. He landed in trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) saying that Kodiyeri had helped him in his “business venture.”He was arraigned as the sixth accused in a money laundering case connected to the drug haul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-kerala-police-lock-horns-over-raid-at-house-of-cpm-leader-s-son/story-uZKd61wwtA0AYRpP0iOZNK.html
05-11-2020||India||UK invites PM Modi to Climate Ambition Summit on Dec 12||The UK has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Climate Ambition Summit scheduled next month, according to a British government statement on Thursday.The December 12 Climate Ambition Summit will provide a platform for leaders who are ready to come forward with announcements of new, more ambitious nationally determined contributions and long-term strategies to net zero, as well as new climate finance pledges and ambitious adaptation plans.During a meeting with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla in London on Wednesday, Philip Barton, Permanent Under-Secretary at the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, “extended an invitation for Prime Minister Modi to attend the December Climate Ambition Summit”, the British High Commission in New Delhi said in a press release.The UK, as COP26 (to be held in Glasgow next December) President, the UN and France will host the virtual leader-level summit on the five-year anniversary of the Paris Agreement, in partnership with Chile (as COP25 President) and Italy (COP26 partner), it said. The United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) was originally scheduled to be held this month. However, due to the coronavirus pandemic, the event was postponed to next year.The historic Paris accord committed the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures below 2C above pre-industrial levels and attempting to limit them even more, to a 1.5C rise. The US -- the second leading producer of all carbon dioxide emissions globally, behind China -- on Wednesday formally withdrew from the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, a decision originally announced three years ago.Speaking after the meeting with Shringla, Barton said: “India has a special place in my heart and I know first-hand the importance of building the relationship between our two countries.” “Shringla and I agreed a strengthened UK-India partnership will be a force for good in the world, in facing the big international challenges over the next decade, such as climate change and global security,” said Barton, formerly High Commissioner to India until August this year. It was Barton’s first high-level meeting with any country since taking up his new position as head of the UK’s diplomatic and development service.The meeting was the latest in a series of high-level UK-India engagements, following the Finance Minister-led Economic and Financial Dialogue last week and the subsequent virtual visit of the Minister for Investment. It precedes a planned High Level Trade Ministerial in November.The discussion centred around how the UK and India will work together on their shared ambitions. Future priorities are likely to include increasing trade, tackling climate change, science and technology and defence, the release said.The UK and India also shared views on the next generation of challenges and opportunities, including assessments of emerging global security threats. Barton and Shringla explored areas for the UK and India to collaborate in multilateral events, committing to work closely together through the UK’s G7 and COP Presidencies and India’s G20 Presidency in 2022, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-invites-pm-modi-to-climate-ambition-summit-on-dec-12/story-ehKQdYdYNOpVd7DBrnnPDN.html
05-11-2020||India||Guj chemical explosion: Cops summon godown owner, tenant||A day after 12 labourers died when a part of a godown here collapsed following an explosion, the Ahmedabad police on Thursday summoned the godown owner and his tenant who had kept chemical drums there which caused the blast.A police team along with forensic experts also went to the spot in the morning to collect samples.Deputy Commissioner of Police A M Muniya said an FIR will be registered after a thorough probe into the incident.Twelve labourers, including five women, were killed and 10 others were injured after a portion of the godown located on Pirana-Piplaj road on the city’s outskirts collapsed on Wednesday morning following a powerful explosion.Primary investigation revealed that one Buta Bharwad owned this premises having several godowns separated with walls. He gave these godowns on rent to several parties, the police official said. A small portion of the godown was given on rent to one Hetal Sutariya, owner of chemical trading firm Sahil Enterprise, he said.“Sutariya had stored various hazardous chemicals, including hydrogen peroxide, in his rented godown. It is suspected that the explosion occurred when some mixing process was going on,” the official said.The explosion destroyed three to four adjoining godowns where labourers were packing textiles and garments, the police official said.“We have initiated a detailed probe into the incident and started preliminary questioning of Sutariya and Bharwad.The police will lodge an FIR after completion of the investigation,” he said.Meanwhile, a team of the city’s Narol police, who have started questioning Bharwad and Sutariya, reached the spot on Thursday morning with forensic experts for collecting samples, police inspector S A Gohil said.After the incident, the Gujarat government on Wednesday announced an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each deceased.However, family members of the victims are not satisfied with the announcement and have decided not to claim the bodies, currently kept at the civic-run VS Hospital here.“I lost my son in this explosion. He wanted to financially help the family. What will do with Rs 4 lakh? The government must give Rs 20 lakh as compensation and book those responsible for the tragedy,” a relative of one of the victims told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-chemical-explosion-cops-summon-godown-owner-tenant/story-UKhCeKlWCEd0COErH2427I.html
05-11-2020||India||‘Justice will be delivered even if...’: Sanjay Raut’s latest jibe at BJP over Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Thursday that if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants to protest against the arrest of someone accused of abetment to suicide and attempt to murder, they can do so as it is their democratic right. He was speaking in reference to the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday. Gowswami was arrested in Mumbai for alleged abetment of the suicide of an interior designer in 2018.“If someone is arrested under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 307 (attempt to murder) and the BJP wants to protest against it, they may do so as everyone has that right in democracy. But, I can ensure that injustice won’t be done to anyone,” Sanjay Raut said.Watch l Arnab Goswami moves HC; Sanjay Raut hits back at BJP l All the latest updates After the editor’s arrest on Wednesday, several leaders including union ministers Amit Shah, Smriti Irani and Prakash Javadekar spoke up against the police action and drew parallels with the Emergency. Shah called the arrest a ‘blatant misuse of state power’.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar slammed the police for their action. “Shades of the Emergency! The arrest of Arnab Goswami is an attack on the freedom of press. Those who really believe in this freedom must speak up!” he tweeted.Also Read: Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrestSanjay Raut on the other hand asserted that the arrest followed due law and procedures. “Police can take action if they have evidence against anyone,” he said.A local court on October 16 allowed the Alibag police to reopen the case for further investigation and Goswami moved the Bombay High Court seeking to quash the fresh case two days before he was arrested. He was remanded in custody until November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-will-be-delivered-even-if-sanjay-raut-s-latest-jibe-at-bjp-over-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-2PZfF03IMHB9cSJ21Y6azO.html
05-11-2020||India||Fire at Vizag Steel Plant guts power plant machinery, no casualties||Fire broke out in the power plant of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, a central government undertaking, at Paravada on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam in Andhra in the early hours of Thursday. There were no casualties nor were there any injuries to any workers. According to unconfirmed reports, some employees said there was a huge loss to the machinery in the power plant running into a few crore rupees. According to D Durgaprasad, assistant general manager and an official spokesman of the VSP, fire was reported in the power plant-2 of the steel plant at around 4.45 am, apparently due to leakage of oil from the lubrication system. “Fire services from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) were called and fire was brought under control immediately. The damage is being assessed to bring back the PP-2 at the earliest,” he said. The spokesman said there were no injuries to any person in the mishap and steel plant’s production was also not affected. There are two captive thermal power plants near the main entrance of the steel plant – one generating 243 MW and another 120 MW. “The fire mishap occurred in the 120 MW power plant due to leakage of lubricant in the oil pump, resulting in burning of the entire power generating turbine,” an official of the VSP said on condition of anonymity. While there is no immediate threat to the steel plant due to the functioning of the power plant-1, the authorities have to purchase power from outside till the burnt power plant is restored in order to see that the production in the steel plant is not affected. “The cables connecting the affected power plant with the main grid have been segregated, so that the power supply from the other plant continues uninterruptedly,” the official said. He also said that an internal probe has started to ascertain the exact cause of the fire. On July 13, fire broke out in Visakha Solvents Limited, a chemical plant which recovers waste solvents from pharmaceutical units, located at Ramky Pharma City, close to Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The mishap led to an explosion of a reactor in the plant leading to the death of one person and injuries to three others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-vizag-steel-plant-guts-power-plant-machinery-no-casualties/story-ylzr6ucgrxCihKZ1JzS16H.html
05-11-2020||India||Bombay HC directs I&B ministry to pay Rs25,000 to social activist Saket Gokhale||The Bombay high court has directed the Union information and broadcasting ministry to pay activist Saket Gokhale Rs 25,000 and conduct an inquiry into why his personal information was put on its website.Gokhale moved the court seeking Rs 50 lakh damages from the ministry saying it subjected him to agony and trauma by uploading the information.Gokhale, who argued his own case, told a division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav that he would submit applications to the ministry under the Right to Information Act. The ministry’s lawyer, Rui Rodrigues, told the court the information will be removed from the website and also filed an affidavit on the preliminary inquiry and action initiated.The court asked the ministry to submit a report within three months and gave liberty to the petitioner to move the court again if it was not done. It added Gokhale’s plea seeking Rs 50 lakh compensation be left for a civil court to decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-directs-i-b-ministry-to-pay-rs25-000-to-social-activist-saket-gokhale/story-UMwly7uuthJSDD6ZoZYYWN.html
05-11-2020||India||Indian Rafale fighter jet adds Hammer stand-off weapon to its lethal arsenal||France has agreed to equip Indian Rafale fighters with air-to-surface Hammer all-weather smart weapon apart from air-to-air MICA, METEOR missiles and air-to-ground SCALP stand-off weapon. The Hammer is a fire and forget weapon that can be launched from a very short range to a very long range of 70 kilometres without availability of GPS and has high resistance to jamming and target location errors.According to senior officials, the Hammer contract was signed between the two governments in September 2020 and the weapons in large numbers will be delivered to the Golden Arrows Squadron of Indian Air Force station in Ambala by the end of this month. The Hindustan Times is not disclosing the contract or the total numbers.The defence cooperation between India and France is such that normally the Hammer weapon would have been delivered to the Indian Air Force (IAF) in a year but the French air force has decided to part with limited weapons from their inventory to cater to New Delhi’s urgent requirement. The Rafale fighter is on the frontline of the IAF, which is currently on high state of alert due to People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggression at four points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The second batch of three Rafale fighters flew from Bordeaux last night using air-to-air refuellers and joined the Ambala squadron today.The Hammer weapon can be used for multi-target attack and has zero maintenance due to reduced life cycle cost. With data link capability, the weapon is aware of the hostile environment and has full flexibility to strike at the target. In addition to the use of dedicated warhead and an air burst capacity, the angle of impact can be set up till a full vertical dive for maximum destruction.While MICA has air-to-air kill at a maximum range of 80 km, the METEOR missile has a beyond visual range touching near 140 km. The SCALP is an air-to-ground stand-off weapon with a 300 km range and a 450 kilogram warhead. It flies just below the speed of sound and had imaging infra-red terminal guidance.With the arrival of Hammer weapon, the Indian Rafale has now a full armament complement with the capacity to dominate and destroy the adversary, whether it be a JF-17 fighter with Pakistan Air Force or J-20 fighter with the PLA Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-rafale-fighter-jet-adds-hammer-stand-off-weapon-to-its-lethal-arsenal/story-4AzUFBF2vphYF4y8EkjjdI.html
05-11-2020||India||TN govt shows rule book to BJP, cites Covid-19 to denies permission for yatra||In a setback to the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit, the state government informed the Madras high court on Thursday that it has denied permission for the party’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ citing the Covid-19 pandemic as reason. The BJP had proposed to embark on the yatra from November 6 to December 6 across Tamil Nadu (starting from Thirutani and concluding in Thiruchendur) to celebrate Tamil deity Lord Murugan in its attempt to consolidate the Hindu vote bank. The Madras HC disposed of two public interest litigations filed on the yatra with liberty to the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit to challenge the government’s rejection. Advocate General Vijay Narayan citied a government order that prohibits religious, political and social gatherings until November 15. K S Narendran, BJP’s general secretary who planned the route map for the yatra had earlier told HT that the yatra would be a “turning point for BJP in Tamil Nadu”.Opposition parties had demanded that the yatra be banned because it could lead to religious tensions in the state. Ravikumar, an MP from the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), a DMK ally, tweeted that it was a victory for secularism following the order. The VCK had written to the Tamil Nadu police to deny permission for the yatra, as it could create communal unrest. They also questioned the timing of the yatra, which is slated to end on December 6 – the 28th anniversary of the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. Despite being an ally of the BJP, the All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government denied permission to the BJP for its yatra. The AIADMK had earlier criticised the BJP for using the ruling party’s founder MG Ramachandran’s photograph in its promotional campaign for the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-shows-covid-19-protocol-to-bjp-denies-permission-for-yatra/story-IK0BMizWcmD4vBuj1GO0pO.html
05-11-2020||India||Army chief General Naravane presents medical gear to Nepali Army||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane presented medical equipment to the Nepali Army including X-Ray machines, computed radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units, anesthesia machines, laboratory equipment and ambulances, the Indian Embassy in Nepal said in a statement on Thursday. Naravane reached Kathmandu on Wednesday on a three-day visit that is expected to smoothen bilateral ties with Nepal after a bitter border row. “Additional ventilators were also gifted to assist Nepali Army in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic. This follows an earlier army-to-army provision of ventilators in July this year,” the statement said.On Thursday, Naravane laid a wreath and paid homage at Bir Smarak (Martyr’s Memorial) at the Army Pavilion in Tundikhel, Kathmandu. He was later accorded a ceremonial Guard of Honour at the Nepali Army Headquarters where he held talks with his counterpart General Purna Chandra Thapa. Both sides discussed army-to-army relations and enhancing bilateral defence cooperation, the statement said. Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari will also confer the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army on Naravane at an investiture ceremony. The army chief’s visit comes months after bilateral ties were hit in May after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a key border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the row.Naravane’s visit is expected to lay the ground work for much anticipated talks between the two sides on the border issue. His Nepal tour comes days after Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel made a low-key visit to Kathmandu during which he met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. The army chief is expected to interact with Indian Army pensioners in Nepal during the visit --- there are 136,000 pensioners in that country and form part of the strong links between the two sides.This is Naravane’s second visit with diplomatic overtones, after last month’s tour of Myanmar, where he accompanied foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and was part of crucial talks on security cooperation and developmental issues. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it is crucial for India to maintain momentum in its ties with Nepal at a time when Beijing is trying to expand its influence in Kathmandu amid the India-China border standoff. “There has been a lot of behind-the-scenes work by both armies to mend the relationship and this is a good sign. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh said we can’t choose our neighbours and Nepal is a neighbour we have to work with. The Chinese are pushing for greater proximity with Nepal, and one of the ways of doing that is sowing distrust between India and Nepal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-general-naravane-presents-medical-gear-to-nepali-army/story-cUGJf7kBomGlX0lE8WBhbJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Goa police inspector suspended for allowing model Poonam Pandey’s semi-nude photoshoot at reservoir||The Goa police have suspended a police inspector for allowing model Poonam Pandey organise a semi-nude photoshoot at a reservoir in Canacona earlier this year. Tukaram Chavan’s suspension was announced after the topless photos were uploaded on Instagram and triggered angry reactions from residents.A short video was also recorded at the site during the shoot which has prompted police to file a case against “unknown persons” under Indian Penal Code’s Section 294 (obscenity) amid much outrage.The police have received six complaints about the shoot including some which have sought Pandey to be named as an offender.Residents took to the streets and have threatened to call for a shutdown in the area against the police for allegedly facilitating the shoot.Deputy police superintendent Nelson Albuquerque told protesters on Thursday that they have suspended the inspector and ordered an inquiry into the lapses that led to the photoshoot.The police are likely to question Pandey and her husband, Sam Ahmed Bombay, over the shoot.State Congress chief Girish Chodankar hit out at the state government over the shoot. He blamed “the most insensitive, corrupt and defective BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] government” for shaming Goa.“We want to know how the Entertainment Society of Goa headed by Chief Minister [Pramod Sawant], which is the nodal agency of the shootings in Goa, gave permission to shoot such vulgar video where the model appears almost nude.”There was no immediate reaction from the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-inspector-suspended-for-allowing-model-poonam-pandey-s-semi-nude-photoshoot-at-reservoir/story-8MSLChVdqHkBIOog4vSxiM.html
05-11-2020||India||More than 20 feared drowned in Naugachhia boat tragedy in Bihar||At least 20 people are feared drowned when an overloaded carrying over 50 passengers capsized in the middle of Ganga river at around 10.30 am on Thursday, police said. Around 25 other passengers were rescued by villagers while the bodies of two women were also recovered. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has launched a rescue operation for the missing people who were swept away by the strong current. Police and district administration officials rushed the spot and began rescue operations soon after the boat capsized. A team of professional swimmers were engaged to locate the missing persons. “The Immediate help by other villagers saved many lives,” said a police officer. Among the passengers were farmers, milkman and labourers from Manjhi Ghat who were on their way to Tintanga Karari Diara .According to DM Pranav Kumar, two bodies of women recovered while 10 of those rescued were admitted to Sadar HospitalThe mishap occurred near Teen-Tanga Jahaj Ghat under Gopalganj police station of Naugachhia police district, about 135 Km from the state capital, after a mild stampede in the overloaded boat spread panic leading to the capsize, police said. Naugachhia’s superintendent of police Swapna Ji Meshram said, “The capsized boat carried mostly a group of farmers who were going to a nearby village to cultivate crops. Though the reason behind the incident was yet to be ascertained, initial police investigation stated that people all of a sudden started moving to one side of the boat when it lost control,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-20-feared-drowned-in-naugachhia-boat-tragedy-in-bihar/story-4cJRwVisvbJUGwqeojEj1M.html
05-11-2020||India||India to Pakistan: Reverse decision on handing over Kartarpur gurdwara to non-Sikh body||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to reverse its “arbitrary decision” to hand over the management of Durbar Sahib gurdwara, built at the site in Kartarpur where Guru Nanak spent the last years of his life, to a body without any Sikh representatives. According to a notification issued on November 3, Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry handed over the management of Durbar Sahib gurdwara to a “project management unit” under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), a government department that oversees the shrines of the country’s minorities. The gurdwara was earlier under the management of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC). This is believed to be the first time that PSGPC has been shut out of the management of a gurdwara in Pakistan. There are no Sikhs among the officials and staff appointed by the ETPB for the Darbar Sahib gurdwara, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Also read | Decision to re-open Kartarpur Corridor will be as per Covid-19 protocol: MEAThe external affairs ministry said in a statement that Pakistan had transferred the management and maintenance of the gurdwara at Kartarpur from the PSGPC, “a body run by the minority Sikh community, to the administrative control of the Evacuee Trust Property Board, a non-Sikh body”. “Pakistan is called upon to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community its right to manage affairs of the Holy Gurudwara Kartarpur Sahib,” the statement said. “This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” it added. The ministry said it had received representations from the Sikh community “expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community”. It added: “Such actions only expose the reality of the Pakistani government and its leadership’s tall claims of preserving and protecting the rights and welfare of the religious minority communities.” In November last year, India and Pakistan opened a 4.7-km cross-border corridor connecting Dera Baba Nanak in India’s Gurdaspur district with Durbar Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan’s Kartarpur to allow Indian pilgrims to visit the shrine without visas. India is yet to decide on reopening its part of the Kartarpur Corridor, which was shut in March as part of Covid-19-related travel restrictions, following Pakistan’s recent decision to open its side. New Delhi has called on Islamabad to construct required infrastructure, including a bridge at Budhi Ravi channel, for the safe movement of pilgrims over a stretch that gets waterlogged during the rainy season. The gurdwara stands on the site where Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion, spent the last years of his life. India went ahead with the opening of the corridor to respect the sentiments of the Sikh community despite strong misgivings about several steps taken by the Pakistani side, including the imposition of a service fee of $20 on every pilgrim, and security concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-pakistan-to-reverse-decision-on-handing-over-kartarpur-gurdwara-to-non-sikh-body/story-kKzt2mJ0AMKpalTK9cnnbJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Haryana farmers block Delhi-Chandigarh highway to protest farm laws||The Haryana government deployed heavy police force on Thursday along national highway 44 near Raipur Roran village of Karnal district as farmers blocked both carriageways of the Delhi-Chandigarh highway to protest the Centre’s three new farm laws, officials said.The farmers had called for a chakka jam to block several national and state highways in the state.Hundreds of farmers protesting under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) have also reached the GT Road and sat on NH 44.District administration officials have been trying to request the farmers to lift the highway blockade.Sources said officials asked the farmers to hold the protest on the slip roads instead of affecting the traffic on the main highway.BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni has made it clear that they will block the highway as their agitation is a part of the Bharat Bandh call given by the several former organizations, which are protesting against the farm laws. He said the blockade will continue till 4 pmKarnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that efforts were being made to ensure that the farmers do not block NH 44 as it may affect thousands of commuters. “Farmers are being requested to hold their protest at a specific location,” he said.According to officials, the administration has also made arrangements to divert the traffic to the link roads to circumvent the blockade.In neighbouring Punjab, farmers blocked traffic at various places in Bathinda and adjoining districts. A large number of farmers gathered in a large number at Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk, a national highway junction connecting Bathinda with Patiala-Chandigarh, Ferozepur-Rajasthan, Amritsar-Jalandhar. However, markets and other commercial establishments are open in the city.Farmers also blocked national and state highways in Sangrur and Barnala districts to oppose the farm laws. The protesters staged dharna in Sangrur, Bhawanigarh, Sunam, Malerkotla, Dhuri, Sherpur, Moonak, Ladda, Kalajahar and Lehra of Sangrur district. Farmers said that the blockade which began at 12 noon will last till 4 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-block-delhi-chandigarh-highway-to-protest-farm-laws/story-6hPh77LMQkBaE5ivORNfcN.html
05-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Second batch of 3 Rafale jets likely to reach Ambala home base today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesSecond batch of 3 Rafale jets likely to reach Ambala home base todayThe second batch of the Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets, which reached the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from France on Wednesday, are likely to fly to their home base in Ambala on Thursday, officials familiar with developments said.The jets landed in Jamnagar last night without a stopover on the way, with refuelling support from Indian and French tankers. Read More‘You will bow in front of Tejashwi Yadav after November 10’: Chirag Paswan attacks Nitish KumarAhead of the third phase of polling, Loktantrik Janata Party chief Chirag Paswan sharpened his attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday, saying that after the declaration of results on November 10, he will be seen bowing down in front of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Tejashwi Yadav. Read MoreArnab Goswami spends night at school designated as Alibag jail’s Covid-19 centreRepublic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on Wednesday from his Lower Parel house in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide, spent the night at a local school which has been designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibag prison, an official said on Thursday. This was to complete his quarantine period before being being sent to the main prison. A court at Alibag in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday remanded Goswami and two other accused in judicial custody till November 18. Read MoreUS Election 2020 Latest Updates : Protesters from both camps duel over ballot-countingAs the outcome of the US elections remain undecided an air of uncertainty prevails among both sets of supporters as they await the final results as vote counting enters Day 2.The presidency still hangs in balance but that did not stop US president Donald Trump from declaring victory on Wednesday evening. Read MoreIPL 2020: Sourav Ganguly identifies six young talents, shares special message for Suryakumar YadavAfter Rohit Sharma’s exclusion from the Indian squads for Australia tour due to injury concerns, if there was anything that bemused fans and experts alike was the absence of Suryakumar Yadav from the ODI and T20I sides. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s comments on Suryakumar, however, should be able to answer those questions and even calm the nerves of the Mumbai batsman if there were any. Read MorePriyanka Chopra is a vision in red as she celebrates Karwa Chauth, proclaims love for Nick Jonas. See picsPriyanka Chopra was a vision in red at her Karwa Chauth celebrations on Wednesday. The actor shared pictures of from her US home as she fasted for husband Nick Jonas.In the photos, Priyanka was seen in a simple red sari, looking stunning. She held an aarti thali in her hands, as she posed for a picture in front of an idol of Lord Shiva. Another picture showed her getting a hug from Nick. “Happy Karwa Chauth to everyone celebrating. I love you @nickjonas,” she captioned her post. Read MoreHT Codeathon: Manish Sisodia reviews progress with students & teachersDelhi Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia interacted with the students and teachers of Delhi government schools to review the progress of Coding program, HT Codeathon.17 students from Delhi government schools have ranked in the top 100 students in the North zone comprising Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other north Indian states. Under the HT Codeathon program, 12,469 students from about 1,000 Delhi government schools are being trained in coding and programming skills. 1,018 students were able to complete five chapters within a fortnight of the launch of the programme. Watch the full video for more. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-second-batch-of-3-rafale-jets-likely-to-reach-ambala-home-base-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cckWrflq1OELebUbza4PlO.html
05-11-2020||India||India determined to protect its sovereignty amid aggression, says Rajnath||In the midst of the border dispute with China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice. His comments come on the eve of the eight round of military talks between the two countries to reduce friction in the sensitive eastern Ladakh theatre. Singh said India is a peace-loving country but has been facing challenges on its borders. Also read | ‘Pakistan illegally occupying Gilgit-Baltistan’: Rajnath Singh“We believe that differences should not become disputes. We attach importance to the peaceful resolution of differences through dialogue. We respect various agreements and protocols that India has entered into for peace and tranquility on our borders,” Singh said, during a speech to mark the diamond jubilee of the National Defence College. The next round of corps-commander-level talks will be held along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Chushul sector on Friday. Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the seventh time on October 12 in an attempt to defuse border tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre. The eight round of talks will be led for the first time by the new commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General PGK Menon. Both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh sector and are likely to hold forward positions along the LAC through the harsh winter months. The latest round of military talks comes at a time when China is closely tracking the Malabar exercise, kicked off by the navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday amid Chinese sabre-rattling in the Indo-Pacific region. The 24th edition of the Malabar exercise is being held in two phases -- the first phase in the Bay of Bengal from November 3 to 6 and the second phase in the Arabian Sea in mid-November. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. On Pakistan, the defence minister said the neighbour remains adamant in the use of terrorism as state policy. “However, we have achieved substantial success in working with progressive and like-minded countries to not only expose Pakistan’s regressive policies but also make it increasingly difficult to continue with its previous business as usual approach,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-determined-to-protect-its-sovereignty-amid-aggression-says-rajnath/story-YIzY0qTaW1llmUY1vp9wyL.html
05-11-2020||India||Central govt team to take stock of man-elephant conflict in Uttarakhand||A Central government delegation headed by the national coordinator of Elephant Cell will take stock of human-elephant conflict in Uttarakhand on a four-day visit to the state from Thursday. Prajna P Panda, national coordinator of Elephant Cell and Muthamizh Selvan, scientist D for Project Elephant will be visiting the state. A letter to the chief wildlife warden from the Union environment ministry in this regard mentioned that the officials will visit “Uttarakhand for matters related to Elephant Reserves in the state and take into account the areas of Uttarakhand affected with human-elephant conflict.” Along with the population of elephants, the man-elephant conflict has also increased in the state. In June this year, according to the elephant census that was conducted earlier this year, the jumbo population in the state had reached 2,026. In 2012, there were 1,559 elephants while in 2017 there were 1,839 elephants in the state. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest division said that five people have died and two have been injured in elephant attacks this year till September. “Human-elephant conflict is on the rise in the state. To study the movement of elephants and tackle conflict, the state forest department has also started radio-collaring elephants in the state, primarily Rajaji Tiger Reserve landscape. As per the records of the state forest department, five people have died due to elephant attacks this year, while 22 elephants have died due to different reasons in the state,” said Suhag. On October 15, a 35-year-old male elephant was successfully radio-collared in Haridwar forest division to monitor its movements ahead of Mahakumbh 2021. In October, the Centre permitted the Uttarakhand government to radio-collar 10 elephants and study their movement. These elephants usually stray into human habitation areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-team-to-take-stock-of-man-elephant-conflict-in-uttarakhand/story-si52wxS9JUBJhizaDhpFwK.html
05-11-2020||India||Kanpur doctors studying Italian model to check possible second wave of Covid-19||Amid the fear of a second wave of Covid-infection in the winter, experts at the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College in Kanpur are studying the Italian model and speaking to experts in that country to prepare better for any eventuality on the coronavirus front.The focus is on containing the mortality rate that Italy largely checked when the second wave hit Europe.As many as 740 people have died in Kanpur due to Covid-19 and related complications in the last four months.Dr Saurabh Agarwal, associate professor in the medicine department, said certain changes were being made in managing the crisis and treatment protocol.“We have consulted experts in Italy and studied how they are handling the second wave,” he said.Dr Aggarwal also said that doctors at the facility would continue to follow ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines but certain changes would be made with regard to taking care of patients.Based on the Italian model, a team consisting of a physician, pulmonary expert, neurologist and a cardiologist would keep monitoring the patients remotely through Zoom and change the treatment plan accordingly.“Use of technology will help in augmenting the watch over the patients. Physical rounds of wards can be (taken) once or more than once. But with technology, we can take Zoom rounds several times in a day,” he said.“We are following ICMR guidelines religiously, yet we will be incorporating our efforts in the treatment plan,” he said. In Kanpur, the maximum number of deaths, 569, has taken place at the government-run Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital which is meant for critical cases. Hence, keeping the mortality rate under control during the possible second wave is a priority.“The Zoom rounds have started from October 30 in the wards. The team of experts gathers the details of patients from doctors in the wards. They do micro level discussion among themselves and plan the treatment,” he said.Apart from this, some changes in treatment have helped in saving the lives of patients.The experiments done with anti-viral dosage and steroids have helped patients with co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-doctors-studying-italian-model-to-check-possible-second-wave-of-covid-19/story-e3NRGgIOCkqtRV6mPvYq3L.html
05-11-2020||India||Second batch of 3 Rafale jets likely to reach Ambala home base today||The second batch of the Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets, which reached the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from France on Wednesday, are likely to fly to their home base in Ambala on Thursday, officials familiar with developments said. The jets landed in Jamnagar last night without a stopover on the way, with refuelling support from Indian and French tankers. The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. Also read | Induction of Rafale, Apache, Chinook will transform IAF, says President KovindThe arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid military tensions with China in the Ladakh theatre, the officials said. The IAF is expecting three to four Rafale jets being delivered every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore. The Rafale fighters are the first imported jets to join the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China. IAF chief air chief marshal RKS Bhadauria last month said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-batch-of-3-rafale-jets-likely-to-reach-ambala-home-base-today/story-qtlymhslJh4YNF9pk6pQEK.html
05-11-2020||India||BSF detects trans-border tunnel in Jammu’s RS Pura||BSF has detected a trans-border tunnel in RS Pura sector in Jammu district, said officials on Thursday.BSF Jammu frontier IG NS jamwal said, “The tunnel is around 170 metres inside the Indian territory and it caved in near Pindi post of the BSF on RS Pura sector.”The tunnel originated from Shaheen and Pasban posts of Pak Rangers, he said. “It appeared that they started digging it during monsoon season and before they could open it in our territory, it collapsed. It was being dug beneath paddy fields and water has inundated it,” said the IG. The tunnel was detected on Wednesday when a portion of paddy filed caved in suddenly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-detects-trans-border-tunnel-in-jammu-s-rs-pura/story-A6aY2AhJaA0W61RiCDl2hP.html
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami spends night at school designated as Alibag jail’s Covid-19 centre||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on Wednesday from his Lower Parel house in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide, spent the night at a local school which has been designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibag prison, an official said on Thursday. This was to complete his quarantine period before being being sent to the main prison. A court at Alibag in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday remanded Goswami and two other accused in judicial custody till November 18 in a 2018 abetment to suicide case.Here is what happened on Wednesday:* A team of Raigad police picked up the 47-year-old journalist from his Lower Parel house in Mumbai on Wednesday morning. He claimed that he was being assaulted by the police.* He was then taken to Alibag, around 90 km from Mumbai, and was produced in a court.* The hearing went on till late night on Wednesday. Police had sought Goswami’s custody for 14 days, but the court held that custodial interrogation was not required.Also Read: Arnab Goswami’s bail plea: What could be the possible scenarios* The other two arrested accused in the case, Feroze Mohammed Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, were also produced in the Alibaug court on Wednesday and remanded to judicial custody till November 18.ALSO WATCH | New case against Arnab Goswami: FIR for resisting cops during arrest * On Wednesday night, Goswami was taken for medical examination at a state-run hospital in the coastal town.* After the medical exam, he was taken to Alibag Nagar Parishad School, which is designated as a Covid-19 centre of the Alibag prison, and he spent the night there.Also Read: Arnab Goswami’s arrest: Court likely to hear Goswami’s bail plea today* The court dismissed Goswami’s complaint that he was assaulted. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police filed a fresh FIR against Goswami, his wife, son and two others for “obstructing, assaulting, verbally abusing and intimidating” a police officer on duty and for tearing up “government papers” (arrest intimation) at his house. The FIR was registered at the N M Joshi Marg police station on Wednesday under sections 353, 504, 506 of IPC and section 3 of the Damage of Public Property Act.What’s next for Arnab Goswami*Arnab Goswami’s bail plea will be heard by the Alibag court.* Goswami had on November 2 filed a petition in the Bombay High Court seeking to quash the FIR in the case. It will be heard by a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik on Thursday.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-spends-night-at-school-designated-as-alibag-jail-s-covid-19-centre/story-GPdtOCGUoWpi13jVtMJs4L.html
05-11-2020||India||India’s annual resolution on counter-terrorism adopted at UNGA||Permanent Representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti on Wednesday announced that India’s annual resolution on the issue of counter-terrorism was co-sponsored by over 75 countries and adopted by consensus in the First Committee of the UN General Assembly.“India at forefront of counter-terrorism. Delighted that the annual resolution tabled by India “Measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction” was co-sponsored by more than 75 countries and adopted today by consensus in First Committee of UN General Assembly,” Tirumurti wrote on Twitter. India, a victim of state-sponsored cross-border terrorism, has been at the forefront in highlighting the serious threat to international peace and security emanating from acquisition of weapons of mass destruction by terrorist groups.Through its annual resolution ‘Measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction’, India has urged greater international co-operation to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems.This resolution, which was co-sponsored by more than 75 countries, has been adopted by consensus without a vote.India’s call for strengthening national measures to address this issue at the General Assembly also predates the adoption of resolution 1540 by the Security Council, which obliges all states to refrain from supporting by any means non-State actors from developing, acquiring, manufacturing, possessing, transporting, transferring or using nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-annual-resolution-on-counter-terrorism-adopted-at-unga/story-8QjkSdN9bGHnW7r0t2kRjK.html
05-11-2020||India||Manipur student body’s proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh deferred again||Manipur-based All Tribal Students’ Union (ATSUM)’s proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh and ban on construction works of national projects in Manipur, which was scheduled to commence from November 5, has been deferred again following an agreement with the government during a meeting, sources said on Thursday.The meeting, which was held at chief minister’s secretariat in Imphal on Wednesday, was attended by chief minister N Biren along with tribal affairs and hills minister Vungzagin Valte, public health engineering minister L Dikho, forest and environment minister Awangbow Newmai, MLA Ginsuanhau, additional chief secretary, and director of tribal affairs and hills, and representatives of ATSUM led by its president.“The students’ body agreed to defer their proposed agitation on the chief minister’s assurance that their demand for ADC (Autonomous District Council) elections and also for no further extension of the current ADC term shall be considered in the next Cabinet meeting after the bypolls,” a source in Imphal said.Also read | Manipur issues new Covid-19 guidelinesThe by-elections to four Assembly Constituencies are scheduled to be held on November 7.ATSUM has been demanding that elections to six ADCs in hill districts be held in November as terms of the current ADCs expired in May this year.However, the state government extended the terms for six months, citing difficulty in holding the elections during the rainy season among other reasons. Manipur has six ADCs-Churachandpur, Chandel, Sadar Hills,Senapati,Tamenglong and Ukhrul.ATSUM has, however, warned that the agitation may resume if the state government fails to keep its word. Much will also depend on the outcome of the joint meeting of ATSUM and its federating units to be held on November 12, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-student-body-s-proposed-48-hour-inter-state-bandh-deferred-again/story-A4hcG2Qs3pIdfdhL0yvC6J.html
05-11-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, trangenders will soon get right to parental property||Promotion of mass marriages for transgenders, legal aid for rights to parental property, financial assistance for sex reassignment surgeries and law to punish those who call transgenders by offensive names are key aspects of the Madhya Pradesh government’s transgender policy that comes into force by the end of November, officials said. “With implementation of Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020, introduced by the Centre in July 2020, the social justice department of MP government will ensure societal change. Soon after election results, the policy will be brought before the cabinet,” said Prateek Hajela, principal secretary, social justice department. Hajela said the policy has both short and long term goals.“In the short term, we will provide them employment in government offices and will sensitize officials including police personnel and health workers about them. In the long term, we plan to give different legal rights to them,” Hajela said.One stop centers, pension for persons of above age 55 years, shelter homes and old-age homes are some other provisions of the proposed policy, he said. According to the policy document, for transgenders to have family, mass marriages would be organised and amendments would be made in law to allow them to adopt a child as a single parent.“Financial assistance for sex reassignment surgeries in selected government hospitals/medical colleges will be provided to the TG community. To prevent atrocities including trafficking & those related to acceptance, helpline and rehabilitation centre will be started,” the document said. Social justice department minister Prem Singh Patel said, “We are keen to introduce the policy and transgender welfare board to give equal rights to the members of the community.” “Social justice department will be the nodal agency for the implementation of the policy but 17 other departments including home, law, women and child development and health department will also be part of it,” the minister said. Transgender activist, Sanjana Singh said all government departments should ensure the implementation of the policy, “All the stakeholders had been invited to give suggestions for the policy. I am happy that the policy makers took care of every small aspect of our life. But all the departments should ensure the implementation of policy,” Singh said.The transgender justice welfare board will monitor the overall implementation of the policy in the state.The policy is the result of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act that came into force in December 2019.Under sub section 2(k), the Act defines “transgender persons” as a person whose gender does not match with the gender assigned to that person at birth and includes trans-man or trans-woman (whether or not such person has undergone Sex Reassignment Surgery or hormone therapy or laser therapy or such other therapy), person with intersex variations, genderqueer and person having such socio-cultural identities as kinner, hijra, arravani and jogta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-trangenders-will-soon-get-right-to-parental-property/story-46MZnPpIrnul7zu5xOz0UN.html
05-11-2020||India||Bengaluru drug case: Major drama unfolds outside Bineesh Kodiyeri’s house in Kerala as ED raid continues for over 24 hours||On Thursday morning, relatives of actor Bineesh Kodiyeri - son of the state secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Kodiyeri Balakrishnan - staged a dharna in front of his Thiruvananthapuram residence claiming that his wife and kids have been detained by ED officials. ED sources, however, said they refused to sign the list documents and materials seized from the house.State children’s commission chairman reached his residence on Thursday morning but was denied permission to meet Kodiyeri’s wife and children. A joint team of ED and Income Tax searched the house of Kodiyeri and business establishments of his friends and partners simultaneously probing the money laundering case related to Bengaluru drug haul.Arrested on October 29, Kodiyeri is under the ED custody in Bengaluru. He landed in trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), saying that Kodiyeri had helped him a lot in his “business venture”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-drug-case-major-drama-unfolds-outside-bineesh-kodiyeri-s-house-in-kerala-as-ed-raid-continues-for-over-24-hours/story-WxKX5vZHUp6TNaA11a64mI.html
05-11-2020||India||Year after PM Modi’s meditation in Rudra cave, Uttarakhand builds 3 caves in Kedarnath||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday announced that construction of three meditation caves in Kedarnath area has been completed and they would be handed over to Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) by November 11.This decision was announced during a review meeting of Kedarnath and Badrinath development and reconstruction works held under the chairmanship of chief secretary Om Prakash on Wednesday, officials said. The decision to construct meditation caves in the Kedarnath area was taken following the popularity of the first meditation cave that was opened during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit in May last year. Modi had visited Rudra meditation cave in Kedarnath and spent a day meditating at the cave, nearly a kilometre from the Kedarnath shrine. Following the PM’s visit, many people from across the country booked the cave for meditation.Last year, Uttarakhand recorded the highest ever annual tourist traffic to Char Dham of over 32 lakh during the six months of the yatra season. “Prime Minister Modi, after visiting Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines, gave the message of clean and safe Char Dham Yatra, which brought a large number of pilgrims here,” chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said in a tweet.Modi has been keenly following the progress of the development works and reconstruction works in Kedarnath and Badrinath areas. In June and July this year, he reviewed the progress through video-conferencing. During the review meeting in June, Modi had asked the state government to make a masterplan for the Badrinath Dham for the next 100 years. In September masterplan for Badrinath shrine was presented to him through video-conferencing by the chief minister. The PM was apprised that Badrinath masterplan would be implemented in an area of around 85 hectares and care had been taken to prepare it keeping in mind the hilly terrain of the area. Against this backdrop, the state government is trying its best to complete the development and reconstruction works at the earliest. . During the review meeting on Wednesday, secretary public works department (PWD) RK Sudhanshu said that heavy equipment has been airlifted to Kedarnath area which will be reassembled there by November 17. He also said the construction of three meditation caves has been completed.Chief secretary Om Prakash said the management of the three meditation caves would be handed over to GMVN by November 11. The chief secretary also directed officials that all development and reconstruction works in Badrinath-Kedarnath area be completed in time and special emphasis be laid on the quality of the work. He also said that the construction of 50 prefabricated shops near Kedarnath helipad had been completed. He also directed the officials to start a survey at the earliest for the development works to be taken up at Badrinath, and said a time frame should be set for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-after-pm-modi-s-meditation-in-rudra-cave-uttarakhand-builds-3-caves-in-kedarnath/story-8Oz8LOijZJvVEmJAg1cV1M.html
05-11-2020||India||CBI detains former Congress minister in Karnataka in murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which probing a 2016 murder of a BJP Zilla Panchayat member Yogesh Gowda detained senior Congress leader and former minister in Siddaramaiah’s cabinet Vinay Kulkarni on Thursday, officials said. He was detained from his residence at Barakotri in Dharwad district of Karnataka by a six member CBI team led by officer Rakesh Ranjan.Kulkarni was taken to the Dharwad suburban police station for questioning. On June 15, 2016, Yogesh Gowda a vocal critic of Kulkarni had been hacked to death by five miscreants at Saptapur in Dharwad while he was in a gym. The CCTV installed on premises had captured the entire act. The five miscreants were identified as close associates of Kulkarni who was then a minister. Gowda was allegedly murdered over a property dispute. The BJP had raised a hue and cry over the murder handed over the case to CBI in September last year after coming back to power in the state. In March this year six people were arrested in connection with the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-detains-former-congress-minister-in-karnataka-in-murder-case/story-SDUOnLZrinDTUtEJngnB8K.html
05-11-2020||India||India seeks expeditious extradition of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi from UK||India has strongly underlined its interest in the expeditious extradition of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya, who has completed all the legal processes related to extradition from the UK, during talks between Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in London.On the last leg of his three-nation Europe tour, Shringla has been holding discussions in London with several UK ministers and officials and during his interactions with Patel and UK Foreign Office Minister for South Asia, Lord Tariq Ahmad, on Tuesday, the issue of economic offenders being extradited to face the Indian judicial system was among the issues raised.Also Read: Extradition ‘stalled’; Vijay Mallya seeks asylum?“We strongly underlined our interest in seeing the early, expeditious extradition of Vijay Mallya, who is an economic offender who has completed all extradition procedures in the UK. We would like him to return to India as soon as possible,” said Shringla.“Also, Nirav Modi. I raised this with both Lord Ahmad and the Home Secretary, and both took very careful note of our priority and sentiments in that regard,” he said.Mallya, wanted in India over fraud and money laundering charges in relation to loans taken out by his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines from state-owned Indian banks, has been found to have a case to answer in India by the UK courts. He is currently on bail, undergoing a “confidential” legal issue before Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition order. On the other hand, Nirav Modi, the fugitive diamond merchant accused of fraud and money laundering in relation to the state-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB), is currently lodged in Wandsworth Prison in London as he fights his extradition to India at Westminster Magistrates’ Court.Shringla arrived in London following visits to Paris and Berlin on Tuesday and has held a series of meetings to cover a wide range of issues, including the India-UK vaccine partnership in a post-coronavirus world and climate change as well as highlighting India’s outlook on the growing importance of the Indo-Pacific region.Also Read: How can govt claim it has no info on Mallya extradition?: Shiv SenaOn India-UK bilateral ties, the Foreign Secretary noted the backdrop of Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU) paving the way for a reset in the relationship – both with the UK and the EU.“We are looking at early harvest deals, which would bring benefits to both our countries, followed by a more detailed, either preferential trade agreement or a free trade agreement,” said Shringla.“Obviously, a limited deal means we work on those areas on which both sides can immediately agree to. We need more time to conclude a more comprehensive trade agreement but our ministers are in touch and will work on trying to close such a deal,” he said.“We are also looking at a similar deal at the EU level, but bilateral agreement is always different from an agreement with a group,” he added.The Indian High Commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, highlighted the five priority areas of food and drink, life sciences, information and communications technology (ICT), chemicals and services that have been narrowed down by both sides, with Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and UK International Trade Secretary Liz Truss set to take stock of the level of movement in these areas during talks scheduled for November 9.Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and Prime Minister Boris Johnson are among the high-level visits from the UK to India scheduled for 2021, depending on the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown situation. Foreign Secretary Shringla noted that with the UK currently undertaking an Integrated Review of its policy framework, the Indo-Pacific region is expected to play a key part in the “transformational relationship” that Raab has previously made reference to vis-à-vis India.“We believe in the vision of free, open, transparent and inclusive Indo-Pacific stakeholders; we believe in multi-polarity. The framework is there in France and Germany and we see it in the UK also, though it is yet to be articulated in policy framework. It (the Indo-Pacific) has become more significant, relevant and topical,” said Shringla.Besides his ministerial-level and official talks, the foreign secretary also conducted a host of discussions with leading business chiefs and CEOs and is scheduled to interact with representatives of the Indian diaspora later on Wednesday before he heads back to India at the end of his European tour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-expeditious-extradition-of-vijay-mallya-nirav-modi-from-uk/story-qTe16rSVEq9ekNxlSp599M.html
05-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count again crosses 50,000-mark, active cases remain below 5 lakh||In a departure from the recent trend which saw India’s daily infections falling below 50,000, the country in the last 24 hours registered 50,210 fresh cases, health ministry data on Thursday revealed. On Wednesday, 46,253 fresh cases were registered and on Tuesday, the number was 38,310. The rise in the number of daily infections indicates that the spread of the infection is unabated amid the festive season, but as the number of recoveries is going up, the number of active cases remain under 5 lakh. At present, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is 5,27,962 which is lower than Wednesday’s number of active cases 5,33,787. Though over 50,000 new cases have been added in the last 24 hours, over 55,000 people have been discharged as well. A total of 704 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours. The total tally now stands at 83,64,086.The number of new infections reported in the last 24 hours registers an 8.5 per cent jump from Wednesday’s figures and a 31 per cent jump in comparison with Tuesday’s figures — lowest in the recent past.Health ministry data has revealed that 16 states and Union territories have cases per million lower than national average. The national average of cases per million is 6,025. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Nagaland, Punjab, Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Assam have lower cases per million.According to Wednesday’s data, Kerala, Delhi, Maharashtra and West Bengal are reporting the maximum number of new Covid-19 cases.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 6,842 new cases — its highest ever daily number. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has admitted that a third wave of infections has hit the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-again-crosses-50-000-mark-active-cases-remain-below-5-lakh/story-uHZ0jOpJ1FuWYvKPKHJlKO.html
05-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan reviews situation in Karnataka||Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan reviewed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Karnataka, which is one of the high disease burden states with 835,773 cases and 11,281 deaths reported so far.Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday held a meeting through video conferencing to review Covid-19 preparedness and measures for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour with K.Sudhakar, health and medical education minister, Karnataka, and other senior officials of the State government.Also read | No unusual national Covid-19 surge in 1st phase of festivals, says VK Paul“We will soon be completing a journey of 10 months in fighting Corona. The country is witnessing substantial improvements in Covid-19 parameters. The number of cases and deaths are in a declining phase. The active cases have been substantially reduced. The Recovery Rate of India has surpassed 92% today. The Case Fatality Rate is also declining and stands at 1.49%. With over 2,000 labs, the testing capacity has also increased,” said the minister.Comparing the Covid-19 trajectory of Karnataka with that of the country, the minister also said, “Karnataka has the second highest cumulative cases after Maharashtra. It has a Recovery Rate of 93% which is more than the national recovery rate. The case fatality rate (1.35%) is also lower than the national average.”Some of the worst affected districts in the state, where positive cases are increasing and the fatality rate is showing a rising trend, are Urban Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bellari, Dakshin Kannada, Hassan and Belagavi.The health authorities of the state told the minister that they were following 4Ts of tracing, testing, treatment and technology to tackle the outbreak. Testing has been increased from 10,000 per day in June to over 80,000 per day now. Testing facilities have been made available in all the medical colleges in the state. This has increased testing capacities manifold. At least 8 million tests have been done in the state so far. The state authorities stated that 80% of the tests done are by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR). The state has also reduced the active cases by 37% between October 25 and November 1. Random pool testing and targeted testing has been done to ensure early containment and appropriate treatment. Containment strategies were adopted in the urban areas. Education activities have been given significant boost in the state and a separate fund is allocated for this purpose. “The state needs to engage aggressively with all the stakeholders in those districts which have fatality rate higher than the national average,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-harsh-vardhan-reviews-situation-in-karnataka/story-uj1BMZdZLzbd5V5PJIx3UK.html
05-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: With AQI at 452, Delhi wakes up to severe air pollution and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi wakes up to severe air pollution, AQI at 452Delhi’s air quality has rapidly worsened to “severe” on the air quality index (AQI) on Thursday morning, as residents woke up to an AQI of 452. Read more No unusual national Covid-19 surge in 1st phase of festivals: VK PaulThere has been no unusual surge in Covid-19 cases over the past couple of weeks, contrary to what was feared before the start of the festive season, says Dr VK Paul, member (health) Niti Aayog, while warning that there’s still a week before the actual impact could be felt. Read more Supreme Court refuses to restrain 12 Madhya Pradesh rebel Congress MLAs from ministershipA Madhya Pradesh Congress legislator’s plea in the Supreme Court to restrain 12 defected Congress lawmakers to continue as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government was rendered infructuous on Wednesday, after the recent by-elections to 28 seats allowed these MLAs to contest afresh. Read more Services sector expands for the first time since Covid-19 hitIndia’s services sector expanded for the first time in eight months in October as shopping malls and restaurants reopened following the lifting of lockdown curbs, in yet another indicator of a recovery underway in Asia’s third-largest economy. Read moreKareena Kapoor joins Tara Sutaria, Aadar Jain for epic Kapoor family pics after Karwa Chauth dinnerKareena Kapoor joined cousin Riddhima Kapoor Sahni, Armaan Jain and his wife Anissa, Aadar Jain and his girlfriend Tara Sutaria, Randhir Kapoor, Neetu Kapoor, Nitasha Nanda, Manoj Jain and Rima Jain as the family celebrated Karwa Chauth with a dinner. Read moreHappy Birthday Virat Kohli: Five knocks that have shaped India captain’s legacyOver the last decade, no one batsman has climbed higher or gained more reputation than Virat Kohli, the current captain of the Indian team. Since his debut in 2008, Kohli has stamped his authority to be regarded as one of, if not the best, batsmen of the contemporary era. Read moreNASA shares post on sungrazing comet captured by Parker Solar Probe for the first timeThe Sun has been an object of mystery and fascination for people for ages. With advancement in technology, now it’s possible for scientists to unveil a bit of that enigma. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-with-aqi-at-452-delhi-wakes-up-to-severe-air-pollution-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aBt41xOtYgrQ0aQBoiMrWO.html
05-11-2020||India||Mamata takes a dig at Amit Shah ahead of his rallies in Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday took a veiled dig at Union home minister Amit Shah as he is scheduled to have lunch with a Matua Dalit family near Kolkata on Friday during his two-day visit to the state.“For the last 20-25 years, till the time Boroma [elder mother of Matua community] was alive, I used to take care of her. I used to admit her to the hospital. I was the first to visit the Matuas and started developing the area. Some people are new and trying to parachute. They will not know...” said Banerjee.The All India Matua Mahasangha hosted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas district before the 2019 national polls.Also read | EC sets the ball rolling for Bengal polls in 2021; calls all-party meetingShah arrived in Kolkata on Wednesday evening. “I will be reaching West Bengal today [Wednesday] for a two-day visit. I am eager to interact with BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] karyakartas [workers], the people of Bengal, media persons and people from various communities,” Shah tweeted before his arrival.Top BJP leaders, workers, and supporters showered flower petals and blew conch shells to welcome Shah as he arrived in Kolkata.Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 election in which the BJP won 18 out of the state’s 42 parliamentary seats, the party is now hoping to replicate the performance in the 2021 West Bengal assembly.Shah is scheduled to address rallies in Bankura and Kolkata on Thursday and Friday. He will visit the Dakhsineswar Temple and meet Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty.“He would have lunch with an adivasi family in Bankura and a Matua family near Kolkata. He is scheduled to fly back to Delhi on Friday evening,” said a BJP leader.The Matua community has a presence across at least 70 out of 294 assembly seats in the state. The community is the deciding factor in five seats. In the 2019 elections, the Matuas supported the BJP. BJP’s Shantanu Thakur, a Matua, defeated his aunt, ruling Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Bala Thakur, from Bongaon.Banerjee said Matuas account for around 16% of the state’s population and are not confined to Bongaon in North 24 Parganas district alone. “[They] are spread across the state. We plan to set up a Matua Development Board. I have also allocated a budget of Rs 10 crore,” Banerjee said while sanctioning an ambulance for Matua people in Nadia district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-takes-a-dig-at-amit-shah-ahead-of-his-rallies-in-bengal/story-YO4FmqglnOzKhVVafPwo2J.html
05-11-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan bans sale and use of Chinese firecrackers in MP||Ahead of Diwali, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday banned the sale and use of Chinese firecrackers in the state and warned of strict action for violating the ban.“If anyone is found to be involved in selling and use of ban crackers, punitive action will be taken under the relevant section of the Explosives Act” Chouhan said at a meeting with home department officers and director general of police (DGP). “There is a provision of two years punishment for storage, distribution, sale and use of illegal firecrackers under the Section 9-B (1) (B) of the Explosives Act,” said Rajesh Rajoura, additional chief secretary home department. Shortly after the meeting, the Home department issued the order banning Chinese firecrackers.“The import of Chinese or (other) foreign firecrackers has been made completely illegal without a license. The Director General, Foreign Trade (DGFT) has informed that no license has been issued for the import of foreign or Chinese firecrackers. Hence, storage, transport and sale of such products are completely banned,” said Rajoura. The chief minister also appealed to people of the state to buy local products like earthen lamps during Diwali in order to boost employment of local potters. Chouhan also said that love jihad and conversion for marriage in any form will not be acceptable in the state. “It is completely illegal and unlawful. A law will be made against this in the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-bans-sale-and-use-of-chinese-firecrackers-in-mp/story-Io3N1SNKldC9NjYsoUxE6N.html
05-11-2020||India||JP Nadda calls meeting of BJP general secretaries on Nov 8||President Jagat Prakash Nadda has called a meeting of party general secretaries on November 8.The issues that would be discussed in the meeting are not yet known.In September, Nadda had announced his new team of office-bearers that saw some major inclusions such as Ram Madhav, P Muralidhar Rao, Saroj Pande, and Anil Jain being replaced as general secretaries. The team of general secretaries plays a key role in the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-calls-meeting-of-bjp-general-secretaries-on-nov-8/story-IM5cC6A0ybz4q2qEDeqNQP.html
05-11-2020||India||SIT report points to nexus between slain gangster Vikas Dubey and cops||The report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the ambush of policemen in Kanpur case pointed to a nexus between slain gangster Vikas Dubey and some police personnel as well as other government servants, Uttar Pradesh home department officials familiar with the development said.The report was submitted to the state government on Wednesday, they said.Eight police personnel were killed in the ambush during a raid on Dubey’s house at Bikru village in Kanpur district on July 3.The officials said the SIT findings further confirmed that some police personnel had leaked information of the police department to Vikas Dubey, who was eventually gunned down by UP Special Task Force (STF) on July 10 when he allegedly tried to escape from custody after a road accident.The three-member SIT was headed by senior IAS officer Sanjay Bhoosreddy and its two other members were additional director general of police Hari Ram Sharma and deputy inspector general of police J Ravinder Goud.The state government formed the SIT on July 11 to probe the ambush case and initially gave it three weeks to wrap up the investigation. The deadline was extended later.A senior official privy to the investigation said SIT submitted its findings related to nine aspects of the ambush case. He said the report mainly contained findings about the background of the incident, negligence in criminal cases against Dubey and his gang members in the past few years. He said it also included the findings related to the alleged links of policemen as well as other government servants with Dubey, besides intelligence failure about the firepower possessed by his gang.“The other aspects included police failure in getting Dubey and his men convicted in court, negligence of police personnel posted at Kanpur’s Chaubeypur police station and supervisory police officers in relation to complaints against Dubey and his gang members,” he said.“The SIT analysed Dubey’s cell phone records of the last 12 months to find out which policemen were in regular touch with him, and it has recommended action against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-report-points-to-nexus-between-slain-gangster-vikas-dubey-and-cops/story-ePfq7lyEbBNOXzXUgazO4I.html
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami’s arrest: Court likely to hear Goswami’s bail plea today||A day after the Alibag court sent Republic Television editor-in-chief to judicial custody of 14 days till November 18, the Bombay high court is likely to hear Arnab Goswami’s plea against his arrest on Thursday. His lawyers Aabad Ponda and Gaurav Parkar said that they moved a plea with the Alibag court after it sent the 47-year-old journalist to 14 day’s judicial custody on Wednesday night. This plea is also likely to be heard on Thursday. “The court asked the police to file their reply and posted it for hearing tomorrow,” advocate Ponda said.On Wednesday morning, Goswami was arrested from his Mumbai residence in connection to a case of abetment to suicide. Later in the day, he was produced before the Alibag district magistrate court along with Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Darda — the other two accused — in the suicide case of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik.Goswami has been booked under section 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The Mumbai police on Wednesday registered an FIR against Goswami, his wife, son and two others for “obstructing, assaulting, verbally abusing and intimidating” a police officer on duty and for tearing up “government papers” (arrest intimation) at his house, an official said. The FIR was registered at the N M Joshi Marg police station under sections 353, 504, 506 of IPC and section 3 of the Damage of Public Property Act, the official said.The arrest of Arnab Goswami evokes strong reaction from Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad and journalist bodies. Supreme Court lawyer Siddharth Acharya has filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission against Mumbai Police and Raigad Police for “unjustly and illegally manhandling, assaulting and arresting Mr Arnab Goswamu from his residence in Mumbai”, Livelaw reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-court-likely-to-hear-goswami-s-bail-plea-today/story-00iiBelCoGf4WeSnBBIgzH.html
05-11-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses to restrain 12 Madhya Pradesh rebel Congress MLAs from ministership||A Madhya Pradesh Congress legislator’s plea in the Supreme Court to restrain 12 defected Congress lawmakers to continue as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government was rendered infructuous on Wednesday, after the recent by-elections to 28 seats allowed these MLAs to contest afresh on BJP ticket.A three-judge bench led by CJI SA Bobde dismissed the petition filed by Vinay Saxena, an MLA of the Indian National Congress (INC) from Jabalpur (North) constituency. The petition was filed in March, at a time when the disqualification petitions against 22 rebel Congress MLAs (including the 12 legislators in question) was pending action with the Speaker of the Madhya Pradesh assembly.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Saxena, informed the court that it was unfortunate that despite the petition being filed in March, delay in hearing rendered it infructuous. “Those who ought to have been disqualified, no action has been taken even as matters are languishing in courts against their disqualification,” Sibal said. This was not the lone case, he added, pointing to similar pleas languishing in the apex court against defected legislators in Goa, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.Twenty-two Congress MLAs who switched sides to join the BJP led to the downfall of the Kamal Nath government in the state in March. “Time is sought by both sides. Even you ask for adjournment,” CJI Bobde remarked, pointing to Sibal. Bye-elections to 28 vacant seats in the state were held on November 3, the results of which will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-restrain-12-madhya-pradesh-rebel-congress-mlas-from-ministership/story-4uz6T8LEOcIzHcwP4gvpEK.html
05-11-2020||India||Supreme Court lays down maintenance rules||The Supreme Court in a judgment on Wednesday ruled that wives and minor children will now be able to receive maintenance from the date of filing an application for maintenance, ensuring uniformity of grant of maintenance available under various legislations as well as filling a lacunae that existed in the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) as well as Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA) which did not specify when maintenance order would be enforceable.A bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and R Subhash Reddy said directions are required to be passed to overcome the issue of overlapping jurisdiction and avoid conflicting orders. The need for uniformity in this aspect was noted by the SC to help serve the interests of women fighting protracted legal battles for divorce, custody and maintenance with no financial means to secure their litigation expenses.To ensure such a situation does not play to the disadvantage of women, the bench said, “Financial constraints of a dependant spouse hampers their capacity to be effectively represented before the Court. In order to prevent a dependant from being reduced to destitution, it is necessary that maintenance is awarded from the date on which the application for maintenance is filed before the concerned Court.”The Court directed a copy of its judgment to be communicated to all High Courts and District Courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-lays-down-maintenance-rules/story-I8GaXEYYzFv5SOHXFSPcIN.html
05-11-2020||India||Devas-antrix case: Supreme Court stay on US court order of $1.2 billion payoff||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the execution of an arbitral award that required the Indian Space Research Organisation’s commercial arm, Antrix Corporation, to pay compensation of about $1.2 billion to a Bengaluru-based startup, Devas Multimedia Private Limited, over cancelling of a 2005 agreement A federal court in Washington had on October 27 ordered execution of the award dated September 14, 2015 in favour of Devas Multimedia and asked the Indian government entity to deposit the compensation with 18% annual interest that worked out to $1.2 billion.Under the deal signed in January 2005, Antrix had agreed to build, launch and operate two satellites and to provide 70 MHz of S-band spectrum to Devas by which the private company would offer hybrid satellite and terrestrial communication services throughout India. Antrix terminated the deal in February 2011. The dispute between Antrix and Devas has been pending consideration before the SC since 2018. Attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing for Antrix Corporation, and solicitor general Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, moved separate applications in the top court to keep the award in abeyance. Venugopal said: “This stay is still in operation and it ties my hands. Till the matter is settled between the parties on whether the proceeding under Section 34 of Arbitration Act will lie in Delhi or Bengaluru, Devas has invoked the jurisdiction of the US court to enforce the award. We have to obtain a stay against the said award.” A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said: “It is highly iniquitous to execute the award without objections under Section 34 to the award are dealt with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dvas-antrix-case-supreme-court-stay-on-us-court-order-of-1-2-billion-payoff/story-AwWmazryAt6NDwkGFQ0ErN.html
05-11-2020||India||No unusual national Covid-19 surge in 1st phase of festivals: VK Paul||There has been no unusual surge in Covid-19 cases over the past couple of weeks, contrary to what was feared before the start of the festive season, says Dr VK Paul, member (health) Niti Aayog, while warning that there’s still a week before the actual impact could be felt. “First stage of festivities is over and the data that is before us tells us that people have shown a lot of restrain. Having said that there is still some time before the total impact could be seen related to disease transmission during Navratri, Puja and Dussehra. The government is closely watching the situation as it takes 10 to 14 days for the cases to get reported,” said Paul.The festive season has not ended yet and more festivals such as Diwali, Christmas etc. are coming up; which is why it is important not to drop our guard and adhere more strictly to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he added. Experts say mask provides the ultimate protection, and wearing a mask must be strictly adhered to. “Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is most cost-effective. The cost of a mask is miniscule; same goes for washing hands and maintaining physical distance, which is also the most cost-effective measure,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients also echoed similar views. “These three— winters, pollution and ongoing festivities, together is a killer combination for the spread of Covid-19. Coming weeks will pose a huge challenge and the only way to prevent the disease from spreading is by taking maximum precautions,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, all India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-unusual-national-covid-19-surge-in-1st-phase-of-festivals-vk-paul/story-OTg88iMU60lDITrREjiIZJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Central forces may be posted at border between Assam, Mizoram||Central security forces could soon be deployed along the Assam-Mizoram border to ease tension between the two sides, Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua said on Wednesday. Areas along the 164 km border have been tense since last month over incidents of violence in which people from both sides have been injured. According to Assam, security personnel from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory, while the latter maintains that the area belongs to it. “Government of India has indicated that some forces would be made available... I think there will be peace on both sides when the forces come,” Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-forces-may-be-posted-at-border-between-assam-mizoram/story-USGFioUFDZ6PQ3FAtOxS3O.html
05-11-2020||India||Centre sets up committee to review TV ratings system||The Centre has set up a four-member committee to review the television ratings system and make “recommendations for a robust, transparent and accountable” system , the information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry said in a statement on Wednesday.  The Centre’s decision comes amid an ongoing investigation into allegations of Television Rating Points (TRPs) manipulation by a few TV news channels. In October, the parliamentary panel on Information Technology chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor noted that TRPs “can be easily manipulated”. The committee consists of Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi V Vempatti, Dr Shailabh from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay from the Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT) and professor Pulak Ghosh from the Centre for Public Policy, the statement said. It has to submit its report in two months.The four-member committee will analyse the suggestions made by various forums on the subject of television ratings systems in India and recommendations made by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and also review present guidelines to see if they have met the test of time and needs of the stakeholders, the ministry said. “Based on the operation of the guidelines for a few years, there is a need to have a fresh look on the guidelines… keeping in view the recent recommendations of TRAI, technological advancements/interventions to address the system ad further straighten the procedures for a credible and transparent ratings system,” the ministry said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-committee-to-review-tv-ratings-system/story-SNWEBEccYQpXnmLAE4ruaL.html
05-11-2020||India||Kerala govt withdraws general consent to CBI||The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Kerala on Wednesday revoked the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe cases on the state’s territory, following the example of five other non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-governed states.The move means the CBI will now require permission of the Kerala government to conduct any future investigation in the state. Last month, the Maharashtra government withdrew general consent to the agency. After consent given under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act is withdrawn, the CBI can’t file fresh first information reports (FIRs) related to entities in the states, but it will not affect ongoing investigations, according to legal experts.Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chattisgarh and Rajasthan have also red-flagged the CBI, which the parties that rule these states allege is being used by the BJP-led government at the Centre to hound their administrations. In Kerala, the move comes in the backdrop of central agencies making visits to the state in connection with a gold smuggling case and a drug haul in Bengaluru. But the immediate trigger was the way the central agency registered a case of alleged financial irregularities in the state’s project to build free houses for the homeless, called Life Mission, without informing the Kerala government. “We will not allow a free run of central agencies. Many states have already complained that the CBI was interfering in issues where it has no jurisdiction. It also started questioning policy decisions of the government. We will not allow this to happen,” said state law minister AK Balan. Last month, the government was forced to rush to the high court to quash a CBI probe of Life Mission and secured a two-month stay. The Congress and BJP criticised the state’s decision, saying the government was scared and wanted to save people who may have received kickbacks in the Life Mission project. CBI officials refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-withdraws-general-consent-to-cbi/story-wmHEoPIC87dBjUMqLjZ1sM.html
05-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Photographs of crowded election rallies in Bihar (the last stage of polling is on Saturday) have caused concern in some quarters about a spike in coronavirus disease cases in the state.Such concern is misplaced.According to the HT dashboard, Bihar had a mere 7,001 active cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday night. On Tuesday, the state registered just 846 cases from the 143,642 tests it carried out. That translates to a positivity rate of 0.6%. The cumulative positivity rate of the state is 1.9% (it carried out 11.33 million tests till Tuesday evening and registered 218,964 cases). And it has a case fatality rate of 0.5%.These are numbers of which Germany, a country widely acknowledged with managing the pandemic well — largely on the strength of aggressive testing and its legacy investments in hospital infrastructure — would be proud (Bihar’s numbers are a lot better than Germany’s, you see).THE BIHAR EXAMPLE Photographs of crowded election rallies in Bihar have caused concern about a spike in Covid-19 cases, but such concern is misplaced. Bihar has a cumulative positivity rate of 1.9% and a case fatality rate of 0.5%. These are numbers of which Germany -- a country widely acknowledged with managing the pandemic well -- would be proud, and Bihar’s numbers are even better. Bihar’s population, at 125 million, is around 50% higher than Germany’s 83 million. It is also 25 times New Zealand’s population. That island country’s cumulative positivity rate is 0.17%.I’ve written previously about the mystery of Uttar Pradesh’s numbers, and how this is similar to the mystery of Africa’s (which has also seen disproportionately few cases and fewer deaths than most parts of the world).It’s a mystery that’s led to some interesting hypotheses, such as this: “The mortality due to Covid-19 in different nations is associated with the demographic character of nations and the prevalence of autoimmunity.” That’s a paper by Bithika Chatterjee, Rajeeva Laxman Karandikar and Shekhar C Mande, published on the pre-print server medRxiv. The authors are from CSIR, National Centre for Cell Sciences, and Chennai Mathematical Institute. The paper, published in mid-October and not peer reviewed yet, suggests that the reason for this mystery could be the so-called “hygiene hypothesis”.“The hypothesis postulates that exposure to pathogens early in life protects people from allergic diseases later in their lives. Moreover, improvement in hygiene practices such as better sanitation, availability of safe drinking water, hand washing facilities etc. reduces the impact of communicable diseases. On the contrary, such a reduction to the exposure to infectious agents might be related to higher prevalence of autoimmune disorders,” the authors write. A POSSIBLE ANSWER?Some areas show disproportionately few cases and fewer deaths than most parts of the world. A paper suggests that the reason for this mystery could be the so-called “hygiene hypothesis” – which means that “exposure to pathogens early in life protects people from allergic diseases later in their lives” and on the contrary, “reduction to the exposure… might be related to higher prevalence of autoimmune disorders”. They picked “GDP, HDI, prevalence of various diseases, demographic parameters, various sanitation parameters”, demographic data, the administration of the BCG vaccine, and measured the correlation between these and the case fatality rate to prove their hypothesis. With the old caveat that correlation doesn’t mean causation, I believe this is an interesting study that merits further exploration, including field studies (the authors based their paper on secondary research using published data).It is surprising that India’s federal health ministry or the Indian Council of Medical Research have not thought the achievements of Bihar and UP in managing the pandemic worthy of closer study. After all, why look to Germany or New Zealand as benchmarks when you have local ones (that you can be vocal about).Both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh predominantly use rapid antigen tests, which are unreliable. A New York Times report said on November 2 that one popular rapid antigen test (Sofia, made by Quidel) identified only “32% of positive cases identified by the” more accurate reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR test). Other studies have shown that rapid antigen tests miss around half the positive cases (although some companies, including Abbott Laboratories, have launched what they claim are accurate rapid antigen tests). But the numbers in these states are far too low, even if one were to account for the use of such tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-i35lRUbtaTqNRX5d3SEjWK.html
05-11-2020||India||10k genetic markers key to a person’s height||Approximately 10,000 genetic markers may together hold the key to why some people are tall and others aren’t, according to the study of genomic data of over 4 million people by a team of researchers in Australia. The study says it has found markers that could explain close to 80% of variations in height, the most that can be attributed yet. This is in line with studies among identical twins that previously have projected that up to 80% of variation behind a person’s height could just be genes.“This is a genuine landmark,” Daniel MacArthur of the Garvan Institute of Medical Research in Australia told Science Mag, which first reported about the study. The report adds that the findings could open the door to new understanding that could eventually lead to personalised medicines.The analysis is based on a genomic study of 4.1 million individuals of European ancestries. Selecting a particular geographic ancestry enables the researchers to rule out the influence of nutrition and other environmental factors (such as exposure to different diseases) that may also play a role. Such study, termed a genomewide association study (GWAS), involves the mapping of genetic markers with different traits and diseases, and ultimately helps scientists zero in on sets of genes or genetic markers that could explain why some people have certain attributes or may be susceptible to certain diseases.The study by the Australian researchers, led by Loïc Yengo and Peter Visscher, is based on research spread over multiple years, the report adds. Over these years, this work has identified 9,900 genetic markers which may be a common factor. What this essentially means is that someone with sets of these genetic markers common with another person is equally likely to be as tall or as short as them. The report, however, adds that “few of the height-linked DNA markers have been tied to specific genes that clearly alter the trait”. “It’s mostly all still ‘missing’ in a biological sense,” the Science report quoted David Goldstein of Columbia University as saying.But, largely, the findings raise the chances of researchers being able to whittle down these common genetic markers soon. Instead of being scattered randomly across the entire genome, which would make it challenging to ever get a handle on the specific genes and their roles, the 9,900 or so markers are confined to only about 30% of the genome, the report quoted Yengo as saying. “And many cluster in areas known to contain genes involved in growth,” the study added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10k-genetic-markers-key-to-a-person-s-height/story-c0v2S9Dwv9tohK6XYJlxtO.html
05-11-2020||India||Arnab arrest latest developments: Officer who probed 2018 case to face inquiry||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday arrested from his Mumbai home in connection with the suicide case of a mother-son duo in May 2018. Hours after his arrest, Goswami alleged in the court that the police personnel who came to arrest him assaulted him causing injuries on his hand, back and finger. He was then taken back to the Alibaug police where a civil surgeon was asked to verify the claims. The allegations were then dismissed by the Alibaug court. The case pertains to the death of an interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. According to the police, Anvay had alleged in a suicide note that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid dues worth Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - owners of two different firms, police said. Here is what we know so far about the case Officer who investigated case in 2018 to face inquiryOfficer, who had earlier investigated abetment to suicide case in which journalist Arnab Goswami was arrested on Wednesday by the police, will face inquiry, police was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The Investigating Officer had filed closure report, saying there was no evidence, PTI added.Fresh FIR against Arnab Goswami, wife for resisting police during arrestA fresh first information report (FIR) was filed against Arnab Goswami, his wife and two others by the Mumbai Police on Wednesday evening for resisting police officials who came to arrest him in the morning. Sections 353, 504, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) were invoked in the new FIR.Designer’s family thanks Mumbai Police for Arnab Goswami’s arrestAnvay Naik’s wife and daughter Akshata and Adnya hailed the Mumbai Police’s move to arrest the Republic TV editor. “We can’t forget the year 2018. We want to thank Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra,” Akshata told reporters. “My husband in his suicide note had mentioned three names but no action was taken against them. Arnab Goswami is behind my husband’s death and I request every single Indian not to help him. Maharashtra police’s action is justice for us,” said she added. Arnab Goswami claims assault by police during arrestHours after his arrest when he was taken to the local court, he alleged that the police officials who came to his home assaulted him while making the arrest. He was then sent back to the Alibaug police station where a civil surgeon was asked to verify the claims. The court later rejected Goswami’s allegations. Arnab Goswami arrestedThe Republic TV editor-in-chief was arrested by the Mumbai Police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case. The case, which was closed by Raigad Police in 2019, was reopened when Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by Naik’s daughter, Adnya.Shiv Sena, BJP lock horns over Arnab Goswami’s arrestWhile the Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “No one is above the law. Maharashtra Police will work as per the law” and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut asserted that due law and procedures were followed in the arrest of Goswami, many BJP leaders including Union ministers drew parallels of the situation with that of Emergency in 1975. “The treatment of senior journalist Arnab Goswami is a symbol of the totalitarian tendency to weaken the fourth pillar of democracy and suppress the voice of protest,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-s-arrest-latest-developments-officer-who-investigated-abetment-to-suicide-case-in-2018-arrested/story-8A5ejfAxTG5VjTLCmhaccM.html
05-11-2020||India||Proposal to raise retirement age, slash pensions in armed forces||The department of military affairs (DMA) - headed by the chief of defence staff - has proposed to increase the retirement age of officers by one to three years, with a service extension of up to 17 years for the non-officer cadre from select branches, and is also considering a plan to cut pensions of officers opting for premature release from service in an attempt to retain skilled manpower, according to an official communication reviewed by Hindustan Times. The increased retirement age of officers will allow colonels, brigadiers and major generals to serve longer, with jawans and junior commissioned officers from some non-combat branches also getting service extension that will see them retire at the age of 57 instead of around 40 to 52. The proposed cuts in pensions range from 25% to 50% of the entitled pension depending on an officer’s length of service at the time of leaving the job. While the proposal for service extension has been hailed in military circles as a welcome step, the plan to review pensions has invited criticism from many in the serving and retired community. The letter, dated October 29, has proposed that colonels would serve till the age of 57 (instead of the current 54), brigadiers up to 58 (up from 56) and major generals till 59 as against the current 58. No change has been proposed in the retirement age of lieutenant generals, it stays at 60. This applies to equivalent ranks in the air force and the navy but does not cover officers from the medical and nursing wings. Junior commissioned officers and other ranks from logistics, technical and medical branches will retire at the age of 57 instead of 40 to 52 (depending on the rank). The proposed pension review is the most significant move under consideration, officials familiar with developments said. Officers who seek premature release after 20-25 years of service will get only 50% of the entitled pension, those leaving after 26 to 30 years will get 60% and officers quitting after 31 to 35 years of service will draw 75% of the entitled pension, according to the letter. Only those with 35-plus years of service will get full pension. The letter states there are several specialists/super specialists who are trained for highly skilled jobs in the services but quit to work in other sectors. “Such loss of high skilled manpower results in a void in the services skill matrix and is counter-productive to the armed forces. In view of this, it has been decided to review the pension entitlements,” the letter adds. The communication has set November 10 as the deadline for preparing a draft government sanction letter on increasing retirement age and reviewing pensions for perusal by CDS General Bipin Rawat. Extension of service is a good step, both for the organisation in retaining quality and trained manpower as also in congruence with individual aspirations, said military affairs expert Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd). “The pension slabs could be an incentive for deadwood to continue which is neither good for the organisation nor does it optimise financial resources. The key issue is that on account of Covid-19 and China’s aggressive behaviour along the Line of Actual Control, the armed forces will be required to do more and more with less and less. There is no choice but to ensure optimal utilisation of the financial resources,” said Bhatia. The DMA’s proposals will benefit the organisation and meet individual aspirations, said military officials asking not to be identified. “Almost all colonels and most brigadiers seek re-employment on retirement. On grant of re-employment, highly qualified officers and experts in particular domains are employed in appointments held by captains and majors. This adversely impacts both the organisation and the officer himself whose job satisfaction takes a hit,” the officials said, commenting on the service extension being proposed for officers in these ranks. On the proposal regarding service extension for the non-officer cadre from non-combat arms, the officials said the military invests time and resources on training technicians to make them capable of undertaking specialised tasks but they come up for retirement when their professional skill is at its peak. On the cut in pensions, the officials said, “Only officers taking premature release will be affected. Individuals who complete their pensionable age as per terms of engagement are not affected.” They explained, “If someone becomes an officer at the age of 25 or even more (jawans can become officers even in their late 20s if they clear certain exams and an interview), it doesn’t mean they have to complete 35 years of service for full pension. The cuts will only be applicable to officers to seek early release.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-raise-retirement-age-slash-pensions-across-armed-forces/story-R6upqug8UiYYrSUv2vcIkJ.html
05-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine likely to be available by Jan, will be affordable: Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune-based pharmaceutical company Serum Institute of India (SII), on Wednesday said that a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is likely to be available in the country by January 2021 provided approvals from regulatory bodies are in place in time.In an interview with Mint, Poonawalla said, “Based on the success of the trials in India and the United Kingdom, and if approvals from regulatory bodies are in place in time, then we can expect the vaccine to be available in India by January 2021, only if its proven immunogenic and efficacious.”The SII is working in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma major AstraZeneca to produce the potential Covid-19 vaccine Covishield.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Covishield, developed by University of Oxford, is currently in the phase 2/3 clinical trial in the country and will be produced by SII for low-and-middle income countries.Poonawalla said that the vaccine shot has so far been given to thousands of people in India and abroad with no safety concerns. He, however, added that it will take two to three years to ascertain the long-term effects of the vaccine. ALSO WATCH | Covid update: Theatres open in Maharashtra; SII CEO on vaccine’s availability According to a report published in the British medical journal The Lancet, the potential Covid-19 vaccine produced a dual immune response in people aged 18 to 55. AstraZeneca and Oxford University have said a two-dose regimen showed greater promise, while a single-dose injection is also being tested in trials.The CEO of the world’s largest drug manufacturing firm also said that the firm is in talks with the government over the pricing of the vaccine and assured that it will be made available at a reasonable price. “We are certain that it will be affordable for all,” he said. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereSII aims to manufacture about 60-70 million doses, and stretch it up to 100 million doses of the vaccine per month, Poonawalla said, adding, “We should be able to reach there over the next few months.”The pharma firm has also entered into a partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to speed up the process of manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and other third world countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-available-by-jan-will-be-affordable-adar-poonawalla/story-ultD4KE6yEOD61EnhsTv5N.html
