06-11-2020||India||In bid to bolster economic partnership, India-Italy sign 15 agreements||India and Italy on Friday signed 15 agreements covering trade and investment, shipbuilding and energy, and unveiled a broad-ranging action plan to enhance their partnership by cooperating on connectivity, climate change and counter-terrorism.The signing of the agreements coincided with an hour-long virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte, during which the leaders pledged to work jointly on common challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic.The two sides are keen to take their economic partnership to the next level in new areas such as green technology, renewable energy and advanced manufacturing, officials said. “The focus was on economic ties and Italy is very keen to diversify its supply chains and its outgoing investments, [and] to have a more substantive economic partnership with India,” said Sandeep Chakravorty, secretary (Europe West) in the external affairs ministry.Both countries agreed to work closely on concluding a migration and mobility partnership agreement and a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on defence cooperation at the earliest, Chakravorty said. The mobility pact is crucial for India’s plans to enhance access for its skilled professionals in European countries.The much-delayed India-European Union (EU) free trade agreement figured in the meeting, officials said. A joint statement issued after the meeting said PM Modi and Conte stressed the need for “India and the EU to actively re-engage towards an early resumption of negotiations for mutually beneficial India-EU trade and investment agreements”.Also read: ‘Outcome of election won’t affect ties’ - MEA on US presidential electionAmong the 15 agreements signed on Friday was an MoU between Italy’s Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA and India’s National Investment and Infrastructure Fund to promote co-financing, two MoUs between Fincantieri and Cochin Shipyard Limited covering design, shipbuilding and manufacturing, and repairs and refits of ships, two cooperation agreements between Snam and Adani Entreprises to promote energy transition and to set up a CNG compressors factory in India, and an MoU between Snam and Indian Oil Corporation to cooperate on gas infrastructure development.The 2020-24 action plan for an enhanced bilateral partnership is based on four pillars – political dialogue at the bilateral level and coordination in multilateral forums, economic engagement, partnership in science and technology, and cultural cooperation and people-to-people exchanges. The two sides will create a mechanism chaired by the foreign ministers to follow up the action plan yearly.PM Modi and Conte, the joint statement said, condemned all forms of terrorism and backed a comprehensive approach to prevent and combat terrorism. They agreed to enhance the exchange of expertise and capacity building to counter-terrorism.They also emphasised the need to expand defence engagement through greater two-way collaboration and technology cooperation, and co-development and co-production of military hardware. They also agreed to consolidate defence ties to enhance the effectiveness of UN peacekeeping activities.The joint statement said PM Modi and Conte stressed the importance of the Indo-Pacific as a “fundamental area for connecting Asia and Europe”, and said both sides will “support all connectivity initiatives based on internationally recognised norms and standards, good governance, rule of law, inclusiveness, transparency and level playing field”.The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by PM Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the EU, was part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region. Both countries are keen to put behind the 2012 killing of two Indian crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker Enrica Lexie, an incident that took bilateral ties to an all-time low. “Barring the brief hiatus caused by Enrica Lexie incident for some time, the two countries have always enjoyed a cordial relationship since they established political ties in 1947,” said a person who declined to be named. India sees Italy, the third-largest EU economy after Brexit with robust manufacturing, technological and design capabilities, as a strong partner for the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiatives. Italy is currently India’s fifth largest trading partner in the EU, and bilateral trade was worth 9.52 billion Euros in 2019. India, however, ranks 16th as country of origin for Italian imports, and experts believe there is potential for considerable growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bid-to-bolster-economic-partnership-india-italy-sign-15-agreements/story-8Oj1N8m9Y3MfoYpsOKQKXK.html
06-11-2020||India||Will continue dialogue with China to resolve situation along LAC: India after 8th round of talks||After the eighth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China on Friday, the ministry of external affairs said the two countries will continue to maintain dialogue to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the situation along the Line of Control (LAC) in the eastern Ladakh sector.MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that both India and China continue to maintain close communication at the military and diplomatic levels to achieve complete disengagement along the contested sector. The two sides were guided by the leaders’ consensus to jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in border areas, Srivastava told reporters. During the previous round of talks on October 12, the Indian side had demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April.While the two sides were unable to reach a conclusion even after a nine-hour long eighth round of military talks, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat earlier in the day said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector.Gen Rawat said the situation in the Ladakh theatre was tense and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in the sector because of the Indian military’s “firm and strong” response. Also, defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice.The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results so far. Apart from Ladakh, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers also took place in north Sikkim in early May. The standoff has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September, the first such instance since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-dialogue-with-china-to-resolve-situation-along-lac-india-after-8th-round-of-talks/story-0kWVWAW00BNAyDgznUguCI.html
06-11-2020||India||Valley’s youth being pushed to pick up arms again, says Omar Abdullah||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Friday claimed that the recent “missteps” of the Centre have pushed the Valley’s youth to pick up arms again.“In 2012, 2013, and 2014, there was barely any youth resorting to arms. The number of men, who joined the militancy over a period of 12-13 years, is now being matched in a matter of months these days,” the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir said at a public gathering here on Friday.He added the number of youth joining militancy in one year earlier is similar to those joining in a month now. “They said that by removing Articles 370 and 35A, people, who were distraught with the Indian administration, would completely be assimilated into the rest of the country. But I’d like to say with conviction that after this, these people are even more alienated than before,” Abdullah said. He went on to ask about the visible development of the Union territory. “Where are development works? One year, three months is long enough to get started on such projects. We’d always say don’t be under a misconception that removing Articles 370 and 35A will solve all problems. It is the biggest misstep for J&K. We’re not safe on our own land,” he added. Abdullah’s father Farooq Abdullah said if Jammu and Kashmir wanted to go to Pakistan, they would have done so in 1947. “No one could have stopped it. But our nation is Mahatma Gandhi’s India and not the BJP’s,” said the National Conference veteran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/valley-s-youth-being-pushed-to-pick-up-arms-again-says-omar-abdullah/story-ujfDLcdgL9nphd5QOjaGFM.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhi sees over 7,000 daily Covid-19 cases for first time, tally at 423,831||Delhi on Friday reported 7,178 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in a single day, and 64 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. With this, the national capital’s tally rose to 423,831, including 6,833 deaths, data showed.There have been 6121 recoveries/discharges/migrations and the active cases of the coronavirus disease stand at 39,722. Several indicators show that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of coronavirus infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,843 cases on average every day, the highest this number has been since the first case was recorded on March 2.Thursday’s bulletin showed that 66 people lost their lives due to the viral infection, which was the highest single-day deaths in over four months, in the national capital. Delhi last recorded 66 deaths on June 27, at a time when treatment protocols for Covid-19 were still being assessed. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan after a review of the situation in Delhi most of the new cases of Covid-19 are being reported from six districts of North, Central, North East, East, North West and South East, where the positivity rate stands between 12% and 14%. Delhi’s average seven-day positivity rate currently stands at 11.5%, as against the national average of 4.3%.Also read | Third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi will end soon, says CM KejriwalDeaths and hospitalisations have also been rapidly climbing in the Capital. As on Thursday, there were over 38,000 people with active infections in the city. Of them, 7,231 patients were admitted to hospitals, the data shows. This is the highest hospitalisations at a given time the city has seen.Data shows that intensive care unit (ICU) beds are running full in city hospitals, especially those at private hospitals. Over 73.5% of all the ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in the city were occupied as on Thursday evening, according to the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.Amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease, Delhi High Court on Thursday criticised the city government saying it has gone “completely haywire” over its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak and that Delhi was on its way to becoming the “corona capital of the country”.Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows govt data“Delhi government has gone completely haywire on the pandemic and is soon going to become the corona capital of the country thanks to the number of cases shooting up. Many claims were made by the Delhi government that they are topping charts in testing, but the number of cases has overshot. The government has many answers to give us,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said on Thursday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday the third wave of the coronavirus infections will end soon just like the previous two as he urged Delhiites to make wearing mask a movement to arrest the spread of Covid-19 amid festive season and rising air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-over-7-000-daily-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-tally-at-423-831/story-QyvIExO1rz3P5MI8gemFTK.html
06-11-2020||India||India summons Pak CDA to lodge ‘strong protest’ over Kartarpur Gurdwara||India on Friday summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires to lodge a protest against Islamabad’s decision to hand over management of Durbar Sahib Gurdwara in Kartarpur to a body without any Sikh representatives.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Aftab Hassan Khan, chargé d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission, was “summoned and our strong protest was conveyed”. “It was also conveyed to him that this unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” he said. Srivastava said the Indian government has received representations from the Sikh community “expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan, targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community”. He added, “Pakistan is called upon to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community its right to manage affairs of the holy gurdwara [in] Kartarpur.”Darbar Sahib Gurdwara is built at the site at Kartarpur in Pakistan where Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, spent the last years of his life. According to a notification issued on November 3, Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry handed over management of the gurdwara to a “project management unit” under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), a government department that oversees the shrines of the country’s minorities. The gurdwara was earlier under the management of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC). There are no Sikhs among the officials and staff appointed by the ETPB for Darbar Sahib Gurdwara. Pakistan’s Foreign Office, on Thursday, had described India’s position on the issue as “wilful propaganda” and said the PSGPC remains responsible for rituals in gurdwaras, including the one at Kartarpur. The project management unit under the ETPB has “simply been created to facilitate the PSGPC in this regard,” it said in a statement. India and Pakistan opened a 4.7-kilometre-long cross-border corridor, connecting Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district with Durbar Sahib gurdwara in Kartarpur, a year ago to allow Indian pilgrims to visit the shrine without visas. India is yet to decide on reopening its part of the corridor, which was shut in March as part of Covid-19-related travel restrictions, following Pakistan’s recent decision to open its side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-summons-pak-cda-to-lodge-strong-protest-over-kartarpur-gurdwara/story-wAZHGk3z2DKGXjMUM6OXsI.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Outcome of election won’t affect ties’: MEA on US presidential election||India on Friday said the relationship with the US would not be affected by the outcome of the US presidential election as it rests on strong foundations and enjoys the backing of both the Republican and Democratic parties.“Like you, we are awaiting the election results. What I can tell you is that India-US relations rest on strong foundations and our relations encompass cooperation in every possible sphere, extending from strategic to defence to investment to trade to people-to-people ties,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.The India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership has “very strong bipartisan support in the US and successive presidents and administrations have raised the level of this relationship even higher,” Srivastava said shortly before it emerged that Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden had taken a lead by bagging more votes in the key state of Pennsylvania.The spokesperson was responding to a set of questions on the close personal relationship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump, the Republican candidate in the election, and the slogan of “Aab ki baar Trump sarkar” that was raised at the “Howdy Modi” rally at Houston in the US in September 2019. The questions also referred to whether Biden’s victory would impact the India-US relationship and whether the Indian government would have to put in an extra effort to forge ties with a Democratic administration. The spokesperson didn’t respond to questions on Trump’s claims of irregularities in the presidential election.India and the US held their third 2+2 ministerial dialogue last month when they signed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) to share classified satellite imagery and aeronautical data. Following the meeting, secretary of state Mike Pompeo had said the US will stand “with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty”.The US has also sought to nudge India to take on a greater role within the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (QUAD) amid growing tensions between Washington and Beijing. During the second ministerial meeting of the QUAD last month, India, Australia, Japan and the US committed themselves to working for a free and open Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outcome-of-election-won-t-affect-ties-mea-on-us-presidential-election/story-4S2OAetwuzTQH6S1AVhpmL.html
06-11-2020||India||Fire breaks out in Triveni Nagar godown in Mumbai’s Malad; no injuries so far||A level two fire was reported inside a godown in Malad’s Pathanwadi area. The fire was reported at 5.52 pm today and 11 fire fighting vehicles are at the spot. No injuries reported yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-triveni-nagar-godown-in-mumbai-s-malad-no-injuries-so-far/story-IkhYT34MP8QcytPUGJ2CeO.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah seeks a chance for BJP in Bengal, promises ‘Sonar Bangla’ in 5 years||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday set the tone for the West Bengal assembly elections slated to be held next year. Urging people to give the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a chance, he promised to transform the state into ‘Sonar Bangla’ within five years.Shah, who is on a two-day visit to West Bengal, also expressed confidence that the BJP would win at least 200 seats in the upcoming assembly polls in the state. He asserted that the party, under the leadership of party president JP Nadda, will fight the polls on the issues of welfare and security of the people. “The BJP is taking the election of Bengal very seriously under the leadership of JP Nadda. Because with this the security of the country is also associated and the welfare of the most backward poor people is also concerned. We will go public with both issues,” he said.While addressing a press conference in Kolkata, Shah said that the BJP’s aim is to ensure development in Bengal and stop infiltration along the border. “Our aim is clear that Bengal should be developed, the borders of the country are secure, infiltration inside Bengal should be stopped,” he told reporters.He also slammed the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state over the rising crime rate and added, “The TMC and Didi’s only goal is to make the nephew the chief minister in the next term.” “Now the people of Bengal have to decide whether they want familyism or developmentalism,” he said.The Union home minister also took a swipe at the state government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the cyclone in Bengal earlier this year. “Appeasement has raised questions in the minds of a large section of the people of Bengal,” he said during the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-seeks-a-chance-for-bjp-in-bengal-promises-sonar-bangla-in-5-years/story-YauuRov037TqMiwBMSrbGI.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Poll gimmick, outsiders’: TMC’s jibes at Amit Shah after lunch with refugee family and statue faux pas||Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress party on Friday cornered Union home minister Amit Shah over his visit to a refugee family for lunch and a controversy over the statue of a tribal leader during his two-day visit to the state ahead of the assembly elections next year.State minister Firhad Hakim took a jibe at Shah over his lunch on Friday at a Matua family’s residence in Baguihati in Kolkata’s northern fringes and said it was a desperate attempt to fool people. “In all BJP-ruled states, tribals, Dalits and those from the backward communities are being tortured. There are reports of atrocities everywhere. So, this drama of having lunch at the house of a person from the Matua community is nothing but a poll gimmick before the assembly elections. But he can’t people fool every time, and the Matuas are very well aware of the BJP’s double standards,” Hakim said, according to news agency PTI.The Matuas, originally from East Pakistan which is now Bangladesh, had been migrating to West Bengal since the 1950s, mostly due to religious persecution. The community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, influences at least four Lok Sabha seats and 40 assembly seats in Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas districts. PTI cited sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as saying that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), which was passed in Parliament last year, is likely to help several refugee communities such as the Matuas to obtain citizenship of the country.Also read | BJP must win 200 seats: Amit Shah sets Bengal targetThe TMC also slammed Shah over his “appeasement remark” and said communal politics has no place in Bengal. As it criticised Shah’s scheduled visit to the Matua family, the ruling party in West Bengal described his refugee community outreach, saying it was a “poll gimmick” to divert attention from atrocities committed on backward communities in states ruled by the BJP.“What does Amit Shah mean by appeasement politics? Was he speaking as a BJP activist or as the Union Home Minister of the country? The government has to treat all communities with equality and respect. I don’t think it is a crime to do something for the development of minorities in the state,” Sougato Roy, a senior TMC leader, said.Roy also asked why Shah had ignored the fact that the TMC government had allowed Durga Puja celebrations even when many BJP-ruled states cancelled it. “Why is he not speaking about the state government’s decision to allow Durga Puja celebrations? Was it minority appeasement? I would want to say that communalism has no place in West Bengal. The people of the state will reject BJP’s divisive politics,” he added. Roy was referring to Shah’s comment earlier in the day when said that the present “appeasement politics” in the state has hurt its age-old tradition of upholding the nation’s spiritual consciousness.Also read | Amit Shah invokes Chaitanya, Vivekananda, urges people of Bengal to restrore prideBefore that, the ruling party in Bengal had taken a jibe at Shah after he garlanded a statue of a general tribal hunter in Bankura district on Thursday. The Union minister was supposed to honour Birsa Munda, the legendary tribal leader who had fought for India’s independence and was killed at 25. According to reports, tribal leaders pointed out to the BJP that the statue was not of Birsa Munda after which party leaders put Munda’s photo at the foot of the statue. “Paid floral tributes to legendary tribal leader Bhagwan Birsa Mundaji in Bankura, West Bengal today. Birsa Mundaji’s life was dedicated to the rights and upliftment of our tribal sisters and brothers. His courage, struggles and sacrifices continue to inspire...” Shah had tweeted on Thursday. Started my two days Bengal visit by paying tributes to Bhagwan Birsa Munda today.Public anger against the Mamata govt can be seen all over the state.People of Bengal only have hope in PM @narendramodi, they know that only he can bring back the prosperity & glory of Bengal. pic.twitter.com/Zfjf5HsC2qThe Trinamool Congress tweeted about the incident. “Bohiragato’ are at it again! Union Home Minister Amit Shah is so ignorant of Bengal’s culture that he insulted Bhagwan Birsa Munda by garlanding a wrong idol and placed his photo at someone else’s foot. Will he ever respect Bengal?” the TMC posted on Twitter. 'Bohiragato' are at it again! Union Home Minister @AmitShah is so ignorant of Bengal's culture that he insulted Bhagwan Birsa Munda by garlanding a wrong idol & placed his photo at someone else's foot. Will he ever respect Bengal?#BengalAsksAmitShahhttps://t.co/045lw50TV2“From Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar to Birsa Munda, what is this blatant disrespect towards Bengal’s legendary icons, Amit Shahji? How many more times will you misuse Bengal’s culture and heritage for your political propaganda?” Trinamool lawmaker Nusrat Jahan also tweeted over the garlanding incident. She was referring to the Birsa Munda issue and the vandalisation of 19th-century reformer Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue allegedly by BJP workers before Lok Sabha polls last year.Shah, who had played a major role in expanding the BJP’s base during his tenure as its national president in 2018, is in the state drum up support for the Bengal assembly elections in 2021. The BJP has eight seats in the state assembly. It also has the support of eight MLAs who had switched over to the party from the TMC after the 2019 general election.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poll-gimmick-outsiders-tmc-s-jibes-at-amit-shah-after-lunch-with-refugee-family-and-statue-faux-pas/story-6ZFmDPouVsC3MGHahtJNDN.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic a watershed moment in history like World War II: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the Covid-19 pandemic will remain a watershed moment in history, just like World War II (WWII).The Prime Minister was speaking at the India-Italy Virtual Summit with his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“Covid-19 pandemic will remain a watershed moment in history, just like WWII. We will have to adapt ourselves to the post-Corona world. We will have to be ready for the opportunities and challenges arising out of it,” Modi said.The Prime Minister paid condolences on behalf of the people of India for the losses due to Covid-19 in Italy.“I express my condolences on behalf of all the people in India, for the losses due to Covid-19 in Italy. When other countries of the world were still getting to know of Coronavirus and trying to understand it, you were suffering from it,” PM Modi said.He said, “You swiftly and successfully brought a very difficult situation under control. You also consolidated the entire country.”“I hope that after the Covid-19 situation improves, we will get an opportunity to welcome the Italian Members of Parliament, in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-a-watershed-moment-in-history-like-world-war-ii-pm-modi/story-AU35Pzqb5KB9g6kBcLfOqJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Assam’s Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary to reopen for tourists from Nov 10||The Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary in Assam, known for dense population of the Great Indian Rhinoceros, will be reopened on November 10 for domestic and foreign tourists after around seven months, its Ranger, Mukul Tamuli, said on Friday.The 38.85 sq km wildlife sanctuary on the southern bank of river Brahmaputra in Morigaon district, adjacent to Guwahati, was closed since late March due to Covid-19 pandemic and the monsoon season.Animals, trees, forest camps and various infrastructure in Pobitora were seriously affected due to flood this year, Tamuli said.Due to protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in late 2019, the flow of foreign tourists was almost nil during January and February this year, he said.The official said that due to Covid-19, the wildlife sanctuary incurred huge losses this year. It generated only Rs 30 lakh, which is one-third of the previous year’s earnings.During May-June, the outbreak of anthrax also claimed the lives of 10 buffaloes, which was also a cause for concern, Tamuli said.However, the malady was overcome and the damaged infrastructure repaired to throw open the sanctuary to visitors, the ranger said.Israeli Ambassador Dr Ron Malka visited Pobitora three days ago and hoped that his country’s people would come to the sanctuary.Pobitora has more than 100 rhinos, 2,000 wild buffaloes, thousands of hogs, barking deer, leopards, different species of snakes and tortoises.Besides, the advent of winter makes it a hub of migratory birds.Its grasslands provide habitat for Assam’s second- largest population of the Indian rhinoceros after the Kaziranga National Park, a World Heritage Site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-pobitora-wildlife-sanctuary-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-nov-10/story-eXjoiRKuPqGR3MxRZWwXHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings to be used as Covid-19 vaccination sites||Anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings and other such setups would be used extensively in addition to healthcare facilities as vaccination sites in the anti-coronavirus inoculation drive which would be monitored by the Union health ministry’s digital platform and would involve sending SMSes and generating a QR code after each jab to track the beneficiaries.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 According to a blueprint deliberated upon by an expert group, state governments would identify buildings which can be used as vaccination booths under the special Covid-19 immunisation programme that would run parallel to the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). “The vaccination sites will not be limited to just healthcare facilities. Such centres would also be set up in anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings and other such setups as identified by state governments,” a source said. The health ministry’s existing digital platform eVIN which is being used for the UIP is being enhanced for Covid-19 vaccine distribution and delivery, through which SMSes would be sent to recipients informing the time, date and venue to get the shots and digitally connect them and also track them, the source said. Each person in the immunisation list would be linked with their Aadhaar cards to avoid duplication and to track beneficiaries. However, in case a person doesn’t have an aadhaar card, a government photo identity can be used, sources said. The Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system provides real-time information on vaccine stocks and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country under the UIP. The prime minister, during a review meeting last month, had suggested making use of the experience of the successful conduct of elections and disaster management, for developing the vaccine delivery and distribution system, involving the participation of states/UTs/district-level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens, and experts from all necessary domains. The coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Covid-19 inoculation programme, using the processes, technology and network of the existing UIP, official sources had said earlier. According to them, the Centre will procure the vaccine directly to make it available to the priority groups through the existing network of states and districts.Also Read | 1,10,000 medical staff from Pune dist are to receive first round of Covid-19 vaccine on priority The vaccine is being planned to be administered to the priority groups free-of-cost. States have been asked not to chart separate pathways of procurement, they said. The Centre, with the help of state and UT governments, has started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who would be given vaccine dose in the initial phase. The government has demarcated four categories which includes around 1 crore healthcare professionals including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers etc, around two crore frontline workers, including municipal corporation workers, personnel of the police and armed forces, about 26 crore people aged above 50 and a special category of those below 50 with co-morbidities and requiring specialised care. States have been asked to enlist by mid-November the priority population groups to receive the vaccine. The National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has already mapped the existing cold chain presently being utilised under the government’s immunisation programme and has also made a projection of the additional that will be required. Presently facilities of cold chain in over 28,000 locations are being used under the UIP. Presently the group is engaged with mapping the private sector facilities for augmenting the capacity. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said in October that the Centre estimates to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine covering 20-25 crore people by July next year. Stating Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over an year with multiple groups being included “sequentially starting from health care workers”, the health ministry has sought constitution of committees at state and district level which will review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, strategies for state specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard to reach areas etc. The ministry has suggested setting up of a state steering committee (SSC) chaired by the chief secretary, a state task force (STF) led by additional Chief Secretary or principal secretary (health), and a district task force (DTF) to be headed by the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadi-centres-schools-panchayat-buildings-to-be-used-as-covid-19-vaccination-sites/story-qDIvpXrZ2QAJE1DIhWsRII.html
06-11-2020||India||Isro begins countdown for PSLV-C49 EOS-01 mission: All you need to know||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has announced the commencement of the countdown for the launch of the 51st mission of Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). The carrier will deliver 10 satellites as its payload with EOS-01 as the primary satellite. An announcement on Isro’s website said that the PSLV rocket will be launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, tentatively on November 7 at 3:20pm.The primary payload would be the earth observation satellite EOS-01 designed for its uses in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support. The space agency has also planned to launch nine other customer satellites - one R2 satellite from Lithuania, four Kleos (KSM 1A/1B/1C/1D) satellites from Luxembourg and four Lemur satellites (Lemur - 1/2/3/4) from the United States.PSLV C49 carrierThe carrier vehicle that is the PSLV C49 is a four-stage rocket and measures 44.5m in total height, as per statistics released by Isro. The fourth and the uppermost stage of the rocket is where two earth storable liquid engines are placed. It is fuelled by the propellant Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB). The rocket weighs a total of 320 tonnes at take-off and is measured 2.8m in diameter.Popularly called the ‘workhorse of Isro,’ PSLV series of carriers have been highly successful in their missions to launch satellites into the various orbital levels of the space.Earth observation satellitesIndia presently operates the largest constellation of remote sensing satellites, as per Isro records. Data from these satellites are used for various modern-day applications such as covering agriculture, water resources, environment and disaster management, to name a few. Also, the launch of the EOS-01 on November 7 comes after Isro’s successful launch of PSLV-C48/RISAT-2BR1 rocket into the Lower Earth Orbit (LEO) on December 11, 2019.Covid-19 restrictionsWhile Isro always had a viewing gallery for most of its launches, this year due to Covid-19 restrictions, only a live telecast of the launch has been planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-begins-countdown-for-pslv-c49-eos-01-mission-all-you-need-to-know/story-YuFlmeWTv4GrjB5yuehVbN.html
06-11-2020||India||No bail yet for Arnab Goswami, hearing in Bombay High Court to continue tomorrow||There was no immediate relief for Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, on Friday as the hearing on his interim bail plea before the Bombay High Court remained incomplete.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they would continue the hearing on Saturday because of lack of time.“We will assemble for this matter specially tomorrow noon,” the court said.Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday and taken to Alibaug, where a case has been registered against him for alleged abetment of suicide of architect Anvay Naik and his mother over non-payment of dues by Goswami’s firm.The high-profile journalist has been remanded in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami is presently lodged in a school in Alibaug which is designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bail-yet-for-arnab-goswami-hearing-in-bombay-high-court-to-continue-tomorrow/story-qVlTkydezim7hUYwFbi9gK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Learned from your battle against Covid-19,’ PM Modi tells Italian counterpart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday praised Italy for its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that “all of us took lessons” from the European country as he committed to work to expand India’s bilateral relationship further.PM Modi made the comments during his virtual talk with his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte. “When other countries were just starting to understand the virus, Italy was fighting a battle against it. Your successful battle inspired us and we all took lessons from Italy,” he told Conte.Speaking further on Covid-19, PM Modi said like World War II, the coronavirus pandemic will be a watershed moment. “We have to adapt ourselves for the post-Covid-19 world and the challenges that will arise,” he said. “I am confident, after talks, our relationship will get stronger, we will develop more understanding. We will also identify new areas of cooperation,” he also said.PM Modi also remembered Conte’s 2018 India visit for tax summit and said, the mutual exchange between India and Italy gained immense momentum after the talks. “I am happy to know that, the Italian Parliament established Italy-India friendship group. I hope we will get an opportunity to welcome Italian parliamentarians in India after the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.During the PM Modi and Conte meet, India and Italy are set to sign about a dozen agreements covering areas such as trade, investment, infrastructure, environment, fisheries, media and filmmaking. The two sides are also expected to explore the possibility of increasing Italian investments in India and enhancing defence cooperation and manufacturing under the Make in India initiative.The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the European Union (EU), is part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learned-from-your-battle-against-covid-19-pm-modi-tells-italian-counterpart/story-0cSIbhdaMgkyJuE3y640SO.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terror and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesIndia, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terrorIndia and the Philippines agreed on Friday to enhance bilateral defence engagement and maritime cooperation, especially in training and procurement of military equipment, and to step up information-sharing to counter terrorism. Read more Delhi: Bursting or selling firecrackers could attract fine of up to Rs1 lakhBursting or selling crackers this season can earn you a fine of up to Rs1 lakh under, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday. Read moreNepal and India have long-standing special relationship, says Nepal Prime Minister Oli as he meets army chiefNepal and India have a long-standing and special relationship, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said to Indian army chief Manoj Mukund Narwane as the duo had a courtesy meeting on Friday. The present issues between the two countries will be resolved through dialogue, Nepal Prime Minister expressed hope. Read moreKarnataka bans firecrackers ahead of Diwali, chief minister cites CovidFollowing in the footsteps of states like Odisha, Rajasthan and New Delhi, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state would also ban firecrackers in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreNissan Magnite to get power-packed HRA0 Turbo engine: All you need to knowThe upcoming Nissan Magnite sub-compact SUV in India is all set to get several highlights through which it would seek to make a strong case for itself against some very capable rivals. Read moreVirender Sehwag recalls when Pakistan batsman asked him to sing Kishore Kumar songEveryone recalls Virender Sehwag as one of the best opening batsmen India have ever produced. The right-handed batsman ruled in all three formats and his explosive style of batting left top bowling line-ups bamboozled. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says he fasted for Aishwarya Rai on Karwa ChauthThough the Karwa Chauth ritual is observed by married women for their husbands, Abhishek Bachchan also kept a fast for his wife, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, this year. He made the revelation during a recent promotional interview for his upcoming Netflix drama, Ludo. Read moreRCB Captain Virat Kohli twins with mom-to-be Anushka Sharma on his 32nd birthday celebration in Dubai. Get the lookIPL Team Royal Challengers Bangalore captain, Virat Kohli, celebrated his 32nd birthday yesterday alongside his wife, Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma and his team mates in Dubai. Read moreUS Elections 2020: Biden ahead, Trump down but not out; what next?One of the most consequential elections in the United States ever has revealed a divided country. Joe Biden is ahead, but hasn’t won in the landslide pollsters expected; Donald Trump seems down but not out, relying on legal challenges; and there remains uncertainty in key swing states. What does this election tell us about the US? Watch hereMan caught walking a stuffed dog post curfew by Czech Police. WatchA series of rather odd events took place in Ceske Budejovice, the capital city of South Bohemia in the southern Czech Republic. The video, of said strange happening, was shared on the Facebook page of Czech Television’s Events of South Bohemia show on October 29. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-philippines-to-boost-defence-cooperation-information-sharing-to-fight-terror-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gUqbiTlGCxQnNiHiAcTfHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Bengal: Woman, her two kids die as truck flips on its side, falls on their hut||A mother and her two minor children were killed on Thursday evening, when a truck turned on its side and fell on their hut at Jamalpur in Purba Bardhaman district, which is located around 100 kilometres (km) north of Kolkata, West Bengal. Scores of irate villagers clashed with the police personnel, who had reached the accident spot to retrieve the victims’ bodies and send them for post-mortem examination. They blocked the village road, where the accident had occurred, and also damaged a police vehicle. The driver of the truck managed to flee the accident spot. The victims have been identified as Sandhya Barui (28) and her two minor children -- a girl (14) and a boy (12) “The incident occurred at around 8.30pm on Thursday, when a sand-laden truck turned on its side while trying to negotiate a turn on a narrow village road. The vehicle fell on a roadside hut, where the woman and her two children were staying. They got buried under the debris . Later, villagers removed the debris and retrieved the bodies,” said a police officer. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had directed the police several times in the past not to allow heavy vehicles to operate on village roads. But, heavy vehicles frequently take village roads to avoid congestion on highways by allegedly bribing local district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-woman-her-two-kids-die-as-truck-flips-on-its-side-falls-on-their-hut/story-wSKJJ4uKthZJyxaEtpZ0NO.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhi govt forms assessment panel to ascertain effect of Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble burning-caused pollution||The Delhi government on Friday set up an impact assessment committee to ascertain the effect of Pusa bio-decomposer in reducing pollution due to stubble burning in the national capital.Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the panel will have 15 members, including MLAs, and officials from Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, and Agriculture Department.Also Read | Delhi air enters ominous ‘severe’ zone; local factors, stubble play crucial role“The government has decided to set up an impact assessment committee to ascertain the impact of Pusa bio-decomposer in reducing pollution due to stubble burning in Delhi,” Rai said during a press conference. The committee has been asked to submit an assessment report to the government within a week. The report will be presented before the Supreme Court after Diwali, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-forms-assessment-panel-to-ascertain-effect-of-pusa-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-burning-caused-pollution/story-ESTUjyojPeA8HD2lSU1ciO.html
06-11-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh seeks Centre’s assistance in boosting new investments||The Arunachal Pradesh government has sought the Centre’s assistance as the state looks to boost its industrial sector and generate employment opportunities, officials said on Friday.Chief Minister Pema Khandu, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, has solicited the support of the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) for attracting investments to the state, officials at the chief minister’s office said.“The state government has accorded high priority to the development of industry, which in turn would increase economic activities and create jobs,” the CM wrote.A marathon virtual meeting was subsequently arranged during the day between state and central government officials, in which representatives from Arunachal Pradesh underlined the key strengths of its industrial sector to DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra.Invest India CEO Deepak Bagla was also present at the meeting, the officials said.Planning and Investment Commissioner Prashant Lokhande gave a detailed presentation on the state’s investment opportunities, with focus on availability of land, improved connectivity and abundant natural resources.He pointed out some of the priority sectors such as agro-forest and food processing industry, tourism, power and renewable energy, have good investment potential, and asserted that the state would provide all possible facilities to the prospective investors.Bagla, during the meeting, assured support to the officials, and said his agency would create a special cell for promoting investment in Arunachal Pradesh.Invest India will also launch a dedicated website to highlight opportunities in the northeast, he said.Officials from the ministries of DONER, Railways, Road Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism, Food Processing industries, Textiles, Electronics and Information Technology among others gave assurances that they would extend support to the state to expedite necessary infrastructure creation.Stressing that the state’s food processing sector, if put to use for creating mini food parks and cold chains, would turn out to be of immense value, Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar urged the central public sector undertakings (CPSUs) to aid Arunachal as anchor investors.With focused attention, the communication infrastructure including rail, road and air connectivity has improved significantly and the state is now at a “take-off stage” to receive investments, the chief secretary said.Mohapatra, on his part, appreciated the efforts made by Arunachal Pradesh in strengthening its infrastructure and said DPIIT and the Centre would lend full support to the state in its endeavour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-seeks-centre-s-assistance-in-boosting-new-investments/story-aDcv7qzX2hIw4PePevEbQL.html
06-11-2020||India||Govt yet to take call on China’s entry into 5G, says Union home secretary||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Friday said the government has not taken any call on allowing Chinese telecom companies to enter into the 5G trials in India but acknowledged that the penetration of the neighbouring country into the existing network is too extensive.Bhalla, however, also made it clear that the government is making special safeguards to ensure safety and security of the country’s communication network.“On 5G, the government in any case has not taken any call. Discussions are still on...when it will be allowed and who are the people to be allowed. Point is very valid. The penetration of existing telecom hardware and software is too extensive,” he said at the Diamond Jubilee webinar organised by National Defence College.He was replying to a question on participation of Chinese telecom players in India’s 5G trials.The home secretary said unless India gets a substitute, the existing facilities cannot be closed down abruptly.“Unless we have a substitute available, we just can’t switch off and say that this will not be allowed. But the government can definitely make special safeguards and ensure the safety and security of the system of communication of the country. That we are having and we are developing and we will definitely be able to deal with that,” he said.The US has banned Huawei, the world’s leader in telecom equipment and the number two smartphone producer, over concerns of security and Washington has been putting pressure on other countries to restrict the operations of the Chinese telecom firm.India, however, is yet to take a call on whether it intends to place curbs on Huawei or allow the Chinese telecom equipment maker to participate in the upcoming 5G trials.Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had earlier said India has its security issues over allowing Huawei to participate in the upcoming 5G trials.“We will take a firm view on it. There are also security issues...it is not only a matter of technology, as regard their participation in 5G is concerned...Participation of 5G is not conditional upon the trial being started. Whether a particular company is allowed to participate or not, is a complex question, including security issues,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-yet-to-take-call-on-china-s-entry-into-5g-says-union-home-secretary/story-iV3DG11jvEXcuW1OhFEtDN.html
06-11-2020||India||India, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terror||India and the Philippines agreed on Friday to enhance bilateral defence engagement and maritime cooperation, especially in training and procurement of military equipment, and to step up information-sharing to counter terrorism. The decisions were made during a virtual meeting of the joint commission on bilateral cooperation that was co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Teodoro Locsin Jr, secretary of department of foreign affairs of the Philippines. There is considerable defence cooperation between the two countries and the Philippines is considered to be among the front-runners for acquiring the BrahMos cruise missile jointly developed by India and Russia. Efforts to conclude a deal for the missile system this year were hit by the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Also read | Israel wants to enhance northeast India’s manufacturing capabilities: EnvoyThe two sides “agreed to further strengthen defence engagement and maritime cooperation...especially in military training and education, capacity building, regular goodwill visits, and procurement of defence equipment”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. They also agreed to “enhance cooperation in the area of counter-terrorism with information exchange between concerned agencies and support in terms of specialised training needs”, the statement added. Jaishankar tweeted that his meeting with Locsin “focused on taking forward cooperation in trade and investment, defence, education, ICT and space”. The Indian side underlined “our convergence on Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific,” he added. During the meeting, the two sides reviewed recent developments in bilateral relations and discussed the future trajectory of their engagement. Jaishankar and Locsin agreed to strengthen cooperation on shared challenges, particularly in the health sector to address the Covid-19 pandemic. They also agreed to expand trade and investment links, and to work on strengthening cooperation in agriculture, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, tourism, energy, ICT, and science and technology. To expand trade, tourism and student exchanges, both sides agreed to work on a simplified visa regime. Jaishankar appreciated educational opportunities provided by the Philippines to Indian students, and reaffirmed India’s assistance for development and capacity building in the Philippines. He invited Filipino students, scholars and academics to avail of the ITEC and e-ITEC initiatives, and use the PhD fellowships offered to Asean students at IITs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-philippines-to-boost-defence-cooperation-information-sharing-to-fight-terror/story-MGb2WHV3N5Z9qPsF7I3GZL.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra may reopen schools from November 23: State education minister||Maharashtra’s school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Friday a proposal to reopen schools, which have been shut since March amid the coronavirus pandemic, for the students of Class 9 to Class 12 have been sent to the state government, according to news agency ANI. “We have proposed before the state government to restart classes in schools for Class 9, 10, 11 and 12 from November 23. Also, we have proposed that exams of Class 10 and Class 12 should be conducted in May, instead of February or March,” Varsha Gaikwad was quoted as saying by ANI.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) usually conducts the examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 in February and March. Which has not been possible this year owing to schools being shut down due to the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | ‘Class 10 and 12 board exams not possible in Maharashtra before May’Gaikwad said that holding exams in May becomes crucial because students living in rural areas won’t be able to reach their examination centres due to the heavy monsoon that ensues every year in the months of June, July and August in the state. She also mentioned that since students have not been able to attend physical classes this year, her priority is to get them back to their classrooms before they sit for their board exams. Keeping this in mind a decision has been taken to reopen schools from November 23, for Class 9 through 12, to help students prepare for their board exams, she said.Maharashtra’s proposal to postpone the board exams comes on the heels of a similar decision by Gujarat to re-schedule these exams in the state to May. Elsewhere in the country, states have slowly started opening up schools for high school students before their board exams begin.Andhra Pradesh too began holding physical classes from November 2 for Class 9 and Class 10 students in both government and private schools all over the state, after a long gap of seven months. Also Read | 829 teachers, 575 students test Covid +ve after schools reopen in AndhraOdisha too was scheduled to reopen its schools for classes 9 to 12 after November 15, but on Friday the school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash announced that the government will be switching back to online classes due to the possibility of a second wave of coronavirus infections. Also Read | Odisha puts on hold its decision to reopen schools in NovemberHe added that the rapid spread of infections in Andhra Pradesh schools after students went back to classes on Monday also contributed to the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-reopen-schools-from-november-23-state-education-minister/story-y3EfYfrPq2X5fuZwD8e5nL.html
06-11-2020||India||India to help countries enhance capacity for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign secretary||India will use its vaccine production capacity to help the world in fighting the Covid-19 crisis and New Delhi stands ready to help countries enhance their cold chain and storage capacities for delivery of vaccines, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Shringla made the remarks while briefing the diplomatic corps and representatives of international organisations on India’s Covid-19 response and vaccine development programme, including international cooperation in this field. “Several countries have been approaching us for receiving vaccine supply. I reiterate our prime minister’s commitment that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” he said. “India will also help interested countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines.” Also read | Prepare for next pandemic now, WHO urges world leadersAs a first step, Shringla said, the government will take a delegation of ambassadors on a tour of vaccine and diagnostic facilities in Pune to give them a “flavour of India’s robust and resilient progress in vaccine development and in the trial process”. India is “on track” in the development and trial of vaccines, he said. “We are exploring the possibility of conducting phase-III trials in a few of our partner countries. We are also looking forward to research collaboration in the field of vaccine development,” he said. “Based on willingness, we may also go for joint production of vaccines in some countries. We have already conducted online training sessions for nearly 90 participants from eight neighbouring countries to develop capacity in clinical trials and clinical practices. Based on demand, we can conduct more such training courses,” he added. Besides Shringla, the panel that briefed the diplomatic corps included VK Paul, member (Health) of the Niti Aayog and chairman of the national expert group on vaccine administration of Covid-19, principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, department of biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup, department of science and technology secretary Ashutosh Sharma, CSIR director general Shekhar Mande and Abhishek Singh, CEO of the e-governance division of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. Shringla noted that Covid-19 continued to be a challenge worldwide, with increasing cases every day. “I have returned yesterday from Europe where a second wave of the pandemic is in evidence. In India, the daily case load has reduced to below 50,000 from around a 100,000 few weeks ago,” he said. During the past few months, India added enormous production capacity for personal protective equipment, test kits and medicines that is being shared with others, he said. Due to an increase in testing numbers, contact tracing, an effective isolation protocol, increased availability of medical equipment and test kits and a sustained public awareness campaign, India’s recovery rate as of November 3 was 91.96 % and the case fatality rate was 1.49 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-help-countries-enhance-capacity-for-delivery-of-covid-19-vaccines-foreign-secretary/story-ylLNVg90Xj3jHBHrfmNoHP.html
06-11-2020||India||Kerala’s apex temple body to appoint ST priest for the first time||For the first time in its history, a scheduled tribe person will soon become a priest in a shrine, managed by the apex temple body Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), in Kerala.In a path-breaking move, the TDB, which manages over 1,200 shrines across the southern state, has decided to appoint 19 lower caste people, including 18 belonging to the scheduled caste and one from the scheduled tribe, as priests in its shrines on a part-time basis.The TDB is an autonomous temple body which manages many famous shrines including the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple.“This is for the first time that the temple body is appointing a scheduled tribe person as a priest in shrines under TDB,” state Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a Facebook post.People from lower caste are appointed in the part-time shanti (priest) posts through special recruitment, he said.So far, 310 people have been selected for the post of part-time priests in the Travancore Devaswom Board from the rank list, published in 2017, he said.As there were not enough eligible candidates from the Scheduled caste and Scheduled Tribe communities for the examination at that time, a separate rank list was prepared as per a special notification for them, which was published on November 5, he said.Though there were four vacancies notified for the ST community, only one application was received, the minister said.After the Left government came to power, the recruitment board was restructured and a total of 815 people had been selected for various posts in Travancore, Cochin and Malabar Devaswom Boards, the minister added.A total of 133 non-Brahmin priests have been appointed in various temples in the southern state in the last four and half year tenure of the government, official sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-apex-temple-body-to-appoint-st-priest-for-the-first-time/story-Q2AdgCa2OrzJO8FbZc7gjP.html
06-11-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: BJP stronghold Purnia to witness direct face-off with Congress||Purnia assembly constituency, in Bihar’s Purnia district, is among 78 assembly constituencies which will go to polls in the third and final phase of the ongoing Bihar assembly elections, on November 7. This assembly seat comes under a parliamentary constituency with which it also shares its name. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stronghold since 2000, Purnia’s incumbent MLA is BJP’s Vijay Kumar Khemka while the Lok Sabha MP from the parliamentary constituency is Santosh Kumar Kushwaha of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal(United), an ally of the BJP.Click here for full Bihar assembly election 2020 coverageIn the 2015 assembly polls, Khemka emerged victorious over Congress’ Indu Sinha by 32,815 votes. A total of 186,911 voters cast their votes from this constituency out of 283,483 eligible to vote. Of these, Khemka won 92,020 or 49.26% votes, while Sinha secured 59,205 or 31.70% votes.For the ongoing elections, Khemka and Sinha are once again in contention as they have been fielded by their respective parties yet again. This time, a total of 312,508 people from this constituency are eligible to vote. The break-up of eligible voters is as follows: 163,158 males, 149,341 females and nine from the third gender.Also Read | Bihar assembly election 2020: Will Afaque Alam of Congress win Kasba for third straight term?The three-phase Bihar assembly polls commenced on October 28, while second phase polling took place on November 3. Bihar has a total of 243 assembly constituencies; 71 went to polls in the first phase and 94 in the second.Counting of votes and result declaration is scheduled to take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-stronghold-purnia-to-witness-direct-face-off-with-congress/story-4CCkWgK83972ovcrOgnEJK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Shocking’: Arnab Goswami gets Supreme Court shield from arrest in Maharashtra assembly’s privilege case||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice of contempt to the secretary of the Maharashtra assembly for writing a letter to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami on October 13 for breaching the confidentiality of the proceedings of the House by approaching the top court against the breach of privilege notice.The top court asked the secretary of the Maharashtra assembly to remain present during the hearing on this letter to take place after two weeks. Till then, the court ordered no arrest of Goswami in the privilege matter. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde appointed Arvind Datar, a senior advocate, as amicus to assist in the matter.The Supreme Court noted that the letter seriously interferes with the administration of justice as it intimidates Goswami for approaching Court. The bench also comprising justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian termed the letter by the assembly secretary as unprecedented and shocking.“The clear intention of the author of the letter seems to be to intimidate the petitioner because he approached the Court and to threaten him with a penalty for doing so,” it said. “The assembly should be well advised to understand that the right to approach this Court under Art 32 of Constitution is itself a fundamental right,” the court added.The top court has issued a notice to Attorney General KK Venugopal to assist in this matter. The letter of October 13 was produced before the court by Goswami’s lawyer Harish Salve who submitted an application with an affidavit by 47-year-old journalist’s wife as he is in jail.Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his house in Mumbai and was then taken to Alibag in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. Designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died of suicide and named Goswami as one of the three people who didn’t pay dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-arnab-goswami-gets-supreme-court-shield-from-arrest-in-maharashtra-assembly-s-privilege-case/story-KDkRx7Qk3O89qgedA08bNK.html
06-11-2020||India||Nepal and India have long-standing special relationship, says Nepal Prime Minister Oli as he meets army chief||Nepal and India have a long-standing and special relationship, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said to Indian army chief Manoj Mukund Narwane as the duo had a courtesy meeting on Friday. The present issues between the two countries will be resolved through dialogue, Nepal Prime Minister expressed hope.“The prime minister said that there was a tradition of conferring the status of honorary Maharathi on the army chiefs of the two countries. During the meeting, the PM expressed confidence that the issues between the two countries would be resolved through dialogue,” Rajan Bhattarai, foreign policy advisor to KP Sharma Oli tweeted.Gen Naravane who is on a three-day visit to Kathmandu was conferred the honorary rank of General of the Nepali Army by Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Thursday. He was honoured at a ceremony at the President’s official residence Shital Niwas in Kathmandu. General Naravane was also presented with a sword and scroll during the function.Also Read: Gen Naravane to call on PM Oli today, as Nepal seeks to reinvigorate ties with IndiaOn Friday, the meeting between Naravane and Oli, who is also the defence minister of Nepal, took place at his official residence in Baluwatar, the Nepal Army sources said. सम्माननीय प्रधानमन्त्री केपी शर्मा ओलीसँग भारतीय स्थल सेनाध्यक्ष मनोज मुकुन्द नरवणेले शिष्टाचार भेटवार्ता गर्नु भयो । भेटका क्रममा प्रधानमन्त्रीज्यूले नेपाल र भारतका बीचमा सदिऔं पुरानो विशिष्ठ सम्बन्ध रहेको रThe visit is aimed at resetting the bilateral ties that came under severe strain following a bitter border row early this year. In May, Nepal came up with a new political map claiming several areas in Uttarakhand to be part of its territory. Nepal had protested after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply, calling it a “unilateral act” and cautioning Kathmandu that such “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-and-india-have-long-standing-special-relationship-says-nepal-prime-minister-oli-as-he-meets-army-chief/story-QsBjFVii6c09h5r8XAGStL.html
06-11-2020||India||Virtual summit: India, Italy to ink trade, investment agreements||India and Italy are set to sign about a dozen agreements in areas ranging from trade and investment to infrastructure when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte hold a virtual summit on Friday. The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the European Union (EU), is part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that around a dozen agreements and MoUs covering areas such as trade, investment, infrastructure, environment, fisheries, media and filmmaking, are expected to be signed at the summit. Also read | Working with India to find solutions to Covid pandemic: Finland envoyThe two sides will explore the possibility of increasing Italian investments in India and enhancing defence cooperation and manufacturing under the Make in India initiative, the people said. Both countries are keen to firmly put behind the 2012 killing of two Indian crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker Enrica Lexie, an incident that took bilateral ties to an all-time low. “Barring the brief hiatus caused by Enrica Lexie incident for some time, the two countries have always enjoyed a cordial relationship since they established political ties in 1947,” said one of the people cited above. Referring to a UN arbitral tribunal’s ruling this year that the Italian marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts, the person said, “Following the arbitral tribunal’s verdict, Italy wants to build robust economic relations on the foundation of the political relationship.” India sees Italy, the third largest EU economy after Brexit with robust manufacturing, technological and design capabilities, as a strong partner for the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiatives. From January, India will also join the G20 troika along with Italy and Saudi Arabia. India and Italy will be part of the troika for 2021 and 2022, when New Delhi will take over as the G20 chair. Italy is currently India’s fifth largest trading partner in the EU, and bilateral trade was worth 9.52 billion Euros in 2019. India, however, ranks 16th as country of origin for Italian imports, and experts believe there is potential for considerable growth. About 600 large Italian companies are active in India, while some 4,000 Indian students and 250,000 workers, mainly in the agricultural sector, are in Italy. Italy has traditionally been supportive towards India at multilateral forums, and the two countries are currently working towards a roadmap for a more substantive engagement, including a migration mobility partnership agreement, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-summit-india-italy-to-ink-trade-investment-agreements/story-cke6cqw1XW3Qt5pBajHJIK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Lord Murugan gave permission’: BJP launches vetrival yatra, defies AIADMK||The Bharatiya Janata Party launched its Vetrivel Yatra in Tamil Nadu on Friday morning, sticking to their plan despite the state denying them permission due to the Covid-19 pandemic. BJP’s national general secretary CT Ravi and former national secretary H Raja, along with the national party’s state unit president L Murugan, are on their way from Chennai to Tiruttani temple in Tiruvallur district. “Lord Murugan has given us permission, we are going to yatra,” CT Ravi said before leaving Chennai. The BJP is planning to cover the abodes of Tamil deity Lord Muruga in a month-long yatra starting today and going across the state with the yatra concluding in Thiruchendur on December 6. A BJP functionary said that they have not been given permission by the Tiruvallur police and are likely to court arrest there.Lord Murugan is associated with holding his vel meaning spear. Clad fully in saffron and holding the spear, the party state president Murugan said that they will expose those who are against Hindu deities. This controversy came to the fore after BJP went up against a YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. Police arrested members who made the video. The BJP accused the DMK of backing the members behind the group but the DMK has denied having any role in it. The BJP, which is trying to make inroads into the state, has been preparing massively for this rally. However on Thursday, the AIADMK government, BJP’s ally, informed the Madras high court that the yatra will not be allowed. The court disposed of two public interest litigations filed on the yatra with liberty to the BJP to challenge the government’s rejection. A few hours later, Murguan told HT, in Tamil, “Vel thulli gudhikum,” that roughly translates as the spear will enthusiastically leap. Earlier, the AIADMK government had denied permission to the BJP to hold an idol immersion rally during Vinayaga Chathurthi festival. “It is the responsibility of our government to safeguard the public from coronavirus because of which we feel it is unnecessary during this time,” said AIADMK spokesperson and minister for fisheries D Jayakumar. “Keeping public wellbeing in mind, it is better that the BJP gives up vetrivel rally and it is also good for their party. Law and order will take action against BJP or any common man if they don’t comply with legalities,” said Jayakumar. The AIADMK has not been happy with its partner using their Dravidian leader M G Ramachandran’s photos and videos in their promotional content.Meanwhile, opposition parties including the VCK, CPI (M) and Congress and those who filed petitions in the Madras high court raised red flags that the yatra could lead to communal tensions in the state as the BJP’s yatras in the Hindi-speaking belt have not been peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-murugan-gave-permission-bjp-launches-vetrival-yatra-defies-aiadmk/story-4gxYgIw3csU2WXH88ofBqI.html
06-11-2020||India||Ensure there’s no smog in Delhi after Diwali break: SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to ensure that the smog in the national capital is removed at the earliest as it adjourned two petitions seeking urgent measures on air pollution in Delhi for November 16.A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde said, “We are adjourning the matter after reopening (following week long Diwali break). Only thing is, till then you (Centre) ensure there is no smog in the city.” The observation came while the bench was hearing PILs filed by Aditya Dubey and an earlier pending matter on Delhi pollution in MC Mehta case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the Commission on Air Quality Management had been constituted, members appointed and it will begin functioning from today on a war footing. Senior advocate Vikas Singh informed the court that Delhi is facing a “public health emergency” and the situation will only worsen in the coming days when the court is closed. He sought urgent action but the bench replied, “We are a court of law. We are not abdicating our responsibility. This is a problem to be dealt with by the executive. They have the money, power, expertise and resources to deal with the problem.”Singh pointed out that the new commission constituted by Centre did not have representation of health ministry which is crucial to tackle health problems associated with air pollution. The bench noted that courts had limitations but it was for the Centre to take action. “There are many committees and commissions working. We have limitations on functionalities.”Singh said that by the time court reopens, the health emergency may get over. The bench remarked, “We hope the Solicitor General understands it. We don’t want to advise you as they (commission) are experts.”The commission was constituted by an Ordinance issued on October 28 after the court monitoring the air pollution matters had sought urgent action. Earlier in October, the bench had constituted a one-man committee headed by former SC judge Madan B Lokur to conduct physical surveillance on occurrence of stubble burning in farmlands of Punjab, Haryana and UP. The court allowed the Lokur committee to inspect the ground situation and directed all Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to cooperate with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-urgent-steps-from-centre-to-check-delhi-s-smog-problem/story-Wnp8v2Sxv9bJkGWNerGsRN.html
06-11-2020||India||Israel wants to enhance northeast India’s manufacturing capabilities: Envoy||Israel’s Ambassador to India Ron Malka has said his country looks to strengthen ties with the northeastern states and wants to share technology to enhance the manufacturing capability of the region.He said the West Asian country is also interested in sharing knowledge to develop human resources.“Israel is a strong strategic partner of India and wants to share technology with the northeastern region for using untapped resources for development. We want to enhance manufacturing capabilities,” Malka told PTI in an interview here.The ambassador was in Tripura for a two-day visit from Wednesday and had met Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb.“India is our close friend. Both countries pledged to help each other in the fields of developments. Since the north-east is an integral part of India, we want to share high and advanced technologies, especially in the fields of manufacturing, packaging and shipping,” he said.Malka said his country is also interested in air connectivity between Israel and Assam’s Guwahati.“The air connectivity would be developed, only after the north-east region comes to a position to export its goods to Israel,” he said.Malka said Israel is also interested in the exchange of culture between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-wants-to-enhance-northeast-india-s-manufacturing-capabilities-says-envoy/story-OBGBaCfKtT7Ryo5ggt5N4N.html
06-11-2020||India||Piyush Goyal urges Punjab govt to clear entire Railway network from blockages to resume train services||After meeting lawmakers from Punjab regarding Railway services amid the ongoing anti-farm laws protest, Union Minister Piyush Goyal assured them that they are ready to resume train services if Captain Amarinder Singh-led government assured safety and security of railway property and personnel and clears the tracks.Goyal met various Members of Parliament (MPs) from Punjab on November 4.Taking to Twitter on Thursday, Piyush Goyal said, “Met with MPs from Punjab regarding Railway services in the State. Railways are keen to start services for the benefit of farmers, industry, MSMEs, general public and passenger convenience.”“Requested state government to clear entire Railway network from blockages so that we can run all trains, to and through Punjab, without interruption and safely,” the Minister said in a subsequent tweet. The Railways Ministry on Thursday said that it has continued to lose revenue as Freight operations remain forcibly suspended due to tracks blockages in Punjab. “Till date, more than 2,225 freight rakes (coupled passenger coaches) could not be operated upon carrying vital commodities,” it said. Punjab Chief Minister launched a ‘dharna’ at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on November 4 over the issue of suspending the goods railways services in Punjab. Farmers of the state have been observing ‘rail-roko’ protest against the new farm laws, passed by the central government in September. Chief Minister has said that the central government is behaving like a ‘step-mother’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-urges-punjab-govt-to-clear-entire-railway-network-from-blockages-to-resume-train-services/story-wgdEPvCAikLaWw5oAWyqpO.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah invokes Chaitanya, Vivekananda, urges people of Bengal to restrore pride||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday urged the people of West Bengal to fulfil their responsibilities to restore the pride of the state which was the centre of spirit and religious awakening. “West Bengal is the land of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Thakur Ramakrishna Paramhans, Vivekananda. Appeasement politics has hurt the state’s tradition. I urge people to fulfil their responsibilities to restore the pride of the state which was the centre of spiritual and religious awakening,” Shah said while on his two-day visit to Bengal.Shah also held a review meeting with the senior officers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Bankura.He had met a tribal family in Chaturthi village, Bankura, and had food with them on Thursday. During his two-day visit, Shah met senior BJP leaders from the state, reviewed the upcoming assembly poll preparations and looked into organisational matters.Earlier this year, Shah had addressed a virtual rally in the state. This is his first visit to West Bengal after the Covid-19-induced lockdown. He had last visited the state on March 1 amid the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appeasement-politics-has-hurt-west-bengal-says-amit-shah-offers-prayers-at-dakshineswar-temple/story-I8rtoy93phRMbiyCw7hJUM.html
06-11-2020||India||TN preps to avoid 2015-flood like situation as northeast monsoon intensifies||Tamil Nadu is bracing to face heavy northeast monsoon rain, which started on Wednesday and is expected to intensify in the next few days, especially in districts of Chennai, Cuddalore and Thoothukudi due to a cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal close to the Tamil Nadu coast, weather department officials said. The enhanced rainfall is expected in coastal and south Tamil Nadu from the second week of November until mid- December. On Wednesday, ministers and bureaucrats reviewed preparedness for the rain to prevent repeat of December 2015 deluge. At the meeting, an official privy to the discussions said that 4,133 places have been identified as flood-prone and 321 as severely affected. He also said 4,714 relief shelters have been made ready across the state at schools, marriage halls and community halls to accommodate affected people.The government has also spent Rs seven crore for flood mitigation of Adyar river, which along with Chembarambakkam lake was responsible for December 2015 floods that battered Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Officials also said that Greater Chennai Corporation started work in August by de-silting storm water drains (2,500 km drains have been constructed so far), connecting culverts and clearing encroachments along water bodies. Tamil Nadu relies on the northeast monsoon for its lakes to fill up for water requirements. The state receives an average rainfall of 444 mm between October and December. Chennai’s average is 850mm during the same period. “Including today’s rainfall Tamil Nadu has received around 110 mm and Chennai has got 350 mm,” said Pradeep John, independent weather expert and blogger. Since the northeast monsoon arrived in the region last month, Chennai received the highest single-day rainfall on October 29 “with 288mm of rainfall,” John said. “The previous record was on November 3 with 296 mm.”Early morning showers left several arterial roads in Chennai and Coimbatore water-logged causing inconvenience to commuters. The water eventually drained since the rest of the day remained dry and sunny. “Early morning there will be rainfall in the coastal areas. During evenings and nights convergence will shift towards the land in interior parts of Tamil Nadu,” John said. Chennai is expected to wake up to rain every morning for the next four days.A 24x7 control room has been created at the Ripon buildings, the seat of Chennai’s civic body, to take in complaints from public and emergency numbers have been released. Vehicles have been stationed to clear fallen trees including a team that will man the night shift. Some 570 motorpumps have been placed in low lying areas to drain water in all 15 zones of Chennai, 176 relief camps are ready with 44 medical teams. Community kitchens and Amma canteens will function to provide food for those affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-preps-to-avoid-2015-flood-like-situation-as-northeast-monsoon-intensifies/story-UAm6SU4ITDK2q1Y6djlDfJ.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cash-strapped Sabarimala to start express ‘prasad’ delivery and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesCash-strapped Sabarimala to start express ‘prasad’ deliveryTravancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs Kerala’s Sabarimala Temple, has said devotees can book the shrine’s prasad online beginning Friday for home deliveries by post. Read moreIndia will not accept any shifting of LAC, says CDS General RawatChief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector.  Read moreUP sanctions 30-day ad hoc bonus for employeesThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday sanctioned ad hoc bonus for its nearly 1.5 million employees. Read more‘He can never be MS Dhoni’: Gautam Gambhir feels Rishabh Pant ‘has a lot to improve’MS Dhoni has retired from international cricket and Team India is in search to find their next wicket-keeper batsman to represent the country. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says dad Amitabh never financed films for him: ‘On the contrary, I have produced Paa for him’Actor Abhishek Bachchan has spoken about the debate on nepotism again and how people believe he has taken help from his father, veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan, to advance in his career. Read moreMeteor 350, Royal Enfield’s most-awaited 2020 offering, launched at Rs 1.75 lakhRoyal Enfield on Friday launched the much-awaited Meteor 350 retro cruiser in the Indian market at a starting price of Rs 1.75 lakh. Read moreUS Elections 2020: Biden ahead, Trump down but not out; what next?One of the most consequential elections in the United States ever has revealed a divided country. Joe Biden is ahead, but hasn’t won in the landslide pollsters expected; Donald Trump seems down but not out, relying on legal challenges; and there remains uncertainty in key swing states. WatchIPL 2020 | ‘Bumrah and Archer would stand out in any era’: Brian LaraBrian Lara talks about aspects of T20 cricket that have caught his fancy. Find out who are the young Indian batsmen to have impressed him, while calling the game from Star Sports dugout and who he picks to lift the IPL trophy this year. Read moreAnand Mahindra lends support to initiative for Gateway of India photographersAnand Mahindra is extremely active on Twitter. Besides sharing interesting, inspiring and hilarious tweets, the business tycoon is known to respond to people who tweet to him with messages or suggestions. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cash-strapped-sabarimala-to-start-express-prasad-delivery-and-all-the-latest-news/story-86tRgbLGohiSuK8FVbJ9BO.html
06-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand high court directs government to ensure all liquor shops, bars have CCTV cameras||The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday directed the state government to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras with IP addresses at all liquors retail shops, bars, wholesale outlets within a month, and submit a compliance report. The directions came as the court was hearing a contempt petition filed in July about the government’s non-compliance with its August 2019 order regarding installation.The government on Thursday told the court that CCTV cameras with IP addresses have been set up at 110 of 553 retail outlets in the state and that a control room has been set up at the office of the excise commissioner in this regard. It added CCTV cameras of 10 out of 251 bars have been connected with the control room.The court ordered the installation of CCTV cameras after lawyer DK Joshi, who has been working for the prohibition, filed public interest litigation in 2018 seeking directions for a need to discourage liquor consumption.Joshi said the court ordered the CCTV cameras’ installation at liquor shops and bars to ensure alcohol is not sold to people under 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc/story-QmiYvweU3gJveYtvhlV9sI.html
06-11-2020||India||Kerala set to receive central funds for literacy drive after 10 years||After a gap of 10 years, Kerala is getting ready to receivethe central funds forliteracyprogrammes as the southern state is now part of the union government’s ambitious literacy drive “Padhna Likhna Abhiyan,” the reading and writing campaign.The core objective of the new scheme, envisaged as a leap forward for achieving the goal of the total literacy in the country by 2030,is to impart functional literacy and numeracy to 57 lakh non-literate and non-numerate adults in both rural and urban areas across India in the age group of 15 years and above.The Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA), the autonomous agency under the state government, said here on Friday that it was for the first time in the last 10 years that the southern state was receiving the central fund for literacy initiatives, which is a significant step after achieving 100 per cent literacy.After 2009, the union government had not granted any fund to Kerala for informal education.“Kerala is also now part of the union government’s new literacy drive “Padhna Likhna Abhiyan”. The Union Ministry of Human Resources has issued minutes in this regard. Of the total Rs 4.74 crore-worth project, the Centre will provide Rs 2.84 crore while the state government Rs 1.90 crore,”P S Sreekala, KSLMA director, said.Women, scheduled caste and tribe people and coastal dwellers would get priority under the programme which lays thrust on districts with low literacy rate.Around 1,15,000 illiterates, belonging to educationally backward districts like Wayand, Idukki, Palakkad and Malappuram, would be made literate in the first phase of the drive, KSLMA sources here said.As per the 2011 census, there were 6,12,624 illiterates in these districts and 4,27,166 of them were women.The Mission would conduct a survey and trace out these persons before implementing the programme, they said.Various continuing education programmes, implemented by the KSLM among marginalised sections of the society, have helped the southern state find a place in the central fund list, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kerala-set-to-receive-central-funds-for-literacy-drive-after-10-years/story-A6eCItygZ3gkfUfJLTX4SM.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah in Bengal: Appeasement politics is hurting state’s tradition||Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah on Friday launched a scathing attack against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal for its alleged appeasement politics, but stopped short of naming the chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led party. “The soil of Bengal has always belonged to great saints such as Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Swami Pranavananda, Thakur Ramkrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda among others. The tradition of Bengal is being hurt because of appeasement politics. I would like to urge the people of Bengal to perform their duties in a bid to help the state regain its lost glory,” Shah said after offering puja at the Dakshineshwar Temple on the outskirts of Kolkata. Shah had arrived in Bengal on Wednesday night on a two-day visit to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) organisational preparedness for the upcoming Bengal polls slated to be held in April-May next year.The former BJP chief is likely to meet Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty and address a rally of party leaders and workers before flying back to Delhi on Friday evening. Also read | BJP must win 200 seats: Amit Shah sets Bengal targetEarlier in 2015, Narendra Modi had become the first Prime Minister to visit the Dakshineswar temple. The shrine, where Hindu sage Ramkrishna Paramhansha had served as its priest for many years, attracts devotees of Goddess Kali from far and wide. The BJP has been accusing the TMC of appeasing Muslims, who account for over 30% of Bengal’s population, as a part of its vote-bank politics. In March, the BJP’s Bengal unit had tagged CM Banerjee as “anti-Hindu” in a symbolic charge sheet that was released by the party. However, the TMC had rubbished the allegations and argued that Banerjee stood for the county’s plurality as enshrined in the Constitution. “It is unbecoming of a Union minister to make such statements. He should have considered the place (Dakshineshwar Temple) from where he made the statements. He tried to malign the rich culture and tradition of Bengal by dragging the names of its icons. The public will not tolerate these statements,” said Tapas Roy, a state minister and a TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-bengal-appeasement-politics-is-hurting-state-s-tradition-says-home-minister/story-mzP4irjkHPEDHvTHQqSd1H.html
06-11-2020||India||Two Bihar ministers lose berth in Nitish government||The term of two ministers in the outgoing Nitish Kumar cabinet ended on Friday amid the hectic Bihar assembly polls. The ministers were members of the Bihar Legislative Council or the Upper House in the bicameral state legislature. Their membership had ended on May 6 and as per the rules, they could continue as ministers for another six months without getting re-elected, but that also concluded on Friday. The tenure of Neeraj Kumar, minister for information and public relations (IPR) and also the spokesperson for the ruling Janata Dal (United), and Ashok Choudhary, minister for building construction and also the working president of the JD-U, ended on Friday. A notification regarding the end of the membership of the two ministers was issued by the cabinet secretariat on Thursday, citing Article 164(4) of the Constitution. Bihar is among the seven states in the country that has a bi-cameral legislature, the 243-member assembly, or the Lower House, and the 75-member Council, or the Upper House, including 63 elected and 12 nominated members. Four seats each of graduate and teacher constituencies, including Patna, had fallen vacant on May 6. However, the elections could not be held on time due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The elections for the graduate and teacher constituencies were held on October 22, whose results will be announced on November 12, two days after the assembly poll outcome is known. Also read | Why did BJP decide to back Nitish Kumar in Bihar?Minister Kumar had contested the MLC elections as a candidate from the graduate constituency and Choudhary was nominated. The nomination to 12 seats of the Bihar Legislative Council is still in a limbo following a lack of consensus among the three constituents of the JD (U)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which has since broken ranks over a discord with CM Kumar. The new state government will nominate 12 MLCs. Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra’s tweet on Friday sparked off a political row. Mishra cited that it was unconstitutional for the two ministers to continue in the cabinet and the Governor must immediately remove them. Minister Kumar responded to the tweet and said he had a word with the Cabinet secretariat regarding the expiry of his term and “due processes are followed and department concerned has been notified” . “In Nitish Kumar’s government, due processes are followed, but some people seem to be still living in an era, where norms were conveniently bypassed. I am no longer a member of the cabinet and that is natural, as per the rules. The department concerned has been duly notified about it,” he said. However, Mishra argued that the two ministers should have resigned the day their term had ended in keeping with the constitutional propriety. “The provision of getting elected within six months is only for new ministers,” he added.The third and last phase for the remaining 78 seats in Bihar elections will be held on Saturday (November 7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bihar-ministers-lose-berth-in-nitish-government/story-aJpy6idF0VmFIdKxvZhHoJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Priyanka raises issue of irregularities in power billing in UP; demands halving of rates for farmers||Voicing concern over alleged irregularities in electricity billing in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Yogi Adityanath government to act against those responsible for it and demanded that the rate of power for farmers be halved immediately.The Congress general secretary in-charge UP also demanded that relief be given to weavers, artisans and small-scale industries in electricity consumption.In a statement, she said that there was a “terror” of rising electricity bills and of meters in the whole of UP.Noting there has been a big rise in electricity rates in the last few years, Priyanka Gandhi said that in the last eight years, the rates for rural household consumers have increased by 500 per cent, urban domestic electricity rates have risen by 84 per cent and for farmers the rates have increased by 126 per cent. She said UP has become a “laboratory” for electricity meters which have been found to run many times faster than they should. Even in houses that are locked, a bill of up to Rs seven-eight thousand is coming, she alleged.In many districts of the state, it was also seen that bills came without electricity metre being installed, she said.The public is already reeling due to price rise, the business of small enterprises has collapsed, farmers’ crops are not being sold, they are not getting help in the event of floods, hailstorms and natural disasters, crop insurance scheme has become a source of income for big companies, and in such a situation, electricity prices are constantly increasing and consumers can no longer bear the brunt of irregularities, Priyanka Gandhi said.She said that in the Covid-19 pandemic, what should have happened was that people should have been given relief by reducing the rates of electricity in a big way. Electricity bills of farmers should have been waived and weavers-artisans, small-scale industries should have been given concession in electricity bills.She demanded that the electricity rates for farmers be halved, the truth about irregularities in metering be brought to the fore, those responsible for it be punished and weavers-artisans as well as small-scale industries be given relief in electricity consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-raises-issue-of-irregularities-in-power-billing-in-up-demands-halving-of-rates-for-farmers/story-cKp9nRl8O2dk4TdFiXD6MK.html
06-11-2020||India||India will not accept any shifting of LAC, says CDS General Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector. His comments come on a day the two armies are holding talks to reduce military friction along the contested LAC. “In the overall security calculus, border confrontation, transgressions and unprovoked tactical military actions spiralling into a larger conflict cannot be discounted,” Rawat said at an event organised to mark the diamond jubilee celebrations of the National Defence College.The CDS said the situation in the Ladakh theatre was tense and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in the sector because of the Indian military’s “firm and strong” response. Rawat warned of a collusive threat from China and Pakistan. He said there was constant friction with the two nuclear-armed neighbours with whom India has fought wars and their acting in collusion posed an “omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability with the potential for escalation.” Also read | China to halt key Australian imports in sweeping retaliationDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice. The minister said peace could only be ensured through the ability to deter war. “Perhaps the most fundamental lesson that the roller coaster of the rise and fall of nations taught us was that peace cannot necessarily be achieved by a desire for peace but by the ability to deter war. Unfortunately, the mere desire to seek peace, if not reciprocated by others, does not necessarily succeed in building a harmonious environment in a world beset by conflicting ideas of security, sovereignty and national interests,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-not-accept-any-shifting-of-lac-says-cds-general-rawat/story-e7BGQGAcRZlfsRqBNNh4TK.html
06-11-2020||India||From Rajasthan to Delhi, states which have banned firecrackers this Diwali||Due to twin problems of Covid-19 and air pollution, a number of states have banned bursting of firecrackers this festive season. While some states have announced a total ban, others have only prohibited the use of “imported” firecrackers.Meanwhile, few other states are reportedly mulling a similar ban.Here’s a list of some states where firecrackers have been banned, in one form or another, this Diwali season:(1.) Rajasthan: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Monday his government has taken the decision to ban the sale and bursting of firecrackers to protect the health of Covid-19 patients, as well as to protect the public from the poisonous smoke emanating from the firecrackers. The state government has also announced a penalty of Rs 2,000 on anyone found violating the order.(2.) Odisha: A day after Rajasthan, the Odisha government, too, announced a ban on the sale of bursting firecrackers, from November 10-30. In an order, Odisha chief secretary AK Tripathy said, “Any person found violating this order shall be punished under the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other relevant laws.(3.) Sikkim: On Wednesday, the Sikkim government also announced a blanket ban on firecrackers to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the disease. “The number of cases has been on the decline and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could be hazardous for Covid-19 patients,” a notification signed by chief secretary SK Gupta said. (4.) Delhi: The national capital, which perennially witnesses toxic smog in days after Diwali, is also facing Covid-19 this time. Amid a massive surge in fresh daily infections in recent days, including record highs, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a ban on the use of all firecrackers till November 30. Also Read | Delhi bans firecrackers as air quality is now ‘severe’(5.) West Bengal: Also on Thursday, the Calcutta High Court banned the use of firecrackers in the state on Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “The court has banned the sale and use of fireworks and crackers during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja this year. There would be no immersion processions this year,” said lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee, who had filed the PIL in the court seeking orders to this effect.Also Read | Firecrackers banned during Diwali, Kali and Chhath Puja in Bengal: Court(6.) Maharashtra: Maharashtra on Friday issued guidelines for curbing the spread of Covid-19 during Diwali, urging citizens to avoid bursting crackers. However, in Mumbai, the state capital’s civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on Thursday announced it will ban bursting of firecrackers at public places in the city. The agency also warned of penalising the violators.Meanwhile, states like Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have banned the sale and distribution of “imported” firecrackers. Karnataka, on the other hand, is reported to be considering a ban on the lines of that announced by Rajasthan.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rajasthan-to-delhi-states-which-have-banned-firecrackers-this-diwali/story-oUbqM5v6daMxC3rFNJ4rJL.html
06-11-2020||India||CBI handicapped in 7 states: Here’s what it means, why it happened||Jharkhand has become the seventh non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state to withdraw the general consent that allows the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct probes in states. Here is a look at why it happened and what it means:1. The CBI’s ongoing probes will not be affected but the federal agency cannot investigate new cases in these seven states.2. The agency has been unable to register any cases at its Mumbai branch since the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government withdrew the general consent on October 21. Usually, three-to-four cases pertaining to corruption or bank frauds were registered at the agency’s Mumbai unit every month. After New Delhi, Mumbai accounts for a majority of the CBI’s cases registered annually.3. Maharashtra government’s decision came as the CBI took over the probe into alleged Television Rating Point (TRP) manipulations based on a case registered in Lucknow when the Mumbai police were investigating the matter. The state government feels the Centre was using the agency to circumvent investigations by the local police especially in the cases related to the death actor of Sushant Singh Rajput and the TRP scam.4. Other non-BJP-ruled states that have withdrawn the consent have accused the Centre of using the agency for political vendetta. They are West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala.5. The CBI expects high courts and the Supreme Court to step in as evidence is likely to be tempered with in corruption cases in the absence of registration of cases and subsequent raids.6. The withdrawal of the consent is not unprecedented but never have so many states withdrawn the consent to the federal investigating agency. 7. As per the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that governs the CBI, the agency requires prior consent to exercise its authority in states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-handicapped-in-7-states-here-s-what-it-means-why-it-happened/story-eLBkFy34eNCuylpXs5AzHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra minister urges people to avoid bursting crackers this Diwali||The Maharashtra government has banned public cultural functions during the Diwali festival and has also appealed to people to not burst firecrackers to avoid the pollution that causes respiratory ailments amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state home department issued guidelines in this respect on Thursday evening.Though the state government has not taken any decision to ban firecrackers this Diwali, it has appealed to the people to keep it cracker-free. State health minister Rajesh Tope appealed to the people to keep the celebration pollution free and has also said that the government may take a decision over banning crackers in next few days. The guidelines issued by the home department too have made an appeal on the similar lines.“The people recovered from Covid-19 infection may suffer again due to the air pollution emerging out of bursting of the crackers. To avoid it, people should restrain from bursting them. Instead, the festival of light should be celebrated by lighting diyas in big numbers,” the advisory says.The guidelines have also banned organising culture programs at public platforms. It has said that the programs, typically musical programs early morning on the first day of Diwali may be telecast through cable TV, Facebook or any other online platform. The government has also recommended organising health related events like blood donation camps, awareness programs instead of cultural events.“We have been issuing the guidelines for every big festival including Ganpati, Eid, Navratri during the Covid-19 pandemic and have banned public gathering during these festivals. Though the curve of the infection is on a descending limb, there is always a fear of a second wave of it, more so if the protocols are not followed by the people. The guidelines are part of government efforts to prevent the second wave,” said an official from the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-urges-people-to-avoid-bursting-crackers-this-diwali/story-YKdi2SrsxwdX4kDRh1dMMN.html
06-11-2020||India||J&K: Unidentified terrorist killed in gunfight in Pampore||An unidentified terrorist was killed in South Kashmir’s Pampore area in a gunfight which was still in progress at the time of filing of this report. The security forces had launched the operation in Lalpora area of Pampore on Thursday evening after terrorists opened fire on civilians. They halted the operation for the night and resumed it Friday morning.A police spokesperson confirmed the killing of one terrorist. “Terrorists fired indiscriminately in which two unknown persons got injured. Search is going on in the area,” the spokesman said late Thursday night. Also read | BSF detects trans-border tunnel in Jammu’s RS PuraOn Thursday night at Awantipora, terrorists fired upon a shopkeeper identified as Mohammad Ayoub Ahanger near Tral bus stand, grievously injuring him. He was shifted to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. In Pulwama, terrorists fired upon a driver, Mohammad Aslam Wani of Wanpora, Pulwama, leaving him injured.Wani is being treated at hospital.“Cases have been registered under relevant sections of law in PS Tral and PS Pulwama respectively. Investigation is in progress,” said the police spokesperson.DGP Dilbag Singh had said earlier that this year, around 200 terrorists have been killed in J&K, including several top commanders. Around 190 militants were killed in Kashmir alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-unidentified-terrorist-killed-in-gunfight-in-pampore/story-sEwvLlYaKeohzmgblcgTMO.html
06-11-2020||India||Trains will resume in Punjab only after blockades along tracks are removed: Railways||The Centre will resume train services in Punjab only when blockades along railway tracks are cleared, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Thursday, adding that the state government has assured that all blockades will be removed by Friday.Till Thursday evening, 14 out of 32 blockades had been removed, Yadav said. A joint team of state government officials and the director general of the Railway Protection Force was reviewing the situation in the state, he said.“We have been assured by the Punjab government that all blockades will be removed by Friday morning. 14 of 32 blockades have been removed on Thursday. We will resume all train services once the tracks come back in our control,” Yadav said at a press conference.“We (railway ministry) only have two conditions for the state government; there should be no compromise on safety, and blockades should be removed. Our maintenance teams are ready, as soon as tracks are under rail control, we will run the trains,” he added.Trains have been suspended in the state since September 24 due to the agitation over farm bills cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The state is also facing critical shortage of coal stock across power plants leading to massive power cuts due to the prolonged suspension of goods trains by the railways.Amid tussle between the Centre and the state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled or diverted.According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled or diverted, leading to losses of Rs45 crore.Earlier in the day, railway minister Piyush Goyal met a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs from Punjab seeking his intervention in resuming train services. In a letter to Goyal on behalf of the group, Ashwani Sharma, Punjab state president of the BJP, alleged that the state is literally “under siege” of the state government which is playing politics. HT has reviewed the letter.According to the Centre, all inward and outward goods transportation, including essential commodities, has adversely been affected in the northern states and Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh.“The minister assured [Punjab MPs] that Railways was ready to resume operations of the train service as soon as the state government ensures that it is fully safe to operate/ run the trains and that the tracks are fully cleared. Safety in running of trains is of Paramount importance. He further informed the MPs that officials of Railway Board have been in touch with officials of state government to seek early clearance of tracks and would continue to do the same,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-in-punjab-will-resume-only-after-blockades-are-removed-says-railways/story-0QWwNGsBpoTNv9dH1mcEOJ.html
06-11-2020||India||India records 47,638 new cases in 24 hours, total tally crosses 8.4 million||India has recorded 47,638 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, a 5 per cent fall from Thursday’s daily infection cases, health ministry data published on Friday revealed. In the last 24 hours, a total of 54,157 patients have been discharged against 47,638 new cases, marking a positive development in the fight against Covid-19. Data shows 670 people have died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours against Thursday’s figure of 704. But the fact that daily toll is again rising has become a fresh reason for concern.India’s total tally, as on Friday, stands at 84,11,724.However, the number of total active cases remains below 5 lakh. On Friday, it registered further decrease and stood at 5,20,773.Also Read: Covid-19: 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government dataOver 78 per cent of these active cases are concentrated in only 10 states and union territories. Maharashtra (21.53%), Kerala (16.12%), Delhi (7.08%), West Bengal (6.87%), Karnataka (6.76%), Chhattisgarh (4.31%), Uttar Pradesh (4.30%), Andhra Pradesh (4.06%), Tamil Nadu (3.63%), Telangana (3.53%) are contributing maximum to the active number of cases.Active Covid-19 cases are now only 6.31 per cent of the total positive cases of the country. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken increase, day on day number of recovered cases,” the health ministry has said.According to health ministry data released on Thursday, Kerala is reporting the highest number of new Covid-19 infections in the country. Maharashtra, which was at the top for months, has now come to the third position as far as new cases are concerned. Delhi has taken the second position with more than 6,000 cases being reported daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-47-638-new-cases-in-24-hours-total-tally-crosses-8-4-million/story-KpbOeOpTve8xyJR8XII1cN.html
06-11-2020||India||Former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty to be chairperson of Air Quality Commission||The Centre has notified the Commission for Air Quality Management for the National Capital Region (NCR) days after it issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against sources of air pollution across five north Indian states. The ordinance empowers the agency to make rules, set emission standards, and slap fines of up to Rs1 crore or imprison violators for up to five years.In a notification issued on Thursday, the Centre said former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty will be the Commission’s first chairperson. Kutty is also ex-secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas.In exercise of its powers under the ordinance, a selection panel under Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar’s chairmanship selected Kutty. The panel that also comprises Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Nitin Gadkari, Harsh Vardhan; and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba has named Arvind Kumar Nautiyal, joint secretary, as the Commission’s full-time member. Professor Mukesh Khare of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and KJ Ramesh, former director-general of India Meteorological Department, will be the agency’s full-time technical members. Ajay Mathur, the director-general of The Energy and Resources Institute, and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group have been selected as the Commission’s non-government members. Respective state governments will appoint the rest of the agency’s nine ex-officio members. The rules for the Commission’s functioning are yet to be formulated.Also read | ‘New body shows govt intent’: Epca bows out with grace after 22 yearsAs per the ordinance, the members of the agency have to be drawn from Union ministries, non-governmental organisations and the five states of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The ordinance was issued days after solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that the Centre will “do everything on a war footing to curb air pollution”. The Centre earlier sought time from the court to create a permanent mechanism to tackle the problem.The Commission replaces all ad hoc committees and bodies created as per court orders. They include the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Control Authority that was formed to oversee measures to check air pollution in NCR in 1998.The air quality in the national capital and across northern plains has since 2015 plunged to hazardous levels around this time of the year because of farm fires, pre-winter meteorological conditions, and festivals when more people crowd markets and use firecrackers.The Delhi government was on Thursday forced to ban the use of all firecrackers till November 30 as air pollution soared to its worst level in a year. A poisonous blanket of smog engulfed the region as the average air quality index (AQI) slipped to the “severe” category for the first time this season ahead of Diwali when firecrackers are generally used.The Commission will be a statutory authority with powers to issue directions and take up complaints. It can regulate and prohibit activities likely to cause or increase air pollution. The Commission is empowered to lay down parameters and standards. It can restrict industry, activities, processes as well as direct the closure, or prohibit any polluting activity in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas.The new mechanism brings in a completely new, centralised regime of pollution control. Appeals against any order or direction of the Commission can be made only at the National Green Tribunal. No civil court will have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings against the decisions of the Commission.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards will continue to function. But in case of a conflict, the Commission’s orders will prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-constitutes-commission-for-air-quality-management/story-cw4cAgRnYMQkiAjOgmr5TP.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt issues SOPs to contain spread of Covid-19 during Diwali||The Maharashtra government has issued a Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during Diwali celebrations and has urged the citizens to avoid bursting crackers to curb noise and air pollution.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said he favours a firecracker-free Diwali this year to reduce air pollution and prevent rise in coronavirus cases.Tope said, “We appeal to the people to have a cracker-free Diwali celebration and we are confident that the people will cooperate for overall betterment of people’s health. The smoke due to firecrackers causes discomfort to people. In the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak, we must have a cracker-free Diwali.” Maharashtra Government issues Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures to contain the spread of #COVID19 during Diwali celebrations; urges citizens to avoid bursting crackers to curb noise and air pollution. pic.twitter.com/jCYsQI40uXMaharashtra currently has the highest cases and deaths due to the contagion with maximum number of active patients in Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur,Chandrapur, Raigad and Satara. The state has recorded 16,98,198 infections till date and 44,548 fatalities since the first case on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-issues-sops-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-during-diwali/story-Iu0aXvBpyr6EHvzOuVwdlN.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Bharat Biotech candidate launch and AstraZeneca’s hopes||A worldwide search continues for a vaccine to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the global caseload of the virus is swiftly moving towards the 50 million mark, currently standing at more than 49 million, as per worldometers. The United States, the country worst-hit by the pandemic, continues to log more than 100,000 new daily cases of the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update for a Covid-19 vaccine, the launch of a vaccine candidate, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited, could take place by early next year, a senior government scientist hoped. The firm had earlier said it hoped to launch the candidate by the second quarter of 2021.Here are the latest Covid-19 vaccine updates:(1.) The launch of a Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Hyderabad-headquartered Bharat Biotech in partnership with the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), could take place by next February. This after a senior ICMR scientist told news agency Reuters that the vaccine candidate, called COVAXIN, “has shown good efficacy.” The scientist, Rajni Kant, further said, “It is expected that by the beginning of the next year, February or March, something would be available.” Last-stage trials of COVAXIN are set to begin this month.Also Read | Bharat Biotech to launch candidate in Q2 2021, Israel starts human trials(2.) British-Swedish multinational firm AstraZeneca’s CEO Pascal Soriot has said the firm hopes to prove its vaccine candidate’s effectiveness by year-end. Speaking on a conference call with analysts, Soriot said AstraZeneca would be ready to supply millions of doses of its vaccine across the world, by January. The firm is working with the University of Oxford on a vaccine candidate called ‘AZD1222,’ which is in late-stage trials in the United States.(3.) Hungary’s government has said it will start importing small quantities of Russian made Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in December for final testing and licensing. Peter Szijjarto, Hungary’s foreign minister said a Hungarian company may be able to switch from flu shot production to production of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine. Russia has agreed to supply doses of Sputnik V to both Brazil and Argentina as well.Also Read | From CureVac candidate’s immune response in humans to unwilling Russians(4.) Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday announced the country had agreed to purchase 50 million more doses of two more potential Covid-19 vaccines. While 40 million doses will be purchased from Novovax, the remaining ten million will be purchased from Pfizer and BioNTech, Morrison announced. In September, Australia had agreed to buy vaccines from AstraZeneca and CSL Limited, should the trials prove successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-bharat-biotech-looks-at-february-launch-astrazeneca-hopes-to-prove-efficacy-by-year-end/story-S3qUZgiC2TKWHUr1nMdXZN.html
06-11-2020||India||‘No cash with farmers’: BJP after Chhattisgarh delays paddy procurement||Soon after the Chhattisgarh government announced that paddy procurement in the state will start from December 1 instead of November 1, the BJP alleged that farmer organisations will suffer huge losses as the harvesting has already started 15 days ago. The state agriculture minister claimed that there was a shortage of jute sacks in the market because of Covid-19 which has caused the delay in procurement. The BJP also demanded that Congress promise to procure paddy at Rs 25,000, which is around Rs 700 above than Minimum Support Price ( MSP). It further said that the difference amount being given in four installments, should be given in one go to the farmers. “During Raman Singh’s government, the paddy procurement always started from November 1 which was beneficial for the farmers of the state since the paddy harvesting starts from mid-October. Now, since the Congress government decided to procure from December 1, where will the farmers store their paddy? Earlier, after harvesting the farmers used to directly transport paddy to the procurement centres but this time they have to store somewhere… In this process, the farmers of the state will suffer huge losses,” state BJP president Vishnu Deo Sai told Hindustan Times. Sai further said that the farmers have no money in this festive season. “If the paddy procurement would have been done early, the farmer would have had money for Diwali. They have no cash in this festive season,” he said. Notably, in the marketing year 2019-20, the Congress-run government claimed that about 83 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has been procured, which is a record since the formation of the state. In comparison to 2018-19, 2,50,000 more farmers have sold paddy in the state. About 80 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased in the state at the support price last year. In November 2019, the Congress government had decided to procure paddy at Rs 1,835 per quintal, at the rate fixed by the Centre but also said it is committed to fulfilling all the promises made to the state’s farmers. It had also said that it will find a way so that farmers get Rs 2500 per quintal. The Centre had fixed Rs 1,815 per quintal for common grade paddy and Rs 1,835 per quintal for Grade A paddy as compensation. Later, a five-member committee was constituted to study how a benefit of Rs 2,500 per quintal could be ensured to farmers. The Bhupesh Baghel government launched a scheme “ Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna” under which the difference amount will be given in four installments. Raising questions on Yojna, former minister and senior BJP leader Rajesh Munat said that Congress should make it clear whether they are giving the difference amount this time to farmers or not. “State minister Mohammad Akbar has recently said that the government will purchase paddy at MSP and has told nothing about the difference amount. The farmers of the state are confused hence the government should clear the air. Second, the last installment of Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna for 2019-20 marketing year is still pending and the government has announced the date of 2020-19…Why the money is given in installments,” said Munat. Commenting over the allegations, state agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey said that the BJP has no right to ask questions over installment since it is Congress government’s Yojna. “The BJP should ask their bosses at the Centre why it is not giving a single paisa more than MSP to the farmers of Chhattisgarh? We have made a promise to the farmers and we will fufil it by any means and BJP has no right to ask questions on installments. Second, there is a shortage of jute sacks in the market because of Covid-19, which is the reason behind the delay in procurement. We are committed to procure paddy from the farmers of the state,” Chaubey told HT. “This is a fact that the farmers of the state will suffer due to the delay in paddy procurement for one month. The harvesting has started and most of the farmers have no facility to store their produce. We have demanded that the state government fix the procurement date as November 1,” said Sanket Thakur, Convener, Chhattisgarh Kisan Mazdoor Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cash-with-farmers-bjp-after-chhattisgarh-delays-paddy-procurement/story-KJJMy77y4rQdcykKp1yh6M.html
06-11-2020||India||Over 70% children with Covid-19 are asymptomatic: AIIMS data||Almost 40% of all the persons who tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across age groups were found to be asymptomatic, as per data from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The data was presented while discussing sensitivity and use of various detection tests by the doctors at the recent National Grand Rounds, a virtual platform for doctors across the country to discuss recent trends and issues in Covid-19 management. With 73.5%, the highest proportion of asymptomatic cases was reported among children below the age of 12. The proportion decreased linearly with age, with only 38.4% of the cases among those above the age of 80 being asymptomatic. “This is the data from our centre. The relevance comes in when we question the validity of an RT PCR test. As there are no symptoms in many of the patients, we do not come to know on which day we are sampling them,” said Dr Urvashi Singh, professor, department of microbiology at AIIMS. Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government dataThe data from the centre showed that the most common symptoms of Covid-19 were fever, fatigue, and loss of smell. While reviewing the current detection tests available in the market, the doctors said CBNAAT or TrueNat – which are cartridge- or chip-based quick molecular tests – are beneficial in semi-emergent patients. “In cases of emergency, one should proceed thinking that the person is positive and take all the precautions. However, in case of semi-emergency, CBNAAT and TrueNat are good tests that can give accurate results quickly and can help in deciding whether a surgery should be performed at the Covid-19 centre,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. The doctors also added that there were benefits of the less sensitive rapid antigen test as it can quickly help in screening a positive person in the hospital emergency and allow swift treatment, like in the case of a 65-year-old who came in with sepsis to the hospital. “The Rapid Antigen Test is a good tool for screening and early diagnosis that can help in triaging patients in the emergency and allow rapid management. This is especially true in the low resource setting centre,” said Dr Pawan Tiwari, assistant professor in the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. The Indian Council of Medical Research recommends molecular tests as the preferred method in hospital settings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-children-with-covid-19-are-asymptomatic-aiims-data/story-mzriSeKVih4G6cRuom8mCO.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Commercial activity on, UP records spike in cases||There has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh with Lucknow reporting a 48.92% increase in the number of infections over the past week. Lucknow has reported the maximum--64,311--cases in the state with a positivity rate of 7.30%.Dr PK Gupta, a former president of Indian Medical Association (Lucknow), said there is no second wave of the infections yet but fast multiplication of cases can lead to problems.In Meerut, the daily Covid-19 cases plummeted to 81 on October 17, but the numbers have since been rising. The city reported 175 cases on November 3, which marked a 48.28% rise in the infections. Gautam Buddh Nagar reported a 44.54% rise in the infections on November 3 with 339 fresh cases.Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government data“Multiplication [of cases] will depend upon the number of people in crowds. Hence densely populated pockets in all the cities need focus,” said Prof Kauser Usman of Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University.Association of International Doctors secretary general Dr Abhishek Shukla, said the commercial activity is on and hotels, markets, shops have reopened and that is why the chances of spread of infection too are high. “People need to strictly wear masks and follow social distancing. But this is hardly seen.”On an average, Uttar Pradesh is reporting around 2,000 fresh cases daily. The state has so far reported 489,502 cases and 7,104 deaths. In Lucknow, 11 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday, taking the death toll to 905.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-commercial-activity-on-up-records-spike-in-cases/story-soiVUSF3NUVtLmKyhpF2SM.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protesters and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesUP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protestersThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday declared 14 anti-citizenship law and National register of Citizens protesters as absconders and announced cash rewards for their arrest. Eight of these protesters were declared wanted under Gangster Act and notices were pasted outside their houses. Read MorePower sector imports from China to face drastic cuts under new Atmanirbhar Bharat planThe power ministry is set to establish three manufacturing hubs all over the country to produce critical energy and transmission equipment, which is currently fully imported from other countries including China, under the Atmanirbhar Bharat plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read More‘Have decisively won but there was polling interference from big media, big tech’, says US President TrumpUS President Donald Trump on Friday alleged that there was election interference from ‘big media and big tech’ and said that he has won decisively while addressing Americans from the White House. Donald Trump alleged that if the legal votes were counted then he is the winner. He alleged that there was voter fraud and said Democrats ensured that votes that were cast for Donald Trump remain uncounted. Read MoreBentley ultra luxury cars to go electric, roaring 12-cylinder engines to retireBentley Motors Ltd. will ax the roaring 12-cylinder combustion engines that shaped much of the British luxury-car maker’s 100-year history to focus on electric vehicles, the latest seismic automotive shift driven by stricter emissions rules. Read MoreWhatsApp Pay now available to all users in IndiaWhatsApp finally received the approval to launch its UPI-based payment system in India after running it in beta for over two years. The Facebook-owned company has now announced WhatsApp Pay is available to all users on Android and iOS in India. Read MoreIPL 2020, DC vs MI: 4 overs, 14 runs, 1 maiden, 4 wickets – Bumrah registers best T20 bowling figures to maul Delhi CapitalsJasprit Bumrah wreaked havoc in Dubai as Mumbai Indians thumped Delhi Capitals by 57 runs to storm into the final of Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020. The Indian speedster registered his best-ever bowling figures in T20 cricket, guiding Rohit Sharma& Co to a clinical win in the first qualifier on Thursday night. Read MoreAnushka Sharma showers Virat Kohli with love and kisses on his birthday. See picsActor Anushka Sharma shared a couple of cute and romantic pictures with cricketer husband Virat Kohli late on Thursday in celebration of his birthday. The couple is away in Dubai as Virat is currently busy with IPL 2020. Anushka is pregnant with her first child with the Indian skipper. Read MoreIndia conducts joint service exercise in Andaman and Nicobar IslandsThe Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) conducted a three-day joint services exercise code-named ‘Bull Strike’ at the remotely located Teressa Island, military officials said on Thursday. The drill began on Tuesday and ended on Thursday and saw participation from three service components of the ANC, elements of Indian Army’s Parachute Brigade, MARCOS (Marine Commando Force), and Special Forces, officials said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-announces-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-absconding-anti-caa-nrc-protesters-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6hjBKxBwdIuuJrqZMaEn8L.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows govt data||Active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country have dipped further, with 27 states having less than 20,000 active cases currently, shows data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The states with less than 20,000 active cases include Tamil Nadu with 19,154 active cases, Telangana with 18,656 active cases, Rajasthan having 16, 323 cases, and Haryana reporting 14, 110 active cases.A majority of the active cases are limited to just 10 states that account for 78% of the total active cases in the country. The states are Maharashtra with 21.53% disease burden, Kerala (16.12%), Delhi (7.08%), West Bengal (6.87%), Karnataka (6.76%), Chhattisgarh (4.31%), Uttar Pradesh (4.30%), Andhra Pradesh (4.06%), Tamil Nadu (3.63%) and Telangana (3.53%).Also read | Plan gone haywire, Delhi may soon be ‘coronavirus capital’, says HCMaharashtra, Kerala, Delhi and West Bengal together account for more than 51% of the active cases.“The active cases have been less than 600,000 for the last seven consecutive day and stand at 527,962 currently. The active cases are now only 6.31% of the total positive cases in the country,” said Union health ministry in a statement.Country’s total active cases, which is the actual disease case load, has been steadily declining. A couple of months ago, on September 3, active cases were 21.16% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country. The case load dropped to 20.08% on September 15, 15.11% on September 30, 11.12% on October 15 and now stands at 6.31%. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken increase, day on day number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases stand at 7,711,809. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has reached nearly 7.2 million (71,83,847). The national recovery rate has further improved to 92.20%,” said the health ministry statement.As high as 82% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories. Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have contributed the maximum to the single day recoveries with more than 8,000 recoveries. They together account for more than 45% of the new recovered cases, according to the government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-27-states-account-for-less-than-20-000-active-cases-shows-government-data/story-IsrQEZC0tS14Cv9LRJCxdP.html
06-11-2020||India||UP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protesters||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday declared 14 anti-citizenship law and National register of Citizens protesters as absconders and announced cash rewards for their arrest.Eight of these protesters were declared wanted under Gangster Act and notices were pasted outside their houses.The accused were charged with arson, spreading communal disharmony and causing damage to public properties during the anti-CAA, NRC protest in Lucknow that turned violent. The accused included Shia cleric Maulana Saif Abbas.The administration also pasted pictures of the accused at many places across the old city area and near Imambara.More than 40 people, including social workers and a retired IPS officer, were arrested following the violent protests in Lucknow in December last year in which one person was killed.The new citizenship law amends the Citizenship Act, 1955, to make people from Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Christian and Parsi faiths who entered India from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan eligible for citizenship.In Assam, many groups feel that the amended citizenship law will nullify the 1985 Assam Accord, which fixed March 24, 1971 as the cut-off date for deportation of all illegal immigrants irrespective of religion. Activists say that the NRC process was aimed against all illegal immigrants and the citizenship law will selectively benefit non-Muslim migrants into Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-announces-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-absconding-anti-caa-nrc-protesters/story-mBsPGgIzu0q4kxSSKCLcZO.html
06-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami spends another night in custody. Where the case stands now||After the Bombay high court posted the hearing of Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea to Friday, the 47-year-old journalist spent another night at Alibag Nagar Parishad School, designated as a Covid-19 centre of the prison. Before shifting him to the main jail, in case his bail plea is not granted, he will be tested for Covid-19. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his Lower Parel house in Mumbai and was then taken to Alibag in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. Designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died of suicide and named Goswami as one of the three people who didn’t pay dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore.Here’s where the case stands1. The Bombay high court heard the case on Thursday and posted it for today as they wanted Anvay Naik’s wife Akshata Naik as a respondent. Maharashtra government and Akshata Naik are the respondents in the case.2. On Thursday, the Alibag police moved a revision application to sessions court seeking quashing of the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s earlier order (in which Goswami was remanded to judicial custody) and the police custody of Goswami. But there are chances that Goswami might get interim relief today.3. At present, there is no bail plea before the Alibag court as Goswami’s counsel Abad Ponda said the bail plea has been withdrawn. As the case now lies with the sessions court, the plea has been withdrawn.4. Goswami is in judicial custody till November 18.5. The police filed the revision application after Chief Judicial Magistrate Sunaina Pingle on Wednesday night denied police custody and termed the arrest ‘prima facie illegal’. Police, in its revision application, said the magistrates court had “erred in not considering the submissions and grounds submitted by the prosecution” while seeking custody of Goswami and the two other arrested accused.The Alibag magistrate court denied police custody and raised two issues.* Did Kumodini (Anvay’s mother) die by suicide? There is no clear answer to this by the prosecution. The police have been unable to establish a link between the deaths of Kumodini Naik and Anvay Naik and the three arrested accused, the court said.*The police have not been able to specifically point out the so-called lacunae in the probe done by the previous police team in 2018, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-spends-another-night-in-custody-where-the-case-stands-now/story-itdZEP1VFPAgxcF0g4IzuM.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic is the most catastrophic event after WWII: Shringla||The ongoing coronavirus pandemic is the most catastrophic event after the Second World War, said Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on Thursday, adding that it was inevitable that the people were going to experience a different world in the post-pandemic era. While speaking on the topic ‘Leveraging Strategic Autonomy in a Turbulent World; at the Diamond Jubilee Seminar of the National Defence College, Shringla said: “The Covid-19 pandemic is the most catastrophic event after the 2nd World War. It is therefore inevitable that we will experience a different world in the post-pandemic era. We are in the midst of trying to cope with the new reality of going virtual in our day to day life. At the international level, it has uncovered the vulnerabilities of nations and showed us the real manifestation of the practice of international relations.”He said that while there was a strong intent to cooperate, the need to retain ‘strategic autonomy’ was greater, and the last few months had been an attempt to deal with the domestic situation and look for ways to cooperate.The Foreign Secretary further mentioned that the global economic fallout of the pandemic was going to be a challenge in times to come.“As we saw during the 2008 global recession, economic setbacks of this magnitude require a carefully deliberated approach. The breakdown of the global supply chains has, perhaps for the first time, led us to think and explore alternative possibilities. India’s view has been to look at this challenge not as a constraint but as an opportunity for our economy as well as for rebalancing in the international system,” he added.Shringla also highlighted India’s ‘proactive domestic response’ in dealing with the pandemic, giving details about the expansion of capacity in the healthcare sector, also channelling of India’s public resources to the critical sector for the development of hospitals, emergency rooms, provision of equipment and supplies and training of healthcare professionals, and the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan and its stimulus packages introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“India has played a leading role in initiating and encouraging global conversations on evolving a coordinated response to the pandemic. Further, living up to the teaching of “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam” (the whole world is one family), India played an instrumental role in enhancing global health security by ensuring the supply of essential medicines even while meeting its own domestic requirements,” he said.“We provided medical supplies, in the form of essential drugs, test kits, protection gear, etc. to over 150 countries, and are extending medical assistance under grants-in-aid to over 80 countries; we sent rapid response medical teams to help Maldives, Kuwait, Mauritius, and Comoros deal with the pandemic; and we dispatched naval assets to deliver Covid related assistance to Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles. We have also successfully brought back over 1.8 million Indian nationals stranded abroad due to Covid-19 pandemic under the Vande Bharat Mission,” added the Foreign Secretary.In his address, Shringla talked about various topics, including India’s global engagements, its membership of the UN Security Council next year, its position as a ‘net security provider’ in the extended neighbourhood among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-is-the-most-catastrophic-event-after-wwii-shringla/story-oYPH6ndPgpci1qvpoEXrwO.html
06-11-2020||India||Govt eases guidelines for BPOs, norms to facilitate ‘Work From Home’||The government on Thursday announced simplified guidelines for BPOs and ITES companies to reduce the compliance burden on them and to facilitate ‘Work From Home’ and ‘Work From Anywhere’ framework. The new rules for Other Service Providers (OSPs) seek to create a friendly regime for ‘Work from Home’ and ‘Work from Anywhere’, while removing frequent reporting obligations for such companies, according to an official release. The move assumes significance as the industry had been asking for relaxations for ‘Work From Home’ to continue on a permanent basis as the sector moves towards a blended working model in the post-Covid-19 era. Put simply, OSPs are entities providing applications services, IT enabled services or any kind of outsourcing services using telecom resources. The term refers to Business Process Outsourcing (BPOs), Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPOs), IT Enabled Services (ITES) players, call centres, amongst others. The detailed guidelines issued by the Telecom Department on Thursday said that the concept of ‘Work From Home’ will be encouraged and that “work from home has been extended to provide Work-From-Anywhere in India”. This facility of extended agent/Remote Agent Position (that is ‘Work From Home/Anywhere’) is permitted with certain conditions, it said, adding that agents at home shall be treated as ‘Remote Agents’ of the OSP Centre and interconnection is permitted. “The Remote Agent is also allowed to work from any place within India...OSP shall be responsible for any violation related to toll-bypass,” it added. Over the past few months, the government has taken various measures to facilitate work from home. It had earlier extended connectivity norms for remote working in IT and BPO companies till December 31. The official release on Thursday said that several requirements which prevented companies from adopting ‘Work from Home’ and ‘Work from Anywhere’ policies have now been removed, while additional dispensations to enhance flexibility for the industry have been allowed. Lauding the move, industry body Nasscom said, “Access to remote working will give our industry an epic boost and significantly expand access to talent, increase job creation, catapult Indian IT and BPM to the next level of growth and innovation, thereby making India a global tech hub”. Nasscom termed the overall regulatory changes as “bold reforms” for ITES/BPO players. The government statement said that the new framework will provide a strong impetus to India’s industry and will make India one of the most competitive IT jurisdictions in the world. Notably, the new rules do away with the registration requirement for OSPs, while the BPO industry engaged in data related work has been taken out of the ambit of the said regulations. Under the revamped guidelines, requirements such as deposit of bank guarantees, requirement for static IPs, frequent reporting obligations, publication of network diagram, and penal provisions have also been removed. The release further said that the new guidelines are aimed at removing “unnecessary bureaucratic restrictions” in order to allow the industry to focus on innovative new products and solutions. “India’s IT sector is our pride. The prowess of this sector is recognised globally. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure a conducive environment for growth and innovation in India. Today’s decisions will especially encourage young talent in the sector!,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Nasscom, in its statement, said the new guidelines will tremendously reduce the compliance burden of the business process management (BPM) industry. “It is extremely heartening to see the government’s commitment towards Ease of Doing Business, and its focus towards IT-BPM industry’s sustainable future,” Nasscom said. The government said the latest reform reflects its strong support to the IT industry, with a view to encourage increased investment in the sector. “The reform will certainly unleash the potential of our talented youth by making India as a preferred destination for Information and Knowledge Outsourcing Industry and would further the vision of ‘AtmaNirbhar Bharat’,” the release added. Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted, “Today @narendramodi Govt has taken a major reform initiative to liberalize the regulatory regime for “Other Service Provider”. This will boost the IT/ ITeS/ BPO industry and create a friendly regime for Work from Home in India.” Nasscom Senior Director and Public Policy Head Ashish Aggarwal said India is a global outsourcing hub and the new guidelines will promote outsourcing at scale, bringing in more work to India. “With the relaxations in WFH (Work From Home) regulations, companies will be able to tap into talent from small towns and remote parts of the country,” Aggarwal said, adding that the new guidelines offer further clarity and will bring in ease of doing business. WNS Group CEO Keshav Murugesh tweeted that this “brilliant step” will catapult Indian IT and BPM to the next level of growth, global impact, job creation and development of small towns and cities in tier III and IV locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eases-guidelines-for-bpos-norms-to-facilitate-work-from-home/story-gMViJVb15Hudd7KeJFxWgK.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah has lunch at house of tribal BJP worker in Bengal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday had lunch at the house of a tribal BJP worker in Chaturdihi village in Bankura district.It was a vegetarian platter of Bengali delicacies, served on a plate with a banana leaf on it.Sitting on the floor of Bibhishan Hansda’s house, Shah had rice, roti, dal, ‘patol bhaja’ (pointed gourd fry), ‘shukto’ (mixed veg stew which is slightly bitter), ‘alu- posto’ (potato cooked in poppy seed paste), and ‘papad’.Although sweets such as ‘rosogolla’, ‘sandesh’ and ‘mishti doi’ were there in the menu, the BJP leader declined to have those desserts.Watch: Amit Shah meets tribal BJP worker’s family in West Bengal, shares lunch Shah was accompanied by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvergiya, BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and state party chief Dilip Ghosh.After lunch, Shah sat on a charpoy and had a brief interaction with the family members and local people who had earlier accorded him a warm welcome. They blew conch shells and beat the drums as he negotiated a narrow muddy road in the village to reach Hansda’s house.Hansda said that it was an honour for him to host Shah and this would be one of the most memorable days in his life.Shah, who is on a two-day tour to the state, arrived in Bankura this morning to take stock of the party’s organisation in the district. The assembly election is likely to be held in the state in April-May next year. Shah is scheduled to hold organisational meetings in the district and meet representatives of various communities and social groups.Bankura, dominated by tribal and backward communities, is one of the several districts where the BJP had made deep inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. It bagged both the parliamentary seats in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-has-lunch-at-house-of-tribal-bjp-worker-in-bengal/story-uThMfXquMNJq9IAtr8lk5H.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: Stein’s shadow games||Look carefully. The building is changing with the progress of the day. The roof expands as the sun moves. You feel its gradual shifting. The outer edges seem to free themselves from the concrete, and to stretch out.This has to be one of the most wondrous architectures in Delhi. Although the building houses a popular institution, who is aware of this particular magical feature?Of course, every artistic Delhiite has been to Triveni Kala Sangam at least once in her lifetime—if not to see exhibitions or enrol in classical music classes, then to dine at the atmospheric Triveni Tea Terrace. It is one of the capital’s earliest Stein buildings, designed by the great American architect Joseph Stein, circa 1957.Like most garden buildings by Stein, Triveni’s brick-and-mortar subtly strives to fuse with trees and grass. Flowers and vines spill about the walls, which are often a gossamer web of jaalis (perforated stone), whose narrow openings let the daylight sneak in like a secret lover. The entire space is designed so poetically that it enables lights and shadows to entwine into each other in most harmonious patterns. Of course, you see such sublime interplay in Delhi’s other Stein landmarks, too, such as the India International Centre.But it is on stepping on the rarely visited first landing in Triveni that one encounters the astonishing surreality of Stein’s art. Initially, the terrace appears deceptively simple—just an open-air expanse with a strange structure at the centre: a mere roof supported by two pillars. But the roof in question is made of narrow slabs that let the sky percolate through them. The sunlight thus creates a geometric web on the terrace floor, that expands and contracts with the passing of hours.This afternoon, the rectangles of light and pillars of shadows have spread out to the entire floor—the climax of the composition, one would say. The yard is totally bare except for a few flower pots. This scarcity of material elements focuses the viewer’s entire attention to this lovemaking between light and shadows. The minimalism is so grand it ceases to be minimalist. It’s magic.While down there, you can see the usual crowd milling about in the galleries and the cafe (a sight so normal in pre-corona days), totally oblivious to the stunning show underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-stein-s-shadow-games/story-caHxQg2KcDyUvBL8zyqp1M.html
06-11-2020||India||Odisha: Two-day joint coastal security exercise ‘Sagar Kavach’ begins||A two-day joint coastal security exercise, “Sagar Kavach” was launched at Paradip Coast here on Thursday.The exercise is being carried out by a joint effort of the state of Odisha and West Bengal governments. More than 10 such departments, including the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard, the Odisha Police, the local fishermen, the forest department, and the port marine department, have joined the joint exercise.The exercise will be held for two days on November 5 and 6.The main purpose of the exercise is to carry out the exercise on the coast of Paradip this year, just like every year after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks. The exercise is being carried out to prevent a repeat of the Mumbai attacks by sea. It will run for two days, with red and green forces being formed to infiltrate and prevent attacks. This year for coastal security the exercise was named “Sagar Kavach”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-two-day-joint-coastal-security-exercise-sagar-kavach-begins/story-sM818jn69d3hWj1GeKNF4L.html
06-11-2020||India||Will enact laws on interfaith marriage, cow slaughter: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the government would bring in laws on interfaith marriage and against cow slaughter in the state. The CM said that women were being lured to convert in the name of love and that strong steps would be taken to enact a law to prevent this. “We are discussing with our party leaders as well as with officials to put in place an effective law to prevent such instances,” he said.To be sure, religious conversion is protected by law and is a state subject. While a bunch of states already have laws in place that make conversion through inducement,or deception an offence that invites a jail term, the RSS and a few BJP-ruled states want laws that specifically deal with conversion through interfaith marriage. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi in a tweet had recently said that on lines of Allahabad HC’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. The CM also pointed out that an anti-cow slaughter law implemented by the BJP government in 2008 had been repealed by the subsequent Congress government. “This time we will bring an even more stronger anti-cow slaughter law.” He however did not indicate a timeline on when these laws would be implemented but said it would be done ‘soon.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-enact-laws-on-interfaith-marriage-cow-slaughter-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa/story-KXCpSKb3QUJ5vP7cFA0q5O.html
06-11-2020||India||Power sector imports from China to face drastic cuts under new Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan||The power ministry is set to establish three manufacturing hubs all over the country to produce critical energy and transmission equipment, which is currently fully imported from other countries including China, under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.According to authoritative government officials, the Indian power sector in 2018-2019 imported Rs 71,000 crore of equipment, of which Rs 21,235 crore came from China, according to the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence (DGCI). While the government has managed to push down imports from China, the numbers are still humongous considering that a several of these equipment were being manufactured in India. Yearly Chinese imports in the power sector have been worth Rs 17,289 crore (2009-2010); Rs 22,114 crore (2010-2011); Rs 34,000 crore (2011-2012); Rs 29,062 crore (2012-2013); Rs 22,679 crore (2013-2014); Rs 19,658 crore (2014-2015); Rs 19,301 crore (2015-2016); Rs 19,757 crore (2016-2017), and Rs 19,682 crore (2017-2018).In order to be self-reliant and cut down imports, particularly from China, the ministry has prepared two lists. The first or the mandatory list has 239 items in which India has zero capacity to manufacture and, hence, must rely on imports till such time the manufacturing hubs come up. The second or the embargo list contains 95 items which are being imported by the power sector despite being manufactured in India. It has been decided that no power sector company, PSU or private, will be allowed to import items on the embargo list. Both these lists will be annexures with the Aatmanirbhar Bharat policy. While the Centre will ask states to bid for manufacturing hubs for the mandatory items, it plans to give budgetary grants for creation of common infrastructure in these hubs including 24x7 water, power, roads and common testing facilities. A special purpose vehicle will be created for these hubs, which are expected to be set up in the next three to four years. The power ministry has already informed major PSUs such as NTPC, NHPC, PGCI and power sector associations about their plans to limit imports to the minimum and enhance domestic capacities. The ministry has also decided to not only prepare its own designated laboratories for testing of imported power equipment but also coin own references and protocols for other countries. This is being done to ensure that imported equipment does not contain malware that gets activated by the country where the equipment was manufactured in times of a national security crisis. Cyber attacks through activating embedded malware by country from where the power equipment was imported can lead to crippling of Indian power grid in adverse times, experts say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-ministry-to-set-up-manufacturing-hubs/story-y5XEWzVIZ80XZBkHRvcMrI.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Wednesday evening, as the haze enveloped Delhi, it was clear that Thursday would be bad. Sure enough, the Capital woke up to proper smog on Thursday (the smog did make things warmer from the premature chill that’s settled in over the northern plains). As this column – the 199th instalment of what began on March 19 – is being written in the late morning of Thursday, the light has become better, the sun is out, but the air quality is still bad according to the Sameer app (AQI 472). That AQI level corresponds to what is called “severe” air quality. It’s nothing new for Delhi, of course, but it’s still bad, and likely to get worse.At this stage, I’d like to reassure regular readers of this column whose eyes are flipping back to the headline that this is still a daily dispatch on what you need to know about Covid-19 today, not one on what you need to know about Delhi’s bad air today. There are two reasons why I began with the pollution.AIR POLLUTION AND COVIDDelhi’s first official “severe” AQI day this season is inopportunely timed – it comes shortly after a study published in a respected journal found that sustained exposure to bad air – specifically PM 2.5 particulate matter – has a direct correlation with Covid-19 mortality rates.The first is that Delhi’s first official “severe” AQI day this season is inopportunely timed – it comes shortly after the respected journal Science Advances published a paper titled “Air Pollution and Covid-19 mortality in the United States: Strengths and limitations of an ecological regression analysis”. According to Francesca Dominici of Harvard University, and other authors, sustained exposure to bad air – specifically PM 2.5 particulate matter, with a diameter less than 2.5 microns – has a direct correlation with Covid-19 mortality rates. This is the point at which deniers are likely to wonder how the researchers managed to arrive at this conclusion given the recency of Covid-19, and the fact that the effects of exposure to bad air are, much like the effects of smoking, likely to set in over time. The researchers got around this by using an ecological regression analysis of “historical exposure to PM 2.5” and Covid-19 mortality rates. RELEVANCE FOR DELHIAccording to the study, an increase of one microgram per cubic metre “in the long term average of PM 2.5 is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the country’s Covid-19 mortality rate”. That’s bad news for Delhi, where Covid-19 cases are on the rise again. The paper, however, only seeks to establish a link between bad air and Covid-19 mortality; it did not study linkages between incidence of the disease and bad air.Shorn of jargon, this meant taking average PM 2.5 concentrations for a long period of time (the researchers took daily data for 16 years) and saw what impact this has on Covid-19 death rates across US counties. They used what is called a negative binomial mixed model for this. They also adjusted their analysis for other factors, including population density, poverty, education, and weather. While admitting that their study can’t “adjust for individual level risk factors”, they suggest that it can be improved by incorporating “individual-level” data.The study found that an increase of one microgram per cubic metre “in the long term average of PM 2.5 is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the country’s Covid-19 mortality rate”. That’s bad news for Delhi, where Covid-19 cases are on the rise (again). There are other studies, including some peer reviewed ones from Europe that previously established the link between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality, but none followed as rigorous a methodology as the Harvard one. And none established as strong a correlation.To be sure, the study only seeks to establish a link between bad air and Covid-19 mortality; it did not study linkages between incidence of the disease and bad air – which means that there is no basis for claiming that there is a relationship between Delhi’s air pollution and the spike in case numbers (although there may well be one).The second reason is that there is a great deal of similarity in how India and Indians have dealt with the two health crises, air pollution and Covid-19.Understanding and responding to both requires a fundamental belief in, and respect for science and data, something that hasn’t always been evident. And successfully managing both requires, at least in part, behavioural change, where, again, everyone concerned (from administrations down to all of us, the people) has been found wanting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-6hBUWMmnQw3Y93Bh3yfuBO.html
06-11-2020||India||Jagan govt to take up land survey in Andhra from January 1||The Andhra Pradesh government will launch a comprehensive survey of all lands in the state in an attempt to identify genuine land owners, provide them permanent land rights, eliminate encroachments and put an end to all land disputes. A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting held in the secretariat on Thursday. Named as “‘YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku-Bhoomi Rakshana,” the comprehensive land survey will take off from January 1. “Every inch of the land in the State will be resurveyed using the latest technology involving drones, 4,500 survey teams and 15,000 surveyors with an estimated expenditure of about Rs 1000 crore,” state agriculture minister K Kanna Babu told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He said the state government would mark the boundaries and issue passbooks to land owners. It would set up a mobile court to resolve the land disputes on the spot. “Such a survey is overdue and is being held in the state after a gap of over 100 years,” the minister said. The cabinet also approved a new sand policy which is aimed at outsourcing sand excavation, storage and sale of sand to the end users. The minister said the government would first offer sand excavation, storage and sale to central public undertakings like National Mineral Development Corporation. “Discussions are being held with eight central public sector undertakings, including NMDC,” he said. If these central government undertakings do not come forward for sand mining, it would be entrusted to private parties that have technical expertise, efficiency and financial strength through open auction in a transparent manner. Kanna Babu said users could directly go to the sand reaches and transport sand using their own vehicles without any additional cost. The tenders have been sorted into three groups with three districts in each group, where separate tenders will be called for each group. The government shall fix the prices for buying at the reach and for door delivery based on the distance while sand can be booked both online and offline, it said. The cabinet also approved the construction of Integrated Data Centre, Integrated IT and Business Park, Recreation Centre and Skill Development University in Visakhapatnam with Rs 14,630 crore and the project will be taken up by Adani Group. The cabinet approved the land allocation to 16 new medical colleges in various districts, provision of loans to the extent of Rs 1,362 crore to self-help group women for setting up dairy units and door delivery of fine rice under public distribution system directly to the consumers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-to-take-up-land-survey-in-andhra-from-january-1/story-8sC4ZC40iHryaeTSMCT9EM.html
06-11-2020||India||Only 78% funds for migrant scheme used||The Union government’s special mission to provide jobs for migrant workers has been able to spend around 78% or Rs 38,921 crore out of its kitty of Rs 50,000 crore, triggering a debate if a large number of beneficiaries had returned to cities and let go of the scheme. The latest data on the scheme, Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, also shows that it generated 473 million days of work, mostly in construction-related activities. As millions of migrant workers left cities after the Covid pandemic triggered a federal lockdown, the government announced in June that it will frontload funds in 25 ongoing schemes and the “focused campaign” will run in mission mode for 125 days across 116 districts in six states to help migrant workers get jobs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi kick-started the mission from Bihar on June 20. The state had received the largest number of migrant workers—3 million—since the pandemic swept through India, leaving daily-wagers jobless in big cities. “In 125 days, nearly 25 schemes will be brought together to reach saturation. These will include Pradhan Mantri awas yojna, gram sadak yojna, jal Jeevan yojna, PM gram sadk yojna, etc,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the press conference, announcing the mission. The latest data showed that of the 25 schemes, the rural housing programme (PMAY-G) has seen the largest number or 475,692 projects, followed by 156,211 water conservation and harvesting works and 92,158 projects on laying of fibre optic cables under Bharat Net. To be sure, the progress report of the scheme would overlap with the outcome data of individual schemes as the nature of this mission was to create a special basket of jobs out of existing programmes. Thus, the jobs generated under rural housing scheme would also reflect as the MGNREGS persondays as the latter allows beneficiaries to work for 90 days to construct PMAY houses. The government also stated that “objectives of this 125 days Abhiyaan, with a resource envelop of Rs 50,000 crore” are to “provide livelihood opportunities to returning migrants and similarly affected rural citizens, saturate villages with public infrastructure - Anganwadis, Panchayat Bhawans, Community Sanitary Complexes etc” and “Set stage for enhancing longer term livelihood opportunities”. “I think surveys and anecdotal evidence have shown that a large number of migrant workers returned to the cities. The MGNREGS figures too, show that demand for work has fallen. In these circumstances there is enough reason to conclude that there is a drop in demand for the scheme. But I must also add that it was a good decision and the provisioning was also good. At that time, when migrants were desperately returning to their villages, people wanted something to cling on,” said former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra. While anecdotal accounts support the view that a lot of migrants have gone back to the cities, high frequency indicators on employment suggest that the urban job market might not have recovered from the pandemic’s economic shock. The latest (September) RBI consumer confidence survey shows that perception on current employment in cities continued to deteriorate. Even though the Purchasing Managers’ Index for both manufacturing and services entered the expansion zone in October, enterprises continued to report a decline in employment. (With inputs from Roshan Kishore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-78-funds-for-migrant-scheme-used/story-at3kgspSP8MMY2wttGNMXM.html
06-11-2020||India||Rajasthan opts for Centre’s borrowing plan to meet GST shortfall||The Congress-rules Rajasthan became the 25th member of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council to accept the Centre’s option of borrowing a total of Rs 1.1 lakh crore (by all members) to meet part of the GST revenue shortfall in 2020-21, the Union finance ministry said on Thursday.“Rajasthan has also opted for the special borrowing window under Option-1 on the issue of meeting the GST compensation cess shortfall. The payment of back-to-back loan to Rajasthan will be made available soon,” a finance ministry spokesperson said. According to a finance ministry statement on Monday, union territory (UT) of Puducherry also accepted the Centre’s borrowing option of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. Now the number of dissenting states and UTs has reduced to six, he said: Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal. These states want the centre to borrow the entire estimated Rs 2.35 lakh crore revenue shortfall and compensate them unconditionally. At the 41st GST Council on August 27, the Union government gave two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either principal or interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore (this amount was later raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore) to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they chose the second option of borrowing Rs 2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfall due to the implementation issues as well as Covid-19. Initially 10 GST members objected and insisted the entire borrowing would have to be done by the Centre without imposing any direct interest burden on states. Later, Tamil Nadu and Delhi accepted the first option. Although, the Kerala government softened its stand after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to states on October 15 that the central government would borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore from the market on behalf of states and pass the same as a loan to them, it is yet to formally accept the Union government’s proposal.Before Puducherry and Rajasthan signed up for the first borrowing option, 21 states and two 2UTs had accepted the Centre’s proposals. They were -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir (UT) and Delhi (UT).The finance ministry has already completed two tranches of borrowing, of Rs. 6,000 crore each through the special window of Reserve Bank of India, and the amount has been distributed to states and UTs as are per their entitlement on October 26 and November 2.In the first tranch of borrowing, Rs. 6,000 crore was released to 16 states and 2 UTs as per their entitlement at an interest rate of 5.19% while in the second trench, an amount of Rs. 6,000 has been given to 16 states and three UTs at an interest rate of 4.42%.“The loan amount in lieu of GST Compensation Cess releases has been passed on back-to-back basis to the states, namely - Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and UTs, namely - NCT of Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry, at the same interest rate, which is lower than the cost of borrowings for the States and UTs,” the spokesperson said.MS Mani, a partner at consulting firm Deloitte India said both the Centre and states have worked together to resolve most of the differences, which is the spirit of the GST regime. “This development is a reaffirmation of the spirit of cooperative federalism demonstrated by the States and Centre since the introduction of GST. Considering the surge in GST collections since the past two months, it would now be even more reassuring to the States that they would be able to meet their revenue requirements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-opts-for-centre-s-borrowing-plan-to-meet-gst-shortfall/story-edE1TUh6SEeYSUgFljsNkL.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu first state to test 10 million people, all RT PCR||Every morning at 8, Sugitha Munuswamy, 30, a Covid-19 sample collector walks from her home in Kannagi Nagar (a resettlement slum colony in Chennai) to the primary healthcare centre, 15 minutes away.At the Centre, she puts on a white PPE, wears double gloves, two masks and a scrub cap; picks up testing kits and climbs into an ambulance, doubling as a sample collection vehicle. For the next eight hours, she goes around Sholinganallur zone in Chennai to draw nasal and throat swabs.Sugitha’s mother wants her to quit fearing the deadly virus. “My mother asks me everyday how many samples I had collected,” Sugitha said. “I always underplay it.”The 100-odd sample she collects is a small fraction in Tamil Nadu’s high testing numbers. On November 5, Tamil Nadu tested a total of 10 million people (10,052,393) in the state with more reliable RT PCR (Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, the only state in India to have done so till date. On November 1, it crossed the 10-million mark of the number of persons tested in all.Uttar Pradesh has the highest testing count in India at 15.4 million, but only 5.8 million of these tests are of RT-PCR and about 8.8 million are of the less accurate rapid antigen tests. In tests per million, Delhi tops at 243,339 and Tamil Nadu is at 134,353. Antigen accounts for about 40% of the total tests in Delhi. Maharashtra’s per million tests is 74,664 and Uttar Pradesh’s 68,038.Tamil Nadu has 736,777 cases which is the fourth highest in India. In July, the average daily cases peaked, but since October there is a downward trend in new positive cases. “We are searching for the virus and chasing it,” health minister C Vijayabhaskar has said often.Tamil Nadu was able to achieve the fete because of better RT-PCR facilities and patient tracking system because of its past efforts in AIDS and H1N1 control. For Covid-19, the state health department just added surveillance and testing to the existing system. One such measure was roping in laboratory technicians, like Sugitha who is trained to collect oral swabs to test for tuberculosis (TB). Sugitha joined the corporation in December 2019 under the National TB Elimination Project. She was brought into the Covid-19 workforce in April.The network is brought together like a well-oiled machine by door-to-door enumeration, fever camps and home quarantine and isolation monitoring system (HQIMS). “The state provided 100-crore for strengthening our home surveys and HQIMS,” said Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation commissioner G Prakash. Covid detection starts with the fever surveyors like J Sivalingadurai (the corporation’s paid volunteer since April 16) going door-to-door. Each surveyor is assigned 150 homes. Sivalingadurai’s assigned families are in a posh multi-storey apartment on Old Mahabalipuram Road in south Chennai, where techies from across India and abroad live. He visits each home daily and asks the same set of questions: “How are you feeling today? Do you have a fever? Can you smell?” His intrusion is crucial in identifying a host of the virus. “Bro!” one woman techie exclaimed in relief as soon as she saw him at her door on June 26 morning. “Check our temperatures,” she had told him. The woman in her mid-20s and her two roommates had developed fever the previous night. Since they had popped paracetomols, the thermal scanner showed no fever. “If they hadn’t told me about their fever, I wouldn’t have known,” said Sivalingadurai, adding going every day helps in building trust.The woman techie was sent to a fever camp. She tested positive and moved to a quarantine facility. Her roommates turned negative but were put on home quarantine. Fever camps became a crucial link in virus control measures. So far, 3,378,398 people have attended the camps in Chennai with 15% positive rate.The fever camps have been increased to 550 in Chennai from 300 in May. “We replicated Chennai’s model, particularly the fever camps in Madurai and it worked in reducing the virus spread,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan.Doctors at the fever camps or sanitary inspectors call sample collectors like Sugitha to specific locations. Once a technician draws a swab, they transfer it to a tube packed in vaccine carrier for the civic staff in the evening to carry them to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, the first testing lab approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid-19 testing in Tamil Nadu. The state now has 203 government and private testing facilities.As the cases have increased, testing at labs has risen by almost 20 times. At a Chennai private lab, the lead microbiologist, who did not wish to be named, started by testing 50 samples a day in mid-April which increased to 800 in July and now she tests around a 1,000 samples.“In the early days, I used to say a prayer for every patient’s sample tube I held,” she said. “Now we have reached a saturation point, we feel neutral.” Inside the bio-safety cabinet, she opens the sample vial for extraction and loads it into the RT-PCR machine. It takes 45 minutes to process a batch of 12 samples. Microbiologists work in three shifts to keep testing 24x7 at this lab. The final step in the testing process is the (PCR) machine detecting if the specific SARS-CoV-2 genome is present in the sample (if the detected patient is positive). It takes between 24 to 48 hours before a patient receives their result. If the report is positive, a sanitary inspector (SI) inspects the patient’s home to certify if they have a separate room and toilet for home quarantine. The SI also starts contact tracing to isolate potential virus carriers. “In emergency situations or if patients are in the vulnerable category, I call the zonal officer to check availability of beds and send them directly to the hospital in an ambulance,” says SI of Chennai’s Sholinganallur zone, S Nayanaprakasan, who also coordinates amongst patients, their families, field workers like Sugitha, Sivalingadurai as well as senior officials of GCC. “We peaked in July when I was seeing at least 25 cases a day and now in October we are seeing only one or two cases per day,” he says, about his division.“Because of these structural methods, there has been no outbreak or spurt in Chennai in the recent months,” said civic chief Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-first-state-to-test-10-mn-all-rt-pcr/story-Aesl3QtqRVxQhpsM3NheSN.html
06-11-2020||India||Parliamentary committee on data protection focuses on cracking down on Chinese equipment||The joint parliamentary committee on personal data protection led by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Meenakshi Lekhi has asked Reliance Jio, Ola and Uber to explain whether they use equipment sourced from China, people familiar with the matter told HT. The issue has been a recurring theme for the panel. Last week, Patym and Google were asked similar questions about their relationship with the neighbouring country.The committee’s questions come amid tensions with China at the border, that rose after the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unidentified number of Chinese soldiers in June. The government has been cracking down on China’s electronic footprint in India, with over 200 mobile applications with links to the country banned. The government is also considering not letting Chinese companies, such as Huawei and ZTE that make up a substantial part of India’s telecom sector, participate in the upcoming 5G trials. “Reliance Jio told the committee that they do not use any telecom equipment sourced from China,” said a person familiar with the matter. HT reached out to a representative from Jio but did not receive a response . “Reliance also said they’re fully equipped with the 5G technology.” said the first person,The person quoted above added that Jio was also asked if it shares data with internet giants Facebook and Google, investors in the nascent telecom start-up, as a contractual obligation. Jio denied that there was any data sharing or harmonization with the companies. The panel has already met Facebook and Google to flag its concerns in terms of data sharing and privacy. Data localisation is another key issue that has been flagged in the hearings. While Reliance Jio has made a push for setting up a data centre in India and ride-hailing company Ola has agreed with the same premise, people familiar with the matter said that global ride-hailing company Uber remained on the fence. “India produces the largest amount of data but never benefits from it,” said a second person familiar with the matter. “Uber started out as an aggregator of cabs and is now a transport company, we need some check and balances.”The person added that both the startups would respond in writing about whether they have Chinese investment and their data sharing policies. “How does the AI that they use determine surge pricing,” said the person mentioned above. “Is it gender specific; do they harness the phone battery data to assess desperation levels? How exactly does this happen?”The panel asked the three companies to share their AI models and source code. Reliance Jio and Ola were willing to comply, but Uber was hesitant, people familiar with the matter said. “It is only in emergency situations where the government needs to intervene where we need access to the code,” said the second person. “If rights of drivers and customers have to be enforced, the details would be needed.” The person added that non-personal data, if shared by the companies, could help the government make the streets more accessible and even control unforeseen situations like the pandemic. Non-personal data, however, has been a sore point with companies like Uber since the data is used to bolster revenue models and sharing it with the government would lead to substantial losses. Panel chair Meenakshi Lekhi said that the push was consistently for transparency and accountability. “We are just asking the questions that need to be asked,” Lekhi told HT. The panel is conducting hearings on the personal data protection bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-on-data-protection-focuses-on-cracking-down-on-chinese-equipment/story-UeBmrZZ7vrOXJlK1gKJH2N.html
06-11-2020||India||Harvard study establishes bad air, Covid-19 mortality rate link||An increase of 1ug/m3 in average PM2.5 exposure raised the mortality rate of Covid-19 by roughly 11%, a group of Harvard University researchers have found, the latest in a series of studies that underscore the double whammy faced by people in polluted parts of the world during the pandemic.The latest study is by a team of researchers in Harvard University who carried out a statistical analysis of coronavirus disease mortality rates across the 3,089 counties in United States and compared it with the long –term exposure people in these regions had of ultra-fine PM2.5 particles. “We found that an increase of 1 ug/m3 in the long-term average PM2.5 s is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the county’s Covid-19 mortality rate,” said the authors in their report, published in Science Advances on Wednesday. The analysis takes into account average PM2.5 exposure between 2000 and 2016 and Covid-19 mortality up till June 18. The findings are significant for a country like India where people are exposed to the highest annual average concentrations of PM2.5 in the world. According to the State of Global Air 2020 report published in October, the average Indian was exposed to 83.2ug/m3 of PM2.5 in 2019. For the average American, this number was less than a tenth at 7.66. At 11am on Thursday, the average hourly PM2.5 concentration across the 34 pollution monitors in Delhi stood at 360ug/m3. India’s Capital is currently seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases. Air pollution causes a wide variety of health effects, some of the worst of which is due to the effects on an organ that Covid-19 too targets: the lungs. Some of these are shortened life expectancy, increased inflammation and tendency to develop clots, and greater susceptibility to breathing problems such as asthma, noted a separate research paper by researchers from University of Catania, Italy.The implication of increased air pollution on Covid-19 outcomes was first reported from Italy. “Our data show a significant relationship between mean PM 2.5 concentration during February 2020, one month before the beginning of the outbreak, and the number of Covid-19 cases per region (updated to March 31st), confirming how more polluted areas are the ones where the contagion is more widespread,” said the authors From the University of Catania in their August, 2020 update to their paper first published in April. “More significantly patients in polluted areas present with more severe forms of the disease requiring ICU. Mortality is two-fold higher than the other regions despite similar rates of ICU admission,” they added.This is now backed by the statistical analysis of the American counties and their Covid-19 outbreaks. The Harvard University researchers used a method known as regression analysis to zero-in on possible factors that raised chances of Covid-19 mortality. Exposure to PM2.5 appeared to be the most prominent. “We also found that population density, days since the first Covid-19 case was reported, median household income, percent of owner-occupied housing, percent of the adult population with less than high school education, age distribution, and percent of Black residents are important predictors of the Covid-19 mortality rate in the model,” they added.The authors, however, add that their analysis is limited by lack of access to “individual-level risk factors” such as age, race, and smoking status, which can have an impact on the Covid-19 mortality rate. But, they add, an ecological regression analysis could help point research into the direction of different biological factors that can be at play. “For example, it has been hypothesized that chronic exposure to PM2.5 causes alveolar angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) receptor over expression and impairs host defenses. This could cause a more severe form of Covid-19 in ACE-2–depleted lungs, increasing the likelihood of poor outcomes, including death,” they said.At the least, the authors add, such research could also provide a “strong scientific argument” for revision of ambient air quality standards and other environmental policies in the midst of a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvard-study-establishes-bad-air-covid-mortality-rate-link/story-MahKH8KDZbjIbDkNltDoJJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Fake job portals cheat 27,000 job-seekers, collect Rs 1.09 crore in one month||A job racket operating in the name of the Union health ministry cheated at least 27,000 applicants by collecting a registration fee totalling about Rs 1.09 crore in just about a month, the Delhi Police’s cyber cell said on Thursday after nabbing five suspects. Purely in terms of the number of identified victims, the police said that it was one of the biggest job frauds ever busted by the force. The police said since the masterminds legally operated a centre that conducted online recruitment examinations for government and private agencies, they had access to personal data of job-seekers to whom they sent targeted messages of job offers. In one month, the gang allegedly sent out 15 lakh SMSs with links to two fraudulent websites for registration for 13,000 vacancies, including posts such as accountants, data entry operators, nursing midwives and ambulance drivers, police said.“The websites were designed so convincingly that some news and job information portals believed these openings to be genuine. They ended up amplifying the news of these fake jobs,” said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell).Roy said the two fake websites operated by the gang to draw their victims were www.sajks.org and www.sajks.com. Both mentioned they were under the Ministry of health and family welfare. SAJKS stood for Swasthya Avm Jan Kalyan Sansthan. Neither of the two websites were functional anymore when HT tried to access them on Thursday. The crime came to notice mid last month when an applicant decided to approach Delhi Police with a complaint that he received no response after paying Rs 500 as registration fee. Since the registration fee ranged only between Rs 100 and 500, the fraudsters believed victims wouldn’t approach the police, said Roy. The police registered a case and began collecting digital footprints of the suspects and their money trail.The investigation revealed that a bank account was opened in Haryana’s Hisar district in the name of Swasthya Sanstan, a name consistent with the fake website. “Soon, we got to know that money being deposited into this account by job applicants was being withdrawn from ATMs every day. On Tuesday, we laid a trap at one such ATM in Hisar and caught one suspect red-handed while he was withdrawing the money,” Roy said. The role of that nabbed suspect, 27-year-old Amandeep Khetkari, was just to withdraw money on a daily basis and distribute it to members of the gang, said the officer. At Khetkari’s instance, four more men were arrested. According to police, the arrested men included two website designers, Sandeep and Joginder Singh, the bank account holder Surender Singh and the mastermind Ramdhari, 50.Delhi police have registered a case after the Delhi international airport operator filed a complaint about a fake website advertising about vacancies at the airport and asking applicants to pay Rs 1,000 as enrolment fee.. DCP (IGI ) Rajeev Ranjan said a case under various sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act was registered on a complaint filed by the chief legal office, Delhi airport. In its complaint on Monday, the airport operator said a lookalike of the GMR website was luring, duping and obtaining money from job seekers.“The fraudsters published fake advertisement pertaining to various job openings and job offer in GMR Group on their careers page with a provision for collecting Rs 1000 as application fee through online payment mode. A total 2,201 job vacancies are published in the fake website ..,” the complaint reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/fake-job-portals-cheat-27-000-job-seekers-in-one-month/story-cwu7EPQRRwaJO4kO1k8BdK.html
06-11-2020||India||Gen Naravane to call on PM Oli today, as Nepal seeks to reinvigorate ties with India||The Chief of Army Staff Indian Army, General MM Naravane, will hold a meeting with KP Sharma Oli, the Nepal’s Prime Minister who also holds the defence portfolio. The meeting is expected to focus on defence-related issues.It is likely to take place around noon today. The development assumes significance in the wake of the fact that Naravane is the first high-ranking official to visit Nepal a year after the boundary dispute erupted between the two countries.According to people aware of the developments, General Naravane will go for a one-hour flight to Mount Everest and after returning from there, will visit the Nepal Army Staff College. His meeting with Oli will take place after that.If the meeting goes well, Naravane’s visit is likely to be followed by a visit from foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Nepal later this month. India could also participate in the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.The boundary dispute erupted after Kathmandu accused New Delhi of showing its part in a new map released in November last year. New Delhi had paused talks with the Himalayan nation’s communist government after its parliament cleared a new map in June this year that incorporates Indian territory near its border with China.Over the last few months, the two neighbours softened their posture and attempted to reboot ties. In September, PM Oli decided to stop distribution of next school textbooks that had been published with the country’s revised political map.Gen Naravane was, meanwhile, conferred the honorary rank of General of the Nepali Army by Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Thursday. He was honoured at a ceremony at the President’s official residence Shital Niwas in Kathmandu. General Naravane was also presented with a sword and scroll during the function.Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, Chief of Army Staff Purna Chandra Thapa, Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra and other Nepali and Indian officials were present at the function.General Naravane then held a meeting with Nepal’s President and a banquet was held in the Indian Army chief’s honour in the evening.General Naravane conveyed his gratitude for the honour bestowed upon him and also discussed measures to further enhance bilateral cooperation.India also gifted medical equipment including X-ray machines, computed radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units and anaesthesia machines for two field hospitals of the Nepali Army.Additional ventilators were also gifted to assist the Nepali Army in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-naravane-to-call-on-pm-oli-on-friday-as-nepal-to-reinvigorate-ties-with-india/story-g0a7ql6Gs9paGTje2uw3tJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Kamala Harris’s ancestral village in Tamil Nadu prays for her success||Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris who believes ‘everything is at stake’ in the American presidential election has strong support from her ancestral hamlet in a southern corner of Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday morning people from Harris’ maternal grandfather’s village in Tiruvarur district performed a special prayer for her and erected banners with her photos. The authorities of Dharmasastha Temple and local leaders also offered as annadhanam (free food for the poor) idli-sambhar. Senator Harris had said that idli-sambhar is her favorite south Indian dish which she relished during her childhood visits to Chennai with her mother Shyamala Gopalan who was born in the city. Harris particularly struck a chord with her roots when she called out to her ‘chithis’ (referring to a parent’s younger sister in Tamil) during her speech in August at the Democratic National Convention. The village has been celebrating by conducting poojas and erecting flex banners ever since Joe Biden announced Harris as his running mate. “We want her to win. Her achievements are a pride for India and particularly our village,” said Arulmozhi Sudhakar, a local village head of Thulasendhirapuram, Painganadu in Tiruvarur district. Harris’ grandfather PV Gopalan was born in this village and her family has been offering donations to the temple.In 2014, her aunt (Dr Sarala Gopalan, who lives in Chennai) donated Rs5,000 to the temple in the name of Kamala Harris. “Every 12 years we renovate the temple and seek donations,” temple in charge S V Ramanan told HT. The remote village came to limelight after Harris’ historic nomination to US national office (as first African-American woman and first person of Indian origin) was announced. If Harris wins, Ramanan hopes it would draw more attention from the local government to channelise funds and improve the conditions of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-s-ancestral-village-in-tamil-nadu-prays-for-her-victory/story-qjZ37GlRnQAWnuBhkx721O.html
