08-11-2020||India||IIT study cites risk of plastic contamination in drinking tea from disposable paper cups||Disposable paper cups are not safe for drinking tea and a person drinking three cups of tea in them will end up ingesting 75,000 tiny microplastic particles, a study by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur, has found.According to Sudha Goel, Associate Professor at IIT Kharagpur, who led the research, disposable paper cups are a popular choice for consuming beverages. “Our research has confirmed contamination of the hot liquid served in paper cups due to the degradation of microplastics and other hazardous components from the lining material of the cup. Paper cups are usually lined by a thin layer of hydrophobic film which is made of mostly plastic (polyethylene) and sometimes co-polymers to hold the liquid in the paper cup. Within 15 minutes this microplastic layer degrades as a reaction to hot water, “ she said. “According to our study, 25,000 micron-sized (10 µm to 1000 µm) microplastic particles are released into 100 mL of hot liquid (85 – 90 degrees C) residing in the paper cups for 15 minutes. Thus, an average person drinking 3 regular cups of tea or coffee daily, in a paper cup, would be ingesting 75,000 tiny microplastic particles which are invisible to the human eye,” she added. The researchers followed two different procedures - in the first process, hot ultrapure (MilliQ) water (85–90 degrees C) was poured into the disposable paper cups, and it was allowed to sit for 15 minutes. Goel, explained that the homogeneously mixed water was then analysed for the presence of microplastics as well as additional ions that may have leached into the liquid from the paper cups. In the second process, paper cups were initially dipped in lukewarm (30–40 °C) MilliQ water. “Thereafter the hydrophobic film was carefully separated from the paper layer and exposed to hot MilliQ water (85–90 degrees Celsius) for 15 minutes. Changes in the physical, chemical and mechanical properties of the plastic films were examined before and after exposure to hot water. “These microplastics can act as carriers for contaminants like ions, toxic heavy metals such as Palladium, Chromium, and Cadmium, and organic compounds that are similarly hydrophobic in nature thus allowing them to conveniently cross over to the animal kingdom. When ingested, the health implications could be serious,” she said. Research scholars Ved Prakash Ranjan and Anuja Joseph studying Environmental Engineering and Management, assisted Goel in the research. Virendra K Tewari, Director, IIT Kharagpur said, “This study shows that careful consideration needs to be done before the promotion of replacements for bio-hazardous products and environmental pollutants. We have been quick to replace plastic cups and glasses with disposable paper cups”. “While the need was crucial we have to find eco-friendly products. India has traditionally been a country promoting a sustainable lifestyle and may be it is time that we look into our roots for corrective measures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-study-cites-risk-of-plastic-contamination-in-drinking-tea-from-disposable-paper-cups/story-AsVSNGipDNpLPGIU8VJGQK.html
08-11-2020||India||Affidavit form not necessary to claim unemployment benefit from ESIC||The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has relaxed conditions for seeking claims for unemployment benefits, doing away with requirement to submit affidavit form by claimants.  Such claims through affidavit form are no longer required now under Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY) of the ESIC, a labour ministry statement said.These claims will be submitted online along with scanned copies of required documents, it added.The ESIC in its meeting held on August 20, 2020 had extended the scheme ‘Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana’ from July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021.It was also decided to enhance the rate of relief under the scheme from present 25% of the average daily earning to 50% of average daily earning and also relax the eligibility conditions for the period March 24, 2020 to December 31, 2020 to provide relief to the workers who have become unemployed during Covid-19 pandemic. Read also: UP govt ‘misleading’ people on unemployment numbers: AkhileshWhile analysing the response of the beneficiaries to the scheme under relaxed conditions, it was found that the condition of submitting the claim in affidavit form is causing inconvenience to the claimants, the ministry said.Considering the difficulties faced by the beneficiaries, it has now been decided that the claimant who has submitted the claim under ‘Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana’ online and uploaded the scanned copies of the required documents i.e. copies of Aadhar and bank details need not submit the physical claim, it added.  If the documents are not uploaded at the time of online filing of the claim, claimant will submit the printout of the claim duly signed along with the required documents, it informed. Condition for submitting the claim in affidavit form has been dispensed with, it added.  The ESIC is a pioneer social security organisation providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable medical care and a range of cash benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc. It is covering about 3.49 crore of family units of workers and providing matchless cash benefits and reasonable medical care to its 13.56 crore beneficiaries.  Today, its infrastructure has increased many folds with 1,520 dispensaries (including mobile dispensaries)/307 ISM units and 159 ESI hospitals, 793 branch/pay offices and 64 regional and sub-regional offices. The ESI scheme today stands implemented in 566 districts in 34 states and union territories of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/affidavit-form-not-necessary-to-claim-unemployment-benefit-from-esic/story-erHlggKzivoNmm31G1pEdN.html
08-11-2020||India||Record spike of 7,745 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, death toll rises to 6,989||Delhi on Sunday recorded highest single-day spike of 7,745 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 77 related deaths, according to the health department’s latest bulletin, taking the Capital’s tally to 438,529 even as the city is witnessing the third wave of the pandemic.According to the bulletin, there were 6,069 recoveries/discharges/migrations in the last 24 hours. There have been 389,683 recoveries/discharges/migrations and 6,989 deaths so far in the national capital. Active cases of the coronavirus disease stand at 41,857.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine updates: Race for shot to pick up in January, says expertThe Capital reported 6,953 cases of the infection on Saturday, as per the government’s Covid-19 bulletin, a day after the number of new infections in Delhi breached the 7,000-mark for the time. The number of active cases or those with current infections crossed the 40,000 mark for the first time in the city the same day. On Saturday, Delhi reported 79 deaths due to the infection, the highest since July 4 when 81 deaths – some that had happened before – were added to the city’s toll. The total number of fatalities stood at 6,912.The Union health ministry data shows that Delhi topped the list of 10 states that contributed 77% of the new Covid-19 cases. Delhi High Court had earlier this week said Delhi was on its way to become the “corona capital of the country.”Also read | Serum produces 30 million Covishield vaccine vials; awaits emergency licensing for vaccinationDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday that the Capital is currently reeling under the “third wave” of the Covid-19 infection but cases should begin to come down soon. Jain also said that the Delhi government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the high court did not allow reserving 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at several private hospitals“Yesterday, we issued an order to add 1,185 beds for Covid patients in both Delhi government hospitals and many private hospitals.Five hundred beds are to be augmented at city government-run Covid facilities, including 110 ICU beds,” Jain had said.Also read | India records 45,674 fresh Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, 9% fall from yesterdayEarlier on Sunday, the minister had attributed the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases to aggressive testing and contact-tracing. He also said laxity on the part of the people has been a major reason behind the spike in new cases of the coronavirus disease. “Some people think nothing will happen to them if they don’t wear a mask. They are wrong. Mask is the only medicine for Covid-19 till a vaccine is developed,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-spike-of-7-745-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-death-toll-rises-to-6-989/story-o4hrxpa3HaMVdPaRC7CeFK.html
08-11-2020||India||Wrong to treat protesting farmers as ‘enemies’: SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal slams Centre||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday slammed the Centre over the suspension of freight trains in Punjab, saying it is wrong to treat farmers protesting against the central agriculture laws as “enemies”.The Railways on Saturday declined to resume goods trains in Punjab, saying it will either operate both freight and passenger trains or none.The train services in Punjab are suspended since September 24, when farmers started their “rail roko” agitation against the central laws.Goods trains had resumed briefly after farmer unions on October 21 announced exempting them from their “rail roko” stir but the Railways suspended them again, saying farmers are still blocking the tracks. Badal condemned the Centre for not resuming freight trains despite farmers “clearing” all rail tracks. It is wrong to treat farmers agitating against the central agri-marketing acts as “enemies”, he told reporters. Read also: After quitting alliance, SAD eyes BJP’s voter base in LudhianaBadal said the Centre should not make the train services a “prestige” issue.“Farmers held a ‘rail roko’ agitation to press for the repeal of the laws. They have vacated the rail tracks for more than a week. However, the central government is not restarting trains on one flimsy excuse or the other. Such conduct is not advisable in a democracy,” he said. Badal criticised Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for doing “nothing” to resolve the crisis, except holding an hour long-protest in Delhi “solely for the benefit of the cameras”. He said the CM should tell Punjabis why he failed to meet either the railway minister or seek time from the prime minister to pressure the Union government for the resumption of freight trains. On future alliances of the party after parting ways with the BJP, the SAD chief said they are strengthening the party in all 117 constituencies in the state. On the occasion, former Tarn Taran BJP president RPS Maini joined the Shiromani Akali Dal.Maini, an advocate by profession, had joined the BJP in 2002. He had remained its Tarn Taran district president from 2009 to 2014 and the party spokesperson for the state unit till 2017.Maini said he resigned from the BJP in protest against the party’s refusal to repeal the recently enacted farm laws and its “discriminatory” attitude towards Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir.Badal welcomed Maini to the SAD fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrong-to-treat-protesting-farmers-as-enemies-sad-s-sukhbir-singh-badal-slams-centre/story-6phGOZH7pt7P4cJ6i3JKZM.html
08-11-2020||India||Computer Baba’s Indore ashram demolished, Congress cries ‘revenge politics’||The ashram of self-styled godman Computer Baba alias Namdeo Das Tyagi was demolished over encroachment and he was arrested with five others under preventive action in Indore on Sunday morning, said a district administration officer. The Congress came out in support of Computer Baba and alleged that the demolition was a vindictive act of the BJP-led state government.Police sent the Baba and five others to the Indore Central jail. The ashram was constructed on two acres government land in Gommatagiri area of Indore district. Indore, Hatod tehsil, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Shashwat Sharma said, “Computer Baba had encroached upon a part of 46 acres land which was reserved for construction of cow shelter. The ashram was constructed illegally. We were receiving so many complaints related to illegal construction of the ashram. The administration served a notice to Computer Baba two months ago but he didn’t reply.” Indore, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, HN Mishra said, “Computer Baba and his supporters were trying to create hurdles during the demolition drive so they were arrested under preventive action.” A local Congress MLA Vishal Patel said, “The ashram has a temple which was constructed by the community people. If the administration tries to demolish the temple, people will stage protest.” Former Congress chief minister Digvijaya Singh called it “revenge politics”.“It is the height of revenge politics. The demolition of ashram of Computer Baba took place without any notice.” Singh said he will go to the Indore central jail to meet Baba. BJP state president VD Sharma said, “Do Congress leaders support encroachment on government land? It was the government land allotted for cow shelter but Computer Baba encroached upon it and was running his ashram. It’s a job of administration to clear the encroachment but Congress leaders are unnecessarily dragging politics in it.” Computer Baba hit headlines first time in 2018 when he was accorded minister of state status by the then BJP government after he threatened to expose the alleged scam of the then BJP government in plantation work on the banks of the Narmada during Narmada Sewa Yatra. He was also appointed as chairman of Nadi Nyas by the previous Congress-led state government in 2019. (With inputs from Neha Jain from Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/computer-baba-s-indore-ashram-demolished-congress-cries-revenge-politics/story-ODDlLt7ucv7QycM9mMasQL.html
08-11-2020||India||Congress still part of Gupkar Alliance, will fight DDC elections ‘together’: Farooq Abdullah||Asserting that the Congress was very much part of their grouping, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said they would fight the DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir “together”, but there was no official word on it from the national party. His remarks came a day after the Congress announced its decision to put up candidates for the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections. Abdullah said that J-K Congress president G A Mir came to meet him today and said “we are fighting the elections together”.       Also Read: Gupkar alliance ready to listen to all including BJP on Article 370, says Omar      Abdullah, who was speaking to reporters at Raghunath Bazar in the heart of the city, was asked whether the Congress which was a signatory of the Gupkar declaration has separated from the alliance since it has not attended any of its meetings so far. “Where have they separated? There should be no misconception. The Congress is part of the alliance and we are fighting the (DDC) elections together,” the National Conference leader replied.             When his attention was drawn to Mir’s statement on Saturday that his party is fighting the DDC elections and putting up candidates, the former chief minister quipped, “When you heard this…yesterday was different and today Mir sahib came to meet me and said we are fighting the elections together.”             Chief spokesperson of Congress Ravinder Sharma, when contacted, said Mir made a courtesy call to Abdullah and “there is no official statement on the meeting”.Also Read: Decision to sell property with people of J&K: Jitendra Singh The PAGD -- an alliance of seven mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir seeking the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status -- announced on Saturday that it would contest the DDC polls unitedly.             In response to another question about several exit polls predicting a big win for RJD led Mahagathbandhan in Bihar assembly elections, Abdullah said, “There is a difference between real polls and exit polls.”            “When the real polls get over, we will talk,” he said.             Abdullah said he is praying for more pilgrims to visit the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine atop the Trikuta hills and that it is beneficial for the economy of Jammu and Kashmir. “We want more pilgrims to come to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine and it is possible that our problems, as well as the problems of the pilgrims, will get resolved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-claims-congress-still-part-of-gupkar-alliance-will-fight-ddc-elections-together/story-WPvGLLXtdBkLr0z0ZqLbWN.html
08-11-2020||India||Producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife arrested in home raid by anti-drugs agency||Bollywood film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife was arrested on Sunday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after 10 grams of marijuana was found at their home in Mumbai during raids, said officials.Three more people were arrested in raids and are suspected to be drug peddlers and suppliers. In the operation, the NCB seized a total drug of 727.1 gram of Ganja, 74.1 gram charas and 95.1 gram MD (Commercial Quantity) along with cash Rs. 3,58,610 cash from the peddlers and suppliers.Zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB confirmed the arrest of Shabana Saeed, wife of Firoz Nadiadwala. “The operation is still going on hence the names of the other three suppliers cannot be revealed at this stage. We have seized commercial quantities of drugs from their possession in the entire operation” said Wankhede. Following a tip-off, the NCB first arrested Andheri resident Wahid Abdul Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan Mirza from Andheri (west). During interrogation he revealed the name of Saeed whom he had supplied marijuana. Shaikh is in the drug supply from several years and is known as Sultan Mirza in the drug supply chain, said NCB officials.A NCB team immediately reached Saeed’s residence situated on Gulmohar cross road number 5, JVPD scheme, Juhu. The search was conducted in presence of two independent witnesses and 10 gram of marijuana was recovered which was procured from Shaikh. The notice was issued under section 67 of the NDPS act and she was arrested after recording her statement, said an NCB official.Apart from Saeed and Shaikh, the NCB arrested three more drug suppliers in the operation and their questioning is underway to get more information.Firoz Nadiadwala has produced several Bollywood films like Welcome, Phir Hera Pheri, Aarakshan, Deewane Huye Pagal, Kartoosh, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/producer-firoz-nadiadwala-s-wife-arrested-in-home-raid-by-anti-drugs-agency/story-cw4o6s2TvcIgedSgFrtCvM.html
08-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi hails demonetisation on anniversary, Congress observes betrayal day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi hails demonetisation on anniversary, Congress observes betrayal dayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed his government’s demonetisation move four years ago, claiming that it gave a boost to transparency. In a tweet on Sunday, Modi said that the move helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and gave a boost to transparency and that the outcomes have been beneficial for the country’s progress. Read morePM Narendra Modi to initiate projects worth Rs 614cr in VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation of 30 projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi via video conference on Monday, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on Sunday. Read moreKamala Harris’ ancestral village celebrates her win with crackers, rangoliA village in southern India also erupted with joy as Kamala Harris became the first woman vice president-elect of the United States. Harris traces a part of her ancestral roots to India. Read more‘Babar has done better’: Mohammad Yousuf weighs in on the Virat Kohli-Babar Azam debateWhen it comes to the finest batsmen in the world, the names Virat Kohli and Babar Azam are right up there. There was a time when Kohli, the India captain, used to be compared with Australia’s Steve Smith, but lately, his comparison has shifted away from the former Australia captain and moved more towards Babar, Pakistan’s limited-overs captain. Read moreSupernovas’ Chamari Atapattu reveals eating these Indian dishes and defeating Trailblazers in Women’s T20 ChallengeThe last-ball thriller by Supernovas in the nailbiting match with the Trailblazers at the Women’s T20 Challenge in Sharjah, UAE, garnered massive praises for Sri Lankan women cricket team captain Chamari Athapaththu. The left-handed opener Atapattu smashed five fours and four sixes to notch up 67 runs off 48 balls aggressively. Read moreBengaluru cinemas-theatres face revenue loss, forced to close due to lack of footfall amid Covid-19The Covid-19 pandemic has left a substantial impact on the film industry in 2020, film theatres in Bengaluru have been forced to close down due to a lack of revenues. Read moreCharlie Hunnam says he had Covid-19 earlier this year: ‘I just lost my sense of taste and smell’Actor Charlie Hunnam says he had contracted coronavirus “earlier this year”. The 40-year-old actor said he had the virus at a time when loss of taste hadn’t “really come to light as a symptom of mild Covid”. Read moreJennifer Lawrence dances in pyjamas, Spike Lee pops champagne with New Yorkers to celebrate Biden-Harris winHollywood celebrities such as Jennifer Lawrence, Chrissy Teigen, John Legend, Spike Lee and multiple others took to the streets to celebrate Joe Biden and Kamala Harris’ US elections win on Saturday. While some danced in the streets, others joined the crowd to cheer for their favourite candidate. Read more‘Biden govt will be weak...’: Decoding new US administration’s India viewAfter 4 days of suspense, Democratic party leader Joe Biden was announced the winner of the 2020 US Presidential election. While there is excitement in many quarters in India regarding Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, who is of Indian origin, there are some concerns too. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-hails-demonetisation-on-anniversary-congress-observes-betrayal-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8a37NlpRRDGpRGalJdvwPO.html
08-11-2020||India||Bring out white paper on demonetisation, GST, Gehlot tells PM||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi brings out a white paper to apprise the public about the impact of demonetisation and goods and services tax (GST), and called upon the Centre to take corrective measures to address alleged shortcomings in some of its policies. “The country is facing unemployment and the youth are resenting, which was visible in Bihar elections. The states aren’t getting their due under the GST, which is a betrayal by the government of India and unjustified in a federal system,” Gehlot said, addressing a virtual press conference. “Demonetisation was a dangerous decision, implemented in a dangerous manner. This is the way of the PM, be it demonetisation or GST. Farm bills were introduced without consulting farmers, states or taking public opinion, which is fascistic,” he told reporters, while observing the fourth anniversary of demonetisation as “Vishwasghaat Diwas” (Betrayal Day). “That is why we say that democracy is in danger and we are observing today as the Betrayal Day,” he said. Gehlot questioned if the demonetisation exercise had achieved its intended objective.“You should inform the country whether money from Swiss banks was brought back, black money, terrorism and Naxalism were eliminated in the last four years after demonetisation,” Gehlot said, adding that RBI has said that 99.3% of the money has returned to the banks. “The Prime Minister is required to issue a white paper to inform people about the impact of demonetisation, GST and rectify the mistakes done. People of the country are worried where the economy is headed to,” Gehlot said in a stinging attack. Also Read: DeMo anniversary: PM Modi hails move, Congress observes betrayal dayHe alleged that in the last four years, farmers, labourers, small traders were destroyed and the rural economy collapsed. Calling electoral bonds a scam, he said bonds were brought to favour a party and should be abolished. Gehlot said, “Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre as relief during the Covid-19 crisis did not prove to be of any use.” On the ongoing Gujjar agitation, the CM said that a majority of their demands have been met, but despite that some people’s act of sitting on railway tracks is not in the interest of the community. “The government will do justice with the demands but sitting on tracks in the name of demands is unjustified,” said Gehlot BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the Congress has a habit of needlessly questioning Centre’s decisions. “Entire world is affected by the coronavirus and the Centre is constantly working in the interest of poor, labourers and farmers, which is resulting in strengthening of the economy,” he said. “In the last one month, the Centre has received record GST revenue; the economy is improving and the production is increasing. The Congress is just making baseless allegations, which public time and again has rejected,” Pareek said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-out-white-paper-on-demonetisation-gst-gehlot-tells-pm/story-mViB0WvJWOZMHJlP74DuYO.html
08-11-2020||India||Maoist killed, 2 jawans injured in encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar||A suspected Maoist was killed and two jawans were injured in an encounter with security forces in Bijapur district of Bastar region on Sunday.Police recovered a huge quantity of explosives, including pipe bombs and four weapons, from the encounter spot. Inspector General of Police, (Bastar Range) Sunderaj P told HT that a combing operation was launched after the attack, which is still going on in the nearby jungles.“The encounter took place in the jungles of Bhattiguda village under Pamed police station limits, on the border with Telangana,” Sunderaj said.The IG said that a joint team of District Reserve Guard (DRG), Special Task Force (STF) and CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) launched an anti-naxal operation on Saturday after the information about gathering of Maoists in the area.“On Sunday, when the team reached a hill near the Bhattiguda area, the Maoists opened fire. In retaliation, the security forces also started firing after which they fled into the jungles. Upon search, a body of a Maoist was found,” the IG said.Two jawans - one Sandip Ghosh of CoBRA 204th battalion and constable Chandu Kadti of the district reserve guard - sustained leg injuries after they stepped on an iron spike trap set up by Maoists.“The constables are fine and searching in the area is going on,” the IG added.On Tuesday, security forces killed a suspected Maoist in the jungles of Kamalpur village of Usoor area and two rifles were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-killed-2-jawans-injured-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar/story-oqcu06qIl7LCGA6hfTJc2I.html
08-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to initiate projects worth Rs 614cr in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation of 30 projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi via video conference on Monday, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on Sunday. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and four ministers will attend the ceremony at different venues in the city, the party leader added.Giving the details at a press conference on Sunday, Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava reiterated that PM Modi will inaugurate 16 schemes worth over Rs 219 crore and lay the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 crore. Srivastava said the transformation taking place in Kashi since 2014 was visible on the ground, adding that there was a big difference between the Varanasi of 2020 and the situation in the city pre-2014.As the local MP, PM Modi had left no stone unturned to ensure all-round development of Varanasi, he said. The cleanliness mission had made lanes and ghats clean, he added. Six places have been selected for the live telecast of Monday’s programme in the city. Locals and party workers will join the event at the Circuit House, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Shool Tankeshwar Temple, Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport and Trade Facilitation Centre.Navratan Rathi, Kashi region BJP media in-charge, said state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, minister in-charge of Varanasi Ashutosh Tandon, minister of state (independent charge) Ravindra Jaiswal and the party’s Kashi region president Mahesh Chand Srivastava, will remain present at the Circuit House. Similarly, UP BJP co-incharge Sunil Ojha and Cantt MLA Saurabh Srivastava will be present at the commissioner’s auditorium.Also Read: DeMo anniversary: PM Modi hails move, Congress observes betrayal dayMinister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari, along with party workers, will be present at Dashashwamedh Ghat. Cabinet minister Anil Rajbhar will be present at the venue of the Trade Facilitation Centre, Bada Lalpur.MLAs Avadhesh Singh and Surendra Singh will attend the function at the airport and Shool Tankeshwar temple respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-initiate-projects-worth-rs-614cr-in-varanasi/story-ACWDsCFchh12pftEA7DDIM.html
08-11-2020||India||Kamala Harris’ ancestral village celebrates her win with crackers, rangoli||A village in southern India also erupted with joy as Kamala Harris became the first woman vice president-elect of the United States. Harris traces a part of her ancestral roots to India. People began celebrating her victory by distributing sweets and bursting crackers in Thulasendrapuram, a village in the Tiruvarur district of Tamil Nadu where Kamala Harris’ maternal grandfather was born. They congratulated Harris by drawing colourful rangoli in front of their homes. “Her win also motivates the boys and girls in our village,” says Arulmozhi Sudhakar, a local village head of Thulasendhirapuram, Painganadu. “Now I’m able to show my 11-year-old son how much he can achieve even from our village.” The Dharmasastha Temple in the village has been conducting special poojas since August when Joe Biden announced Harris as his running mate. In 2014, her aunt (Dr Sarala Gopalan, who lives in Chennai) donated Rs 5,000 to the temple in the name of Kamala Harris. Tamil Nadu politicians spotlighted Harris’ Tamil heritage as her mother Shyamala Gopalan was born in Chennai. Harris’ mother later moved to the US. Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami tweeted that Harris’ victory made Tamil Nadu proud. DMK leader MK Stalin congratulated Harris by tweeting that he was “especially pleased” that Americans chose “a woman with Tamil heritage as their vice-president”. Harris has often recalled visiting the seaside neighbourhood of Besant Nagar in Chennai. Harris’ Indian family, which includes her aunt Gopalan and her uncle G Balachandran, who lives in Delhi are making plans to attend her swearing-in ceremony in January 2021. They were also present during her swearing in as California Senator in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-ancestral-village-celebrates-her-win-with-crackers-rangoli/story-UkKmP55i8bZs1rhI7MBs7N.html
08-11-2020||India||Film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife arrested by NCB||Film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday hours after their house was searched by the agency in connection to a drugs case. Ten grams of cannabis was found from their Juhu residence.“Film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife has been arrested today. The operation is still going on hence the names of the other three suppliers cannot be revealed at this stage. We have seized commercial quantities of drugs from their possession in the entire operation,” Sameer Wankhede, Zonal Director of the NCB, confirmed the news.“Andheri resident Wahid Abdul Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan Mirza was arrested from Andheri (West) following a tip-off. During interrogation, he revealed the name of one Saeed, to whom he had supplied cannabis. Shaikh is in the drug supply from several years and is known as Sultan Mirza in the drug supply chain,” the NCB officials said.Firoz Nadiadwala, who has produced blockbusters like ‘Phir Hera Pheri’, ‘Awara Pagal Deewana’ and ‘Welcome’, has also been summoned to appear in front of the agency. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/film-producer-firoz-nadiadwala-s-wife-arrested-by-ncb/story-uXRwblj7fLfoumCRYcPoQM.html
08-11-2020||India||Gupkar alliance ready to listen to all including BJP on Article 370, says Omar||National Conference vice president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah has said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was willing to listen to all divergent views including that of the BJP, on the issue of Articles 370 and 35-A. Abdullah made the comments while expressing regret over Panthers Party founder Prof Bhim Singh’s sacking from his own party after the latter attended PAGD meeting at Bhatindi residence of Dr Farooq Abdullah on Saturday. “I regret his sacking. We never said that we would meet only those who endorse our stand. We were ready to meet anyone. Even if BJP had come, we would have met them too and had they said that they do not accept our stand of restoring Articles 370 and 35-A, we would have listened to them as well,” he said. Omar’s comments on Sunday came during a short visit to Kalakote in Rajouri to express his condolences to the family of party leader Thakur Rachpal Singh, who passed away on September 7. Omar clarified that Bhim Singh’s decision to meet the PAGD didn’t mean Singh agreed with their position on the contentious issues like revocation of Article 370 and 35-A.“We never said that we would listen to only those who toe our line. And, Prof Bhim Singh also pointed out to us that he doesn’t endorse 35-A and also wants amendments in Article 370 before it could be accepted. Therefore, I don’t think that Prof Bhim Singh said anything wrong, which formed the basis of his sacking. Since they have expelled him, what can we say now? It is their internal matter,” he added. The veteran leader was expelled by party chairman Harsh Dev Singh on Saturday after he attended the PAGD meet at Farooq’s residence. Omar informed that the PAGD met 26 delegations representing different thoughts and ideologies on Saturday. Also Read: Valmiki community, West Pakistan Refugees oppose Gupkar alliance“Our motive to come to Jammu was to meet all shades of opinion and we succeeded to a considerable extent. We will continue to meet more people,” he added. When asked if Mehbooba Mufti’s controversial remarks on the Tricolour will impact poll prospects of the Gupkar alliance in Jammu, Omar said that the PDP chief had herself clarified on her statement. “Their party also bore its impact (resignation of three senior Jammu based leaders). Our Gupkar agenda is a unified agenda and we will jointly contest the DDC polls,” he said. When asked if the Gupkar alliance of seven political parties will also jointly contest assembly polls as and when they are announced, Omar termed it a hypothetical query. “As of now, there is no possibility of assembly elections. Had there been no delimitation commission announced then I would have anticipated early polls. The panel is yet to start its work on the ground, which has been delayed due to corona. It has to visit areas, meet delegations, seek suggestions from stakeholders before making a report and present it to the authorities concerned. I don’t think that in the next one to two years Assembly polls can be held,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-ready-to-listen-to-all-including-bjp-on-article-370-says-omar/story-ydbF2nENKnApNBMXDwRWDP.html
08-11-2020||India||OTT or TV, Jiya is just lovin’ it!||Having done television and OTT shows, actor Jiya Shankar is happy dabbling between the mediums. “I feel web is an amazing avenue for all the actors. But, at the end of day, irrespective of the medium, it’s all about acting. So, be it for any platform I just enjoy acting,” said ‘Virgin Bhasskar2’ and ‘Meri Hanikarak Biwi’ actor. Comparing both the platform she says, “If I can sum it up it will be like web has limited episodes while on television, we have scope to add the characters and expand the length of the show. Then on TV we are working literally the entire month. Though content on TV too is undergoing a change and new kind of shows are being made. But still, there are a very few shows which have over the top melodrama but then the fact is there is an audience for it too.” Jia has also done shows like ‘Love by Chance’, Gumrah-4 and ‘Queens Hain Hum’. The actor learnt Haryanvi for her upcoming show where she plays a barber and she also learnt the art of using scissors with conviction. “I’m very excited about ‘Kaante Lal & Sons’ as its very exciting show. I understand that young generation is more into watching OTT series and films but this is so entertaining and refreshing that everyone will like to watch it. It’s inspired with a real story and is a full package of emotions, drama and comedy,” Jia said. About shooting in Covid conditions she said, “We are just getting used to the new normal. It’s tough to wear make-up and shoot. We also keep our masks on and take if off only while facing the camera. There is no option but to adapt to the situation and be safe.” Talking about her early days, the actor said, “I have been really lucky that my mother pushed me towards acting as I was a very shy kid otherwise. With support of parents my journey actually became easy!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ott-or-tv-jiya-is-just-lovin-it/story-QMJpoaHIEYGfuuDg8j7bnN.html
08-11-2020||India||‘I intend to be part of serious, subjective and experimental stories’||Born in Lucknow, actor, poet, filmmaker Taranjit Kaur, loves showing off her northern connect. “I was born in the city of nawabs and still have my relatives there. Before shifting to Chandigarh for studies, as my father was in railways, I travelling all over northern India. I love this connect and feel proud that my hometown is getting its due now, with more stories and shootings being planned there. Hope all the untold stories reach the audience,” said the ‘Airlift’ actor.Taranjit has been associated with mix of cinema, theatre and documentary making. “My idea of storytelling is very much based on art cinema. I intend to be part of serious, subjective and experimental stories which is real cinema for me though commercial films with meaty script also influence me as an actor.”Talking about her work the talented actor said, “I joined theatre company when I was a teenager and soon got opportunities to travel with the group. Later, I also organised children’s acting workshop before shifting to Kolkata with my sister. It was there I got to act in a few short films and I tried documentary making too. My first short film was ‘Raju’ that won Student Oscar Academy Award. Next was critically acclaimed film ‘Ankhon Dekhi’. I also worked appeared in films like ‘Saanjh,’ ‘Murder on the Road to Kathmandu’ and ‘Poppy’, these films brought me closer to art cinema.”Taranjit made her English film debut by playing the role of a coal miner in the British film ‘Mouth of Hell’ (2014). “Besides acting I love writing poems and find my stories there, that’s how my upcoming short film ‘Love Sex Soprano’ being directed by Shreemoyee Bhattacharya was scripted by me and is based on one of my poems. I am both acting and producing the film that is set for a November end release.” Besides, she is doing a feature film along with actor Annup Sonii.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-intend-to-be-part-of-serious-subjective-and-experimental-stories/story-6FLxcskrJOeUkuNGVUkHaK.html
08-11-2020||India||‘My musical debut was absolutely filmy!’||Varanasi-born teen singer, Rhiti recently, debuted with a single which clocked 2.9 million hits in just a few days. Unlike many, who were badly hit with the ongoing pandemic, she was lucky and terms her story “very filmy!” “During the lockdown we all had ample of time so I started posting my cover songs on Instagram. Palash (Muchhal, music composer) sir saw one of my songs on someone’s Insta story and he approached me. He offered me the song, we recorded it, the song was shot and here it is!” Blended in Hindi and English vocals, the song has been filmed on Nandish and Charlie Sandhu. Rithi has featured as a singer on another video of the same song. It has been composed by Palash and Anu Malik’s daughter Anmol. Talking about her journey, she said, “I was born in Varanasi and after a few years we shifted to Mumbai. Still we have relatives there and every year I visit Varanasi twice or thrice a year. My mother hails from the city of ghats while my father is BHU alumni.” Her parents are trained in classical music. “My first musical memory is of my mother doing riyaz on harmonium and I used to get very intrigued. Sitting with her as a two-three year-old, I started singing with her and then I never looked back. Till I was eight I kept learning from her then I found my guru Mona Sharma Verma in school and continued training under her. Then I also started to learn Indian classical music.” Initially, she started doing law but is now pursuing BBA to find more time for her music.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-musical-debut-was-absolutely-filmy/story-upO6tC5le0eD9EEpPwh0ZM.html
08-11-2020||India||GST portal scaled up to handle 3 lakh taxpayers concurrently||The Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) portal will now be able to handle double the taxpayer traffic for return filing than it used to after the GST infra was upgraded to handle up to three lakh users at a time.“The GSTN Portal now successfully handles almost double the taxpayer traffic for return filing immediately after lockdown. It has been made possible as the GST infra has been upgraded to handle up to three lakh concurrent logged-in users at a time,” according to an official statement. The gateway’s capacity was increased from 1.5 lakh to 3 lakh concurrent logged in taxpayers in preparation of the expected surge in the indirect tax-related activities on the portal after easing of lockdown in June 2020.If needed, the GSTN can even handle and scale up to five lakh concurrently logged in taxpayers. “The GST eco-system is future-ready to offer a seamless experience to the taxpayers with its augmented capacity even beyond the current load limits. Taking the surge during the peak filing into consideration, GSTN also took on the performance and stress testing of GST System applications that helped identify and remove bottlenecks in the software,” the official statement further said.According to the news agency ANI, GSTN data shows a sudden jump in the filing of GSTR-3B, the monthly return filed by the normal taxpayers, in September 2020. Also, the number of active taxpayer numbers has doubled since the launch of GST at approximately 1.3 crore. “This surge was due to the backlog in the filing of previous months’ returns for which relaxations were provided to the taxpayers in view of the Covid-19 outbreak,” the official statement said.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-portal-scaled-up-to-handle-3-lakh-taxpayers-concurrently/story-Yek3qoAQ6DbwWKmk52gTwN.html
08-11-2020||India||BigBasket faces potential data breach; details of 2 crore users put on sale on dark web||Grocery e-commerce platform Bigbasket has faced a potential data breach which could have leaked details of its around 2 crore users, according to cyber intelligence firm Cyble. The company has filed a police complaint in this regard with Cyber Crime Cell in Bengaluru and is verifying claims made by cyber experts. Cyble said that a hacker has put data allegedly belonging to Bigbasket on sale for around Rs 30 lakh. “In the course of our routine dark web monitoring, the research team at Cyble found the database of Big Basket for sale in a cyber crime market, being sold for over USD 40,000. The leak contains a database portion; with the table name ‘member_member’. The size of the SQL file is about 15 GB, containing close to 20 million user data,” Cyble said in its blog. It added the data put on sale includes names, email IDs, password hashes, contact numbers (mobile and phone), addresses, date of birth, location, and IP addresses of login among many others. While Cyble has mentioned “passwords”, the company uses a one-time password sent through SMS which keeps on changing every time a user logs in. “A few days ago, we learnt about a potential data breach at Bigbasket and are evaluating the extent of the breach and authenticity of the claim in consultation with cybersecurity experts and finding immediate ways to contain it. We have also lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime Cell in Bengaluru and intend to pursue this vigorously to bring the culprits to book,” Bigbasket said in a statement. The company said that the privacy and confidentiality of customers is priority and it does not store any financial data including credit card numbers etc and is confident that this financial data is secure. “The only customer data that we maintain are email IDs, phone numbers, order details, and addresses so these are the details that could potentially have been accessed. We have a robust information security framework that employs best-in-class resources and technologies to manage our information. We will continue to proactively engage with best-in-class information security experts to strengthen this further,” Bigbasket said. The Bengaluru-based company is funded by Alibaba Group, Mirae Asset-Naver Asia Growth Fund, and the UK government-owned CDC group. Cyble claimed that the breach occurred on October 30, 2020 and it has already informed the management of Bigbasket about it. The cyber intelligence firm said on October 31, Cyble validated the breach through “validation of the leaked data with BigBasket users/information”, and on November 1, “Cyble disclosed the breach to Bigbasket management”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bigbasket-faces-potential-data-breach-details-of-2-crore-users-put-on-sale-on-dark-web/story-UibH5KMcvsr0Ywgjy2Y09L.html
08-11-2020||India||DeMo anniversary: PM Modi hails move, Congress observes betrayal day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed his government’s demonetisation move four years ago, claiming that it gave a boost to transparency. In a tweet on Sunday, Modi said that the move helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and gave a boost to transparency and that the outcomes have been beneficial for the country’s progress.In graphics accompanying the tweet, the Prime Minister pointed out that India had turned into a lesser cash-based economy with better tax compliance. He said self-assessment tax of more than Rs 13,000 crore was paid by targeted non-filers and 3.04 lakh persons who deposited cash of Rs 10 lakh or more but had not filed their income tax returns were identified. He also claimed that the demonetisation helped improve India’s tax/GDP ratio. Demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalization and given a boost to transparency. These outcomes have been greatly beneficial towards national progress. #DeMolishingCorruption pic.twitter.com/A8alwQj45ROn November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Modi announced the decision to ban all currency notes of higher denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 from midnight. Long queues were witnessed outside ATMs for several days after that, as people tried to get new banknotes in hand. Most of the old notes in circulation were deposited with banks. The move came in for criticism from several quarters, and the opposition claimed it had harmed the economy.The Congress observed the fourth anniversary of demonetisation as “Vikshwasghaat Diwas” (betrayal day) as it ran a social media campaign ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’ and slammed the government alleging that it has continuously changed the explanatory reasons for carrying out the measure four years ago. Demonetisation has “destroyed” the economy, it added.Congress general secretary Ajay Maken at a media briefing quoted former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s remarks on November 24, 2016, to hit out at the government. “The way this scheme has been implemented -- is a monumental management failure, and in fact, it is a case of organised loot, legalised plunder of the common people,” Maken said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that Prime Minister Modi’s move four years ago was aimed at helping a few of his “crony capitalist friends” and had “destroyed” the Indian economy. In a video released as part of the party’s online ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’ campaign, Gandhi said the question is how the economy of Bangladesh “surpassed” the Indian economy as there was a time when India used to be one of the most high performing economies of the world. “The government says that the reason is Covid but if that is the reason, there is Covid in Bangladesh and elsewhere in the world also. The reason is not Covid, the reason is ‘Notebandi’ and GST,” Gandhi said in Hindi.P Chidambaram, Mallikarjun Kharge, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid were among senior Congress leaders who also slammed the government over demonetisation as part of their party’s online campaign.“The first lesson every ruler and every government must learn is that - even if you do not do good to the people, do not do harm. The BJP-led NDA government did great harm to India’s economy on November 8th, 2016,” Chidambaram, a former Union finance minister, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demo-anniversary-pm-modi-hails-move-congress-observes-betrayal-day/story-YMjSwOBCknM6fED5CQwvpJ.html
08-11-2020||India||India looks to continuity in ties under Biden, experts expect rebalancing in some areas||The overall thrust of India-US ties, including burgeoning security cooperation and the focus on the Indo-Pacific, are unlikely to change under a Joe Biden presidency though experts believe there will be some rebalancing in certain areas. In a congratulatory message on Saturday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled Biden’s “critical and invaluable” role in strengthening bilateral ties in his former role as vice president under president Barack Obama, and said he looked forward to working closely together again with the president-elect. This message, Biden’s past support in critical areas such as the civil nuclear cooperation and counter-terrorism, and strong bipartisan support in the US for bolstering the strategic partnership with India to address global challenges are expected to set the tone for the future course of ties, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Biden has been a strong proponent of India-US relations since his days as a senator in the 1970s. During his second stint as chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he wrote to then president George W Bush in 2001 to unilaterally drop US sanctions against India. In his third stint in the same post, Biden was seen by India as a critical ally in getting the Senate’s approval for the India-US civil nuclear agreement in 2008 and also co-sponsored several legislations on terrorism. “Biden was a consistent proponent of the nuclear deal, and certainly was critical to its success,” said a person who declined to be named. Peter Lavoy, a former US assistant secretary of defence for Asian and Pacific security affairs, said: “US-India relations improved steadily under presidents Bill Clinton, George W Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump. The Biden administration certainly will view India as a key global partner and can be expected to further deepen economic, political and strategic ties.” Also Read: Allies prepare for abrupt US U-turn as Joe Biden shifts prioritiesThe India-US relationship stands to benefit as it is one that Washington won’t have to repair post-Trump, said Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “In general, it will likely be more of the same, since the relationship continued its steady progress despite Trump disrupting relations with other partners such as Germany and South Korea,” Narang said. In a 2006 interview, Biden had presciently said: “My dream is that in 2020, the two closest nations in the world will be India and the US. If that occurs, the world will be safer.” Biden was also part of the Obama administration when the US declared India as major defence partner and backed its candidature for permanent membership of a reformed UN Security Council. As recently as last month, Biden wrote in an op-ed in India West newspaper that a Biden-Harris administration will build on the “great progress” in ties with India under the Obama-Biden administration. “We can and should be natural allies,” he said. Also Read: Americans pivot from red-hot Trump to Biden’s seasoned coolBiden also offered support on issues such as counter-terrorism and the aggressive actions of China. He wrote: “The US and India will stand together against terrorism in all its forms and work together to promote a region of peace and stability where neither China nor any other country threatens its neighbours.” Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash pointed to geo-political convergences and bilateral commonalities on issues such as security, energy and economy between the two sides, and said: “These are areas where both sides meet and the US will be quite happy to work with us. Besides, the US’s relations with India and Pakistan have been de-hyphenated. With India, it’s building on the positives and with Pakistan, it’s containing the negatives.” However, former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said India will have to keep an eye on the new US administration’s policy towards China, which could be markedly different from that of the outspoken Trump. “Biden’s policy for China will take several months to take shape though it is expected he will be less loud on China,” he said. Bhatia and Narang also cautioned that India shouldn’t expect a free pass on issues such as Kashmir and human rights, which Biden and vice president-elect Kamala Harris have raised in recent months. Also Read: Iran’s president calls on Biden to return to nuclear dealWhile the Trump administration was generally muted on human rights issues and the situation in Kashmir, both figured in Biden’s campaign documents. An agenda paper said the Indian government “should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir” since restrictions on dissent weaken democracy. Biden was also disappointed by the “implementation and aftermath of the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act into law” as he believed these “are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy”. Narang said: “From Delhi’s side, there may be a need to address the perception that the BJP was all-in for Trump and that it attacked Democrats over the past several years for expressing human rights concerns. But in general, I would expect only minor variations on the broader theme of deeper India-US partnership across a wide spectrum of issues, from defence to dollars to diaspora, as well as democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-looks-to-continuity-in-ties-under-biden-experts-expect-rebalancing-in-some-areas/story-sy3LxpDwFbZfbih89twtZN.html
08-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: Race for shot to pick up in January, says expert||The global caseload of the coronavirus disease is hurtling towards 50 million, even as research and trials continue across the world to find a vaccine against Covid-19, which has claimed more than 1.2 million lives so far. The world has been waiting for a shot against Covid-19 amidst a wave of fresh cases in Europe and a ban by the UK on travellers from Denmark following an outbreak of a rare mutation of the virus in the Nordic country’s mink farms.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere are the latest updates in the worldwide search for a Covid-19 vaccine:1. Dmitry Kulish, a professor at the Skoltech Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, said at a Harvard Club of Russia online discussion that the race for producing a viable vaccine to tackle the coronavirus disease will intensify in January next year. “If we talk about the race [on creating an effective vaccine], the peak of the race will occur at the start of January 2021, when everyone will be comparing serious side effects,” Kulish said while speaking at the online discussion on the topic of vaccine creation.He explained that since most reports on clinical trials of the vaccines being developed in different countries are slated to come out in January next year, everyone will come to know the side effects of each vaccine and that would intensify the already high stakes race. Kulish’s home country Russia has developed its own vaccine, the Sputnik V, named after the first-ever man-made object to orbit the earth, developed by the erstwhile Soviet Union, Sputnik I.2. Hungary’s foreign minister Peter Szijjarto said a Hungarian company may be able to switch from flu shot production to production of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in December for final testing and licensing.3. Argentina has struck a deal with drug maker AstraZeneca Plc to receive around 22 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine being developed in collaboration with the University of Oxford, with the aim to start deliveries in the first half of next year. Argentina, which is starting to see new cases slow, is hoping to receive some 10 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine and a smaller number of doses of Pfizer Inc’s vaccine between December-January.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-vaccine-updates-race-for-shot-to-pick-up-in-january-says-expert/story-0mYAip4gt65p0fdJrMJ2YO.html
08-11-2020||India||Will prepare SOP on opening religious places after Diwali: CM Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday hinted that places of worship could be reopened in the coming days. Thackeray said that he was criticised for not reopening temples and other places of worship, but those taking a potshot at him would not share the blame, if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) contagion spun out of control. The CM, in his 33-minute address to the state, which was broadcast via social media, said Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases were on the wane.However, he cautioned that any sort of complacency could lead to another wave. He said that the state government would prepare a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to reopen places of worship in Maharashtra after Diwali (November 14). Several political parties and religious bodies have been appealing to the state government to reopen the places of worship. However, the state government has been cautious since senior citizens will predominantly frequent the places of worship and may become super spreaders.“We will prepare a SOP after Diwali. Mostly senior citizens such as our parents and grandparents visit all places of worship. Masks will be compulsory in all places of worship. I am intentionally delaying reopening of all places of worship. I am aware that I am being criticised for my decision. But if there is a bigger spread of Covid-19 cases, those criticising me will not take the responsibility,” he added.Thackeray also appealed to the public to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali as pollution and smoke would aggravate the health condition of those who suffer from lung ailments.The CM said that the next 20 days would be crucial in the fight against Covid-19. He urged the public to maintain social distancing, avoid crowding, use masks in a bid to prevent another surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “The upcoming Diwali and 15 days after the festival is a big test for us. European countries, including France, have enforced lockdown restrictions again. It will be tough, if we have to adopt similar measures. Many people are still not wearing masks. Such indiscipline will not be tolerated. The public will be fined for non-compliance. An estimate says a Covid-19 patient without a mask can infect up to 400 people,” he said. The issue to ban firecrackers was discussed in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday. However, a decision to impose a ban is yet to be taken. State minister for health and family welfare Rajesh Tope said the government might take a call on restricting the use of firecrackers. Sena ministers reportedly suggested promoting environment-friendly crackers instead of announcing a blanket ban. Thackeray said that instead of imposing a ban on firecrackers, he would want the public to voluntarily restrain from bursting them. “Elsewhere in the country, especially in Delhi, there has been a spike in Covid-19 cases. Why is it increasing? It is said it’s due to pollution. I would like to appeal to you not to burst crackers this Diwali. We must maintain self-discipline like we have been doing in our fight against the viral outbreak. A vaccine is yet to be launched. Pollution causes Covid-19 cases to increase. Can we avoid firecrackers? Should we ban it? …There is so much pollution and smoke. What we have achieved [in controlling Covid-19] will be lost in just four days of smoke. I request you not to burst fire crackers in public places and avoid them altogether,” he said.The CM also launched an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for what he said was the latter’s bid to derail a Metro Rail project that would benefit Mumbaikars. The BJP has been accusing the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising coalition partners such as CM Thackeray’s Shiv Sena, the National Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, for trying to build a Metro Rail car depot at Kanjurmarg that is a salt pan.Thackeray, in a veiled attack on the BJP, said that the state has attracted proposed investments of over Rs 5,000 million, despite a campaign to defame the MVA government.The plot for the Metro Rail car depot in Kanjurmarg has become the latest flashpoint between the Centre and Maharashtra government. The Centre has claimed that the plot, where the Metro Rail car shed is proposed, belongs to it and is a salt pan. “Some people said that the plot is a salt pan. But they don’t understand that they are trying to derail the project meant for Mumbaikars,” he said.He hit out at the MVA government’s detractors and said it did not work with its “eyes shut”. “During the last few months, while we were battling the Covid-19 in Maharashtra, those who have a grudge against us launched a campaign to defame the state. [They said] Maharashtra’s law and order has collapsed. It is a safe haven for drug addicts. However, we overcame these trenchant criticisms and signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) worth Rs 1,700 million in June. Last week, we signed MoUs worth Rs 3,500 million. Several companies, both Indian and multinationals, will invest in Maharashtra. I was criticised for not stepping out of the home. However, I got all the investments for the state while sitting at home. Maharashtra’s economy is gaining momentum, despite the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Thackeray said that the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, etc were on the wane, thanks to the state government’s “My Family, My Responsibility” campaign. “Several people were criticising us for the pandemic situation was getting out of control. But our determination, self-confidence and discipline has helped flatten the Covid-19 curve,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-prepare-sop-on-opening-religious-places-after-diwali-cm-thackeray/story-CZf3w40iUbHkCp6FsHqJQM.html
08-11-2020||India||Demonetisation cleaned up the economy, dealt body blow to black money: BJP||Demonetisation was an “attack” on corruption and black money that were rampant during the “lost decade” of the Congress-led UPA government, the BJP said on Sunday while hitting out at the opposition party for criticising the move.On November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the decision to ban all currency notes of higher denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 from midnight.Demonetisation was good for the country, BJP national spokesperson Rajeev Chandrasekhar said.It resulted in cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector and revenue aggregation, he told a press conference at the party’s headquarters here on the fourth anniversary of demonetisation.Read also: 3 soldiers and BSF constable killed, 2 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s Machil“Demonitisation had dealt a body blow to the systemic financial corruption and black money economy. Since then, it has simultaneously invigorated formal economy and brought unprecedented financial benefits to all sections of society,” Chandrasekhar said.His remarks came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the government over demonetisation, alleging that the move four years ago was aimed at helping a few of Prime Minister Modi’s “crony capitalist friends” and had “destroyed” the Indian economy.Without taking names, Chandrasekhar said,”If there is anybody who shouldn’t talk about loot, mismanagement of the economy it should be people from the Congress. During the lost decade of the Congress-led UPA government, there was rampant black money and corruption in the country’s economy.” The United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power at the Centre for two terms from 2004 to 2009 and from 2009 to 2014.From 2014, the Modi government embarked on transforming the economy and demonetisation was part of it to ensure government resources reach the poor and the downtrodden without corruption and leakage, Chandrashekhar said.“Demonetisation had three significant and tangible impacts -- cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector as it helped us to reach the poor and needy, and revenue aggregation,” the BJP leader said.Chandrasekhar said the economic transformations or decisions taken by Modi government in the last six years had an overall positive impact on the Indian economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demonetisation-cleaned-up-the-economy-dealt-body-blow-to-black-money-bjp/story-Q6wKvY8oRAlmU7XgTlgI3O.html
08-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: LJP replays spoilsport’s role but with different target and all the latest updates||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar assembly polls: LJP replays spoilsport’s role but with different targetIf the exit polls on the Bihar assembly election are any indicators, the Lok Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) may end up repeating its 2005 role of a spoilsport. The likely end of the Nitish Kumar regime as projected by most exit polls will give the LJP the satisfaction of having accomplished its mission but at a staggering cost in a state where it has always struggled to be a major player. Read more3 soldiers and BSF constable killed, 2 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s MachilThree soldiers of the Indian Army and a Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed and two terrorists gunned down after an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Machil sector on Sunday, officials said. The operation is currently underway, they added. Read morePlaces of worship to reopen soon in Maharashtra; SOP will be released after DiwaliThe places of worship in Maharashtra may reopen soon as the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that he will release the guidelines after Diwali. Religious places in Maharashtra have been closed since March after a lockdown was imposed to curb the Covid-19 spread. Read more‘Have to play better away from home’: Sourav Ganguly explains why India struggle in SENA nationsIndia will have to ‘fight hard’ and ‘buckle down’ if they are to win a second successive Test series in Australia when they tour Down Under later this month, believes BCCI president Sourav Ganguly. The Test series will begin December 17 with the first match set to take place under lights – the first-ever Day-Night Test between India and Australia. Read moreSena’s Sanjay Raut hits out at BJP over Arnab arrest issueSanjay Raut, chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena and a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), on Sunday launched a full frontal attack on the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its agitation against Republic TV editor-in-chief (EiC) and prime time anchor Arnab Goswami’s arrest in the 2018 case of abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik (53). Read moreKamala Harris recommends ‘a hearty breakfast’ for women, reveals her favourite Indian dishesBorn to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Kamala Harris has left little girls dreaming big after she was elected as the first Indian-origin and first Black woman Vice President of the United States of America. Ahead of the declaration of final results of the presidential elections in the US, Kamala had answered some questions asked by Instagram users, a video which is now grabbing eyeballs as the Indian-American spilled the beans on her lifestyle choices including her favourite North Indian and South Indian dishes, what she eats for breakfast and how she took care of her mental health on the campaign trail. Read moreRoyal Enfield to launch 28 new bikes in next 7 years, one in every quarterMid-sized motorcycle maker Royal Enfield plans to launch at least 28 new models in the next seven years, with one new bike to be introduced every quarter as it seeks to strengthen its position both in domestic and international markets, according to a top company official. Read moreWhatsApp this week: WhatsApp Pay, disappearing messages and moreWhatsApp is arguably one of the most popular messaging apps in the world. What makes it popular among the masses is its everevolving set of features. In the past week, WhatsApp added a whole bunch of new features, which includes features such as disappearing messages and WhatsApp among others. Read moreTwinkle Khanna addresses boycott calls against Akshay Kumar’s Laxmii, trolls sharing her morphed pics: ‘I am flattered’While Akshay Kumar has been largely silent in the face of boycott calls being made against his film Laxmii, his author wife Twinkle Khanna has written about her reaction to the controversy in her latest weekly column. Twinkle said that trolls have been sharing her morphed pictures on social media to get back at Akshay for allegedly hurting religious sentiments with the film’s title. Read moreJoe Biden’s granddaughter tweets heartwarming family photo celebrating his winA candid shot, a perfect moment- Naomi Biden’s priceless photograph after grandfather Joe Biden’s win speaks for itself. The picture, shared with a vintage polaroid tinge has swiftly gone viral and grabbed the attention of netizens. Chances are it may fill your heart with joy too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ljp-replays-spoilsport-s-role-but-with-different-target-and-all-the-latest-updates/story-QuAltvcxU8USWUfoQ5vOfM.html
08-11-2020||India||She had a dream, says family of Kerala doctor who died in US||India-born Dr Nita Kunnumpurath (30), who died after her car plunged into an alligator-infested canal in Florida in the United States (US) on Friday, cherished a dream, her shocked relatives in her home state of Kerala said. She wanted to set up a hospital in Wayanad in north Kerala, where she had spent her formative years and studied till Grade X, they said.Nita, who was pursuing her post-graduate studies in surgery in Miami, Florida, was travelling to her residence at Naples, when she lost control of the vehicle and plunged into a canal in a neighbourhood called Alligator Alley. Reports suggested an American couple, who travelling behind her vehicle, stopped their car and tried to rescue her. The man managed to pull her out and when he was about to drag an unconscious Nita out of the canal, alligators rushed towards him. His wife, who was helping him to rescue her, alerted him about the lurking alligators and he was compelled to let her go, the police said. Later, the police fired at the alligators and brought her ashore. She was dead by then, the police added. “Nita was a hard-working girl. She always nurtured a dream to set up a hospital in Wayanad to treat the poor. Charity was in her blood. We could not believe she is no more,” said her uncle K Stephan, who was informed about the fatal accident on Saturday night. Her father Thomas Kunnumpurath had migrated to the US after he retired from his government job. Nita had completed her Grade X from De Paul Public School in Kalpetta, the headquarters of Wayanad district. Her brother is a pharmacist and sister is a physiotherapist.Her burial would be held in a church in Chicago in a couple of days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/she-had-a-dream-says-family-of-kerala-doctor-who-died-in-us/story-MkaxNHJAuMypUtKytDZ29K.html
08-11-2020||India||Sena’s Sanjay Raut hits out at BJP over Arnab arrest issue||Sanjay Raut, chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena and a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), on Sunday launched a full frontal attack on the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its agitation against Republic TV editor-in-chief (EiC) and prime time anchor Arnab Goswami’s arrest in the 2018 case of abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik (53). Raut alleged that the BJP stopped journalists from entering western Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Hathras district, where a Dalit teenager (19) was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by four upper-caste men in September. The party arrested and slapped cases against those journalists, who wrote against its leaders, he further alleged. He said the same party was talking about the freedom of press. Raut, in his weekly column RokhThok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, alleged that the entire Union cabinet, except Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and BJP chief ministers backed Goswami. Goswami was arrested in Mumbai by Raigad police on November 4 morning after a high drama. After his arrest several top BJP leaders unleashed a coordinated attack at the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (MVA), comprising the coalition partners the Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, for allegedly muzzling the media.They alleged that Goswami was singled out for his criticism of the MVA government. The BJP launched demonstrations across Maharashtra and protests against his arrest.Raut, who is also the executive editor of Saamana, wrote, “A suicide note written by [Anvay] Naik named Goswami holding him responsible for his death. The then BJP government hushed up the case, despite tell-tale evidence. Investigating the suppressed case has become a crime? How does the arrest of Goswami become an attack on the freedom of press? The entire Union cabinet, barring the PM, chief ministers of BJP-ruled states stood beside Goswami, while the voice of Naik’s wife and daughter were suppressed.”Goswami denies the charges against him and alleges harassment by the state administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-s-sanjay-raut-hits-out-at-bjp-over-arnab-arrest-issue/story-KlB43TKMZY5KTnFOacm0wL.html
08-11-2020||India||Shipping ministry to be renamed, will bring ‘clarity in work’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Ministry of Shipping is being expanded and renamed as the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways.He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a Ro-Pax ferry service between Hazira in Surat and Ghogha in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, which will reduce the 370-km road distance between the two places to 90-km by sea route.The service will also cut the travel time between the two places to about four hours from 10 to 12 hours.Modi said work is being done so that the country’s sea area emerges as an important part of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India).“To boost the government’s effort, one more big step is being taken. Now, the Ministry of Shipping is being renamed as the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways,” he said.Also Read: Ropax Ferry Service will decrease transportation costs, aid ease of business, says PM Modi“It (the ministry) is being expanded. In developed economies, in most places, the shipping ministry also takes care of ports and waterways. In India, the shipping ministry does a lot of work related to ports and waterways. Clarity in name will also bring about clarity in work,” he further said.He also said the new Ro-Pax ferry service launched on Sunday will reduce the distance between Bhavnagar to Surat, which is around 375-km by road, to 90-km by sea route.This will also reduce the travel time from 10-12 hours to three to four hours, he said.“The service will help people save both time and cost and also reduce traffic congestion on roads and reduce pollution,” Modi said.The three-deck Ro-Pax Ferry Vessel Voyage Symphony connecting Hazira in Surat district in south Gujarat and Ghogha in Saurashtras Bhavnagar has a load capacity of 30 trucks, 100 passenger cars, and 500 passengers plus 34 crew and hospitality staff, as per a statement earlier released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The ferry will make three trips daily, annually transporting five lakh passengers, 80,000 passenger vehicles, 50,000 two-wheelers and 30,000 trucks, as per the release.Modi said to strengthen the ‘blue economy’, it is important to strengthen logistics related to the sea.Compared to other countries, the cost of carrying goods from one part to another is high in India even today.Through water transport, this (cost) can be reduced drastically, he said.“Therefore, our focus is to create such an ecosystem where seamless movement of cargo is ensured. Today, for better maritime logistics along with better infrastructure, we are working on a single-window system,” he said.“To reduce the cost of logistics, the country is moving ahead with a holistic and long-term view of multi-modal connectivity. The effort is to improve connectivity between road, rail, air and shipping infrastructure by removing silos between them,” the PM said.Also Read: You have ease of doing business, work on ease of living: Modi tells IIT-Delhi graduatesHe said multi-modal parks are being constructed not just in India, but also neighbouring countries.“With all these efforts, we shall be able to reduce the cost of logistics. These efforts will also give a new direction to the economy,” he said.Modi said the country always had resources and expertise in waterways, but the past governments lacked the vision to use them, despite the fact that transportation through waterways is much cheaper compared to road and rail, and causes minimum adverse affect on the environment.“Despite this, it was only after 2014 that work was done with a holistic approach in this direction. These rivers and seas existed even before Modi became the prime minister.What was lacking was the vision that the country has experienced after 2014,” he said.Modi said to boost the ‘blue economy’ and fishing business, his government also focused on fishermen and has come up with the ‘Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana’ with an outlay of ₹30,000 crore to help improve the fishing infrastructure.“Today, the port capacity of coastal areas across the country is being increased and new ports are being constructed. Efforts are being made to ensure that the 21,000 -km ‘jal marg’ (waterways) are used for the country’s development,” he said.For this, work is underway on more than 500 projects under ‘Sagarmala’. Many of these projects worth lakhs of crores are ready, he said.Modi said Gujarat accounted for over 40 per cent share of the country’s entire trade through sea route last year.Work is on at fast pace to create infrastructure and capacity building for sea routes, like maritime clusters and maritime university, as well as the world’s first CNG Terminal in Bhavnagar, he said.TheGujarat Maritime Cluster coming up in the GIFT (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City) City at Gandhinagar will be a dedicated system to address logistics of ports and seaways, he said.“This will help in value addition of this sector,” the prime minister said.India’s first chemical and LNG Terminal was constructed at Dahej in Gujarat, he said, adding that a ‘Ro-Ro (roll on roll off) terminal, a liquid cargo terminal and a container terminal are being set up in Bhavnagar.“The new terminals will increase Bhavnagar’s port capacity by many times,” he said.The prime minister further said the government is trying to restart the ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej that was launched in 2017, but stopped due to natural reasons.“Many challenges related to nature came up before this project. With the help of modern technology, they are being removed, and I hope people of Ghogha and Dahej will soon be able to take the benefit of this facility,” he said.Modi also interacted with a few people like farmers, pilgrims and businessmen, who expressed their happiness over the new ferry service.Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shipping-ministry-to-be-renamed-will-bring-clarity-in-work-pm-modi/story-8m1OmJT4oQIx8FRYx3apNK.html
08-11-2020||India||Places of worship to reopen soon in Maharashtra; SOP will be released after Diwali||The places of worship in Maharashtra may reopen soon as the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that he will release the guidelines after Diwali. Religious places in Maharashtra have been closed since March after a lockdown was imposed to curb the Covid-19 spread.This announcement comes amid growing pressure from various fronts and political parties despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “Religious places will also be allowed to open. We will prepare guidelines for reopening places of worship after Diwali,” said CM Thackeray.Besides the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, AIMIM Member of Parliament from Aurangabad Imtiaz Jaleel and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi president Prakash Ambedkar have threatened to launch an agitation against the closing of places of worship.Over the past few weeks, Covid-19 cases in the state have been falling steadily. As of Saturday evening, the state have 17,14,273 total Covid-19 cases out which 99,151 were active cases. The death toll stood at 45,115.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/places-of-worship-to-reopen-soon-in-maharashtra/story-mrhred0Ns3R60ZVZboVBdL.html
08-11-2020||India||Not being allowed to talk to lawyers, says Arnab Goswami as he was being shifted to Taloja jail||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Sunday said he was subjected to torture and was not being allowed to talk to his lawyers. A video released by the Republic Television showed him speaking to media from the police van which shifted him from Alibag primary school in Rajgad district to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.“I had requested them please let me talk (to my lawyers). But they denied. I am telling everyone my life is at stake. My police custody was rejected. They tried to shift me at night only. Today morning they have dragged me. Everybody is seeing what is happening to me. They want to delay the process and keep me in jail. Please give me bail, I am appealing to the Supreme Court,” the 47-year-old journalist could be seen saying with folded hands in the video.Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in connection with 2018’s abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik who, in his suicide note, had blamed Goswami and two others for his and his mother’s suicide.Since November 4, he was lodged at the primary school which has been converted into a Covid-19 facility. Now, he will be kept for a few days in a quarantine centre inside Taloja jail before he is shifted to the barrack, Kaushtubh Kurlekar, superintendent of police (SP), Taloja jail, said.Goswami was supposed to be moved to Alibag jail after he would have finished his quarantine period in the Covid-19 facility. But the decision to shift him to another jail was prompted after Goswami was allegedly found using someone’s mobile phone in the quarantine centre. Meanwhile, Delhi Police on Sunday detained BJP leaders Kapil Mishra and Tajinder Bagga and foiled their bid to hold a protest at Rajghat in support of Arnab Goswami.Two hearings in the suicide abetment case are scheduled on Monday.The Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on Goswami’s interim bail application. On Saturday, a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik after a day-long hearing in the pleas reserved its order without granting any immediate relief.A notice issued late Saturday night on the high court’s website said the bench would assemble at 3 pm on November 9 for pronouncement of the order.The sessions court at Alibag will also hear the police’s plea challenging a magistrate’s order which denied them Goswami’s custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-being-allowed-to-talk-to-lawyers-says-arnab-goswami-as-he-was-being-shifted-to-taloja-jail/story-ObtyOVaQz9jQwZdv86ttSN.html
08-11-2020||India||No ban on firecrackers in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray urges people to exercise discipline||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday urged people to celebrate Diwali without firecrackers as cases of infection due to Covid-19 see a downward trend in the state. He said that he will not impose a ban and requested people to show self-discipline and celebrate firecrackers-free Diwali. “Whatever we have achieved (in controlling Covid-19) will go away in four days due to pollution through firecrackers,” Thackeray said in an appeal. “No firecrackers in public places. I am not imposing a ban on crackers or an Emergency,” he also said. “We can ban firecrackers but we can avoid bursting firecrackers by exercising self-discipline,” said CM Thackeray.Referring to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Thackeray said, “The Covid curve is coming down in Maharashtra and Mumbai with discipline and determination of the people. We are seeing that cases are going up in Delhi. It is due to pollution.”“15 days after Diwali are still crucial. We should be cautious so that the need for lockdown does not arise again” he also said.This comes as a number of states have banned firecrackers ahead of Diwali, including Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and West Bengal, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the cases of the viral respiratory disease fall in Maharashtra, Thackeray announced reopening of places of worship and said will prepare the guidelines after Diwali. Once the worst-affected state by Covid-19, Maharashtra has been reporting a steady fall in Covid-19 cases since the last week of October. However, the number of deaths has not reduced in proportion. So, the case fatality rate (CFR) is yet to come down. As of Saturday evening, the state have 17,14,273 total Covid-19 cases out of which 99,151 were active cases. The death toll stood at 45,115.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ban-on-firecrackers-in-maharashtra-uddhav-urges-people-to-exercise-discipline/story-USzmlhZOm5vTTNDTGFMUkL.html
08-11-2020||India||Upset after Australia’s participation in Malabar Exercise, China warns of economic damage||Australia’s decision to take part in Malabar Exercise has outraged China, who has warned Canberra of “economic pain” if it continues to be part of US administration “roughneck gang”.In an editorial piece, Communist party mouthpiece China Daily chided the Australian government for ‘aggressively sending warships to China’s doorsteps’ as part of Exercise Malabar, UK Daily Mail reported.The first phase of the Malabar naval exercise has culminated recently in the Bay of Bengal with the participation by Indian Navy, United States Navy, Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force, and Royal Australian Navy.The 24th multinational maritime naval exercise, which started on November 3, was restricted to sea phase and conducted in “zero contact” format considering Covid-19 pandemic.“Although Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has declared that his government’s approach to foreign policy is defined by ‘strategic patience and consistency’, particularly regarding China, his government’s rash participation in the US administration’s attempts to contain China belies that,” the editorial said.“Canberra should realize it will get nothing from Washington in return for its collusion in its schemes, while Australia will pay tremendously for its misjudgment,” it added.Chinese and Australian relations have deteriorated after Canberra called in April for an investigation into the origins of the coronavirus without first consulting Beijing.Beijing has since imposed a large anti-dumping duty on Australian barley, banned beef exports from five abattoirs and instigated anti-dumping and subsidy investigations into cheap Australian wine in China.Another Chinese state media outlet, the Global Times recently warned Australia will pay an ‘unbearable price’ for ‘sabotaging’ bilateral relations and criticising the regime post-Covid.Recently, it was reported that importers across Beijing are expected to brace for a possible round of sanctions on copper ore and copper concentrate as well as sugar this week.The General Administration of Customs of China (GACC), last week, issued a notice to exporters claiming that it had found a pest in imported log timber from Queensland and has banned all log exports from the Australian state.The Chinese customs agency further claimed that it had found contamination in barley shipments from Australian grain exporter Emerald Grain as well.The propaganda publication accused Australia of prejudicially fueling anti-China sentiment and baselessly sanctioning Chinese companies, such as Huawei, who were shut out of the national 5G infrastructure grid on the grounds of national security.It also warned Canberra to ‘steer clear of Washington’s brinkmanship with China before it is too late’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-after-australia-s-participation-in-malabar-exercise-china-warns-of-economic-damage/story-2Xrd9z8R1d2zFjrfQlF9DJ.html
08-11-2020||India||Four-year-old boy found dead after 88-hour rescue operation||A four-year-old boy, who accidentally fell in a borewell, was found dead in the wee hours of Sunday after rescue operation that lasted for 88 hours in Niwari district, 350 km north east of Bhopal, said police.The boy, Prahlad Kushwaha of Saitpura village of Niwari district, fell in a 200 feet deep borewell on November 4 while playing near his farm, said Ashish Bhargava, collector, Niwari.Teams of police, army, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) held rescue operation for Prahlad. “The boy got stuck at around 60 feet of the borwell. A parallel trench of 60 feet was dug out with help of JCB machine. The teams faced difficulties while digging the trench as water was coming out from the borwell. We were continuously supplying oxygen to him,” said Bhargava. Bhargava said, “When the team rescued him around 3 am on Sunday, he was not responding. He was rushed to district hospital where he was declared brought dead. “ The body has been sent for postmortem. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the victim’s family. (With inputs from Anupam Pateriya from Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-year-old-boy-found-dead-after-88-hour-rescue-operation/story-2rhgzgoXIPpU7S6t9I1vDI.html
08-11-2020||India||Can’t hear matters through VC with outdated computers, MAT tells Bombay HC||The Maharashtra administrative tribunal (MAT) at its principal seat in Mumbai and benches at Nagpur and Aurangabad could not conduct hearings through video conferencing (VC) during the Covid-19 lockdown due to outdated computers and lack of technical manpower, MAT registrar Suresh Joshi has informed the Bombay high court.In a report submitted to the high court, Joshi has said that most of the computers being used at MAT are very old - purchased between 2007 and 2014 - for conducting VC hearings. Besides, the tribunals lack the technical manpower to conduct VC, he has said, adding that, at least two technical persons are required for the tribunal at Mumbai and one each at its benches.Therefore, from June 2020, the tribunal has been conducting physical hearings - with two benches at Mumbai and one each at Nagpur and Aurangabad, the report states.Working twice a week, MAT benches have during the Covid-19 pandemic heard a total of 1,220 cases filed during this period along with several other urgent matters, and have disposed of 599 cases, the report adds.Joshi has filed the report pursuant to October 28, 2020 order passed by the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, on a petition filed by advocate Yogesh Morbale, a resident of Ichalkaranji in Kolhapur district.In his petition filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar on October 6, Morbale complained that he had been stuck at his native place because of the pandemic and thousands of lawyers like him and litigants were deprived of access to MAT because of lack of online filing and hearing at the tribunal.He had, therefore, sought directions to the MAT to conduct hearings through video conferencing on a daily basis and update its website to support the e-court system and make it user friendly.As regards MAT website, Joshi said in his report that the tribunal has started its own website way back in July 2013. It is designed by Mahaonline Limited, only with certain basic features. He added that the space provided for the website on the state government’s server is insufficient and therefore whenever data is required to be uploaded on it, the tribunal has to approach the director, information technology.The MAT registrar’s report also said that the tribunal has a chairman, three vice chairmen and five members, of which posts of three members - one member each at Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad - are vacant, and two of the three vice chairmen are due to retire on November 17, 2020 and January 22, 2021.Thus, no bench will be available at Aurangabad from November 17, 2020 and government employees from Marathwada region will have to move either to Mumbai or to Nagpur in case of urgency. For hearing regular matters from Marathwada region, MAT will have to make arrangement of circuit benches, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-hear-matters-through-vc-with-outdated-computers-mat-tells-bombay-hc/story-CFHjKdHb7RdoxWw7t15U6L.html
08-11-2020||India||Robin Hood like Odisha tribal leader walks out of jail after 6 years||On Friday evening, soon after he was released from the Koraput jail, Nachika Linga was given an emotional welcome by people of Bhaliaput village in Narayanpatna block of Koraput district. Back home after a painful six years in jail as an undertrial with 45 cases against him, the 47-year-old Linga hugged tight his mother Juro Nachika, whom he had not seen since he went behind bars. He did not sleep the entire Friday night, busy chatting with his mother and family members, trying to catch up on the lost years and recounting his prison experiences.Declared the most-wanted Maoist by Odisha police more than a decade ago for trying to convert Narayanpatna block of Koraput into a Maoist fortress, Linga, a Kui tribal, was released two days after the Orissa high court granted him bail in the last of the 45 cases with charges ranging from loot to waging war against the state.In 44 cases, the trial courts acquitted him due to lack of evidence and witnesses while he continued to be behind bars in a 2009 case of attack on Narayanpatna police station. After a nudge by the Supreme Court last month, the Orissa high court early this week granted him bail. On Friday, the trial court of Koraput district judge released him on a bail bond of Rs 50,000 with two persons standing as guarantor, a little more than 6 years after he surrendered before Odisha police.“I would like to thank the government and the law. I could become free due to the blessings of everyone. I would continue to work for people,” said a much-mellowed Linga, the poster-boy of a tribal movement that threatened to turn Narayanpatna block into a Maoist fortress a decade ago.Under the banner of Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh, a Maoist-backed outfit, the tribals of Narayanpatna block in 2006 launched a movement to drive the moneylenders and landlords of the area whom they called ‘Sundi-Sahukar-Sarkar’ (liquor vendor-landlord-government). Led by Linga, CMAS mobilised over 30,000 tribals in the block with the slogan ‘mada mukti, jami mukti and goti mukti’(freedom from liquor, freedom from usurping of tribal lands and freedom from bonded labour).In his 2020 book, “Land alienation and politics of tribal exploitation in India”, Surath Malik, a political science professor of Midnapore’s Vidyasagar University wrote that using the age-old issue of tribal land alienation by non-tribals in the block, CMAS immediately became popular.“Of the 43,000-odd population in the block, around 82% were tribals. Though it was a Scheduled Area and tribal land could not be transferred under Odisha Scheduled Areas Transfer of Immovable Property by Scheduled Tribes Regulation, 1956, the executive could not properly implement it. The landlords from the coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh joined the liquor vendors of Narayanpatna area and exploited the tribals forcing them to become daily wage labourers in their own lands. Though the tribals in Narayanpatna were 85% in population, the actual land possessed by them was about 10–15%. The tribals of Narayanpatna under the banner of the CMAS launched the movement to drive the moneylenders and landlords out of the Narayanpatna area and posted red flags on the land,” Malik wrote in his book.Like his father and grandfather, Linga too started as a bonded labourer working under an upper caste landlord in Bhaliaput village of Narayanpatna block for a wage of Rs 5 per day. Five generations of Linga family were bonded labourers, but he was determined not to let that continue and fled to neighbouring Parvatipuram of Andhra Pradesh in early 2000, where he probably came in contact with Maoists. He returned home a few years later.In 2006, Linga became one of the key members of the Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangha, a tribal body that had Maoist links. The Ryot Coolie Sangha, a tribal body, had been banned in Andhra Pradesh in August 2005 over its alleged links with Maoists. In anticipation of a similar ban by the Odisha government, the RCS-Koraput changed its name to Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh in 2006.Under Linga, the tribals of Narayanpatna launched a movement to drive the moneylenders and landlords away, bringing more and more tribals into the fold of CMAS.In 2006, Genua Vahini, the militant brigade of CMAS led by Linga captured some 50 acres of non-tribal land in the Podapadar gram panchayat after which he was charged with several cases including that of waging war against the State and sent to jail. He was released in 2008. In that period, CMAS had chased away upper caste landlords and distributed around 3000 acres of land among the landless poor tribals. The CMAS activists would post red flags on the occupied lands, and cut crops from the acquired land despite the presence of police force.“For tribals, he had become some sort of Robin Hood who would get their land back by terrorising the upper caste people as well as Dalits,” said a senior CRPF official posted in Koraput in mid 2000.Also Read: Alcohol, superstition take a toll on tribals in Odisha villagesActivist Prafulla Samantra, who for long has supported Linga, says in his short stint with CMAS movement, Linga had achieved what was thought to be impossible. “Alcoholism is believed to be the bane of the tribal society and that leads to indebtedness and prolonged exploitation by the ruling elite in the area. By taking on the liquor mafia, he ensured prohibition in Narayanpatna. It was his success in the anti-liquor movement that led him to the land reclamation movement. In many ways he was perhaps the most popular tribal leader to have emerged from the grassroots in undivided Koraput,” said Samantra.Though Linga was on a path of confrontation with the state, police officials who worked in Koraput during the CMAS days said the government wanted a political resolution. However, the state government shut out the idea of a political resolution when a landmine blast on the Laxmipur-Narayanpatna road near Palur killed 9 policemen of the Odisha Special Striking Force.“When the policemen were killed in the blast, any chance of a political resolution to the tribal movement was swiftly over. It was just an overground arm of Maoists. The situation turned worse in November 2009 when Linga led over 1,000 tribals under the banner of CMAS to launch an attack on Narayanpatna police station, in which 2 CMAS leaders were killed. He was declared the most wanted man by the Odisha police and posters with his photo were all over Koraput,” said deputy inspector general of police Anup Kumar Sahoo, who worked as SP Koraput during that time.Also Read: Tribal burnt alive for not returning Rs 5,000 taken during lockdown: PoliceAfter the attack on Narayanpatna police station, Linga went underground for five years and kept giving police the slip while the CMAS unleashed their fury in the region, killing anyone who opposed the organisation, often slitting their throats. Linga fell out with the CPI (Maoists) in 2012 after the kidnapping of Biju Janata Dal MLA Jhina Hikaka. The tribal MLA was released after prolonged negotiations, but led to souring of relations between Maoists and Linga.Without the active help of CMAS, Maoists could not remain active in Narayanpatna which they wanted to make a red fortress. The schism between Maoists and Linga helped police gain an upper hand in the treacherous region. In October 2014, Linga finally surrendered before Odisha police and was charged with 45 cases including murder and waging war against the state. Like most cases involving Maoists, no one came to testify against Linga leading to his acquittal.Activist Samantra said despite being away for a long time, Linga still has the potential to revive the movement. “Due to his absence the organisation had become inactive. But the spark of resistance that he lit in the tribal minds a decade ago may light up again as the ground realities that triggered the birth of CMAS have not changed in the district. He still can go make it work,” said Samantra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robinhood-like-odisha-tribal-leader-walks-out-of-jail-after-6-years/story-GDxxAOH7q3b4I8LqdsFtaK.html
08-11-2020||India||Police shift journalist Arnab Goswami to Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail||Republic TV editor-in-chief and prime time anchor Arnab Goswami was shifted from Alibag primary school, which has been converted into a makeshift prison facility in Maharashtra’s Raigad district because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai on Sunday morning. Kaushtubh Kurlekar, superintendent of police (SP), Taloja jail, said: “He will be kept for a few days in a quarantine centre inside the prison before he is shifted to the barrack.”Samyabrata Ray Goswami, senior executive editor of Republic TV and Goswami’s wife, put out a statement appealing for his “immediate release” and lashing out at the Maharastra government for its “human rights abuse and excesses”. “On Sunday morning, my husband, who has spent four nights in judicial custody (JC), was being dragged and lugged by the Maharashtra Police in a blacked-out police van to Taloja Jail. He was repeatedly saying ‘my life is under threat’ but to no avail. He repeatedly said that the jailer assaulted him after he asked for access to his lawyers, which was shockingly denied. He detailed the assault being inflicted on him during this custody and pleaded, hands folded, to the Supreme Court (SC) for intervention and bail. An innocent man and journalist of decades of repute, who is doing his duty for the nation, has been assaulted, harassed and framed on fake charges. He has been thrown into jail with no reprieve...,” she said in the statement.Goswami was arrested on November 4 along with two other accused, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, from Mumbai in connection with the 2018 abetment suicide case of architect and interior designer Anvay Naik, and they were produced in the Alibag district and session court on the same day. Goswami was sent to a 14-day judicial custody later at night on that day following a hearing that lasted for six hours. His custody expires on November 18.The security at the Alibag makeshift prison facility was strengthened on Sunday morning at around 10 am, as the prison authorities decided to shift Goswami to Taloja jail. Alibag police have challenged the judicial custody and sought a permission for custodial interrogation of Goswami, Shaikh and Sarada, who have been booked for non-payment of late Naik’s dues of over Rs 5 crore. The Alibag court will hear the plea on Monday (November 9).Goswami also moved the Bombay high court (HC) on Saturday, questioning his arrest and sought immediate relief. His legal team argued that Goswami’s arrest and detention were illegal because the case was closed in April 2019 by the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Maharashtra.The high court is expected to take up his bail application at 3pm on Monday.Earlier this year, the case was reopened by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, without obtaining necessary court order, his legal team further argued. Shaikh and Sarda moved a similar plea in the HC, which reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Goswami and the other two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-shift-journalist-arnab-goswami-to-navi-mumbai-s-taljola-jail/story-o4VNHmaua670EoD4cJZ4QL.html
08-11-2020||India||AG Venugopal refuses to review decision to not file contempt petition against Andhra CM||Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal has refused to review his earlier decision and said, he was of the opinion not to give his consent to file a contempt petition before the Supreme Court against Andhra Pradesh Chief minister, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, for writing a letter to CJI S A Bobde making allegations against Justice N V Ramana.Supreme Court lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay had, for the second time written the letter to the AG, after the AG’s refusal to file a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Venugopal, the top law officer of the Union of India (UOI), had also yesterday for the second time refused to consider the same request of Upadhayay.“His refusal to consent does not preclude the advocate from bringing the facts to SC notice and requesting for suo motu action,” Venugopal said in his letter. The AG Venugopal also made it clear that it is open to the Supreme Court to initiate suo motu contempt proceedings for the contumacious conduct shown by Andhra Pradesh Chief minister, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in writing a letter to CJI S A Bobde making allegations against the second senior-most judge of the top court, Justice N V Ramana.Upadhyay, had written a letter to the AG, Venugopal, and requested him for the second time and to reconsider his decision of refusal of his permission to file criminal contempt proceedings against Andhra Pradesh Chief minister, Jagan Mohan Reddy and State Advisor, Ajeya Kallam, over their alleged allegations against the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, Justice N V Ramana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-venugopal-refuses-to-review-decision-to-not-file-contempt-petition-against-andhra-cm/story-cc2mzmKEjahix3LvCM5GRK.html
08-11-2020||India||Yediyurappa confident about winning RR Nagar& Sira assembly bypolls by huge margins||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday expressed confidence about the ruling BJP winning both Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira assembly bypolls, results for which will be declared on November 10, by huge margins.“We will win R R Nagar by (a margin of) 35,000-40,000 votes. In Sira also we will win by about 20,000-25,000 votes.I’m not saying it today, I had said it ahead of the elections and on the polling day,” he told reporters here. The Chief Minister the Congress has probably taken this prediction lightly and would know the truth once the results are out.“If Yediyurappa says something, it will be after thinking ten times and after understanding the public opinion. So 100 per cent we will win both seats by a huge margin,” he added. To a question about Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s claim that the results would be in favour of Congress, he said, “Siddaramaiah will get to know when the results are out on November 10. I wish him good luck.” Exit polls have indicated that the BJP will sweep Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira bypolls.Read more: Karnataka bypolls: What’s at stake and why are they so important?Voting for both assembly constituencies took place on November 3, with a turnout of 82.31 per cent and 45.24 per cent respectively. The Sira byelection was necessitated following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana in August, while the R R Nagar seat here fell vacant following the disqualification of the then Congress MLA N Munirathna under the anti-defection law last year.The BJP, which has never won the Sira seat, had fielded radiologist Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa, who recently joined the party. The Congress and JD(S), considered traditional rivals in the region, had fielded former Minister T B Jayachandra and Ammajamma. Ammajamma is the wife of late JD(S) MLA Sathyanarayana. In R R Nagar, Congress had fielded a fresh face -- Kusuma H, wife of late IAS officer D K Ravi. She was pitted against V Krishnamurthy of JD(S) and N Munirathna of the BJP. Munirathna, after his disqualification last year, had joined the BJP.The outcome of the bypolls would be seen in many quarters as a reflection on the performance of the Yediyurappa government, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, while the opposition parties-Congress and JD(S)- would be keen to strike after facing a rout in December 2019 bypolls. The Chief Minister has already indicated that the much awaited cabinet expansion would take place at the earliest and he would talk to the high command in this regard, soon after the assembly bypoll results.Expressing confidence about the NDA forming the government in Bihar, Yediyurappa said “let there be no doubt about it...exit poll may be showing some variations, but according to me, 100 per cent we will be forming the government there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-confident-about-winning-rr-nagar-sira-assembly-bypolls-by-huge-margins/story-yJZBenlBqc5eRSAAwQ4mRO.html
08-11-2020||India||Farmer found hanging, family hacked to death in Bengal village||The body of a 32-year-old farmer was found hanging by the neck while his mother, wife and two minor daughters were hacked to death inside their home at Jamalpur village in South Dinajpur district in north Bengal on Sunday morning. Police suspect after preliminary investigation that the farmer, who was suffering from cancer, killed all members of his family before hanging himself. Debarshi Dutta, superintendent of police, South Dinajpur district, said, “Prima facie it appears that he killed the others and committed suicide. However detailed investigation is going on to explore all angles. The police team found that the two women and the minor girls had deep injuries inflicted by sharp weapon. The farmer was hanging by the neck.” The bodies of the farmer’s mother, 60, his wife Mallika, 32, and two daughters --- one 10 years old and the other 7 years old --- were found in two separate rooms. Relatives of the family live close to the house but nobody claimed to have heard anyone shouting or crying for help. Local people told the police that the farmer recently went to Chennai for treatment and had borrowed money from people. A former gram panchayat member said, “He was suffering from cancer and was depressed.” “The family owned only five bighas of land. It was difficult for him to sustain his family and meet the expenses of his treatment,” said a neighbour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-found-hanging-family-hacked-to-death-in-bengal-village/story-yTgj4xHji41lmSd5u7N4FJ.html
08-11-2020||India||Adityanath dedicates power projects worth Rs 216 crore to Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath dedicated power projects worth about Rs 216 crore to Gorakhpur in a pre-Diwali gesture on Saturday. The projects include four new ones which were announced on the occasion.An official spokesman said the chief minister dedicated the Gorakhpur power projects, laid the foundation stone and made the announcements virtually from his official residence here.Adityanath said the state government wanted to provide cheap and uninterrupted power supply to the people of Uttar Pradesh. He noted that uninterrupted power supply was provided to the people in the state despite the Covid-19 crisis.He asserted that change was possible through development and the state government did not allow the process of development to slow down amid the fight against Covid-19. Both the state government and the Centre had been able to win the confidence of the people, he said.He also said the new projects would bring about an improvement in the life of the people. Land related issues linked to new projects should be disposed of in a time-bound manner, the chief minister added. He also said the state government had given a new dimension to power reforms.Adityanath said the state energy department had done tremendous work in the power sector that had changed the perception about the state. In all, 1.75 lakh villages and ‘majras’ had been energised, he added. The chief minister said the people were receiving the benefits of power projects without any discrimination in view of the state government’s positive and constructive approach. Ensuring the ease of living was on the state government’s priority list, he said, adding that power sector reforms were being carried out expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-dedicates-power-projects-worth-rs-216-crore-to-gorakhpur/story-uPpb03YtP1jWPVSDLtNf4I.html
08-11-2020||India||One-third of Chennai residents wear masks correctly: Survey||Only one- third of Chennaiites wear masks correctly, a joint survey by Greater Chennai Corporation, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) has found amid easing of all restrictions related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Among the 3,600 individuals, who were observed for the survey across all age groups and gender, it was found that 72% of people who live in slums and 64% of the public who live in non-slum neighbourhoods did not cover their noses and mouths properly as a safeguard against the raging pandemic.Mask compliance was found to be highest in non-slum neighbourhoods in south Chennai (42%) and the lowest in slums in north Chennai (23%).The teams randomly selected 60 streets across all 15 zones in Chennai and “observed 30 individuals consecutively at each point twice a day in the morning (8-10 am) and evening (4-6 pm),” the survey stated. The survey was conducted between 16 and 19 October at assorted locations, including residential areas, markets, bus stops, traffic signals and religious places. Similar surveys will be conducted every few weeks to monitor mask compliance. Chennai reported 2,03,685 Covid-19 cases and 3,706 deaths related to the viral infection till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-third-of-chennai-residents-wear-masks-correctly-survey/story-UmkSwUwoSsSYum6s6RgavI.html
08-11-2020||India||Three-layer security in Bihar for counting day||A three-layer security cover has been provided for the safe upkeep of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in Bihar, where the voting for the third and the final phases ended on Saturday (November 7) and the results will be declared on Tuesday (November 10). The security of EVMs has been intensified after opposition parties expressed concern about their safety in the keenly fought elections for the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly. The half-way mark to rule the state for the next five years is 122 seats. Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Bihar Military Police and district armed police personnel comprise the three layers of security, who have been deployed at 38 strongrooms, where 1, 06, 524 EVMs have been kept, across the state. There is round-the-clock patrolling and surveillance through close circuit TVs (CCTVs) installed at all the strategic points. “Bihar Police personnel is ensuring the EVMs’ safety from outside,” said a police official. The Central government has deployed 1,200 companies of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel to guard the strongrooms, including in the state capital Patna. The AN College in Patna is the biggest strongroom in the state, where EVMs of 14 constituencies have been kept. Video cameras have been provided to CAPF personnel to record all visits by polling personnel and election agents. On Tuesday, the fate of 3,558 candidates, including 370 women and a transgender, will be decided. The counting would start at 8 am and the exercise would be captured on camera as per the norms, officials said. Postal ballots will be counted first.“The EVMs will be opened after 30 minutes from the time the counting begins. Assistant returning officers (AROs) will oversee the counting of postal ballots,” said an official from the state election commission. Election Commission of India (ECI) rules stipulate that there would be over 15 micro observers deployed for each constituency and an assistant electoral registration officer (AERO) for each counting table. Nobody else will be allowed inside a counting centre. Media persons would also be barred from entering counting centres, officials said. Mobile phones and other electronic gadgets have been banned at counting centres, but ECI and state election commission officials can use laptops or other devices. Candidates and their agents were allowed to gather outside the 38 strongrooms to keep an eye on the proceedings on Saturday.However, no members of political parties showed up. “In Patna, some people did seek permission to avail the facility, but in the end nobody turned up, “ said Kumar Ravi, district magistrate, Patna. Officials also visited AN College on Boring Road in Patna to take stock of the arrangement of counting of votes. “No vehicle, including that of officers, ministers or any political functionary, is being allowed inside the AN College campus, where the EVMs have been stored. The vehicles have to stop ahead of the outer security perimetre. The CAPF personnel is maintaining a logbook and taking signatures of the visitors after frisking. The logbooks are being checked by district election officers and returning officers, ” the police official, quoted above, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-layer-security-in-bihar-for-counting-day/story-uF4kRDO14DArngcvoV3RqL.html
08-11-2020||India||Biden’s H1B visa, green card plans likely to benefit thousands of Indians||Apart from the fact that an Indian-origin woman will step inside the White House as the Vice President for the first time ever, the Biden-Harris election is good news for Indian professionals for another reason. The new administration is expected to reverse some of the decisions of the outgoing Trump rule, including that of the H-1B. Tens of thousands of Indian professionals will be benefitted if the new rule plans to increase the number of high-skilled visas. Also Read: Biden will ‘stand with India’ if elected, highlights Trump admin’s ‘harmful’ action on H1B visaThis was a part of the comprehensive immigration reform that the Biden administration plans to work on, either in one go or in separate pieces, PTI reported.In June, Trump had temporarily suspended the H-1B visas along with other types of foreign work visas until the end of 2020 to protect American workers from unemployment aggravated by Covid-19 pandemic. In October, the Trump administration had announced new restrictions on the H-1B non-immigrant visa programme, which was aimed at protecting American workers, restoring integrity and to better guarantee that H-1B petitions are approved only for qualified beneficiaries and petitioners. These proposals were not applicable to those who are already in the US, but were meant for new visa-holders who will be going to the US.Also Read: ‘Green Card waitlist for Indians runs into 200 years’: US senator on country capThe Biden administration plans to create a new visa category to allow cities and counties to petition for higher levels of immigrants to support their growth.“High skilled temporary visas should not be used to disincentivise recruiting workers already in the US for in-demand occupations. An immigration system that crowds out high-skilled workers in favour of only entry level wages and skills threatens American innovation and competitiveness,” according to a policy document issued by the Biden campaign.“Biden will work with Congress to first reform temporary visas to establish a wage-based allocation process and establish enforcement mechanisms to ensure they are aligned with the labour market and not used to undermine wages. Then, Biden will support expanding the number of high-skilled visas and eliminating the limits on employment-based visas by country, which create unacceptably long backlogs,” it said.Technology companies depend on H-1B visas that allows them to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. Employment-based visas, also known as green cards, allow migrants to gain lawful permanent residence in the US in order to engage in skilled work. Currently, the number of employment-based visas is capped at 140,000 each year. According to the policy document, Biden will also exempt from any cap recent graduates of PhD programmes in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) fields in the US who are poised to make some of the most important contributions to the world economy. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-s-h1b-visa-green-card-plans-likely-to-benefit-thousands-of-indians/story-YuGVXpWU5yKAi2lEzXJloO.html
08-11-2020||India||FASTags mandatory for all four wheelers from Jan 1, 2021||To further augment electronic toll collection, the government on Saturday said it has made FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers including old vehicles from January 1, 2020. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has issued a notification for promotion of digital and IT based payment of fees through FASTags. The government has issued a notification “making FASTag mandatory to be available by January 1, 2021 in old vehicles also i.e. M and N category of motor vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in CMVR, 1989”, the MoRTH said in a statement. As per Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four wheeled vehicles since December 1, 2017 and is being supplied by the vehicle manufacturers or their dealers. “It had further been mandated that the renewal of fitness certificate will be done only after the fitment of FASTag for the transport vehicles. Further that for national permit vehicles the fitment of FASTag has been mandated since October 1, 2019,” the statement said. The government also said that a valid FASTag is mandatory while getting a new third party insurance through an amendment in FORM 51 (certificate of Insurance), wherein the details of FASTag ID shall be captured. This shall be applicable w.e.f. April 1, 2021. The move is a major step for ensuring that the payment of fees is done at toll plazas through the electronic means only and that the vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas. “The steps for ensuring the availablity of FASTag at multiple channels are being made through physical locations and also through online mechanism so that the citizens are able to have them affixed at their vehicles within the next two months at their convenience,” the statement said. The National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) programme, the flagship initiative of the MoRTH, has been implemented on a pan-India basis in order to remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless movement of traffic and collection of user fee as per the notified rates, using passive radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. FASTag is a prepaid tag that enables automatic deduction of toll charges and lets the vehicle pass through the toll plaza without stopping for the cash transaction. The radio-frequency identification (RFID)-based FASTag is affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle. It allows for direct payment of fee from the prepaid or savings account linked to it and enables vehicles to drive through without stopping for transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-mandatory-for-all-four-wheelers-from-jan-1-2021/story-KLCqZ8k0asXTMwi9x3DJHN.html
08-11-2020||India||Ropax Ferry Service will decrease transportation costs, aid ease of business, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday while inaugurating the Ropax Ferry Service between Gujarat’s Ghogha and Hazira said that the state’s port industry is one of the largest in the world and makes the state a gateway to India via the sea. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani along with officials from the state and central government were also present at the inauguration ceremony. He said that the Ropax Ferry Service will enhance ease of doing business and also decrease transportation costs. He said that maritime universities are a growing sector in the state given the size of its port industry. PM Modi said that the connectivity boost given by the ferry service will impact everyone starting from traders to students. He also said that the name of the Ministry of Shipping will be changed to Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. He said all affairs related to shipping and waterways comes under the ambit of Ministry of Shipping and a change in name will bring clarity to the work the department is assigned to do. PM Modi said that the drive to developing waterways has been taken to decrease cost of logistics. He said the nation is aiming to develop a multimodal connectivity system following which cost of logistics can be lowered across the country. The Ropax ferry will decrease the distance between Surat and Saurashtra from 317 km to 60 km and time taken has also decreased from 12 hours to four hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ropax-ferry-service-will-decrease-transportation-costs-aid-ease-of-business-says-pm-modi/story-csrXbNgsDGDaWduGfyZUeJ.html
08-11-2020||India||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee stable but his kidney functions affected: Doctors||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s renal functions have been affected although he is stable, doctors treating him at a private hospital in south Kolkata said on Saturday night. Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors treating Chatterjee, said, “His renal functions have taken a toll due to volume loss and some of the antibiotics that are not kidney-friendly. We have to get rid of the additional fluid and improve the renal function. We have decided on plasmapheresis and tracheostomy, which have been accepted by his family members, as a long-term care management.” The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner (85) was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. He tested Covid-19 negative on October 14, but his neurological system was affected because of the infection. Chatterjee’s health condition has drastically worsened over the past two weeks. The thespian is still drowsy. He had tried to open his eyes a few times over the last few days.“Our nephrologists and haematologists are discussing whether plasmapheresis will work for him. We will take a call on this on Monday. Tracheostomy will most likely be done on Monday, if the coagulation function and platelet count remain stable in the next 24 to 36 hours,” said Dr Kar. Plasmapheresis is a process in which the plasma is separated from the blood cells. The plasma is either replaced with saline or albumin or it is treated and injected back into a patient’s body. Tracheostomy is a medical procedure that involves creating an opening in the neck to place a tube into a patient’s windpipe. “His neurological functions are neither improving nor worsening. The lung functions are good. He is still on minimal ventilator support. Lever functions are more or less stable. Coagulation functions have improved. His haemoglobin count is normal. While his platelet count is over one lakh,” said Dr Kar. The doctors said Chatterjee’s infection is getting cured and he did not have a fever in the past two days. “We have stopped antibiotics from Saturday,” Dr Kar added. On November 2, he had undergone a vascular surgery to stop an internal bleeding, which was leading to loss of haemoglobin. Millions of people in Bengal and beyond have been praying for Chatterjee’s recovery ever since he was admitted to the hospital. Initially, the doctors made Chatterjee listen to music and audio clips of literature of his choice. He had also communicated with his daughter Poulomi Basu about two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-soumitra-chatterjee-stable-but-his-kidney-functions-affected-doctors/story-WFk3RLA2v2M8QJ6mfm4hAK.html
08-11-2020||India||Centre’s telemedicine service clocks 700k consultations: Data||eSanjeevani, the national telemedicine service set up by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, has recorded over 700,000 consultations, according to the government data.The last 100,000 consultations have been recorded in the past 11 days.This novel digital mechanism to deliver out patient department (OPD) services virtually has been rapidly gaining popularity since 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced on March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.eSanjeevaniOPD , which enables access to OPD services within the confines of a patient’s home, was launched on April 13 during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown restrictions, when non-Covid-19 services were majorly affected.eSanjeevaniOPD is shaping up into the largest OPD services in the country and is logging over 10,000 consultations a day.“Telemedicine is beneficial for patients. It is also favourable for doctors because it limits the contact with patients who are present virtually. eSanjeevani has removed the requirement of doctors to be at a specific location to provide services. It enables states, especially those with large geographical areas, manage their human resources better,” said the ministry in a statement.“Patients, who are seeking medical consultations, are placed in a virtual queue. Doctors are also available virtually. Each online OPD consultation generates an ePrescription which can be used to buy medicines or go for diagnostic investigations. Kerala and Tamil Nadu (TN) have already issued orders to ensure that ePrescriptions are honored,” the statement added.eSanjeevani and eSanjeevaniOPD platforms have become popular in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-telemedicine-service-clocks-700k-consultations-data/story-qBHoZoQyVg4t4ZBEbu8dTO.html
08-11-2020||India||‘One who took the party to masses,’ PM Modi meets LK Advani on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday met veteran BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani on the occasion of Advani’s birthday. Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda were also present.“Hearty birthday wishes to Shri LK Advani ji who played a significant role in the development of the country and also in taking the party to the masses. He is an inspiration to millions of party workers. Praying for his long and healthy life,” Narendra Modi tweeted earlier. भाजपा को जन-जन तक पहुंचाने के साथ देश के विकास में अहम भूमिका निभाने वाले श्रद्धेय श्री लालकृष्ण आडवाणी जी को जन्मदिन की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। वे पार्टी के करोड़ों कार्यकर्ताओं के साथ ही देशवासियों के प्रत्यक्ष प्रेरणास्रोत हैं। मैं उनकी लंबी आयु और स्वस्थ जीवन की प्रार्थना करता हूं।“Advaniji toiled selflessly for the development of the country. He played a significant role in making BJP national. Heary wishes on his birthday and prayers for his long and healthy life,” Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted. आदरणीय आडवाणी जी ने अपने परिश्रम और निस्वार्थ सेवाभाव से न सिर्फ देश के विकास में अहम योगदान दिया बल्कि भाजपा की राष्ट्रवादी विचारधारा के विस्तार में भी मुख्य भूमिका निभाई।उनके जन्मदिन पर उन्हें शुभकामनाएँ देता हूँ और ईश्वर से उनके अच्छे स्वास्थ्य व दीर्घायु की कामना करता हूँ। राजनीति में अपने समर्पण व सिद्धांतों से करोड़ों कार्यकर्ताओं के आदर्श, देश के पूर्व उप-प्रधानमंत्री एवं भाजपा के वरिष्ठ नेता आदरणीय श्री लालकृष्ण आडवाणी जी को जन्मदिन की हार्दिक बधाई। ईश्वर से आपके आरोग्य एवं दीर्घायु की प्रार्थना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/tTlEdoZtJcLk Advani was born on November 8 in 1927 in Karachi. Advani, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee are founder members of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-who-took-the-party-to-the-masses-pm-modi-meets-lk-advani-on-his-birthday/story-yRBj80IMA2vMGrnGR8GEvM.html
08-11-2020||India||Army officer among 4 killed in line of duty; 3 terrorists shot dead in J&K encounter||Three terrorists were killed during a major infiltration bid on the Line of Control in the faceoff at Machil sector in the frontier district of Kupwara in north Kashmir.Officials said that three army soldiers and a BSF constable were also killed in the action against the infiltrators who tried to sneak-in in the dead of night through the LoC.The infiltrators were first spotted by an ambush party of BSF’s 169 Bn at around 1:00 am.“The BSF party observed movement of a militants’ group infiltrating through the Line of Control in Machil Sector, Kupwara. On challenging the intruders, they opened fire which was retaliated by the party. In the fierce exchange of fire, one terrorist was shot dead immediately and others managed to hide behind the cover of undulating terrain,” said a BSF spokesman.An AK 47 rifle and two bags were recovered from the first of the three terrorists killed.The spokesperson said that at the same time Pakistan posts started ceasefire violations to aid the infiltrating terrorists.“During the gunfight one BSF jawan, Sudip Kumar, received bullets. With utter disregard to his personal safety he kept on fighting and ultimately attained the martyrdom,” he said.Kumar, 38, was a constable with BSF 169 Bn and a resident of Tripura.Meanwhile, army reinforcement arrived from the nearby forward posts and a joint operation was further started.Army PRO Colonel Rajesh Kalia said that the BSF had noticed the suspicious movement near the Anti Infiltration Obstacle System (or LoC fence) some 3.5 km from the LoC.He said that the initial firefight between terrorists and the BSF stopped at 4:00 am when more troops were rushed to the area.“Terrorists movement was tracked by surveillance devices. Contact was re-established at 10:20 am when heavy fire was drawn by our search parties approximately 1.5 km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed,” Kalia said.The colonel said that three army soldiers were killed in action and two wounded. “The injured soldiers have been evacuated to a medical facility,” he said.While the army was yet to reveal the details of those personnel who died in the line of duty, sources said that an officer was among the dead.The operation was going on till this report was being filed.On October 24, the army shot down a quadcopter along the Line of Control in the Keran sector in the Kupwara district. This was the first time when the quadcopter was shot down by the army in the sector.The LoC in north Kashmir this year witnessed a lot of action between the troops of India and Pakistan in Kupwara, Baramulla and Bandipora districts.On October 7, the army had said that Pakistan opened fire in what they said was an unprovoked ceasefire violation in Uri sector of Baramulla. On October 1, the Indian army had lost two soldiers in a ceasefire violation from the Pakistan side in Kupwara district.India and Pakistan, who have fought at-least three wars since 1947, had agreed in 2003 to maintain peace along the border, but violations intensified after bilateral relations plummeted in 2016. India often accuses Pak of violating the ceasefire to give cover to infiltrating terrorists. This year the army said that their forces have been able to stop three-fourth of infiltration of terrorists through the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir as compared to last year.Lt Gen B S Raju , GOC of army’s strategic Chinar Corps, on October 10 said that the forces have been able to stop infiltration to a great extent. “Last year around 130 persons had infiltrated and this year the figure is below 30. Such is the change. And I hope this will also lead to improvement in the internal situation,” he had said.The GOC had said that a few hundred militants were ready on the launch pads across the LoC. “As per our intelligence, around 250-300 terrorists are ready on launch pads on the Pakistan side to infiltrate. We have been able to stop them despite their efforts to infiltrate,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-foils-infiltration-attempt-eliminates-1-terrorist-at-j-k-s-machil-operation-underway/story-8Qld29F2akUBu4nUJPVFgI.html
08-11-2020||India||India records 45,674 fresh Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, 9% fall from yesterday||With 45,674 new cases and 559 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday crosses 8.5 million (85,07,754). The number of active cases further dropped to 5,12, 665. The number of daily recoveries once again exceeded the number of daily infections. As against 45,674 new cases, 49,082 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, the number of fresh infections were 50,356.Over the past few weeks, the Covid-19 situation in India is following a patternActive cases below 5.5 lakh, fresh cases below 50,000The average daily new cases have declined to 46,000 cases from more than 73,000 average daily new cases in the first week of October. As there are more discharges than new infections, the number of active cases is remaining below 5.2 lakh. At present, active cases translate to 6.03 percent of India’s total positive cases.More recoveries than new infectionsThis trend has been observed for the last five weeks. This also played a pivotal role in pushing down the active caseload, the health ministry has said in its bulletin.States reporting maximum cases are also reporting maximum recoveries Kerala and Delhi are witnessing a sudden surge in the number of cases and Maharashtra has pushed to third as far as highest number of new cases are concerned. But these three states are contributing maximum to the number of highest recoveries as well. Maharashtra is reporting over 10,000 recoveries per day. Kerala and Delhi are registering recoveries around 7,000 and 6,000, respectively.West Bengal is at fourth in the recovery chart, according to Saturday’s data.10 states/UTs reporting 83% new deathsAccording to Saturday’s data, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Odisha reported 83 per cent of new deaths between Friday and Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-45-674-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours-9-fall-from-yesterday/story-SNB0sVpvV66xdrTlSleuLO.html
08-11-2020||India||VHP says it has no plans to mark anniversary of SC verdict on Ram temple||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) is against organising any special ceremony in Ayodhya to commemorate the completion of one year of the Supreme Court verdict in favour of Ram temple on November 9.With its verdict, the top court ended the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid decades-long dispute last year.The police said that permission will be needed for any public event.“If any local wants to organise any public event, then he will have to seek prior permission from the Ayodhya police,” said Ayodhya’s deputy inspector general of police Deepak Kumar.This is to ensure there is no violation of Covid-19 protocol. The VHP which was one of the major players in the campaign for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, is not keen to mark the anniversary of the court’s judgment since the temple construction has already begun.“Construction of the Ram temple has already begun after the Supreme Court’s historic judgment. Now, there is no point in organising any event to mark the anniversary of the court’s judgment,” said VHP’s Ayodhya-based regional spokesperson Sharad Sharma.“At the individual level, people can distribute sweets. But there will be no planned celebrations. Devotees will go to Ram Janmabhoomi to seek the blessings of Ram Lalla,” Sharma added. The saints of Ayodhya have also decided not to organise any public event. “Our larger objective was construction of the Ram temple which has now been fulfilled. Construction work has begun. A special puja ceremony will be organised at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth but there will be no public gathering,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das.He is the successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no outsider will be allowed during the Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya or other festivities that will continue till Kartik Purnima on November 30.Only locals will be able to take part in celebrations with Covid -19 protocols. The boundaries of temple town will be sealed from November 11 to restrict the entry of people. The Ayodhya administration was expecting more crowd this year on Deepotsav and Kartik Purnima as work on the Ram temple has begun. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend the Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on November 13. The five-day celebrations will begin from November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-says-it-has-no-plans-to-mark-anniversary-of-sc-verdict-on-ram-temple/story-WrzCy1FD8ZVRSShEtAeoVK.html
08-11-2020||India||After Ram temple bhoomi pujan, Deepotsav is special this year: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Saturday said it would be after five centuries that “lamps of happiness” would be lit at the Ram Janmabhoomi site this year after the bhoomi pujan for building the Ram temple was performed earlier in August.While announcing his government’s plans to make this year’s Deepotsav at Ayodhya “historical”, the chief minister also reiterated his government’s commitment to turn Ayodhya into a major tourism hub in the country.A government spokesman quoted the chief minister as saying that the Deepotsav this year would be “nothing short of a dream come true” for millions of people, not only in the temple town and Uttar Pradesh but across the entire country and the world.The main Deepotsav celebration will be held in Ayodhya on November 13 on the eve of Diwali. “It will be after 492 years that the lamps of happiness will be lit at the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi,” an official statement said. It said Adityanath was personally monitoring the preparations for the Deepotsav and had already seen presentations on what is to take place and where.The chief minister also asserted that all Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya will be conducted under the Covid-19 guidelines. Adityanath also stressed on lighting diyas (earthen lamps) made of cow dung on Diwali. The chief minister will be in Ayodhya for Deepotsav to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi and light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paidi. The Ayodhya administration will strive to set the Guinness world record on November 13 by lighting 5.51 lakh diyas on 28 ghats of the Saryu river. Last year, the Ayodhya administration created a Guinness World Record by lighting 4.10 lakh earthen lamps at the ghats. This will be the fourth consecutive Deepotsav in Ayodhya under the Yogi Adityanath regime. Though people are very excited over the Deepotsav, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, only a handful of people will be able to participate in the event physically this year, the spokesperson said.The people, however, will be able to celebrate the event digitally from the comfort of their home, he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-deepotsav-is-special-this-year-adityanath/story-o8tJimQAAtucKYVJezX8CJ.html
08-11-2020||India||Congress member among 41 arrested from gambling den in Jabalpur||Forty one people including a Congress party member were arrested in a raid for their alleged involvement in gambling at a house in Jabalpur on Saturday, police said. Police also seized at least 17 unlicensed arms and 1478 ammunitions, Rs 7.5 lakh and antlers of deer from the house of Gajendra Sonkar, a resident of Hanumantal area. Police arrested Gajendra, his brother Sonu Sonkar, their father Rajkumar Sonkar and 38 others on Saturday morning. Jabalpur’s superintendent of police Siddharth Bahuguna said, “Police received information about illegal gambling that was being run from a house owned by Gajendra Sonkar. When police raided at the house, 41 people were found gambling.” He added, “During the raid, police also found arms and ammunition in large numbers that included carbine, pistols, rifles, country made pistols, revolver and air guns.” The district police chief said that the Sonkar brothers also have other criminal cases against them. “In May, Gajendra’s elder brother and former Congress corporator Dharmendra Sonkar was shot dead by some miscreants in Jabalpur. The Sonkar brothers are facing many other criminal cases. Police are also investigating the source of their income,” Bahuguna said.Gajendra Sonkar is a member of the Congress party. Jabalpur district Congress president Dinesh Yadav said, “Gajendra Sonkar has taken membership of Congress party but he is not actively involved in any activities of the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-member-among-41-arrested-from-gambling-den-in-jabalpur/story-GrB7ioR742PcnHYONxQnsK.html
08-11-2020||India||Constructive talks were held with China, says India; Next round of meeting soon||The eighth round of India-China Corps Commander Level meeting held in Chushul on November 6 was constructive but no breakthrough in the ongoing face off between India and China has been achieved. The next level of meeting will be held soon, the government of India has said, issuing a statement. #India #China Senior Commanders’ Meeting - Joint Press Statement following 8th round of discussions pic.twitter.com/HXklKBM8Xr“The two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of India-China border areas,” the statement issued by the Centre said.Also Read: India-China prepare for 8th round of military commanders’ talks next week“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries (India and China), ensure their frontline troops to exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation,” it added.The discussion will be now be taken forward and the next meeting will be held soon, the statement read.“India and China agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. India and China also agreed to have another round of meeting soon,” it said.The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results so far. Apart from Ladakh, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers also took place in north Sikkim in early May. The standoff has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September — the first such instance since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-constructive-talks-held-during-8th-round-of-india-china-corps-commander-level-meeting/story-Ol90VhzvKBuMV8iiGgGrfI.html
08-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Pride of our village’: Tiruvarur celebrates victory of Kamala Harris and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Pride of our village’: Tiruvarur celebrates victory of Kamala HarrisThe ancestral village of US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris woke up early on Sunday to soak in the glory of “village daughter” Kamala becoming the first woman Vice President of the United States. Residents of Thulasendrapuram had earlier put up posters, banners extending support to Kamala as the next Vice President. On Sunday, there were congratulatory rangoli messages in front of the houses, soon after Kamala Harris delivered her first speech as the Vice-President elect, in which she remembered Shyamala Gopalan who was from Tiruvarur. Read More‘I don’t see red states or blue states, but only United States’: Biden tells Americans in victory speechSupporters of President elect Joe Biden and vice-president elect Kamala Harris have gathered at Wilmington in Delaware to celebrate their win against US President Donald Trump.The president-elect Joe Biden was greeted with loud cheers as he took the stage. He thanked supporters and said, “I do not see red states and blue states, but only the United States.” Read MoreISRO launches new earth observation satellite on board PSLVIndia successfully launched an earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine customer satellites on board its Polar rocket from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on Saturday.The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C49) lifted off from the first launch pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota at 3.11 PM at the end of a 26-hour countdown and injected the satellites into orbit one after another 20 minutes later. Read MoreNo immediate relief for Arnab Goswami as HC reserves order on bailThe Bombay high Court on Saturday reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami who was arrested by Alibag police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik said it would try to pronounce the order as early as possible. Goswami has been in judicial custody since Wednesday. Read MoreSamsung Galaxy M62 could be the next powerful Galaxy M phoneSamsung is reportedly working on a new Galaxy M smartphone. Unlike the rumoured Galaxy M02, the upcoming Samsung phone will pack high-end specifications. Touted as the most powerful Galaxy M smartphone, it could hit shelves next year with the Galaxy M62 moniker. Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘There are a lot of problems,’ Gautam Gambhir says RCB ‘didn’t deserve to reach playoffs’Former India batsman Gautam Gambhir has come down hard on the Royal Challengers Bangalore after the team got eliminated from the 2020 Indian Premier League following a defeat against Sunrisers Hyderabad in Abu Dhabi on Friday. Despite qualifying for the playoffs for the first time since the IPL 2016, RCB faltered in the final stages of the IPL, losing five matches in a row, and due to this, Gambhir reckons RCB never deserved to be in the playoff irrespective of their finish. Read MoreAnanya Panday says Shakun Batra was on her list of directors to work with: ‘It was everything I could have dreamed of’Actor Ananya Panday recently celebrated her 22nd birthday and when you ask her how she feels about turning a year older in Bollywood, she only feels excited for newer, greater things. Ananya says unlike what most might expect, she actually wishes that people would see her as someone older than her actual age. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pride-of-our-village-tiruvarur-celebrates-victory-of-kamala-harris-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wIsD5kUUcCtPpnG61kbqvJ.html
08-11-2020||India||‘Pride of our village’: Tiruvarur celebrates victory of Kamala Harris||The ancestral village of US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris woke up early on Sunday to soak in the glory of “village daughter” Kamala becoming the first woman Vice President of the United States. Residents of Thulasendrapuram had earlier put up posters, banners extending support to Kamala as the next Vice President. On Sunday, there were congratulatory rangoli messages in front of the houses, soon after Kamala Harris delivered her first speech as the Vice-President elect, in which she remembered Shyamala Gopalan who was from Tiruvarur.“When my mother came here from India at the age of 19, she maybe didn’t quite imagine this moment. But she believed so deeply in an America where a moment like this is possible,” Kamala said.Shyamala Gopalan, from India, and Donald Harris, from Jamaica, met at the University of California, Berkeley. Both of them were active in the civil rights movement. Kamala Harris was born in 1964. After their divorce, Harris was raised by her mother. Harris was wearing white suit at her first address in tribute to women’s suffrage. “Tonight I reflect on their struggle, their determination and the strength of their vision to see what can be unburdened by what has been,” she said.Back home in India, his maternal uncle 80-year-old Gopalan Balachandran who lives in Delhi is preparing to fly to the US to attend the swearing-in ceremony to be held in January 2021.“Biden-Harris victory is what we wanted to see. And, given the numbers, I told Kamala yesterday that she is going to win,” he told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pride-of-our-village-tiruvarur-celebrates-victory-of-kamala-harris/story-uHV7UbnfwI5usfANC5OBhP.html
08-11-2020||India||Covid test, age restriction likely for haj pilgrimage||The Haj pilgrimage scheduled for 2021 will be carried out as per the new guidelines framed by the government of Saudi Arabia in view of Covid-19 pandemic, Union ministry of minority affairs said Saturday.As part of the new guidelines, an age restriction on the pilgrims is likely, the ministry said. Online registration for the pilgrimage began on Saturday and is set to close on December 10, minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The pilgrimage was suspended this year due to the ongoing pandemic.“The applicants can apply online, off-line or through Haj mobile application as well. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, we are making it mandatory for all the pilgrims to submit their COVID-19 negative report of RT-PCR test. The date of testing should be 72 hours prior to boarding a flight to Saudi Arabia,” he said.Under the guidelines, the applications filed for Haj 2020 by women travelling without a male companion (without mehram category) will be valid for the next year’s pilgrimage also. The embarkation points for the pilgrimage have been reduced to 10 from the earlier 21. The embarkation points are Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cochin, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai and Srinagar, the ministry said.The guidelines for the pilgrimage were framed after deliberations that included officials from the ministries of minority affairs, health, external affairs, civil aviation; the Haj Committee of India, Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and India’s Consul General in Jeddah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-test-age-restriction-likely-for-haj-pilgrimage/story-a97i63S9cChy52R0iXICyL.html
08-11-2020||India||ISRO launches new earth observation satellite on board PSLV||India successfully launched an earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine customer satellites on board its Polar rocket from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on Saturday.The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C49) lifted off from the first launch pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota at 3.11 PM at the end of a 26-hour countdown and injected the satellites into orbit one after another 20 minutes later.The lift off was delayed by nine minutes due to rain brought on by the winter monsoon, Isro said. This is the first mission by the Indian Space Research Organisation this year. The space agency had last launched a satellite on December 11 last year, when the PSLV had put in space an earth observation satellite similar to the one launched on Saturday.Apart from the Indian satellite, the launch vehicle carried on board an experimental satellite from Lithuania, four marine application satellites from Luxembourg, and four remote sensing satellites from the United States. The satellite launched on Saturday marked the beginning of a new nomenclature for the series of earth observation satellites with the name EOS-01. The satellite will be used for agriculture, forestry, and disaster management support. “This mission is very special and unusual for ISRO. Space activity cannot happen with work from home. Each and every space engineer has to be available in lab, industry, integration area as well as the field especially when we are talking about launch missions like this,” said ISRO chairperson K Sivan. He said the work was done keeping in mind safety of the team following health protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-launches-new-earth-observation-satellite-on-board-pslv/story-ad7E1eudxXB1DHrEjddYaP.html
08-11-2020||India||No immediate relief for Arnab Goswami as HC reserves order on bail||The Bombay high Court on Saturday reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami who was arrested by Alibag police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik said it would try to pronounce the order as early as possible. Goswami has been in judicial custody since Wednesday. The bench also allowed Goswami and two others arrested in the case, Firoz Sheikh and Nitish Sarda , to approach the sessions Court at Alibag for regular bail and asked that the court deal with this within four days. All three are in judicial custody till November 18. On Wednesday, the Republic TV editor moved high court questioning his arrest and sought immediate relief. His legal team argued that his arrest and detention were illegal, as the case, closed in April 2019 by filing an A- summary report, was being re-investigated without a necessary court order. They also argued that the police officer could not have reopened the case without first obtaining necessary order from the judicial magistrate concerned. Sheikh and Sarda followed suit and challenged their arrests in HC. The Maharashtra government on Saturday responded to the pleas, submitting that unlike B and C summary reports, A-summary reports aren’t closure reports, and that, therefore, no permission from the magistrate is required for further probe. Senior advocate Amit Desai, who represented the government, said A-summary indicates that the allegations made in the complaint are true, but no one can be prosecuted for want of adequate evidence. B summary means the allegations are found to be false, whereas C summary indicates that no offence is disclosed. Thus, Desai claimed, an A-summary report reflects an incomplete investigation and cannot be construed a closure report. He also pointed out that there was efficacious alternative remedy available to the accused, filing a regular bail application; filing habeas corpus petition was no substitute for bail application, and can’t be granted by way of interim relief when the petition itself was not maintainable, he added.The bench found merit in the submission. Judges said granting bail as interim relief in a writ petition will set a wrong precedent. “The current danger is that this court will be flooded with petitions seeking bail as interim relief,” said the bench. Goswami’s counsel, senior advocates Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda, insisted that the HC can grant bail in a writ petition and urged the bench to forthwith release Goswami on bail.The court on Saturday also issued notices to the state government and the accused in the case on a petition filed by Aadnya Naik, daughter of the deceased architect and interior designer Anvay Naik, challenging the April 2019 magisterial order closing the case.Anvay Naik, 53, died by suicide at his residence on May 5, 2018. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home. His wife Akshata lodged a complaint with police alleging that the two were forced to take the step as they were under mental stress because of non-payment of dues collectively amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and the two others, something that was also mentioned in a suicide note. After his arrest on November 4, Goswami’s news channel accused that he was “physically assaulted by the police” and forcefully taken away. Police, however, said nobody assaulted him. Later, the magistrate court rejected Goswami’s allegations after the police submitted his medical report.Also on Saturday, a sessions court in Alibag adjourned the hearing into the revision application filed by the local crime branch of Alibag police seeking custodial interrogation of Goswami and two others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-immediate-relief-for-arnab-goswami-as-hc-reserves-order-on-bail/story-SvwFBbtlWJHSDBR418UmsJ.html
08-11-2020||India||NIA widened probe to 14 states to crack case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigated at least 6,500 people and conducted field verifications across least 14 states for nine months to catch two thieves who stole critical electronic components, including processors, Random Access Memory (RAM) and Solid State Drives from aboard INS Vikrant – India’s first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC), under construction at the Cochin Ship Yard Limited (CSL). The theft took place sometime between July and September 2019 and it was suspected that there was a larger espionage network at work as the solid state drives went missing from five MFCs (multi function control) processors, critical equipment on a carrier. The NIA was handed over the probe on September 26, 2019. The agency found that 1,500 to 2,000 people worked on the aircraft carrier during the day; 600 to 700 worked overtime, after 6 pm; and 200 to 300 worked through the night. “Frisking all the persons entering or leaving the vessel, at the gangways, was not possible, while footage from two CCTV cameras installed on the gangway, was of low quality and hence not amenable to any technical analysis,” said an officer at the agency who didn’t want to be named. NIA officers, along with Kerala police, prepared a list of employees of CSL, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Work Oversight Team (WOT) of Indian Navy and contractor Inelmech who had authorised access to INS Vikrant. A list of 3,638 contract employees who entered the shipyard between August and September 2019, besides those who had passes to work, and a total of 195 contractors was created. Teams were constituted to examine everyone. Everyone was subjected to layered voice analysis (LVA) – a technology used to identify the underlying emotion of a person, regardless of their language and tone of the speech. LVA technology uses bio-markers to trace the genuine emotion reflex that reveals the true sensations and feelings of a person. LVA was also conducted on 22 people no longer in India, using VoIP (Voice over internet Protocol) but nothing suspicious was found, the officer added. Several NIA teams travelled to 14 states -- Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bihar, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Gujarat to conduct field verifications about former staff of CSL and their fingerprints were collected. By April 2020, finger/palm prints of 6,014 people were examined at the Single Digit Bureau, Kochi City to match with the seven prints lifted from the crime scene but it didn’t yield any result. Desperate to get a breakthrough, NIA announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for any information. Meanwhile, finger/palm prints of more people who entered INS Vikrant were examined and by June 3 a total of 6,504 prints were checked, said a second NIA officer. On June 3, the owner of Maxeve Engineering Constructions Pvt , engaged in painting work at INS Vikrant from September 2018 till 2019 informed the agency that some of his staff was involved in petty theft of power tools. Two employees, Sumit Kumar Singh, a native of Munger (Bihar) and Daya Ram, native of Hanumangarh (Rajasthan) came under the scanner after the right palm impression of Singh matched with one of the lifted prints. They were arrested on June 10. One stolen drive and a RAM was also recovered from Sumit’s place. Investigations revealed that they sold one processor over OLX in September 2019; this was recovered from the buyer. Both were chargesheeted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-widened-probe-to-14-states-to-crack-case/story-ocBjSA6SeL85DavmV0S7bL.html
08-11-2020||India||PM Modi congratulates US president-elect Joe Biden on ‘spectacular victory’||Joining the rank of global leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated US President-elect Joe Biden on his astounding victory and said that he looks forward to strengthening India’s ties with the world’s strongest economy. “Congratulations Joe Biden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights,” PM Modi tweeted on Sunday.Political leaders from around the world were quick to congratulate Joe Biden after US networks declared him the winner of the bitter White House race over President Donald Trump.As crowds poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration and former US president Barack Obama hailed Biden’s win as “decisive” and “historic”Democrat Joe Biden captured the US presidency on Saturday, several major television networks said, as voters narrowly rebuffed Republican incumbent Donald Trump’s tumultuous leadership and embraced Biden’s promise to fight the coronavirus pandemic and fix the economy in a divided nation.Additionally, Kamala Harris made history on Saturday with her election as Joe Biden’s vice president, becoming the first woman, first Black American and first Asian American to win the second highest US office.Biden had a 273 to 214 lead in the state-by-state Electoral College vote that determines the winner, having won Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes to put him over the 270 he needed to secure the presidency, according to Edison Research.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratules-us-president-elect-joe-biden-on-spectacular-victory/story-qtxL6ZO4lsY4VhgG56WneM.html
08-11-2020||India||TN Congress chief opposes release of convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case||Tamil Nadu’s Congress chief K S Alagiri opposed the call by political parties, including its ally DMK for the release of the seven prisoners in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case.“It is up to the court to decide whether to release the killers of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi,” he said in a statement on Saturday. “If they are released, there will be a demand for the release of all Tamil murderers who have been in prison for more than 25 years.”The demand to release all seven convicts - Nalini Sriharan, V Sriharan alias Murugan, A G Perarivalan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P Ravichandran has been gaining momentum since the Supreme Court expressed unhappiness, earlier this week, over the recommendation for remission of sentence of Perarivalan pending with the Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit for more than two years. “We will accept the release of the seven people if the court announces it,” Alagiri said. “But it is not appropriate for political parties to demand their release.” The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee’s president’s stance comes in the backdrop of several parties including the AIADMK supporting the release of the convicts. DMK president MK Stalin wrote to the Governor to accept the recommendation without further delay. In 2014, the Supreme Court commuted the death penalty of Perarivalan and two other convicts (Murugan and Sathan) to life sentences. In 2018, Tamil Nadu government had recommended the release of Perarivalan after remitting his life sentence. But the Governor is said to be awaiting a report of the Multi Disciplinary Monitoring Agency which is looking into a ‘larger conspiracy in the case’.Governor Purohit met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on November 4 and on the following day he met vice-president Venkaiah Naidu to discuss “important issues of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-congress-chief-opposes-release-of-convicts-in-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case/story-MWgDwWjYovoT0074LyHcUP.html
08-11-2020||India||You have ease of doing business, work on ease of living: Modi tells IIT-Delhi graduates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said technology and innovation would play a major role in the post-Covid-19 world as he urged graduating Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi students to identify with the aspirations of the common people in the context of the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) campaign. “The post-Covid-19 world is going to be very different and technology has to play a major role in it. Covid-19 has changed the way things are being conducted today. Virtual reality and augmented reality are becoming the working reality now...it has taught us while globalisation is important, self-reliance is equally important. Today, a favourable environment has been created for the implementation of the ideas and innovation of technocrats and to scale them and market them easily. The country is now committed to giving you the ease of doing business so that you can work on providing ease of living to your countrymen through your ideas and innovations,” the Prime Minister said in his address as the chief guest at IIT Delhi’s 51st annual convocation ceremony, via video conferencing. Modi urged the students to work towards finding solutions to the country’s existing problems. “Indians have immense faith in technology… There are immense possibilities for you in the country and there are immense challenges confronting the country for which you can give solutions. A lot of work can be done in areas such as disaster management, maintaining the groundwater level, solar power generation, telemedicine, and big data analysis. I can place before you several other examples of the country’s needs,” he said. Modi added that the challenges could be addressed with innovations, new ideas, and efforts…“That is why it is my request to identify with the aspirations of the common people in the context of Atamnirbanar Bharat.” Modi asked the students to try to turn the adversity into opportunity amid the pandemic. “You may be feeling your batch is not lucky. I am sure you are asking why did this happen with our graduating batch. But think of it differently. You have a first-mover advantage. You have more time to learn and adapt to the new norms emerging in the workplace and beyond. So, make the most of it and look on the brighter side too,” he said. The Prime Minister gave four mantras to the students for their workplace. Focus on quality, never compromise, ensure scalability; make your innovations work at a mass scale. assure reliability; build long-term trust in the market and bring in adaptability; be open to change and expect uncertainty as a way of life. Modi asked the students to continue challenging themselves. “It is important that one keeps challenging oneself and continues to learn every day. It is also important that you treat yourself as a student for life. Never think that what you know is enough.” Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, who was the guest of honour at the event, congratulated the graduating students for their hard work, commitment. He said, “A new chapter begins today that has to pass the test of the time and in future students should come back to your alma mater one day to offer your ‘Guru-Dakshina’. I appeal to you all to contribute to nation-building initiatives as we are the world’s biggest nation in terms of human capital, and we must all work towards fulfilling the vision of our Prime Minister in creating a 5 trillion dollar economy by 2024.” Nishank also launched an online certificate programme called e-VIDYA under which the institute will offer online certificate courses in areas like cyber-physical system, security, renewable energy storage, and conversion, embedded systems, machine learning, and construction project management, etc. During the convocation, 2,019 students were awarded degrees, of whom 873 are undergraduate students, 848 postgraduates, and 298 PhD scholars. Presenting the Director’s report on this occasion, IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao said, “In the last five years, IIT Delhi faculty and students have written over 10,000 high-quality papers, filed over 500 patents, executed roughly 150 industry projects and obtained over Rs 1,300 crores of research funding from competitive grants from all over the world. We have also created 18 new Centers of Excellence with funding from alumni, industries, and government agencies in the last five years. These numbers are anywhere from 2 times to 4 times higher compared to any previous five-year periods since the inception of the institute.” ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-have-ease-of-doing-business-work-on-ease-of-living-modi-tells-iit-delhi-graduates/story-CVt5ZY7JW4j1j2QAVITcbK.html
08-11-2020||India||Sangh affiliate SJM opposes cracker ban||NEW DELHI: The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has criticized the complete ban on firecrackers during Diwali in states like Delhi. It said it has been done even as green firecrackers certified by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute are known to cause 30% less pollution.SJM said the complete ban will adversely affect the industry in places like Tamil Nadu and West Bengal as well as the livelihoods of nearly one million.The SJM has opposed the bans saying they are based on “false propaganda in terms of ill effects of firecrackers.”SJM’s national co-convenor, Ashwani Mahajan, in a statement, said: “…For some time, without any factual information, governments have been taking action like banning all types of firecrackers on the occasion of Diwali, which is completely inappropriate.”Mahajan said it has to be understood that till now the pollution caused by firecrackers was primarily due to illegally imported firecrackers from China. “There has been pollution due to the mixing of potassium nitrate and sulfur in Chinese firecrackers.” He backed green firecrackers and said the “pollution-free firecrackers” are made in India and are free from potassium nitrate and sulfur and other pollutants such as aluminium, lithium, arsenic, and mercury have been reduced to the minimum.SJM asked the governments to revisit the ban on all types of firecrackers. It regretted that government agencies have failed to solve the problem of stubble burning, which contributes to pollution in the national capital and surrounding areas.“Swadeshi Jagran Manch also urges all state governments to make efforts to find a permanent solution to the problem of pollution of stubble burning. Swadeshi Jagran Manch wishes to underline that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its order in October 2018 has given permission to firecrackers for two hours on the occasion of Deepawali, keeping in view the tradition of burning firecrackers on the occasion of Deepawali and the livelihood of lakhs of people engaged in cracker production,” Mahajan said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of Centre for Science and Environment however underlined the need for public awareness and support to back regulations banning the use of firecrackers. She said the health care sector is already overburdened by the coronavirus pandemic and the worsening air quality will further impact the delivery of care. “This year we have a special challenge, apart from respiratory problems caused by air pollution, we have corona as well. Doctors have presented evidence that air pollution exacerbates corona. We need more public support and awareness about the impact of concentrated bursting of firecrackers on air pollution,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangh-affiliate-opposes-cracker-ban/story-e9aLwbN2TexH6zGxrjjg7K.html
