09-11-2020||India||Approaching Diwali lights up shopkeepers’ spirits!||With Diwali just a few days away, traditional markets are reporting decent sales; and sellers are a happy lot. The shopkeepers are expecting the sales to further pick up in the next few days. Rajan Pahuja, who runs Right Choice store in Gomti Nagar, explained, “I won’t say customers are flooding in but yes the turnout is not bad. At times, we have to make people wait outside but that is to maintain social distancing. In business terms, the sale output is low if I compare with previous years. The main reason for that is customers are looking for need-based items.”Buyers are not splurging as they used to during the festival. Sellers of decorative items are in a fix. “Decorative items don’t come in compulsive buying. Customers are spending on Diwali dresses, lights, household items like bed-sheets and kitchenware, but our items like artificial flowers and decorative pieces are not on everyone’s list. Our permanent customers who used to buy bags full of items have largely not turned up and those who do, are buying fewer items,” said a seller at Pratap market in Aminabad.Prabhu Jalan of Geeta Vastralaya said that customers have become very unpredictable. “I am not able to understand buyers. They demand items that we don’t have and when we procure them there are no buyers for those particular items. Thankfully, the sales are much better and we hope that the trend grows as we have a big staff to look after,” he said.The rise in Covid-19 cases in the country has also deterred customers from moving out. “We understand that people are buying e-commerce platforms but there are also those who want to come, feel and buy. That has been our strength in this era of e-commerce but due to Coronavirus people are avoiding busy markets,” he said.Right after Diwali begins the marriage season, and that is the reason for improved sales according to Prem Rastogi of Ghara Bhandar. “More than Diwali, I will say the big support has been the upcoming marriage season. Business at our traditional store in Aminabad and other localities has been satisfactory. During the pandemic we could have not asked for more,” he added.With markets such as Aminabad, Chowk, Alambagh, Aliganj, Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar already witnessing crowds returning, the business is expected to rise in the coming days. “Dar to hai par khatra dono ore hai – ya to bhooke maro ya carona se – koi option nahin hai (Of course, there is fear, but it is dangerous either way: we may die of hunger or due to Coronavirus)!” said a roadside vendor selling mouth fresheners in Aminabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/approaching-diwali-lights-up-shopkeepers-spirits/story-FWKaO4E3Bp4z21L6GOrW8L.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Modi to join SCO summit with China and Pakistan leaders amid border standoff||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday join the heads of state of China and Pakistan at the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which is expected to set the agenda for the body for the coming year. This is the first time that the annual meeting of the SCO heads of state is being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia, the current chair of SCO, has organised most of the grouping’s meetings virtually this year, except for the meetings of foreign ministers and defence ministers that were held in Moscow in September. The SCO Summit, being held against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, is among five virtual meetings this month that will be joined by the top leadership of the two countries. President Vladimir Putin will chair Tuesday’s virtual meeting and the heads of state of the eight SCO members – Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – will speak for 10 minutes. The heads of state of four observer countries – Iran, Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia – will join the meet, and the SCO secretary general and executive director of the SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) will also address the gathering. Also Read: India takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visitThe SCO Summit is the grouping’s main body that sets the agenda and main directions for the next year. The meeting is expected to focus on all the main areas of activity, including politics, security, trade and economy, and it will conclude with the adoption of the Moscow Declaration containing the joint position of the members on global and regional issues. There will also be statements on issues such as digital economy, Covid-19, countering terrorism, including on the internet, and countering drug trafficking. The summit is also expected to make decisions on major projects and trade and economic initiatives. Also Read: Promote ‘local for Diwali’ to give new life to economy, says PM Narendra ModiModi, who has led the Indian delegation to the annual summit since India became a full member of SCO in 2017, had outlined his vision with the acronym HEALTH – covering healthcare cooperation, economic cooperation, alternative energy, literature and culture, terrorism-free society and humanitarian cooperation – at last year’s summit in Bishkek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-join-sco-summit-with-china-and-pakistan-leaders-amid-border-standoff/story-LVoDASvO3HTbTJrFnmcp0I.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity project and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesIndia, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity projectIndia and the Maldives on Monday signed four agreements, including one for a $100-million grant for a connectivity project, as visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and the Maldivian leadership discussed ways to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine 90% effective in Phase 3 trial, says US pharma giant PfizerThe vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is being developed by US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German biotech firm BioNTech, is 90% effective in preventing infections in the ongoing Phase 3 trials, Pfizer announced on Monday. Read moreIndia takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visitForeign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go an extra mile to improve bilateral ties that had nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreRohit Sharma included in India Test squad for Australia tour, BCCI announces revised ODI, T20I teamsRohit Sharma was included in the India Test squad for Australia tour but the senior India selection committee and BCCI medical team after consulting the opener decided to rest him from the ODI and T20I series in Australia. Read moreKangana Ranaut demands Arnab Goswami’s release, attacks Maharashtra govt: ‘I had one house, even that was demolished’Actor Kangana Ranaut has again attacked the Maharashtra government, as she demanded the release of journalist Arnab Goswami. The news anchor is in judicial custody in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Read moreApple’s One More Thing event is happening tomorrow: How to watch and what to expectJust a few days after launching the iPhones globally on October 13, Apple sent out invites for another Apple Event scheduled for November 10. Read moreMonday motivation: Kriti Sanon gives a hilarious explanation for nailing Yoga pose Viparita ShalabhasanaCome Monday and our social media feeds are flooded with Bollywood celebrities’ motivating workout sessions but we love Kriti Sanon for doing so with a tinge of humour. Read moreWatch: Day before Bihar verdict, Tejashwi Yadav celebrates 31st birthdayRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav celebrated his 31st birthday, a day before the crucial verdict in Bihar. The young leader celebrated the day with his family members.  Read morePunjab-born Nobel Laureate Har Gobind Khorana gets special dedication on death anniversary. Check out his impressive journeyThe Nobel Prize Organization shared a post dedicated to “an icon of molecular biology” aka, Har Gobind Khorana who passed away on today’s date, November 9, in 2011. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-maldives-sign-4-pacts-including-100m-grant-for-key-connectivity-project-and-all-the-latest-news/story-z3TGzoXnABX4nYWFEsP3kI.html
09-11-2020||India||MP by-poll results to decide fate of 7-month-old BJP govt and its 12 ministers||While the exit polls predict an edge to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Congress in by-polls held in 28 legislative assembly constituencies, the counting of votes on Tuesday will decide the fate of the 7-month-old BJP government and also of 12 of its ministers whose existence in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, if BJP retains power, depends on their winning the by-polls. The by-polls results assume much significance for two ex-ministers too- Govind Singh Rajput and Tulsi Silavat, who filed their nomination papers as ministers but had to exit the cabinet on October 20 during the election campaign as per the constitutional provision that debars a person from holding a minister’s post for more than six months without being a member in the legislative assembly. All these ministers and ex-ministers were among the 22 Congress MLAs, all loyalists of senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who resigned from the state assembly on March 10 this year, leading to the fall of the then Congress government and BJP regaining power after a gap of 15 months. Three more Congress MLAs resigned in July from the state assembly.All these ex-MLAs joined the BJP and got the party tickets to contest the by-polls from their respective constituencies. The ministers whose fate hangs in the balance include cabinet ministers Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Aidal Singh Kansana, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Imrati Devi, Prabhuram Chaudhary, Bisahu Lal Singh, Rajvardhan Singh and Hardeep Singh Dang; and ministers of state Girraj Dandotia, OPS Bhadoria, Suresh Dhakad and Brijendra Yadav. They were inducted in the state cabinet on July 2. As per the chief electoral officer’s office in Madhya Pradesh, counting of votes will begin at 8 am at 19 district headquarters which witnessed the by-polls, necessitated by the resignations of 25 Congress MLAs from the state assembly and due to the demise of three sitting MLAs. Of the 28 seats, Congress had won 27 in the 2018 assembly elections. Chouhan government with 107 MLAs in the state assembly needs to win a minimum of 8 seats in the state assembly to retain power without any outside support and reach the majority mark of 115 in the 230-member state assembly which has one vacant seat, whereas Congress with 87 MLAs needs to win all the 28 seats to get to the half-way mark and regain power on its own. Also Read: Madhya Pradesh bypolls: CM Chouhan accuses Kamal Nath of trying to lure BJP MLAsHowever, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has two MLAs and the Samajwadi Party (SP), with its lone MLA in the state assembly, are eyeing the prospects of a hung assembly to play the role of kingmaker as these parties did in 2018 when Congress fell short of the majority mark by two seats and had to seek support from non-BJP and independent MLAs to form the government which lasted for 15 months. There are four independents, two BSP and one SP MLAs in the House. The BSP in particular enjoys a significant presence in Gwalior-Chambal region which has 16 of these 28 seats that voted in the by-polls. Though the BSP won just one seat in Gwalior-Chambal region in 2018 assembly elections, its presence led to a triangular contest on many of the seats. Of the 16 seats in the region, BSP had finished second on three seats and came third on 11 seats in 2018. Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Counting of votes to begin at 8am tomorrow, early trends likely by 10am. Full schedule hereWhile BSP fielded its candidates on all the 28 seats, SP contested on 14 seats during the by-polls, but two of the SP candidates joined the rival parties- Congress and BJP during the election campaign. On the eve of counting, state Congress president Kamal Nath exuded confidence of winning the by-polls and forming the government in the state by dislodging the BJP from power.“The by-polls results are about to come. This election was of people, which was fought by the people and the victory too will be of people and truth. Congress will sweep the by-polls to form its democratic government elected by people once again and a government formed with manipulations will be brought down,” Nath said in a tweet. Also Read: BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after resultsHowever, state BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma said, “The BJP is going to achieve a massive victory. This is reflected in absurd statements from Congress leaders who are levelling baseless allegations against the BJP.” State BSP president Ramakant Pippal, however, said, “We see a hung assembly despite all the manipulations by the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress against the BSP during the polling. In that scenario our party president Behan Mayawati will take a decision on our support to any party on formation of the new government.” Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Yash Bharatiya said, “We believe we can win two to three seats easily and if there is a hung assembly, then our party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav will take a decision on the issue of support.” The by-polls were preceded by a bitter election campaign and personal attacks by BJP and Congress leaders against each other, which led to Election Commission snatching the star campaigner status from state Congress president Kamal Nath over his “Kya item hai ye” remark that he made against BJP candidate and woman and child development minister Imrati Devi. The Supreme Court later granted stay on execution of the Commission’s order but till then the campaign was over. The commission also debarred higher education minister Mohan Yadav and women development minister Imrati Devi from holding and addressing any public meeting for a day. Similarly, it warned BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and BJP candidate from Anuppur constituency, Bisahulal Singh, while it issued notices to BJP candidate Girraj Dandotia, BJP MLA Usha Thakur and Congress leaders Sajjan Singh Verma and Acharya Pramod Krishnan on complaints that they used objectionable remarks during their election meetings. It was during the campaign that MP high court, Gwalior bench, in its interim order dated October 20 expressed its displeasure over the conduct of politicians in context of Covid situation in the state and banned physical public meetings subject to the availability of virtual campaign in nine districts under its jurisdiction, which included eight districts in Gwalior-Chambal region. The Supreme Court later granted stay on the execution of the order. Through its earlier interim order, the high court ordered lodging of FIR against union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath for violations of Covid-19 protocol. 70.27% polling was registered in the 28 assembly constituencies. The polling was marred by violence in certain pockets of Chambal division in particular, resulting in bullet injuries to at least three persons. In the 2018 assembly elections, these 28 seats had registered 73.39% polling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-poll-results-to-decide-fate-of-7-month-old-bjp-govt-and-its-12-ministers/story-nHEevS0fZ8s5fnmKEWxNsO.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after results||A day before the announcement of the results for by-polls to seven assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of rigging the elections in its favour.“We have proof, including some videos and will provide details after the results (on Tuesday),” Akhilesh Yadav said at a press conference convened to announce the induction of over half-a-dozen former legislators from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress into the SP.Akhilesh said that the exit polls for Bihar assembly election results predicting an edge for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led opposition alliance over the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) would turn out to be correct and that the tenure of “those who spread hatred” was ending.Even abroad, those who wanted to rule by dividing the society were ousted by the people, he said, hinting at the outcome of the US presidential elections.Attacking the BJP government at the Centre and in the state, Akhilesh said: “Some journalists there (in the US) reported that President Trump had lied 22,000 times. If we add up all the lies of the PM and the UP CM then it would exceed one lakh.”UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak responded to the allegations by demanding proof.“He lost patience so soon. Anyway, if he had proof, then why did he not come up with it soon after the elections? Why wait for so many days after the polls? It’s simple — if his party gains, they will give credit to themselves, on losing they would cry foul,” Pathak alleged.Also Read: Ayodhya gearing up for fourth Deepotsav celebrationsAkhilesh also used the opportunity to hit out at the Centre over demonetisation.“Those who had no black money suffered the most and those with black money fled the country. The BJP is solely responsible for the country’s derailed economy. Youth, poor, farmers, traders and businesses, all were ruined. Only the BJP benefited (from demonetisation) by winning the UP assembly polls soon afterwards,” said the SP chief.He also sought to know the status of Purvanchal Expressway.Also Read: Air quality deteriorating, UP to comply with NGT orders on firecrackers“The BJP doesn’t make people’s Diwali, it makes people diwala (bankrupt). Where is the Purvanchal Expressway that the CM had promised would be gifted to the people on Diwali?,” he asked.The prominent BSP leaders who joined the SP include former Chandauli MP Kailash Nath Yadav and former Obra (Sonbhadra) MLA Sunil Kumar Patel. Those from the Congress included former Mirzapur MP Bal Kumar Patel, former Sitapur MP Kaiser Jehan, former Patti (Pratapgarh) MLA Ram Singh Patel, and former Hargaon (Sitapur) MLA Ramesh Rahi. A smaller political party, Sarvashrestha Dal, merged itself with the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rigged-up-assembly-by-polls-alleges-akhilesh-promises-proof-after-results/story-rXPY99nEW97DUgTSlkFJtK.html
09-11-2020||India||‘Winters, festivities may upend gains made against Covid-19,’ says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed on Monday the Covid-19 situation in nine states, including West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, and expressed concern that the winters and the festive season could potentially threaten the gains made against the viral infection.Interacting with the state health ministers and principal secretaries or additional chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, he stressed that India has the highest recovery rate and one of the lowest fatality rate, globally.Vardhan informed the meeting that of the total active cases in the country, only 0.44 per cent were on ventilator support, 2.47 per cent in ICU and just 4.13 per cent occupied oxygen-supported beds, according to a Health Ministry statement.He, however, said the nine states and some districts there have been reporting a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, high average daily cases on a weekly average, decline in testing, high rate of mortality within the first 24 or 48 or 72 hours of hospitalisation, high doubling rate and higher death among the vulnerable population.Vardhan said the trajectory of the disease was being monitored personally by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The prime minister has held intense discussions with all chief ministers and Head of UTs. His latest address was only of 10 minutes but had the important message of continued adherence to covid-appropriate behaviour and its transformation to a Jan Andolan (people’s movement).” Sharing the nation’s journey in the fight against the pandemic, he said the number of laboratories increased from one in January to 2,074 now and the testing capacity has increased to 1.5 million daily.The Union health minister also spoke about the increased number of general, oxygenated and ICU beds at each level of covid care hierarchy.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested all States to focus on 10 key areas to contain the infecton and gain an upper hand over its trajectory.These are increasing testing, targeted testing at market-places, workplaces, religious congregations which could have the potential to become super-spreaders, increasing the share of RT-PCR in testing, compulsory testing of symptomatic RAT negatives, completion of contact tracing within the first 72 hours, tracing of an average of 10-15 contacts per new case detected.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director Sujeet K Singh apprised everybody on the trajectory of the coronavirus disease and the public health response efforts in the states.The State Health Ministers shared a brief snapshot of the actions taken for containment, surveillance and treatment of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winters-festivities-may-upend-gains-made-against-covid-19-says-harsh-vardhan/story-BKNvw2DWjAkCMXxTKA01nN.html
09-11-2020||India||India, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity project||India and the Maldives on Monday signed four agreements, including one for a $100-million grant for a connectivity project, as visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and the Maldivian leadership discussed ways to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Shringla is on a two-day visit to the Indian Ocean archipelago as part of New Delhi’s outreach to key countries in the neighbourhood and beyond. The Maldives is the sixth country he has visited in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions, the others being Bangladesh, Myanmar, France, Germany and the UK. One of four memorandums of understanding (MoUs) signed by the two sides was for the grant of $100 million by India for the $500-million Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) that will link capital Male with three islands. India will also provide a $400-million line of credit for the project, the largest such infrastructure venture undertaken in the Maldives. The other MoUs were for setting up soil and plant testing laboratories through a grant of 1.71 million Maldivian rufiyaas, establishing a drug detox facility through a grant of 7.7 million Maldivian rufiyaas and cooperation in sports and youth affairs. The GMCP, “an economic lifeline connecting Male with Villingili, the new commercial port at Gulhifalhu and industrial zone at Thilafushi” will “conform to the hallmarks of Indian development cooperation – transparency, full participation and ownership of the host country, and competitive pricing”, Shringla said while speaking at the foreign ministry in Male. “We deeply appreciate the government of President [Ibrahim] Solih for its ‘India First’ foreign policy. This is reciprocated in full measure by our ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy in which the Maldives enjoys a very special and central place,” he said. Talks between Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart Abdul Ghafoor Mohamed focused on economic recovery. They emphasised “resilience efforts to curb the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, including boosting tourism, accelerating the implementation of the ongoing development cooperation projects across the Maldives, and the means of elevating connectivity and bilateral trade”, according to a statement from the Maldives’ foreign ministry. Also Read: On Kartarpur anniversary, Pak says India yet to reopen its side of corridorIndia has unveiled a slew of measures to boost economic recovery in the Maldives, where the tourism industry has been hit hard by the pandemic. In September, India provided a soft loan of $250 million as budgetary support. The two sides also launched a cargo ferry service to cut transportation costs. Shringla began his visit with a meeting with President Solih, seen as one of India’s strongest allies in the neighbourhood. The two sides discussed ways to enhance regional trade and connectivity, economic cooperation, tourism and overcoming the pandemic. Solih thanked the Indian government for agreeing to implement an air bubble between the two sides and noted that increasing numbers of Indian tourists had visited the Maldives since it reopened its borders. Also Read: India, Nepal ties get back on track. Foreign Secy heads to Kathmandu on Nov 26Solih thanked India for backing development projects through a line of credit agreements, including the GMCP, Gulhifalhu port project, water and sewerage projects on 34 islands and a cancer hospital. Shringla also met Speaker Mohamed Nasheed and defence minister Mariya Didi, whom he assured of India’s “continued assistance to safeguard our shared interests in the Indian Ocean”, according to a tweet from the Indian high commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-sign-4-pacts-including-100m-grant-for-key-connectivity-project/story-xWzjTgJzxwRCbAt9S7pQEI.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi Surya gives privilege notice to LS speaker against top Bengal police officials||Hitting out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the violence during a BJP rally in West Bengal, the party’s youth wing president Tejasvi Surya on Monday said he has given a privilege notice to the Lok Sabha speaker against the state administration’s top brass, including the police commissioners of Kolkata and Howrah.Surya, who represents South Bengaluru in the Lower House of Parliament, was referring to the clashes between BJP workers and police during protests in the two West Bengal cities on October 8.“The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief’s fascist government in West Bengal is like a terrorist” handling its goons,” he told a press conference at the BJP’s headquarters here.Parts of Kolkata and adjoining Howrah resembled a battle zone on October 8 as BJP workers and supporters clashed with police, hurling stones and blocking roads with burning tyres, to protest a string of killings of saffron party workers.The BJP Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president alleged that chemicals mixed with water was sprayed on BJP workers and TMC “goons” were throwing bombs from terraces.“Mamata ji cannot digest this reality and is thus resorting to violence and political murders as a tool to silence the BJP. In the last one and a half years, over 120 workers of the BJP have been brutally killed and politically murdered,” Surya said.“Mamata’s administration in West Bengal is similar to North Korea’s autocratic regime,” he said.Surya alleged that police stations in West Bengal function as “branch offices” of the TMC and officers are “puppets” in the hands of the TMC government.The BJP MP said that he has given a privilege notice against top police officials of West Bengal, including the Kolkata and the Howrah police commissioners, to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.Chief Minister Banerjee is aware that the ground beneath her feet is slipping very fast, Surya said.The coming government in Bengal will be a BJP government, he said and added that senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah has made this explicitly clear. West Bengal assembly elections are slated to take place next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-surya-gives-privilege-notice-to-ls-speaker-against-top-bengal-police-officials/story-dKS1E6Y2ajOBH4J4msUX3K.html
09-11-2020||India||India takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visit||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go an extra mile to improve bilateral ties that had nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.The decision to send the foreign secretary comes days after Army Chief General MM Naravane was conferred the honorary rank of general of Nepali Army. Gen Naravane had met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on this visit who had underscored that the two countries could resolve all problems between them through dialogue since India and Nepal have a long-standing special relationship.KP Sharma Oli had faced resistance within his cabinet to Gen Naravane’s visit but had dealt with it, withdrawing the defence portfolio from deputy prime minister Ishwar Pokhrel.Gen Naravane’s visit was considered crucial, particularly given that he was the first one within the Indian government to react to protests by Nepal’s government over a border road built in Uttarakhand. It was very possible that Nepal had raised the issue at someone else’s behest, he said in May, a remark that was interpreted to imply that Beijing could have prodded Nepal to create a new boundary dispute.It is not clear if PM Oli directly broached the topic when General Naravane called on him last week. But PM Oli did make his point.People familiar with the discussions said KP Sharma Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio after shunting out Pokhrel, did make a pointed reference to the fallout of the row over Nepal’s political map, describing it as a “misunderstanding”. At the same time, he did underline that Nepal takes its sovereignty very seriously, a remark that is being seen in New Delhi to explain his decision to issue a fresh political map.During the two days - November 26 and 27 - that Shringla spends in Kathmandu, he is already scheduled to hold meetings with his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal who took charge just last month and foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The career diplomat will also meet President Bidhya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli during his visit.Shringla’s conversations in Nepal are also expected to lead both sides to finalise the schedule for the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.Officials stressed that the boundary issue was going to be only one aspect of the visit. “This is not a single-agenda visit,” a senior diplomat said, pointing that the visit could see India committing to help Nepal with coronavirus vaccines once its production starts. Also, the two sides will discuss the revival of the Pancheshwar multi-purpose project on river Mahakali as well as other hydro-electric projects.India had been holding off on Harsh Shringla’s visit for most of this year to convey New Delhi’s displeasure over the communist government’s move to issue a new political map that included a slice of land including the Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas to the west of Nepal. New Delhi had rejected the map, brushing away what it had said was Nepal’s effort at a cartographic expansion.Nepal had been working at mollifying New Delhi for some time and had withdrawn school textbooks that contained the new political map. Last month, Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Kumar Goel had done the groundwork for restoring ties during his quiet visit to Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-ties-get-back-on-track-foreign-secy-heads-to-kathmandu-on-nov-26/story-J6PVm30Gr8xl7bt36NSHNN.html
09-11-2020||India||Air quality deteriorating, UP to comply with NGT orders on firecrackers||Uttar Pradesh (UP) is going to comply with the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding firecrackers on Diwali, state’s additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said on Monday. “The NGT order is a detailed one.The air quality is deteriorating and steps have to be taken to address the issue,” he said. He also said”green crackers” would be sold and promoted. While Meerut has imposed a ban on firecrackers, Lucknow has banned certain categories of firecrackers. Agra additional magistrate Ajay Tiwari confirmed that bursting of firecrackers will not be allowed.“Instructions have already been issued to all police stations to initiate strong action against storage of firecrackers or their bursting,” he said. “We are awaiting government orders but till then, no fresh license for sale of firecrackers is being issued. All renewals too are on hold and so is the practice of issuing temporary license,” said Agra district magistrate Prabhu Nath Singh.Among the firecrackers banned in Lucknow are the most preferred ‘ladis’ or ‘chatai’ (cracker series) and similar high decibel crackers. “Sale of only those crackers that are in compliance with the Supreme Court order would be allowed,” said Naveen Arora, joint commissioner of police (JCP), Law and Order (LO), Police Commissionarate Lucknow. Also, the Lucknow district administration has defined a time slot for Diwali and other festivals, including Gurupurab and Christmas, when firecrackers can be burst. “On festivals like Diwali and Gurupurab, fireworks would be allowed only between 8pm and 10pm. On Christmas and New Year’s Eve, fireworks may start from 11.55pm and go on till 12.30am, the guidelines said. In addition, the district administration has defined ‘No Cracker Zones’ in the city, including hospital, nursing homes, educational institutes, court and zoological gardens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-deteriorating-up-to-comply-with-ngt-orders-on-firecrackers-says-chief-secretary/story-il3AejIMfdnoPQEDqTVwZK.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi: 50% jump in home isolation cases in 2 weeks; containment zones count up by 32%||As the national capital reels under the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of patients under home isolation in Delhi has mounted to 24,723, a rise of 50 per cent in the last two weeks, while the containment zones count has expanded by over 32 per cent in the same period.Coronavirus cases have spiralled since October 28 when 5673 fresh cases were recorded and on November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date. In this period, a staggering over 74,000 new cases have been reported.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of home isolation cases on October 26 stood at 16,396 and the containment zones count that day was 2930, according to official data.On October 28, the number of fresh cases breached the 5000-mark for the first time and the home quarantined cases rose to 16,822.With the third wave of the pandemic hitting the national capital, daily cases surged and containment zones count kept mounting, standing at 3878 on Sunday.The positivity rate which stood at 8.23 per cent on October 26 spiralled to 15.26 per cent on Sunday.The number of home isolation cases on Sunday stood at 24,723, an increase of over 50 per cent since October 26.Experts have flagged that crowding due to festive season and rise in pollution level and laxity in adhering to Covid-19 safety norms, among other factors, have caused the massive surge in daily cases in the last several days.So, rise in home isolation cases is a direct result of that, they said.The count of home quarantined cases on October 19 was 14,164 which fell marginally on October 20 to 14,046. However, since then, these cases showed an upward trend, and on October 31 the figures stood at 20,093, according to official data.In this period, the number of containment zones also got expanded from 2724 on October 21 to 3274 on October 31.Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November, over 6,000 daily cases four times, and more than 75 fatalities were recorded on both Saturday and Sunday, the highest in over four months.From October 28-31, over 5,000 cases were reported in the city, every day.Seventy-seven new fatalities were recorded on Sunday, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 6,989. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were reported from Covid-19.The active cases tally which had crossed 40,000-mark on November 7, on Sunday stood at 41,857, as per official data.The Sunday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 4,38,529.The bulletin also said that 3,89,683 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, putting the recovery rate at around 89 per cent.Due to this massive surge in cases, the number of beds, including ICU beds with ventilators facilities are shrinking fast in hospitals.The Delhi government on Friday had issued orders to augment the capacity of beds for Covid-19 patients by adding in total over 1100 beds at various state-run and private facilities to “combat the third wave” of spread of infection.According to the Friday bulletin, out of the total number of 15,781 beds in Covid hospitals, 8253 were vacant.The Sunday bulletin said, out of the total number of 16,027 beds in Covid hospitals, 7955 were vacant.According to doctors, people, especially those with respiratory illnesses, should try to stay indoors as much as possible and treat the situation as a major health emergency and not become complacent about it, since lockdown has been erased to reboot the economy.“We would advise patients with respiratory illnesses to stay indoor as much as possible. Also, appeal to youth to not assume everything is normal again just because the economy is getting eased. Mask should be worn all time while being outdoors, and social distancing norms should be followed,” said a senior doctor of a government hospital.  After showing a gradual decline since September 22, except on two days, the number of patients under home quarantine, had again risen on October 1, the count being 15,899.On September 21, the number of home isolation cases had increased to 19,213 after steady ascent in its count since the last week of August.However, it fell by a margin of 749 on September 22 to 18,464, registering a significant fall after a long time.It fell further down to 17,834 the next day when the the number of containment zones stood at 1987. The containment zone count had crossed the 2000-mark on September 24 (2059) and the 3000-mark on October 27 (3032), when the the home isolation cases on corresponding days stood at 17,995 and 16,415 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-50-jump-in-home-isolation-cases-in-2-weeks-containment-zones-count-up-by-32/story-Rq7DUq4MktqtUPmu0njXyJ.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Peoples’ Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesPeoples’ Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Peoples Conference, which is part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Monday sought the early hearing of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 and J&K Reorganisation Act in the supreme court. Read moreBombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab Goswami in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Bombay high court on Monday rejected Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s application for bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Read moreBihar assembly election 2020: Election Commission increases vote-counting stations to ensure social distancingAs the counting of votes in Bihar is set to take place on Tuesday, the number of stations has been increased in order to maintain social distancing amid the coronavirus pandemic, Bihar’s chief election commissioner HR Srinivasa said on Monday. Read moreBCCI grants paternity leave to Virat Kohli, India captain to return from Australia tour after first TestThe BCCI on Monday confirmed that it has granted paternity to Indian captain Virat Kohli, who will return from Australia after the first Test. Read moreVehicle registration in Oct less than same month of 2019. Here’s possibly whyThe Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Monday informed that vehicle registration in the month of October had continued to increase month-on-month but that the figures when compared to the same month of 2019 reflect a very noticeable fall. Read moreAmit Sadh on shooting at a height of 12,000 feet at zero degree: It was beyond challengingAfter back to back releases on various web platforms, actor Amit Sadh has returned to work, and this time around, it’s not just the Covid pandemic restrictions he has in front of him. Read moreMallika Sherawat’s 2009 tweet about meeting Kamala Harris goes viral againThe Internet has been abuzz after the historic win of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris in the US Presidential election this year. Read more‘I don’t like crime dramas with guns and gaalis’: Pankaj TripathiPankaj Tripathi may play gangsters of all hues but the actor’s personal choice is the exact opposite. The actor, who will be seen playing a gangster in the upcoming Anurag Basu film Ludo, says he prefers slice-of-life dramas with everyday conflicts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-peoples-conference-asks-for-early-hearing-of-petitions-challenging-abrogation-of-article-370-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NsT8fsWwZrEighMR5iyKtL.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP member sworn in as MLA in Manipur after HC rejects Cong member’s election||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Mayanglangbam Rameshwar who secured second place in 2017 assembly elections was sworn in as a member of Manipur Legislative Assembly on Monday after the high court last week declared the election of Congress candidate Y Surchandra null and void.Manipur Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh administered the oath of office in secrecy to the new MLA at his office chamber of Manipur Legislative Assembly premises in Imphal in the presence of Chief Minister N Biren Singh and his ministers, MLAs besides MPs. Forty eight year old Rameshwar took oath after he was named as the elected member of Kakching Assembly Constituency. On Thursday (November 5) , a single bench of High Court of Manipur had declared the election of Y Surchandra from the same constituency in 2017 assembly election as null and void over non-disclosure of information in the election affidavit. Surchandra (65) was declared the MLA from Kakching constituency after winning the seat with 11,133 votes while Rameshwar got 10,503 votes.Ahead of Rajya Sabha election in June this year, Surchandra was disqualified under the Tenth Schedule of the constitution. Since then, the seat for Kakching constituency had been lying vacant in the 11th Manipur Legislative Assembly.Speaking to reporters at the oath ceremony, chief minister N Biren Singh welcomed the recent high court ruling saying that legislature, judiciary and executive have separate functions and powers in a democracy.He also expressed confidence that the BJP would win the bye-election to four assembly seats that were held on November 7. Rameshwar said his priority is to actualize and implement the very vision of the chief minister. On the recent court verdict, he said, “It is a landmark judgement. My faith in the judicial system has further enhanced (after the decision).” With election of Rameshwar as a BJP MLA, the total strength of the BJP in the 60 member house has increased to 20.Last month BJP candidate Ginsuanhau was elected unopposed in the bye-election from Singhat constituency.The BJP-led coalition government in Manipur came to power in March 2017 with support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF besides one MLA each from TMC,Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent MLA in the 60 member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-member-sworn-in-as-mla-in-manipur-after-high-court-rejects-congress-member-s-election/story-USrDRloSDvOqaf6zHekAQK.html
09-11-2020||India||Tripura issues Diwali guidelines, bans bursting of firecrackers||With Diwali around the corner, the Tripura government has issued guidelines, including a ban on bursting firecrackers, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The set of 18 guidelines issued by chief secretary Manoj Kumar make social distancing, face masks mandatory for puja committee members and visitors. As Kali Puja is organised during Diwali, the guidelines said that the idol cannot be over five feet tall. In order to avoid crowds at the pandals, the government has ordered that they be kept open and has prohibited fairs and cultural programmes in front of the pandals. Puja organisers have also been asked to bring idols to pandals without any kind of procession. At least five visitors would be allowed to visit the pandal at a time and they need to stand at a metre’s distance from the pandal. The club organisers have been asked to sanitise the pandals three times on the day of puja and make hand sanitisers and face masks readily available near the pandal.Those who are organising Kali puja at homes can invite 15-20 guests. The government would set different guideline for puja at Tripuradundari temple in Udaipur, 50 kilometres from Agartala. Tripuradundari is one of the 51 Hindu Shaktipeethas or holy shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-issues-diwali-guidelines-bans-bursting-of-firecrackers/story-UQCDTXlOgPqWXxH6wrOzsI.html
09-11-2020||India||After MSRTC worker dies by suicide, Maharashtra minister assures payment of 3 months’ salary before Diwali||Maharashtra’s transport minister Anil Parab has assured payment of salaries due to the employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) before Diwali after a bus conductor allegedly died by suicide on Monday. A month’s salary will be paid by Monday and the remaining dues for two months will be cleared before Diwali, news agency ANI cited Parab as saying.“They need not be disheartened and take extreme steps like suicide. Economic condition is bad now but we will find a way,” Parab also said.On Monday, an MSRTC bus conductor allegedly died by suicide in Jalgaon over erratic disbursement of salary. “For the last three months, he did not get his salary properly,” his brother was quoted as saying by ANI. “He has held the Thackeray government responsible for his death,” his brother added.“My son was dealing with loans and used to get erratic and low salary and committed suicide because of it,” his father Anil Chaudhry said, ANI reported.MSRTC has not paid the salaries of its employees for the last three months amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to have a devastating effect on the economy and businesses. As the economy is reopening after March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, many state governments are reeling under lack of revenues and are facing financial strain.On October 30, the state-run corporation sought Rs 3,600 crore from the Maharashtra government for payment of salaries and other essential expenses. MSRTC needs Rs 292 crore per month for paying salaries to its employees. The cumulative losses of the transport body have ballooned to over Rs 5,500 crore, Parab who is also the chairperson of MSRTC, had said. The corporation is trying to raise money through external means as well, he had also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-msrtc-worker-dies-by-suicide-maharashtra-minister-assures-payment-of-3-months-salary-before-diwali/story-jbrvjUC6GtkAttUoCALJ6N.html
09-11-2020||India||Congress, PAGD to jointly contest J&K district development council polls: Farooq Abdullah||Farooq Abdullah, the chairman of the National Conference (NC), has said that the Congress would jointly contest the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) with the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a day after the latter had dropped hints of becoming a part of the new coalition.Last week, the Congress had said that it would take part in the DDC polls in a bid to prevent the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to record a facile win in the upcoming polls, which are being held for the first time since J&K was declared a Union Territory (UT) on October 31, 2019. The election to fill up 234 vacant seats of sarpanches, panches and urban local bodies will also be held simultaneously, whose results will be declared on December 22.The first DDC elections for 280 constituencies will be held in eight phases following the completion of the delimitation process. Also read | ‘You can talk to China, why not Pakistan?’ PDP chief Mehbooba asks CentreThe elections will start on December 1 and the polling process will be completed by December 24. Polling will be held from 7am to 2pm. Earlier on Saturday, the PAGD top brass held a meeting in the winter capital Jammu, where it was decided that the alliance partners would jointly contest the polls. Sajjad Lone, spokesman, PAGD, announced after the conclusion of the meeting that the members of the coalition have unanimously decided to fight the upcoming DDC polls together. “It is important that the sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded by divisive forces, despite the abruptness of holding the DDC polls,” Lone said. Besides the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India (Maoist), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The NC and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. On Sunday, Abdullah announced that the Congress would join the PAGD fold and contest the DDC polls together. “Ghulam Ahmad Mir, president of the Congress’s J&K unit, informed me about his party’s plan to join the alliance (PAGD) and contest the DDA elections together,” Abdullah said.Mir said that party leadership would hold a meeting on Monday and a decision would be conveyed to the public on Tuesday. “The party’s central observer will be present in the meeting to take the final decision,” he said. “I met the NC chairman (Abdullah) and we discussed several issues threadbare,” he added The Congress top brass’ preoccupation with the three-phase Bihar elections, which concluded on Saturday (November 3), had put a decision on the DDA polls in abeyance, Mir had said. Many Congress leaders from the UT are in favour of contesting the DDA elections jointly with other parties in a bid to keep the “divisive BJP” at bay.Abdul Gani Vakil, vice-president of the People’s Conference, said that PAGD’s decision to take part in DDC elections was a sign of political prudence, which would have far-reaching consequences. “The Congress must join the hands to defeat the evil designs of the BJP,” he said.However, Shafiq Mir, president, J&K Panchayat Conference, said his party would contest the upcoming polls solo. “These leaders were opposed to the panchayati system for all these years and made every attempt to weaken it. We will contest independently across J&K,” he said.In a notification, the state election commission had said that November 16 would be the last date for filing nominations; November 17 for scrutiny of nominations; and November 19 for the withdrawal of candidature, an official spokesman said.Elections to the posts of 39,521 sarpanch and panch were conducted in 2018 of which 13,257 positions are lying vacant due to resignation, removal, election of sarpanch as Block Development Council (BDC) chairpersons, death, and non-availability of candidates at the time of election. Among them, 1,089 vacancies relate to the office of sarpanch, while 12,168 are posts of panch.More than 504 panches have resigned for various reasons since elections were held in 2018. The highest number of 129 resignations came from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district (81) . In Baramulla and Kupwara districts, 67 and 61 panches submitted their resignations, respectively.Besides, 12 sarpanches also quit with one each resigning in Anantnag and Baramulla districts. Five sarpanches resigned in Pulwama district, while one each quit in Baramulla, Budgam and Bandipora districts.Five panchayat members were killed by militants in the past one year and several of them have been taken to the high-security zone after security forces got inputs that these members are on the radar of militants.The J&K administration wants to hold the polls in a bid to complete the three-tier system of panchayati raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-pagd-to-jointly-contest-j-k-district-development-council-polls-farooq-abdullah/story-0wschErL1tNDMewNubKtEN.html
09-11-2020||India||Peoples Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Peoples Conference, which is part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Monday sought the early hearing of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 and J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 in the Supreme Court (SC).Soon after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, several petitions were filed in the apex court by different political parties, civil society groups and individuals challenging the decision. “J&K Peoples Conference moves SC, seeks early hearing of a batch of Petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 & reorganisation of J&K,” tweeted J&K Peoples Conference.J&K Peoples Conference moves SC, seeks early hearing of a batch of Petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 & reorganisation of J&K pic.twitter.com/iSpPV4QRouThe spokesman of Peoples Conference, Adnan Ashraf, said the application has stated that the petitioners have made out a very strong prima facie case and the issues raised are being considered by a constitution bench of this court.“Notwithstanding the foregoing, pending the final hearing of these petitions challenging the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile State of Jammu & and Kashmir and the abrogation of the Constitution of Jammu & and Kashmir, and notwithstanding the prevailing pandemic, conditions, sweeping changes are being brought about by the Centre that impact the rights of a large number of people, including dilution of the safeguards earlier available to the permanent residents of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir,” staed the application before the court.He said the application has also mentioned that these changes will have an irreparable impact on the rights of the citizens of J&K, including creation of domicile rights and third-party rights in land ownership.Also Read: ‘You can talk to China, why not Pakistan?’ PDP chief Mehbooba asks Centre“The very purpose of the present proceedings will be severely undermined if the present petitions are not heard and disposed of urgently. Suffice to say sufferance of the people continues as if under conquest without a full-fledged responsible government. In view of the foregoing, the present petition and the petitions tagged thereto ought to be heard and disposed of urgently as significant changes to the rights of the residents of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir have already been brought about by the Centre.”National Conference (vice-president Omar Abdullah said the decision seeking early hearing on the petitions was taken by PAGD leadership. “As decided in the recent meeting of the People’s Alliance we are seeking early hearings in this matter, so that the petitions challenging 5th Aug 2019 move forward,” tweeted Omar Abdullah.On August 5, 2019, the Central government had rescinded the special status of J&K in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-conference-asks-for-early-hearing-of-petitions-challenging-abrogation-of-article-370/story-Mi3GoaPbYupzC2z94F9ZBM.html
09-11-2020||India||India, Maldives discuss ways to boost economic recovery||India and the Maldives on Monday discussed ways to boost the Indian Ocean archipelago’s economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic, including enhancing tourism and speeding up development projects. The two sides are set to sign four memorandums of understanding (MoUs), including one for the grant of $100 million by India for the $500-million Greater Male Connectivity Project that will link the capital Male with three islands. Talks in Male between visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart Abdul Ghafoor Mohamed focused on economic recovery amid the pandemic. Shringla, who is on a two-day visit, also met President Ibrahim Solih to review bilateral ties. The foreign secretaries discussed ways to strengthen and deepen the multi-faceted relationship, according to a statement from the Maldives’ foreign ministry. They emphasised “recovery and resilience efforts to curb the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, including boosting tourism, accelerating the implementation of the ongoing development cooperation projects across the Maldives, and the means of elevating connectivity and bilateral trade between the Maldives and India”, the statement said. Also read | India to help countries enhance capacity for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign secretaryThe four MoUs expected to be signed during Shringla’s visit will cover the Greater Male Connectivity Project, cooperation in youth and sports affairs, setting up soil and plant testing laboratories, and establishing a drug detox facility. India has unveiled a slew of measures to boost economy recovery in the Maldives, where the tourism industry has been hit hard by the pandemic. Last month, India provided a soft loan of $250 million as budgetary support, and announced a $500-million package in August to help build the Greater Male Connectivity Project. Besides the $100-million grant, India will provide a $400-million line of credit for the project. The two sides also launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports with Male in September to cut costs and time taken to transport goods. Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart also discussed health and cultural cooperation, human resource development, and consular and community affairs. Ghafoor thanked the Indian government for its “constant support and commitment” for the development of the Maldives. During his meeting with Solih, Shringla discussed ways to strengthen the bilateral partnership at a time when the two sides are marking the 55th anniversary of formal diplomatic ties. The two sides also discussed ways to enhance regional trade and connectivity, economic cooperation, tourism and overcoming the pandemic. Solih thanked the Indian government for agreeing to implement an air bubble between the two countries and said increasing numbers of Indian tourists had visited the Maldives since it reopened its borders. Solih also thanked India for backing development projects in the Maldives through line of credit agreements, including the Greater Male connectivity project, the Gulhifalhu port project, water and sewerage related projects in 34 islands and a cancer hospital. The Maldives is the sixth country Shringla has visited in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions, the others being Bangladesh, Myanmar, France, Germany and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-discuss-ways-to-boost-economic-recovery/story-MY6aMWeqDGKJUtlZ8nl6kO.html
09-11-2020||India||Promote ‘local for Diwali’ to give new life to economy, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday appealed to people to be “vocal for local’ and promote “local for Diwali” and buy products made by artisans.The Prime Minister’s pitch came during an address after announcing developmental projects worth Rs 614 crore to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi via video conference. He inaugurated 16 schemes worth about Rs 220 crore and laid the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 core.Buying things made by artisans and craftsmen would brighten their Diwali and give the entire economy a new life, he said. “At present, the mantra of ‘local for Diwali’ along with ‘vocal for local’ reverberates everywhere. I urge the people of Banaras and countrymen to promote local for Diwali. Tell people that the products made by artisans are good. It will strengthen local identity and will illuminate Diwali of craftsmen and artisans who make these products. Celebrate Diwali with local, be vocal for local. You will see, it will bring a new life to the entire economy,” Modi said. It would lead to branding of the products made by artisans and would bring very good results in the long term, he added. Highlighting the developmental works that took place in Varanasi during the last six years, PM Modi said the blessings of Lord Kashi Vishwanath were behind all the developmental works, which were underway in Varanasi and those that had already been completed. “… it is the blessing of Baba Kashi Vishwanath that whenever some projects are inaugurated in Kashi, the foundation of several others are laid,” he said.“Today, 16 schemes worth about Rs 220 crore were inaugurated and foundation of 14 projects worth about Rs 400 crore have been laid,” Modi said.He praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and his team for completion of the projects on time. From cleaning the Ganga to health services, from road and infrastructure to tourism and from electricity to sports, Varanasi was developing well in every sector, he said.He mentioned that Khidkiya Ghat was being beautified at an estimated cost of about Rs 35 crore. Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) operated boats will ply on the Ganga from the ghat and the move will reduce pollution in the river, he added.He said Varanasi was becoming a model of inland water way connectivity. The country’s first multi-modal terminal has already been set up in Varanasi. “Gradually, the picture of the ghats is changing. Along with the cleanliness and beautification of the Ganga ghats, Sarnath is also glowing in a new form,” the PM said. He also inaugurated the light and sound show in Sarnath where Lord Buddha had given his first sermon on dharma.The PM also underlined Varanasi’s improved connectivity with the rest of the country.“Six years ago, only 12 flights used to operate from Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport (in Varanasi), now 48 flights run daily, which is four times more,” he said.Enhancing connectivity to Kashi had always been a priority for his government, he said. He mentioned facilities like International Rice Research Institute’s South Asian Regional Centre, Milk Processing Plant, and perishable cargo centre set up in Varanasi in the last six years. He said the farmers were benefiting a lot from such facilities. For the last six years, unprecedented work had also been done on health infrastructure in the city, he said.“Today not only in UP, but in a way, it is becoming a hub of health facilities for the entire Purvanchal region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promote-local-for-diwali-to-give-new-life-to-economy-says-pm-narendra-modi/story-aPMHUSpN05wQEoVsXK4YaN.html
09-11-2020||India||‘You can talk to China, why not Pakistan?’ PDP chief Mehbooba asks Centre||Speaking against the nullification of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said at a press conference that such an arbitrary and illegal decision had forced the young people to pick up arms. Mufti said militancy had increased in the region since the erstwhile state of J&K was first put under President’s rule and then bifurcated into two Union Territories (UTs) on October 31, 2019. “Today 10-15 young men are joining militancy from each village because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have suppressed their voice. People don’t have an option left. A young man thinks he can either go to jail or pick up arms. So he thinks it is better to pick up arms and die. Because you don’t allow people to speak. They are ready to explode,” she said. Advising the Centre to extend an olive branch to Pakistan in a bid to bring border skirmishes to an end and restore peace, she asked, “If you can talk to China, why can’t you talk to Pakistan? We have been pleading with China to give us our land back but they are not budging from their stand. Why can’t we talk to Pakistan?” She said that there was no other way out to resolve Kashmir than the one shown by former Prime Minister AB Vajpayee and what her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed always yearned to see. “My father always wanted to see border routes opened between India and Pakistan. Let J&K become a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan,” she added. She said that during her recent three-day visit to Jammu, she found people disheartened. “Our jobs, natural resources and land…everything has been put on sale by the BJP. Article 370 was a protective shield provided by Maharaja Hari Singh to protect the distinct Dogra identity and culture under the Indian Constitution. However, the BJP has desecrated Dr BR Ambedkar’s constitution,” she said. “Article 370 is not linked to Muslims or Hindus. It was enacted to protect the identity of J&K. People are now worried about their future,” she added. “The state flag didn’t appear out of nowhere. It was given to us under the Constitution but they took it away...Our constitution and rights were snatched away from us and today, our natural resources are being exploited by outsiders,” she said. Commenting on the recently concluded three-phase Bihar assembly elections and the BJP’s poll pitch in the state, she said, “They could not sell Article 370 in Bihar and I would like to congratulate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for setting the right narrative of ‘roti, kapda, rozi Aur makaan’. Article 370 and 35 A didn’t attract people there. Today is their (BJP’s) time, tomorrow our time will come and thereafter, they (BJP) will also meet the same fate as [Donald] Trump.” Slamming the BJP for allegedly resorting to divisive politics and pitting Hindus against Muslims, Gujjars against Kashimirs, Dogras against Kashmiris and Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes s against Paharis, Mufti said, “We demand our special status and the state flag back. The BJP has broken the link that connected J&K with [the rest of ] India. We have not accepted their decision taken in the dead of night and they shall pay back with compound interest,” she asserted. “Even the people of Jammu realised that Article 370 was the biggest insulation for them. When I became the chief minister of [then] J&K, I swore by the state constitution. Give us our state flag back and I will hold both-- the state flag and the national tricolour in my hands,” she demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-talk-to-china-why-not-pakistan-pdp-chief-mehbooba-asks-centre/story-I4fAyYx8KHI4txXytaDgQO.html
09-11-2020||India||Actor Arjun Rampal to appear before Narcotics Control Bureau on Nov 11||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday summoned actor Arjun Rampal to appear before the agency on November 11 hours after conducting raids at his premises in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after film producer Firoz Nadiawala’s house was raided by the agency in connection with a drugs case on Sunday and his wife Shabana Saeed was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act after 10 grams of marijuana was found at their residence. The producer was also summoned by the agency and his wife remanded to judicial custody till November 23.The agency is probing the use of drugs in Bollywood. Four others were arrested along with Saeed on Sunday for allegedly being drug peddlers and suppliers.Earlier, the NCB had arrested Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella. Reports suggest Agisilaos was a part of a drug syndicate linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The NCB believes Agisilaos was in touch with the drug suppliers who were said to have connections to Sushant’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty. Rhea was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for Sushant. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14. The NCB got involved with the case after Rhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats were released by the Enforcement Directorate, another agency probing the case, in addition to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-control-bureau-summons-actor-arjun-rampal-ncb-official/story-jRW0NLj4jnYGVLDI7cz5tM.html
09-11-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab Goswami in abetment to suicide case||The Bombay high court on Monday rejected Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s application for bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case.The high court had on Saturday reserved its order on Goswami’s plea.Goswami and two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.After his arrest from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai, Goswami was taken to Alibaug, where the Chief Judicial Magistrate remanded him and the two others in judicial custody till November 18.Watch l Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea rejected; Governor ‘concerned’ l Key updates Also read | ‘Forced to consume liquid’: Arnab Goswami in bail plea in 2018 caseGoswami was then kept at a local school which designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. He was shifted to Taloja jail in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Sunday. According to the police, Goswami was moved to Taloja jail after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.The Raigad crime branch found Goswami was active on social media using somebody’s mobile phone, despite his personal mobile phone having been seized by police when he was taken into custody on November 4, an official quoted by news agency PTI said.Goswami had earlier filed an interim bail plea before the Bombay high court on Saturday which had given him an option to file the application in sessions court. The journalist did that and filed a bail plea before a sessions court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-interim-bail-to-arnab-goswami-in-2018-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-hQ4QVLFNynqhrPoqD12mZM.html
09-11-2020||India||Foreign touch: No Hindi biggie without overseas market?||Now, it’s official. 2020 is unlikely to have any bright spot vis-a-vis theatrical earnings as no Bollywood biggie is going to lighten up the 70mm screen. Kabir Khan’s ‘83 -- starring Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone -- has been moved from the Christmas weekend, with one of the major reasons being, the new wave of Covid-19 cases and lockdowns in various parts of the world. Experts admit that as coronavirus cases rise again globally, the “road to recovery has gotten even longer.”  #ThisIs83 . @kabirkhankk @deepikapadukone @sarkarshibasish #SajidNadiadwala @vishnuinduri @ipritamofficial @reliance.entertainment @_kaproductions @fuhsephantom @nadiadwalagrandson @vibrimedia @zeemusiccompany @pvrpictures @83thefilmA post shared by  Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Mar 6, 2020 at 10:30pm PSTNo biggie in sightWhat makes the matter worse is the fact that though the film exhibition world is looking at a topline biggie -- after theatres reopening in India -- to help them revive the sector, insiders maintain that a big-budget project is unlikely to hit theatres domestically without the overseas market. To put things in perspective, according to the Ficci-EY media and entertainment industry report 2020, overseas theatricals contributed a whopping Rs 27 billion to Indian films last year.  #SooryavanshiTrailer out now 🚔 (link in bio) @akshaykumar @ajaydevgn @ranveersingh @itsrohitshetty @karanjohar @sarkarshibasish @apoorva1972 @reliance.entertainment @rohitshettypicturez @dharmamovies #CapeOfGoodFilms @pvrpictures @tseries.official @sooryavanshi2403A post shared by  Katrina Kaif (@katrinakaif) on Mar 1, 2020 at 11:32pm PSTExperts feel that while smaller films can manage with India-only release, and other revenue streams such as TV and OTT but a big-budget film needs global earnings too. Says trade analyst Taran Adarsh: “Small or mid-budget films can still manage with a domestic theatrical release but since stakes are high for big budget ventures, they need the overseas cushioning. And why should they forego of a huge chunk? Especialiy when there has been no income for seven-eight months, and I am sure there must be a huge interest amount too (on unreleased films).”Resurgence of Covid-19 For the record, the Covid-19 scare has hit almost the entire Europe again even as lockdowns have made a comeback in countries such as France, Germany, Italy and UK among others. Even Malaysia is currently seeing a shutdown of various activities including movie theatres. “We moved ‘83 from Christmas weekend for two reasons: one, by the time the announcement about Maharashtra theatres reopening came in, it was too late as just four-week long marketing window won’t be enough for such a big project,” says Shibasish Sarkar, group CEO of Reliance Entertainment (that has backed films such as ‘83 and Sooryavanshi), adding that “overseas markets look very tricky right now.  अभी आँख में खटक रही हूँ तो क्या.... कभी तो दिल में धड़कूँगी 💁🏻‍♀️ One line that sums up Rani Kashyap! And it’s a wrap on #HaseenDilruba ! Finally, after shooting during the coldest days in Haridwar to sultry hot days in Mumbai this film has probably experienced all seasons and human emotions possible under the sun (including the Pandemic ) Here’s to getting ‘pulp fiction’ back on screen with the character you either love to hate or hate to love coz basic toh hum vaise bhi kuch karte nahi hai na 😁 P.S - don’t know why we r so happy in this picture must be coz of @polyvynil , the only person on set who has better sense of humour than Rani Kashyap and the other one is the only one who loved this self obsessed borderline narcissist character more than she ever could @vikrantmassey87 #FilmWrap #HaseenDilruba #EndOfAnotherChapterA post shared by  Taapsee Pannu (@taapsee) on Oct 29, 2020 at 7:59am PDTHe adds: “With theatres being shut in many parts of Europe including UK, and cases going up substantially in the US too, things aren’t very clear. Ideally, for a big-budget film, you would want to release simultaneously -- domestically as well as in foreign markets.” Officially-speaking, as of now, Manoj Bajpayee-Diljit Dosanjh starrer Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari is supposed to release on Diwali and Christopher Nolan’s Tenet will finally hit Indian shores towards the end of this month.The exhibition sector, on their part, feels that Indian filmmakers “need to be more pragmatic and practical.” As exhibitor-distribitor Akshaye Rathi puts it: “Hindi films are made primarily for desi market so why can’t they release domestically and also in certain overseas markets? Even Nolan said in a recent interview that content needs to come in for the survival of the entire theatrical ecosystem. Filmmakers need to think hard about it. If things don’t improve, and with no new content, many in the exhibition sector may shut down or go bankrupt in the next four-five months. Then, there will be no theatres to make films for, with the only option being streaming sites.”  When nature beckoned, We listened… We switched gears, From fast forward to slow motion... Now, there is a call again, a second coming, An excitement, yet a caution… And a hunger to reboot, A thirst to get back in… With this feeling, We begin, again... #SardarUdhamSingh Can’t wait to #reboot, with post production of #SardarUdhamSingh – set to #BeginAgain, tomorrow – 8th June @vickykaushal09 @filmsrisingsun @kinoworks @ronnielahiri @writish1 #Shubendu #Avik Mukhopadhyay @moitrashantanu @shekharpraja @jitu.gupta87 @bhargavoza2020 @singhal_tushar @sayanghosh_29. @corneliuspia @banitasandhu @veerakapuree @amolparashar @kumarthakur1 @bhanubabbal @vibhutitomar @fakelabeeb @mithilladA post shared by @ shoojitsircar on Jun 7, 2020 at 1:28am PDTA quick filmy lowdown!Not just 2020, even the early-2021 film calendar looks hazy right now. While Vicky Kaushal-starrer Sardar Udham is not going to keep its January date, there is no clarity yet on Sooryavanshi release date too. Other films that were originally supposed to come out in around early next year -- such as Haseen Dillruba, Bachchan Pandey, Jersey and Atrangi Re have all been delayed. Among the films that are ready (in terms of complete shooting etc.) with no release date are Mumbai Saga, Bunty Aur Babli 2, Jayeshbhai Jordaar, Indoo Ki Jawani, Jhund, Shershaah and Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/foreign-touch-no-hindi-biggie-without-overseas-market/story-rB0075cyOxXpOIAmGI4SSO.html
09-11-2020||India||Child declared dead wakes up before burial in Dibrugarh, dies few hours later||There was high drama at the Muttuck Tea Estate in Dibrugarh district of Assam on Sunday after a child, declared dead earlier, woke up minutes before its burial, only to die a few hours later. Police in Lahowal arrested a compounder of the hospital of the tea garden on Monday for allegedly declaring the child dead without proper verification and in absence of a doctor. “The sick child, a boy aged less than one year, was taken to the hospital where he was declared dead by the compounder. The doctor of the hospital was absent at that time,” said Hrishikesh Hazarika, in-charge, Lahowal police station. “But when the family was about to bury the child, it started moving. It was then rushed to Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH), where it was declared brought dead on arrival,” he added. Following the incident, dozens of tea garden workers started protesting against the hospital and demanded stringent action against the compounder for declaring a living child dead. “Maybe the child would have survived if the compounder hadn’t declared him dead and the parents had enough time to take him to a bigger hospital. We have lodged an FIR and arrested the compounder Gautam Mitra as he is not authorized to pronounce anyone dead,” said Hazarika. Amid the drama, there was panic among patients and their relatives at AMCH in Dibrugarh on Sunday night due to a fire at the hospital’s maternity and obstetric section. Due to the fire, electricity supply to some parts of the hospital remained affected for a few hours and patients had to be shifted out for safety. Though there were allegations that a newborn child admitted at the ICU unit for babies had died due to disruption in power supply, senior police officials have ruled that out. “The parents had initially alleged that the death was due to disruption of power following the fire. But when records were checked it was revealed that the child had died prior to the fire incident,” said Prateek Thube, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-declared-dead-wakes-up-before-burial-in-dibrugarh-dies-few-hours-later/story-040kW9bjxaZesUdSeTTzdO.html
09-11-2020||India||Governor Koshyari expresses concern over Arnab Goswami’s health, security||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday expressed his concern over health and security of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami who has been arrested for allegedly abetting suicide. He spoke to the state home minister Anil Deshmukh to express his concern and also asked him to allow Goswami’s family to see him.“Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over the security and health of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network Arnab Goswami. The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow the family of Arnab Goswami to see him and to speak to him,” the Raj Bhavan said in a statement.This is not the first time when the Governor has expressed his concern for Goswami to Deshmukh.Earlier, he conveyed his concern over the manner in which the Republic TV chief was arrested, the statement said.Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in connection with the case of abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik who, in his suicide note, had blamed Goswami and two others for his and his mother’s deaths in 2018.The Bharatiya Janata Party has been attacking Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government over Gowami’s arrest saying that it is an attack on democracy. Most of the senior BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah have criticized the MVA government.Goswami was lodged in a primary school which has been converted into a Covid-19 facility in Alibagh. On Sunday, he was moved to a quarantine centre inside Taloja jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-koshyari-expresses-concern-over-arnab-goswami-s-health-security/story-oGA1gg0L5M9OOtwrJfNWZL.html
09-11-2020||India||Army officer found dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri, police investigating||An Indian Army officer was found dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri on Monday, officials said. The police are investigating the death under “mysterious conditions.”Major Vineet Gulia of Haryana deceased was found at the camp in the Thanamandi belt of the district, according to police officials quoted by news agency PTI. “Our teams found a bullet injury in his head. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under section 174 Cr Pc,” Rajouri district SSP, Chandan Kohli said. The offer was a company commander of the army’s 38RR Dera Ki Gali, people familiar with the matter said. More details are awaited. Earlier on Sunday, four security personnel, including an officer and three terrorists were killed when a joint team of the army and the Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Union Territory’s Machil sector, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-officer-found-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-police-investigating/story-F4DaqbqlkOjSUr3Etx2kIO.html
09-11-2020||India||Three Odisha policemen injured in fire sparked by mosquito repellent coil||Three policemen of Odisha Special Armed Police in Bhadrak district sustained severe burn injuries late Sunday night after a mosquito repellent coil sparked a fire.Officials said the armed police personnel of 5th Batallaion of OSAP were in their barracks near the Puruna Bazar Police station in Bhadrak district when the mishap occurred. They had returned from duty and lit up the mosquito coil before going to sleep. The police station was not damaged in the fire.Officials said the policemen received burn injuries after their mosquito nets caught fire.“The policemen received burn injuries on their hands and forehead. They have been rushed to the Bhadrak district headquarters hospital,” said Bhadrak’s superintendent of police Rajesh Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-odisha-policemen-injured-in-fire-sparked-by-mosquito-repellent-coil/story-uTFR6QawxxW2GwihPIiFJO.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bursting of firecrackers banned in Mumbai except on Diwali evening and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesMumbai: BMC bans bursting of firecrackers except on Diwali eveningThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday banned bursting of firecrackers in public and private places in Mumbai except on Saturday (November 14), when Diwali will be celebrated, because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreTo draw a ‘balance,’ Haryana allows bursting of firecrackers for 2 hours on DiwaliHaryana, which had announced a ban on sale of firecrackers in the state, has now allowed bursting them for two hours during upcoming festivals, including Diwali. Read moreA new role for Kamala Harris: Comic book heroShe will be the next vice-president of the United States but Kamala Harris has chalked up yet another achievement: Heroine of a new comic book published in Canada. Read more Union minister Kiren Rijiju lauds UP police for busting Khelo India racketUnion sports minister Kiren Rijiju has lauded very quick action by the Uttar Pradesh police in busting a racket where dubious elements extorted money from athletes by promising them their participation in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021. Read moreIf we can learn anything from Trump’s defeat…: Sena’s jibe at ‘losing’ NDA in BiharIt would be good if India learns something from US President Donald Trump’s defeat, said Shiv Sena on Monday while comparing the US Presidential election scenario with Bihar Assembly polls. Read more‘Unfortunate’: Nitin Gadkari on cars fined for breaching 40 kmph speed limitSpeaking at a road safety virtual conference Way to Vision Zero last week, Nitin Gadkari said it is unfortunate when vehicles plying on such roads are penalised for breaching speed limit of a mere 40 kmph. Read more13 years of Om Shanti Om: Farah Khan threw up every time Shah Rukh Khan took off his shirt for Dard-e-DiscoIt has been 13 years since the time Shah Rukh Khan-Deepika Padukone-starrer Om Shanti Om and Ranbir Kapoor and Sonam Kapoor’s Saawariya went head-to-head at the box office. The two films also marked the debuts of Deepika, Ranbir and Sonam. Read more1-year-old elephant’s birthday celebration with cake may cure your Monday bluesThere are many things that can induce a happy feeling in one’s heart. These photos of one-year-old elephant calf Sreekutty’s birthday is one such happy event. The birthday girl celebrated her day in Kappukadu elephant rescue centre in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He has led the way this year,’ Marcus Stoinis says Shikhar Dhawan is ‘a leader within the team’Shikhar Dhawan has been enjoying a terrific season for Delhi Capitals in the UAE. The left-handed batsman has already scored 603 runs in 16 games, and is currently at the 2nd position in the list of highest run-getters in the season. Read more Indians’ H1B hope: Why Biden may struggle to reverse Trump’s immigration ordersAfter 4 days of suspense, Democratic party leader Joe Biden was announced the winner of the 2020 US Presidential election. Biden-Harris administration is expected to reverse some of the decisions of the outgoing Trump rule. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bursting-of-firecrackers-banned-in-mumbai-except-on-diwali-evening-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5WNqgbgy4EaBGJjYTipk4I.html
09-11-2020||India||Thieves steal cash, electronic items from Se Cathedral heritage site in Old Goa||Thieves broke into the church complex of the historic Se Cathedral at Old Goa and stole cash and other electronic equipment, church authorities said Monday. No artefacts or items of historical importance have been reported stolen. “They broke into the office section of the church and have wiped clean the cupboards of cash and electronic equipment. Even the CCTV camera console has been stolen,” Fr Alfred Vaz the parish priest of Old Goa, said. The break-in is believed to have taken place on Sunday night and was noticed Monday morning. The historic church which dates back to the 16th century is a UNESCO world heritage site besides also being a site of important religious significance owing to its designation as the seat of the Goa Archbishop. The police have pressed dog squads into services as well as roped in fingerprint experts to try and identify the thieves but said the thieves made sure to leave no traces and have wiped down surfaces they could have touched. “Police have registered a case and investigations are in progress,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thieves-steal-cash-electronic-items-from-se-cathedral-heritage-site-in-old-goa/story-qDWh0WxJGtSpQlTDW1LcZP.html
09-11-2020||India||Maharashtra governor ‘concerned’ about Arnab Goswami’s health, security||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over the security and health of arrested Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, according to the Raj Bhawan. He also asked the home minister to allow Goswami’s family to meet him.Arnab Goswami, who was arrested by Mumbai Police on November 4 in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case, said he was being subjected to torture and was not being allowed to talk to his lawyers. He was speaking to Republic TV reporters from a van that shifted him from a prison quarantine centre to Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail on Sunday.“I had requested them please let me talk (to my lawyers). But they denied. I am telling everyone my life is at stake. My police custody was rejected. They tried to shift me at night only. Today morning they have dragged me. Everybody is seeing what is happening to me. They want to delay the process and keep me in jail. Please give me bail, I am appealing to the Supreme Court,” Arnab Goswami was seen saying with folded hands in the video.The decision to shift the 47-year-old journalist to Alibag jail before he finished his quarantine period in the prison quarantine centre was taken after he was allegedly found using someone’s mobile phone as his phone was seized when he was arrested last week.The Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on Goswami’s interim bail application at 3 pm on Monday, according to the notice issued late Saturday night on the high court’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerned-bs-koshyari-speaks-to-anil-deshmukh-over-arnab-goswami-s-health-security/story-9ektCLHKbjUPqMI1z56eHN.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP will lose in Bihar just like Trump lost in the US, says Sena mouthpiece Saamana||A day ahead of the counting of votes in Bihar assembly elections, Shiv Sena on Monday said there will be a change of power in the state, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is part of NDA in the state, losing there just as Donald Trump did in the US. Predicting NDA’s defeat under Nitish Kumar, an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana also slammed the BJP over the Namaste Trump event in February 2020, when Donald Trump visited Ahmedabad and Delhi, amid coronavirus pandemic. “Power has already changed in America. At the same time, the National Democratic Alliance led by Nitish Kumar is clearly losing in the Bihar Assembly elections. Even though ‘Namaste Trump’ [event] was held in India, the people of the US have bid goodbye to Trump and have rectified their mistake. In Bihar, signs of a power change are clearly visible,” the editorial said.The Sena mouthpiece added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar did not stand a chance before Tejashwi Yadav and the people of Bihar had taken it upon themselves to bring in change. “People have taken Bihar elections in their hands. They did not kneel before PM Modi and Nitish Kumar. The crowds were soaring in Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies. At the same time, the country has also seen pictures of the lukewarm response of the crowd to PM Modi and Nitish Kumar during their rallies,” the editorial remarked.It added that BJP and Janata Dal (United) had created jungle raj but the “People in Bihar have said ‘You leave first, we will handle jungle raj even if it comes’” and went on to praise the people of Bihar and the US.The editorial slammed the government for spending crores in the time of a pandemic over Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad earlier in February. “It cannot be denied that Donald Trump was invited to Gujarat in the middle of a pandemic and coronavirus spread because of the event,” it said, adding, “Now the people of America have ended ‘Trump’s infection’ forever.” It added that Trump was never suitable for the office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-lose-in-bihar-just-like-trump-lost-in-the-us-says-sena-mouthpiece-saamana/story-GbDRkBD1fYsjR5ZNbK1gJK.html
09-11-2020||India||Telugu megastar Chiranjeevi tests positive for Covid-19||Popular Telugu actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi on Monday announced that he had tested positive for Covid-19 but was asymptomatic. In a statement, Chiranjeevi, a megastar in Telugu film industry, said he had taken a test for Covid-19 before resuming shooting for his upcoming film Acharya as per the health protocol. “Unfortunately, I tested positive. I am currently asymptomatic and quarantining myself at home,” he said. He requested all those who had met him in the last five days to also undergo Covid-19 test. “Will update you on my recovery soon,” he said. It was only on Saturday evening that Chiranjeevi, along with another senior actor Akkineni Nagarjuna, had met Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan, the latter’s camp office in Hyderabad, to discuss the situation in the Telugu film industry in the wake of Covid-19 situation. In the meeting, the visuals of which were released to the media, Chiranjeevi, Nagarjuna and the chief minister were seen together closely without wearing any masks. KCR’s nephew and Rajya Sabha member J Santosh was also there as they were walking out of the meeting hall. The actors also handed over cheques on behalf of the Telugu film industry to the CM’s Relief Fund to take up relief works in the recently flood-hit areas of Hyderabad and parts of Telangana. The chief minister gave his consent to resume film shootings and opening of theatres to screen films with all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He also asked them to send a delegation of film personalities to study the film city in Bulgaria so that a similar film city could be opened in 1,500-2,000 acres on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Chiranjeevi had floated Praja Rajyam Party in 2008 and contested 2009 assembly elections in combined Andhra Pradesh but achieved little success. He merged his party with the Congress in 2012 and was nominated as Rajya Sabha member by the UPA government in April 2012. He served as Union minister of state for tourism in the Manmohan Singh cabinet between October 2012 and May 2014. After the UPA lost power in 2014, Chiranjeevi dropped out from active politics and returned to films.Since 2016, he acted in a couple of films which were big hits and after completion of his Rajya Sabha term in 2018 he did not take any interest in politics. ‘Acharya’ is his third movie after quitting politics. Chiranjeevi’s youngest brother Pawan Kalyan, who is also a popular actor, is the president of Jana Sena Party which failed to make a mark in the assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh. His party is now in alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telugu-megastar-chiranjeevi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-6fSIfopJfNpNANJ7a9L59K.html
09-11-2020||India||Narcotics Control Bureau raids actor Arjun Rampal’s house in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday conducted raids at the premises of actor Arjun Rampal in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.The NCB has not said anything about the raids yet. More details are awaited.This comes a day after film producer Firoz Nadiawala’s house was raided by the bureau on Sunday and his wife Shabana Saeed was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act. The producer was also summoned by the agency.Earlier, the NCB had arrested Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella. Reports suggest Agisilaos was a part of a drug syndicate linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.NCB officers said Agisilaos was in constant touch with many drug peddlers who supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others arrested in Rajput’s death case. Both Rhea and Showik were also arrested by the bureau earlier. Rhea was given bail by the Bombay High Court on October 7 while Showik still continues to remain in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-conducts-raids-at-actor-arjun-rampal-s-house-in-mumbai/story-LxeBJWaTgxVonDzW3Y5QhM.html
09-11-2020||India||To draw a ‘balance,’ Haryana allows bursting of firecrackers for 2 hours on Diwali||Haryana, which had announced a ban on sale of firecrackers in the state, has now allowed bursting them for two hours during upcoming festivals, including Diwali.Also Read | NGT bans sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till Nov 30, Haryana allows limited useIn an order, dated November 8, the Haryana government said the decision had been taken to strike a “balance” between the potentially harmful consequences of bursting crackers amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and the economic impact of the ban on small traders. Use of firecrackers allowed only between 8 pm till 10 pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, and 11.55 pm till 1230 am on Christmas and New Year's eve: Haryana Government pic.twitter.com/nunxZRmdIB“Whereas amidst the Covid-19 pandemic through which the state of Haryana is passing and considering the approaching winter season during which the elderly, children, persons with co-morbidities and others, may develop respiratory problems,” noted the order signed by Chief Secretary-cum-chairperson of the Haryana state executive committee.Also Read | After a ‘complete ban’ Haryana govt allows bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali“And whereas during the approaching festive season of Diwali, Gurupurab and Kartik Purnima, people usually burst crackers which can affect the respiratory health of vulnerable groups and aggravate the health condition of Covid-19 positive persons and persons in home isolation,” the order further said.“Exercising the powers conferred to me under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the order quoted the chief secretary as saying bursting of firecrackers will be allowed only between 8pm and 10pm during the upcoming festivals like Diwali and Gurupurab. However, on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, the order said, bursting of firecrackers will be allowed between 11:55pm and 00:30am.The order also directed concerned authorities to pre-identify areas/fields to promote community fire cracking. Anyone violating the guidelines, it said, would be punished under Section 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, as well under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other provisions.Last week, the state’s Manohar Lal Khattar government had initially announced a ban only on the sale of imported firecrackers, which, on Friday, was modified to all firecrackers. Then, on Sunday, Khattar said people can burst crackers for two hours.Also Read | Haryana bans sale of firecrackersA number of states, including Delhi and West Bengal, have announced a total ban on firecrackers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and air pollution. Maharashtra, on the other hand, has not announced a ban but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged citizens to exercise discipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-draw-a-balance-haryana-allows-bursting-of-firecrackers-for-2-hours-on-diwali/story-rlEnziRIYrVAGIYNbB8bCL.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi HC notice to media houses, journalists over coverage of Sushant Singh death case||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notices to several media houses and journalists over their coverage of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rapjut’s death case. Republic TV, Times Now, their editors Arnab Goswami and Navika Kumar are among those who were served with the high court’s notice. The court was hearing the petition filed by 34 Bollywood production houses seeking restrain on the content aired by the media houses. The court has also asked the defendants to ensure that no defamatory content is displayed on their channels or uploaded on their social media handles.Justice Rajiv Shakdher said, “In the meanwhile, the counsel of the defendants (channels) have also ensured me that they would follow the program code and the rules framed under the Cable TV Regulation Act.” A host of leading Bollywood filmmakers had in October filed a lawsuit against “media trials of Bollywood personalities”, for calling them names and painting the entire “Bollywood as criminals” and sought action against them in the fallout of the Rajput death case investigation.The plea filed through DSK Legal had also sought directions to the various social media platforms to restrain them from publishing the remarks of these journalists which is ultimately leading to media trials of Bollywood personalities and interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with Bollywood.According to the petition, the suit was filed due to the channels using derogatory words for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, “druggies” and expressions such as “it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned”, “all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood”, “this is the dirtiest industry in the country”, and “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”.The prominent petitioners include The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay DevgnFflims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz, Dharma Productions, Emmay Entertainment & Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment , Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment),Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-notices-to-several-media-houses-journalists-over-their-coverage-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case/story-vbUr8Nnreicni1Pu0FzMBL.html
09-11-2020||India||In UP, app-based selection of banking correspondent Sakhis in final stages||The Uttar Pradesh government has received 2.17 lakh applications for induction of 58,000 banking correspondent Sakhis (BC Sakhis) in Uttar Pradesh, officials said.The mobile app-based recruitment process for women in rural India amid the Covid-19 pandemic is the first initiative of its kind.The department of rural development began the selection process in June and soon would begin to conduct interviews on mobile phones, said Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, department of rural development, Uttar Pradesh. The candidates made their applications on the mobile app and the department would interview the shortlisted candidates on the app itself.Once appointed, BC Sakhis will take banking to the doorsteps of families in their respective villages.“On May 21, the chief minister had announced a proposal for the induction of 58,000 banking correspondent Sakhis (BC Sakhis) for each of UP’s gram panchayats (GPs). BC Sakhis would become a one-stop solution for all banking services at the doorstep of the poor. This would be significant in the backdrop of 90,000 unresolved complaints with banks and would mean increased access to financial and banking services,” said Singh.Singh also said: “As many as 82% of 2.17 lakh women applicants are in the age group of 18 to 32 years and 70% of the candidates already have access to smartphones — an important tool for executing their work on a day-to-day basis, once they get appointed.”The government envisages channeling government services (subsidies, entitlements, pensions etc) and direct benefit transfer (DBT) payouts through these BC Sakhis in the villages, besides taking up a range of banking operations.“Once selected, the Indian Institute of Banking & Finance will train the BC Sakhis before they begin working. They will also have uniforms designed by the National Institute of Fashion Technology,” said Singh.The UP government had launched a mobile app for the entire recruitment process — from application to interviews and final selection. Never before has the government used such a method for statewide selection and appointment procedure in rural UP.“BC Sakhis will be the pivot of the State Rural Livelihood Mission’s financial inclusion programmes in the rural area. They will also encourage digital transactions in villages,” said Singh.For the applications, the candidates fed relevant details on the app, answered some questions there, uploaded documents, photographs and Aadhaar card images.Now, the department is shortlisting candidates for video interviews.For appointment as BC Sakhi in a gram panchayat, the candidate must be the resident of the same gram panchayat where she would work. A member of a self-help group (SHG) in a village who was among the first one to join it and played a vital role in the running of SHG would get preference.Once selected, a Sakhi would get Rs 4,000 per month as honorarium and one-time Rs 75,000 easy installment loan for tech hardware and installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-app-based-selection-of-banking-correspondent-sakhis-in-final-stages/story-i5zBKtd5xUuchuh4pG41iL.html
09-11-2020||India||NGT bans sale, use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till November 30||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a blanket ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-national capital region (NCR) from the midnight of November 9 to that of November 30.In a 58-page order, which was issued on Monday, the NGT has said that the ban would apply to all cities or towns in the country, where the average of ambient air quality during November, as per the available data of last year, fall in the “poor” or “very poor” category.Air quality index (AQI) between 201 and 300 and from 301 to 400 is considered to be in the “poor” and “very poor” category, respectively.In cities or towns, where AQI is “moderate” – between 101 and 200 -- or below, only green crackers will be allowed to be sold. The timings for the use and bursting of firecrackers would be restricted to only two hours during festivals such as Diwali, which would be celebrated on Saturday (November 14), as specified by the state, the order stated. In other states, the ban and restrictions would be optional, it added. The chief secretaries and directors-general of police (DGPs) of all states and union territories (UTs) have been directed to circulate an appropriate order and enforcement guidelines to all district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs), pollution control boards etc, the order said.The tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the state pollution control boards to regularly monitor the AQI between November 9 and 30 and upload the recorded data on their respective websites.CPCB would compile information on the subject, including the status of compliance of this order from all the states and UTs, it added.“Having regard to increased adverse health impact of pollution by use of crackers on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), aggravating risk to lives and health which has led to ban by the governments of Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Chandigarh (a UT), Delhi Pollution Control Committee and by the Calcutta high court on the sale and use of firecrackers, applying the ‘sustainable development’ and the ‘precautionary’ principles, a case is made out for issuing directions for banning the sale and use of firecrackers between November 9 and 30…” the order stated.The tribunal ordered the ban while hearing pleas against the bursting of firecrackers during Diwali because of its potential to aggravate the severity of the raging Covid-19 outbreak in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-bans-firecracker-sale-in-delhi-ncr-till-november-30/story-0Iw8jATDjgVWAyr3C3ptTK.html
09-11-2020||India||Union minister Kiren Rijiju lauds UP police for busting Khelo India racket||Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju has lauded very quick action by the Uttar Pradesh police in busting a racket where dubious elements extorted money from athletes by promising them their participation in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021.The police arrested three men in connection with the racket on Friday.In a tweet, Rijiju said he was “proud of UP Police for their fast and professional approach in handling any kind of cases.”“These criminals were fleecing from common people in the name of Khelo India,” he added in the tweet. The minister’s tweet was in response to a UP Police tweet congratulating the cyber cell of the Agra police on busting the racket.“We congratulate cyber cell @agrapolice for busting a racket involved in swindling sportsperson through a fake FB page Khelo India. The accused were extorting money from people by promising them participation in khelo India games 2021,” the UP police tweeted.The action was taken after Sports Authority of India (SAI) lodged an FIR. Three cell phones, a laptop and Rs 25,000 were recovered from the accused in this case. The racket came to light after SAI issued an ‘alert’ against a fake advertisement. Those arrested were identified as Sanjay Pratap Singh, Ravi and Anuj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-kiren-rijiju-lauds-up-police-for-busting-khelo-india-racket/story-eRM9b8ra0mRyHWlxvt7joM.html
09-11-2020||India||In Bihar’s Madhepura, a village mourns solider killed in LoC clash in Kashmir||A pall of gloom descended in Parmanpur village of Bihar’s Madhepura district on Monday morning as news spread of the death of Captain Ashutosh Kumar in a gun battle with terrorists on the Line of Control in the Machil sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara on Sunday.Three other security personnel and three terrorists were also killed in the encounter.Twenty four-year-old Captain Ashutosh of 18 Madras Regiment was an alumnus of Sainik School, Bhubaneswar.His neighbour Roop Narayan said, “We got information around 7.30 pm that Ashutosh has sacrificed his life. He joined the Army in 2018 and was posted in Kashmir for the last nine months. Ashutosh’s father Ravindra Yadav posted in the veterinary hospital while his mother Geeta Devi is a housewife.” His two sisters - Khusboo Kumari and Ansu Kumari – were inconsolable. “We have lost everything. We never thought such a day would come,” said his elder sister, tightly holding his photograph. “I am sad that I have lost my lonely son at a young age, but I am proud that he sacrificed his life for the nation. And that’s what he was trained for,” the fallen soldier’s father said.“I have lost everything today. I talked to him last Friday and he told me that he was well and everything was fine there,” his mother said. Vishal Vaibah, who was Captain Ashutosh’s junior at Sainik School told HT over phone that he was a brilliant student who could have easily cracked NEET or JEE, but his patriotism and love for the motherland made him join NDA . “From there, he went to IMA and was finally with the 18 Madras Regiment,” he said.Colonel Rajesh Kalia, defence spokesman at Srinagar said that three others killed in the gunfight were Havildar Ch Praveen Kumar, Rifleman Ryada Maheshwar, both from 18 Madras regiment and a BSF trooper identified as Constable Sudip Kumar of West Tripura.A huge quantity of arms and ammunition including assault two rifles, two magazines and 60 rounds, a pistol 1 with two magazines, and 29 rounds besides a radio set were recovered from the slain militants. Opposition leader Tejashi Yadav expressed deep grief over the demise of Captain Ashutosh. “The sacrifice made by Captain Ashutosh will not go in vain and he will always be remembered for his courage and bravery,” he said. Captain Ashutosh’s body will be brought to his native village on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-s-madhepura-a-village-mourns-solider-killed-in-loc-clash-in-kashmir/story-2tKQXM17Fykc9ySl3iMKlO.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates development projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of various development projects in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi on Monday via video conferencing.The event, which was joined by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, marked the inauguration of 16 schemes worth over Rs 219 crore and the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 crore.The projects include Sarnath Light and Sound show, upgradation of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital Ramnagar, sewerage related works, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows, multipurpose seed storehouse, agriculture produce warehouse of 100 MT, IPDS phase 2, a housing complex for players in Sampurnanand Stadium, Varanasi city smart lighting work, along with 105 Anganwadi Kendras and 102 Gau Ashray Kendras. Modi also laid the foundation stone of projects including the redevelopment of Dashashwamedh Ghat and Khidkiya Ghat, barracks for PAC police force, redevelopment of certain wards of Kashi, parking facility along with redevelopment of park in Beniya Bagh, upgradation of the multi-purpose hall in Girija Devi Sanskritik Sankul, repair work of roads in the city and development of tourist places.The Prime Minister will also interact with the beneficiaries of these projects during the event. Locals and party workers joined the event at six locations - the Circuit House, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Shultankeshwar Temple, Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport and Trade Facilitation Centre - in the city. The local unit of the Congress had objected to the unveiling ceremony of the projects citing violation of model code of conduct for the legislative council polling to elect graduate constituency members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-development-projects-worth-rs-614-crore-in-varanasi/story-zXx3qlxcEVdnuisfSR6CYI.html
09-11-2020||India||Lawyer, kin remain perched atop water tank to protest brother’s kidnapping||A lawyer, who along with five members of his family had climbed atop a water tank in Beli area here on Saturday morning alleging police inaction into the alleged kidnapping of his brother and grabbing of his land in his native Hardoi district by a muscleman, refused to come down till late Sunday night despite repeated appeals, police said.Additional district magistrate (city) AK Kanaujiya talked to the lawyer several times. The ADM and the district magistrate of Hardoi also spoke with the lawyer and promised him all help. However, the lawyer Vijay Pratap, in his 40s, did not heed to their requests and demanded a CBI inquiry into his matter.Pratap claimed to have made several complaints regarding the land grab by a muscleman and alleged that no action was taken as the goon’s brother is a policeman posted at the office of the deputy inspector general of police (DIG). The lawyer said he and his family were on a hunger strike which they would continue unless their demands were fulfilled. He claimed that he was carrying a large container of petrol and warned of self-immolation if any attempt was made to bring them down forcibly. Meanwhile, a net was placed near the tank as officials desperately tried to convince the family to come down promising to address all their issues. Unable to convince them, the officials provided them water, blankets and power bank for keeping their mobile phone charged so that they continue communication.After climbing the water tank, the lawyer also made a video and posted it on social media.The lawyer told reporters that he had made the video stating his 13-point charter of demands to draw the attention of the chief minister and the Prime Minister towards his plight.Inspector, Cantonment police station, Neeraj Walia, who has been at the site shortly after the drama began, said constant efforts were being made to convince the lawyer and his kin to come down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-kin-remain-perched-atop-water-tank-to-protest-brother-s-kidnapping/story-WBi9YSvLcq2NSj7qe7lwgJ.html
09-11-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate model of anti-satellite missile system at DRDO HQ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate a model of the anti-satellite missile system, which is seen as a symbol of national technological advancement, at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) headquarters in the national capital today.Earlier, DRDO had successfully conducted an Anti-Satellite (A-SAT) missile test ‘Mission Shakti’ from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha on March 27, 2019.A DRDO-developed A-SAT Missile successfully engaged an Indian orbiting target satellite in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) in a ‘Hit to Kill’ mode. The interceptor missile was a three-stage missile with two solid rocket boosters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-model-of-anti-satellite-missile-system-at-drdo-hq/story-duKmTURgNGsC0kvsl1m0SO.html
09-11-2020||India||UP to develop Vindhyavasini Temple Corridor in Vindhyachal||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has decided to develop the Vindhyavasini Mandir Corridor at Vindhyachal in Mirzapur district. The Vindhyavasini corridor is modelled on the lines of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. It will have a 50-feet wide parikrama path, or circumambulation route, around the shrine of Goddess Vindhyavasini.The UP cabinet had on October 30 approved the decision to develop the religious corridor.The Yogi Adityanath-led government seeks to develop religious tourism in the eastern UP region. Also read | Uttar Pradesh govt to launch website for first-ever virtual Deepotsav in AyodhyaThe Vindhyavasini temple is surrounded by buildings and narrow lanes and pilgrims have to walk through them while circumambulating the temple. “A 50-feet wide Vindhyavasini temple corridor will be developed on over 2,500 square metres of area around the shrine,” said a tourism department official. “Around 90 residential and commercial buildings in the area will have to make way to develop the corridor, which will be equipped with all facilities. There is a plan to widen all the roads in Vindhyachal,” the official added. Vindhyachal is famous for the Vindhyavasini temple, which attracts pilgrims from far and wide. The religious congregation peaks during Navratri, a nine-day period, when Hindus offer prayers to the goddess. Plans are also afoot to attract tourists in to picturesque waterfalls in the district such as Vindham, Kusiyara and Tada. Kirtiman Srivastava, regional tourism officer, said the Vindhyavasini temple corridor would be grand and magnificent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-develop-vindhyavasini-temple-corridor-in-vindhyachal/story-syRNztDigTvR58DaA2wycI.html
09-11-2020||India||After Bihar, Congress shifts focus to other poll-bound states; to hold protests over farm laws in Tamil Nadu||After Bihar, the Congress is set to shift its focus on states where assembly elections are due in March-April next year with former party chief Rahul Gandhi likely to address a farmers’ rally in Tamil Nadu soon. Along with Tamil Nadu, assembly elections will be held in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. Gandhi will address the farmers’ rally in Tamil Nadu against the Centre’s three new farm legislations, a party functionary said. The Tamil Nadu Congress has identified 150 places across the state for such protests, he added. Tractor rallies will also be taken out as part of the protest programme. Confirming the development, Tamil Nadu Congress president KS Alagiri said Gandhi will address the rally at the conclusion of protests and the dates are being worked out. Also Read: Centre says open for talks with farmers on farm laws ahead of another protestHe said the new legislations were inimical to the interests of the farmers and alleged that corporates will have a greater say in fixing the price of produce, adding the rallies will aim to educate farmers about the problems of the three farm laws and tell the people how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is anti-farmer. Parliament had, in September, approved the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Farmers in many parts of the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have also opposed these laws. Congress-ruled states have passed their own laws to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-congress-shifts-focus-to-other-poll-bound-states-to-hold-protests-over-farm-laws-in-tamil-nadu/story-w2CtBcizNS7qiYzlbJR5vL.html
09-11-2020||India||Marginal increase in number of Covid-19 cases takes India’s tally to 8,553,657||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally reached 8,553,657 on Monday after 45,903 new cases were recorded, according to Union health ministry.The country recorded 490 new fatalities, which took the death toll to 1,26,611.Monday’s caseload ( a count of the number of Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours) is marginally up from yesterday’s 45,674 infections.The case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent.The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 11th consecutive day on Monday. The number of active cases dropped to 5,09,673 which comprises about six per cent of the total caseload, according to health ministry data. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 11,77,36,791 samples have been tested up to November 7 with 11,94,487 samples being tested on Saturday.Meanwhile, India’s cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate - the number of samples that tests positive out of the total number of samples tested for a disease - is steadily declining, according to the government.The government data shows that in past three weeks, the positivity rate has come down to 7.23% on November 8 from 7.94% on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marginal-increase-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-takes-india-s-tally-to-8-553-657/story-YEpSPTlbZCons0LvuYCsrJ.html
09-11-2020||India||EC to hold all-party meeting today for 2021 Bengal assembly election||The Election Commission of India will meet representatives of all political parties in West Bengal on Monday through video conferencing to set the ball rolling for the 2021 assembly election in the state, a poll panel official said. “The meeting has been called primarily to discuss poll preparations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. After the Bihar elections it is clear that the pandemic won’t come in the way of holding elections. Precautionary measures need to be adopted to prevent the spread,” the official said. The chief electoral officer of West Bengal is also expected to hold another meeting with district officials soon, officials said. “There are chances that representatives of the ECI from Delhi will also be present in the virtual meeting with district officials. The main objective is to take stock and assess the poll preparedness in the times of pandemic,” said a senior official. With the Durga Puja over, the political parties have also entered into election mode. Union home minister Amit Shah had come on a two-day visit to the state to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s organisational preparedness in the state. While the ruling Trinamool Congress, led by its supremo Mamata Banerjee, would be fighting for its third term, the BJP, which has made impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls clinching 18 of the 42 seats, is looking to wrest power in the assembly election. The Election Commission is expected to publish the integrated draft electoral roll on November 18, while the final electoral roll would be published in January 2021. “Groundwork is going on. We now have a model (Bihar) in front of us and the experiences we gather in Bihar will help us in holding the polls in Bengal. Pandemic will be a big challenge this year apart from the other challenges of holding a free and fair election,” said an EC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-to-hold-all-party-meeting-today-for-2021-bengal-assembly-election/story-oS8Y8aTtcbj4sEaB54ZO4M.html
09-11-2020||India||600 kg firecrackers seized in Delhi; 7 held||The Delhi Police has arrested seven people and seized around 600 kilograms of firecrackers being sold illegally in the national capital from their possession, officials said on Sunday. Ahead of Diwali, the Delhi government had on Thursday decided to ban firecrackers, including green crackers, in the city till November 30 to combat pollution amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Till Sunday, cases were registered against seven people for illegally selling crackers in the national capital, police said. “Police recovered 593.224 kg of firecrackers and arrested seven people. Also, eight cases were registered in connection with bursting of crackers . One person was arrested and 1 kg of fireworks were recovered from him,” Additional PRO of Delhi Police Anil Mittal said. All licences issued for sale of firecrackers have been suspended and further action will be taken on NGT directions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/600-kg-firecrackers-seized-in-delhi-7-held/story-x88WV71EefMK33hnBNWbVL.html
09-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrest: Bombay High court to pronounce order on interim bail plea today||A two-judge division bench of the Bombay high court will on Monday pronounce its order on a bail plea filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who was arrested last Wednesday in connection with a 2018 alleged abetment to suicide case.The bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, had reserved its order in the case on Saturday, saying it would pass it “as early as possible.” However, a notice issued late Saturday night on the court’s website said the bench would pronounce its order at 3pm on November 9.Also Read | No immediate relief for Arnab Goswami as HC reserves order on bailThe bench had been hearing Goswami’s plea for three days, including Saturday, after he filed an interim bail plea there, calling his November 4 arrest “illegal”. Goswami, along with two other accused in the case - Firoz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda - was, on the day of his arrest, sent to 14-day judicial custody by chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Alibaug, rejecting Maharashtra Police’s plea for police custody.Also on Monday, a sessions court in Alibaug will take up Maharashtra Police’ plea against the CJM’s order.On Sunday, Goswami was transferred from a makeshift quarantine centre in Alibaug, where he had been kept, to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai after he was allegedly found using a cellphone. A video shared by Republic TV showed Goswami alleging he was assaulted at the quarantine centre, and claiming there was threat to his life.Also Read | Not being allowed to talk to lawyers, says Arnab Goswami as he was being shifted to Taloja jailGoswami has been arrested in a case which pertains to death by alleged suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in May 2018, nearly a year after Republic TV was launched. In a suicide note, Naik had accused Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda of non-payment of dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore, because of which, Naik wrote, he was being forced to take such a step.While the case was earlier closed by the Raigad Police, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a reinvestigation in it earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-bombay-high-court-to-pronounce-order-on-interim-bail-plea-today/story-r5wErhqhF1Zupd7DwvEbzN.html
09-11-2020||India||Agra, with AQI of 458, records worst air pollution in country||Air pollution has worsened across Uttar Pradesh (UP), as at least 11 towns and cities in the country’s most-populous state recorded “severe” in the air quality index (AQI), according to data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Saturday. An AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be in the “severe” category and is known to have an adverse impact on human health conditions. While AQI from 301 to 400 belongs to the “very poor” category. Agra reported the worst AQI of 458.Other towns and cities in the similar category are Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Muzaffarnagar. Also read | Stop outdoor activities, exercises, say experts as air quality worsensLucknow and Kanpur recorded an AQI of 392 and 436, respectively.The AQI in Lucknow was in the “very poor” category. CPCB authorities said that major pollutants in the region were particulate matter (PM) 10, PM 2.5 and emissions from vehicular traffic. The worsening air quality was visible in most towns and cities in UP, as they were covered with smog during the day, which thickened at night.Experts have attributed the worsening AQI to a recent dip in minimum temperatures, bursting of firecrackers ahead of Diwali, which would be celebrated on Saturday (November 14), raging farm fires in western UP, Haryana and Punjab, and emissions from vehicular traffic.UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has issued a fresh advisory to administrations in all 75 districts in the state to curb the worsening AQI.Efforts are on to prevent stubble burning and illegal construction activities. “We are keeping a tab on air pollution and are taking measures to control it. The public is being fined for causing air pollution. We are trying to make people aware of the health hazard ,” said Ram Karan, regional officer, UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-with-aqi-of-458-records-worst-air-pollution-in-country/story-rhMlmMw0sPpWa94foEL6IP.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Modi to unveil projects worth Rs 614 cr in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation of 30 projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi via video conferencing on Monday, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on Sunday. At a press conference on Sunday, Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said that PM Modi will inaugurate 16 schemes worth over Rs 219 crore and lay the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 core. BJP unit chief in Uttar Pradesh Swatantra Dev Singh and four ministers will attend the ceremony at different venues in the city, he said.Srivastava said the transformation taking place in Kashi since 2014 was visible on the ground, He underlined that there was a big difference between the Varanasi of 2020 and the situation in the city pre-2014.As the local MP, PM Modi had left no stone unturned to ensure all-round development of Varanasi, he said. The cleanliness mission had made lanes and ghats clean, he added. Six places have been selected for the live telecast of Monday’s programme in the city. Locals and party workers will join the event at the Circuit House, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Shultankeshwar Temple, Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport and Trade Facilitation Centre. Navratan Rathi, Kashi region BJP media in-charge, said state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, minister in-charge of Varanasi Ashutosh Tandon, minister of state (independent charge) Ravindra Jaiswal and the party’s Kashi region president Mahesh Chand Srivastava, will remain present at the Circuit House. Similarly, UP BJP co-incharge Sunil Ojha and Cantt MLA Saurabh Srivastava will be present at the commissioner’s auditorium.Minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari, along with party workers, will be present at Dashashwamedh Ghat. Cabinet minister Anil Rajbhar will be present at the venue of the Trade Facilitation Centre, Bada Lalpur.MLAs Avadhesh Singh and Surendra Singh will attend the function at the airport and Shultankeshwar temple respectively.Among the projects that Modi will inaugurate are an upgraded Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, Ramnagar, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows, multipurpose seed storehouse, agriculture produce warehouse of 100 MT, Integrated Power Development Scheme phase 2, housing complex for sportspersons at Sampurnanand Stadium, Varanasi city smart lighting work and 105 anganwadi kendras.The local unit of the Congress has objected to the unveiling ceremony of the projects due to the model code of conduct for the legislative council polling to elect graduate constituency members. Congress leader Ajay Rai says that the so-called developmental projects unveiling ceremony is a violation of the model code of conduct. The administration should stop it. A Congress delegation on Saturday submitted a memorandum to the divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal asking him to stop the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-projects-worth-rs-614-cr-in-varanasi-today/story-m3VhtrFwWHzqUE8QXDBuVN.html
09-11-2020||India||Virtual lamps, virtual hands: All you need to know about the online ‘Deepotsav’ celebration in Ayodhya||With ‘festival of lights’ Diwali just five days away, the Uttar Pradesh government is set to launch a website to allow people to take part in a virtual ‘Deepotsav’ celebration on November 13.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be a part of this virtual celebration which will take place in Ayodhya’s Sri Ramlala Darbar. While the state government has decided to light up over 5,50,000 physical diyas (lamps) on this occasion, people have been invited to take part in the ceremony virtually. Due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in India, several restrictions have been laid to ensure the celebration is carried out smoothly.Started by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in 2017, Ayodhya Deepotsav witnessed coming together of residents and volunteers lighting up a record 176,000 diyas. In 2019, this record was broken after 551,000 diyas were used for this occasion.However, this year’s ceremony is going to be special, coming months after the laying of the foundation stone for Ram Temple in the month of August.Here is what you need to know about the ‘Vitual Deepotsav’ in Ayodhya this year: 1. Participants will be allowed to light a virtual lamp in front of a photograph of Lord Rama, with an option to choose different lampstands.2. Participants will have to choose the lamp stand of one’s choice, steel-coloured, brass-coloured or any other.3. The virtual hands which will light the diya would also vary on the basis of the participant’s gender.4. Right after the diyas have been lightened up, a ‘thank you’ digital letter from the chief minister, carrying the picture of Ram Lalla, will be issued.Chief minister Adityanath apart from issuing instructions for this year’s Deepotsav highlighted that there should be no violation of Covid-19 related protocols. He would be performing the aarti of Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi premises.Also Read: NGT widens ambit of firecracker pollution cases beyond NCR, notices to 18 states, UTsMeanwhile, as India is gearing up to celebrate Diwali, several state governments have decided to ban firecrackers amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country which has infected over 8.5 million so far.It has been said that the increase in air pollution levels due to the use of firecrackers will also increase the spread of the coronavirus disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-lamps-virtual-hands-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-online-deepotsav-celebration-in-ayodhya/story-jbra6AgUddKdU25PasV4wL.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s air quality remains ‘severe’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesDelhi’s air quality remains in severe category for five days in a rowThe national capital’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day on Monday morning. The AQI on Monday at 6am was 459, which was higher than the previous day’s 24-hour average of 416. Read more 15th Finance Commission submits its report today: Key things to knowThe NK Singh-headed 15th Finance Commission, the body that decides the shares of the Centre and states in all taxes and revenues of the nation, will submit its final report to President Ram Nath Kovind today (November 9). The report is unlikely to be made public anytime soon and will possibly be tabled in Parliament, along with an action-taken report, by finance minister Nirmala Sithramaram when she presents the Union budget next year on February 1. Read moreAhead of the NGT order on firecracker ban, here’s what different states have doneAmid the ongoing festival season and rising cases of Covid-19, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is expected to pronounce its order on firecracker ban on Monday. Reserving its order on November 5, it had issued notice to Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four state governments on whether use of firecrackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment. Read moreFiroz Nadiadwala on wife Shabana Saeed’s arrest by NCB: ‘The truth will be out’Producer Firoz Nadiadwala has responded to the arrest of his wife, Shabana Saeed, on Sunday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While he did not comment on the drugs charges, he seemed to suggest that they were false. He said that ‘the truth will be out’. Read moreGoogle Stadia may soon get support for Safari in iOS 14Google launched its cloud-based game streaming service, Stadia, in 2019. At the time, the service was available on select Android devices. Over time, the company has not only included support for more Android devices, but it has also Web and Chromecast. Now, word is that the company is gearing to bring the gaming service to Apple devices. Read more IPL 2020: ‘Has become one of my favourites’ - Brian Lara names six most impressive young Indian batsmen of Indian Premier LeagueIn an interview with Hindustan Times, former West Indies captain Brian Lara was asked to throw some lights on the young Indian talent on display. The legendary left-hander named six young Indian batsmen who impressed him the most. Read more Ever wonder how astronauts wash hair in space? This video has the answerWhen people asked you, “What do you want to be when you grow up?” as a kid, did you ever say astronaut? Did you ever watch 2001: A Space Odyssey and wish you could embark on a galactic adventure too? Did you read The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy and pretend that you were Arthur Dent yourself? If you answered a ‘yes’ to any or all of the questions asked above, then you may identify as a ‘space enthusiast’, and thus, may thoroughly enjoy this recording. Watch hereBiden & China-Pak: How will new US President deal with terror, expansionism?:One of the highlights of Donald Trump’s Presidency was the confrontation with China on various accounts - from trade to territory. Beijing will continue to be one of the biggest challenges facing US President-elect Joe Biden. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-severe-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zXNGSUTsEtnSkmogwBVJeP.html
09-11-2020||India||TMC, BJP race to help Bengal tribal family that hosted Amit Shah for lunch||The poor tribal family that hosted Union home minister Amit Shah for lunch on November 5 at their home at Chaturdihi village in Bengal’s Bankura district has been receiving more guests and unexpected offers of help since Saturday. Leaders from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as officers from the district administration have called on Bibhishan Hansda at least thrice in 48 hours with the offer to get the best treatment for his teenage daughter Rachana who is suffering from diabetes. The reason: Hansda had briefly talked to Shah about her. TMC leaders have also started claiming that Hansda, a marginal farmer, had always been a party supporter but the tribal man has claimed to be an apolitical person with no connection with either of the parties. “Had amazing Bengali food at Shri Vivishan Hansda ji’s home in Chaturdihi village. No words can express their warmth and hospitality,” Shah had tweeted on Thursday after leaving the village. TMC leaders made a counter move soon after this. “Reality behind @AmitShah Ji’s token meals - he used ST Community & the concerned family as political tool & didn’t even bother to speak to them for a moment. Mr Home Minister, did you come here only for a photo-op? #BengalAsksAmitShah,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha MP and nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The TMC youth leader also attached the screenshot of a news item published by a Bengali daily which said that Hansda wanted to talk to Shah but did not get an opportunity although they sat beside each other during the lunch. Hansda said he did talk to Shah about his daughter but the minister could not understand Bengali. “He spoke in Hindi. Since neither of us could follow each other’s language people present at the spot explained to the Union home minister what I was saying,” he said. On Saturday, Sonai Mukherjee, a TMC leader and member of the Bankura zilla parishad (district council) visited Hansda’s home with gifts. “It was a casual visit. We wanted to know how the family was doing. The gifts were part of the customary Durga Puja greetings,” she said. On Sunday morning, BJP’s Bankura Lok Sabha MP Subhas Sarkar, who is also a doctor, called on Hansda and had a long conversation with his daughter. The MP checked her medical records and told the family that his party will ensure the best treatment for Rachana. Sarkar wrote in a tweet in Bengla that he went to Hansda’s home under instructions from Shah who wants the party to take charge of Rachana’s treatment and take her to AIIMS if required. The MP also posted photographs of his visit. Shortly after Sarkar left, the local community block development officer, Biplab Kumar Roy, visited the family with the same offer. “The class 12 student has been under treatment for a long time. The government wants to ensure that it continues unhindered since the family is poor,” Roy told the local media. During the day, lawmaker and minister from the district, Swapan Santra, claimed that Hansda had always been a supporter of the TMC and the party had arranged for the treatment in the past. “I am not part of any organization. If anyone takes pity and offers to help I will accept it but it should not be part of politics,” said Hansda. Significantly, when Shah was having lunch at Hansda’s home on Thursday the TMC government made a surprise move at Naxalbari in Darjeeling district. Gita Mahali, the poor tribal woman who played host to Shah and cooked lunch for him during a similar visit in April 2017, was appointed as special home guard at Naxalbari police station. She was given her appointment letter. “The BJP did nothing for the family in these three years so the government came forward,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the TMC district president. On Wednesday, Banerjee also announced that the government will form separate organizations to look after the welfare of different backward caste communities. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “If one visit by our Union home minister can make so much difference to the lives of poor people we will all visit their homes. After all, welfare of the people is what the BJP wants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-bjp-race-to-help-bengal-tribal-family-that-hosted-amit-shah-for-lunch/story-4Wcl8BAcwuDt07vZRFioXN.html
09-11-2020||India||Ahead of the NGT order on firecracker ban, here’s what different states have done||Amid the ongoing festival season and rising cases of Covid-19, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is expected to pronounce its order on firecracker ban on Monday.Reserving its order on November 5, it had issued notice to Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four state governments on whether use of firecrackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel had sought response from MoEF, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Police Commissioner of Delhi and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The tribunal was hearing a plea by Indian Social Responsibility Network seeking action against pollution by use of firecrackers in NCR during the time air quality is unsatisfactory with potential of severity of Covid-19 pandemic.Different states have made different rules with respect to bursting and selling of firecrackers. Ahead of the NGT order, here’s a look at what various states have done:1. Delhi: The Delhi government has imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers, including those branded green between November 7 and 30.Also watch: Heavy smog In Delhi as air quality remains in ‘severe’ category 2. Karnataka: After announcing a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers, the Karnataka government backtracked and said that people are allowed to sell and use green firecrackers during Diwali.3. West Bengal: The Calcutta High Court had banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The same guidelines will be followed for Diwali.Read more | US: The end of a corrosive chapter4. Sikkim: The Sikkim government has imposed a complete ban on firecrackers throughout the state from November 4 until further orders.5. Odisha: The Odisha government banned the sale and use of firecrackers across the state from November 10 to 30.6. Rajasthan: The Rajasthan government put a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers, announcing a penalty of Rs 2,000 on anyone found violating the order.7. Haryana: The Haryana government has permitted the bursting of firecrackers for only two hours — between 8 pm and 10 pm — on Diwali, in the state.8. Maharashtra: The Uddhav Thackeray led Maharashtra government has not banned firecrackers but has appealed to the people to refrain from using them in the interest of health and safety of all.9. Punjab: The Punjab government has told NGT that a ban on firecrackers is not required for the state and on Diwali bursting of crackers is allowed only between 8pm to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-the-ngt-order-on-firecracker-ban-here-s-what-different-states-have-done/story-vr2OXHiqidEwakdLrvlJFP.html
09-11-2020||India||Cheers from Kamala Harris’ ancestral village||Residents of Thulasendrapuram village in Tiruvarur district of Tamil Nadu — where PV Gopalan, the maternal grandfather of the new United States Vice President-elect was born in 1911 — burst firecrackers, distributed sweets and drew colourful rangoli even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Kamala Harris over Twitter declaring it a proud moment for Indian-Americans.“Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership” Modi tweeted on November 8.Harris, born to an Indian mother, Shyamala Gopalan and a Jamaican father, Donald Harris — both of whom immigrated to the United States to study — made history by becoming the first woman, the first Black person, the person of South Asian descent and the first person born to immigrants to win the second-highest U.S. office in the election.At her ancestral village children clutched posters of Harris as people gathered at the Dharmasastha Aiyanar temple, which has been conducting special prayers since US President-elect Joe Biden announced Harris as his running mate in August.“Her win also motivates the boys and girls in our village,” says Arulmozhi Sudhakar, a local village head. “Now I’m able to show my 11-year-old son how much he can achieve.” Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami tweeted that Harris’ victory made Tamil Nadu proud.Harris, who visited the village when she was five, has often recalled walks with her maternal grandfather on Chennai’s beaches during annual trips from the US.“She would often take long walks with my father and ask him about governance,” said Harris’ maternal uncle Gopalan Balachandran, who lives in New Delhi.His father served as civil servant for 40 years. “He started off as a clerk and retired as a joint-secretary. Kamala would quiz him about why’s and the how’s of government all the time. She was very inquisitive and never hesitated to ask questions,” Balachandran said.“I’m sure she imagined that she could reach the position of vice-president, that is why she contested. We have to wait and see how see works during her tenure. Who knows, she may run for the presidency,” Balachandran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheers-from-kamala-harris-ancestral-village/story-ZqNoT4TC8K3GAib62V5r1O.html
09-11-2020||India||AG again declines to initiate a contempt case against Jagan||Attorney General K K Venugopal has refused to reconsider his November 2 decision declining consent to BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay to initiate contempt proceedings against the Andhra Pradesh chief minister and his principal advisor for making allegations against judges.However, he stated that his refusal to grant consent will not come in the way of the Supreme Court taking suo motu contempt action on Y S Jaganmohan Reddy’s allegations contained in a letter written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) on October 6.The demand to initiate contempt against Reddy and Kallam was made by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay in a letter addressed to AG on October 25 which the latter rejected on November 2. AG maintained that the alleged contempt arose out of a letter written by Reddy to Chief Justice of India (CJI) on October 6 and since the CJI was seized of the matter, it would not be appropriate for him to interfere. Upadhyay replied to Venugopal on November 5 seeking reconsideration.The government’s chief law officer, in his reply, reiterated his stand saying that the issue of contempt was between Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde and Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and his principal advisor Ajeya Kallam.However, he added: “My refusal to grant consent does not preclude you from bringing these facts to the notice of the Judges of the Supreme Court with a prayer for initiation of suo moto action…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-again-declines-to-initiate-a-contempt-case-against-jagan/story-zFcQfFUHOC0CD327OV0SAL.html
09-11-2020||India||4 personnel, 3 terrorists killed as forces foil infiltration bid in Jammu and Kashmir||Three terrorists and four security personnel, including an officer, were killed when a joint team of the Indian Army and the Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Machil sector, officials said on Sunday.The forces identified one of the deceased personnel as 38-year-old BSF constable Sudip Kumar from Tripura.According to an official, a BSF patrol team noticed the movement of the terrorists near the LoC on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.“The team challenged the terrorists, who then opened fire. The BSF team retaliated, killing one of the terrorists immediately while the others hid,” said a BSF spokesperson. The official added that Pakistan resorted to ceasefire violation at the same time in an attempt to help the terrorists infiltrate.“During the gunfight, BSF jawan Sudip Kumar received bullet injuries but he continued fighting with utter disregard for his personal safety. He eventually succumbed to the injuries,” the BSF spokesperson said.Army reinforcements arrived from the nearby forward posts to aid the BSF team and a joint operation began, officials said.Giving details of the operation, Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia said: “Terrorists’ movement was tracked by surveillance devices. Contact was re-established at 10.20am when heavy fire was drawn by our search parties approximately 1.5km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed.”He added that three army personnel died in the gunfight.J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha paid tributes to the slain soldiers. “The LG saluted the supreme sacrifice of the jawans and lauded the courage and valour displayed by them while protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the country,” an official spokesperson said.The operation was underway till the time of filing the report.On October 10, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of army’s strategic Chinar Corps, Lt Gen BS Raju, said the forces have been able to stop a number of infiltration bids this year. “Last year around 130 persons had infiltrated and this year the figure is below 30...,” he said.The GOC said the forces were keeping their guard up as hundreds of terrorists were waiting across the LoC to infiltrate into India. “As per our intelligence, around 250-300 terrorists are ready at launch pads on the Pakistan side to infiltrate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-personnel-3-terrorists-killed-as-forces-foil-infiltration-bid-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-xqTsKUn6vfGUqYM1eNTKHI.html
09-11-2020||India||‘After Bihar, upcoming elections in Bengal, TN will be held on schedule’: EC Sushil Chandra||In an interview to Deeksha Bhardwaj, election commissioner Sushil Chandra, who will take over as chief election commissioner next year, elaborates on precautions taken for Bihar polls, the first elections since the Covid-19 outbreak:The Bihar election was the first major poll to be held during the pandemic, how was the voter turnout?We ensured that global guidelines for social distancing and sanitisation were unanimously followed. This, in turn, helped us achieve the safety of each voter against Covid-19.Nearly 57.92 per cent voters turned out for the third phase, more than the turnout in 2015, which was 56.66 per cent. Overall, we have seen an increase in electoral participation as compared to the last election, which is very heartening amid a pandemic.What challenges did you face during the election?The biggest challenge, of course, was getting voters to comply with Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and sanitisation.Safety of voters was another big challenge. Everyone assumed that the voter turnout would decrease because of the pandemic, but with the continuous efforts of SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation program is a voter-awareness program of the EC) and other initiatives undertaken by the Commission, we were able to encourage the voters to feel safe during the pandemic.How were the elections amid pandemic different?More CAPF personnel than usual were deployed for the Bihar polls. This ensured that there was not even a single case of booth capturing.In terms of expenditure related seizures, items worth of ₹66.41 crore were seized. These included alcohol, narcotic substances, cash and freebies. This is exponentially more than the ₹28.82 crore-worth seizure during the 2015 assembly election and the ₹8.1 crore-worth seizure during the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the state.What are the major takeaways from the Bihar elections?The biggest takeaway has to be that even if a vaccine for Covid-19 is not developed soon, future elections in the country will be held on schedule. If the Covid-19 pandemic recedes, we will all be very happy. In case it doesn’t, guidelines similar to those put in place for Bihar will have to be observed for other upcoming elections — including those in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. It’s been a very peaceful and safe election in Bihar and that gives us immense hope.The ECI assigned a specific Covid-hour for people who had tested positive for the infection, those under quarantine and those with high temperatures or other symptoms. What was the impact?Over 240 Covid-19 positive patients chose to exercise their franchise and cast their ballot during the three phases of the election. None of them used the postal ballots that were provided to them and cast their votes in person at the polling booths.Additionally, during this one hour, all polling officials were clad in PPE kits.Was the election inclusive in terms of participation from all sections?The election was an especially inclusive one with the commission setting up at least two polling stations in every assembly constituency that were run only by women.Additional arrangements were made for Covid-19 patients, senior citizens and people with disabilities.The commission also conducted an international webinar with participation from nearly 30-40 countries to showcase the arrangements it had made during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-upcoming-elections-in-bengal-tn-will-be-held-on-schedule-ec-sushil-chandra/story-d4hb9AmZksFblI5bJP7YKK.html
09-11-2020||India||Stir to save Mollem rages on in Goa||On Sunday night, nearly 3,000 Goans bearing torches, lanterns and candles descended on the historic village of Chandor — one of the medieval capitals of Goa and neighbouring territories — to sing, dance, beat drums and raise slogans against the government for allowing expansion of a railway line through protected areas to increase coal carrying capacity of Goa’s Mormugao Port.The protests and arresting visuals garnered nationwide attention and support with celebrities and other movements some from as far as Australia joining cause with Goa’s twin movements — Save Mollem and Goyant Kollso Naka (We don’t want coal in Goa).They were protesting for twin causes and opposing a trio of projects, a double tracking of a railway line, highway expansion and power line that will all slice through Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuary, the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary which was notified in 1967 and its sister the Mollem National Park which was carved out of it in 1978. Together the sanctuaries cover an area of 240 square kilometres along Goa’s eastern frontier with Karnataka.The expansion of National Highway 4-A, the construction of a new transmission line and the doubling of the existing railway line, all passing through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park will collectively require the diversion and destruction of 170 hectares of forest in different areas of this protected wildlife habitat, which the activists allege will irreparably fragment and destroy the sanctuary and the pristine Western Ghats ecosystem that it was designed to protect.The railway line, by far the biggest of the three projects will come at a cost of diversion of 113.857 ha. of forest land and felling of 18,541 trees.The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost 31.015 ha of forest land and 12,097 trees. The third is a 400KV power line, 3.5 km of which passes through protected forest to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka and to provide additional feed to Goa.In 2010, the Ministry of Railways sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in the states of Karnataka and Goa. The first phase between Hospet and Tinai ghat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. The stretch between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama is now being built.Activists allege that the railway track doubling is being undertaken solely to expand the coal carrying capacity of the railway line from Goa’s Mormugao Port to north Karnataka. The existing single line track built through a collaboration between the British and Portuguese colonial governments in the late 19th century has since been saturated. The steep gradient and winding terrain means trains take even longer to power up and over the Western Ghats whilst passing through the breathtaking sight of Dudhsagar waterfalls enroute.The existing track is proposed to be doubled along the same alignment after a separate proposal to build a fresh track along a different alignment was rejected by the state board for wildlife as it would mean intruding into hitherto virgin forests, but the present proposal too brings with it risks of destabilising the steep and fragile slopes of the Western Ghats leading to landslides.A standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife Chaired by Union Minister for Environment, Prakash Javadekar cleared the three projects in April this year in a meeting that was held via video conference owing to the lockdown that was then in force.The manner in which the projects were cleared has been challenged both before the Bombay High Court at Goa and the Central Empowered Committee constituted by the Supreme Court. Activists accuse the Government of using the lockdown to push through the projects.“The wildlife approvals have been granted to these projects without proper consideration and examination of the proposals and studies submitted. The environmental impact assessments of the projects, wherever done, have been shoddily carried out, with little or no proper evaluation on the impact on the wildlife habitat including its biodiversity,” the Goa Foundation which is leading the legal battle against the projects, has said in its petition before the Goa bench of Bombay high court.“More importantly there is no cumulative impact assessment for the three projects which would disclose or assess their true impact on the Mollem sanctuary and national park and as a result of significant diversion of forest lands, destruction of biodiversity and water bodies,” the Foundation said.Till date the Ministry has received a deluge of representation to revoke the permissions that they have granted including from researchers, naturalists, students, tourism stakeholders, small business owners, etc. who all fear that the destruction will not only be bad for the environment but also for business that depends on the pristine non industrialised environment.Besides concerns surrounding the forests of the Western Ghats, residents of villages through which the line passes have been protesting fearing that the expansion will lead to even more coal dust pollution -- a problem that is not just plaguing the port town of Vasco da Gama where the coal is loaded and unloaded from ships and onto rail wagons in the open air but also those living along the 83-kilometre track as the trains run past. Besides poor air quality, a study by the National Institute of Oceanography also found that the coal handling was responsible for poisoning the oysters and clams harvested in the waters surrounding the port with Mercury. Unlike steel plants in the Jharkhand-Odisha belt for whom coal is locally available, the lack of coal mines in peninsular India means that steel plants rely on imported coal. For steel plants in North Karnataka, the Goa port is the closest major one.Around 12 million tons is imported annually, but plans are afoot to expand the capacity to nearly 55 million tons through a network of infrastructure projects for which the railway line will serve as a crucial link.“The people of Goa will fight it out to their last breath, and not allow the coalition government of BJP, Adani, Sterlite, Vedanta and Jindal to destroy our land, our wildlife sanctuaries, our environment, our health and the future of our youth,” Viriato Fernandes who is among those leading the protests said.Jindal South West (JSW) is the largest importer of coal followed by Adani and Sesa Sterlite.In a series of tweets on Thursday the Adani group distanced itself from the projects claiming that it was “no way connected to the existing issues in Goa pertaining to the expansion of the Highway and Railway Lines.”While claiming that its share of coal handling was only 10% of the total at Mormugao Port, the group in a statement claimed that “the ongoing issue is a politically driven agenda with vested interests that is misleading people.”The Goa government has responded to the protests by initially claiming that the opposition was funded from outside the state, that projects were in the interest of Goa and more recently trying to reassure the protesters that the coal capacity will not be enhanced, and that the projects would benefit the state.“Goa will not be a coal hub at all. This is a strong statement which I want to say on behalf of the government. There is an apprehension created in the minds of the people of Goa and expats across the world, that more coal will be brought to Goa. Currently, 10 to 12 million tons of coal is being imported annually. This will not increase. Government will look to make sure that the (quantum) will not increase,” Goa environment minister Nilesh Cabral said.The railways have justified locating the project in forest land saying that there is no alternative as the alignment invariably has to pass through the protected area and that the existing single railway line is saturated. The authorities also announced mitigation measures in the form of four underpasses to allow for wildlife crossing for the railway project and elevated viaduct at 13 locations for the highway, which activists say are not nearly enough.Environmentalists have also pointed to other inconsistencies -- the highway expansion through the protected forests on the Karnataka side has been shelved with the NHAI agreeing to keep the highway of the same width leaving activists wondering why the same concessions couldn’t be given to Goa.In response to the protests, the Goa government has filed an FIR against unknown persons for unlawful assembly .“If the government is thinking of arresting a common man for unlawful assembly then I demand the govt representatives be arrested too, for bypassing laws to build projects within a legally protected forest area,” stated Lorraine Fernandes, a protester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stir-to-save-mollem-rages-on-in-goa/story-fHkXkuAKy32O3kFwgR1UhP.html
09-11-2020||India||11-year-old minor girl raped by father’s friend in Vijay Nagar||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father’s 42-year-old friend at her home in outer Delhi’s Vijay Vihar on Saturday afternoon, police said. Police have arrested the man and registered a case against him.The man fled from the crime scene after a woman in the neighbourhood saw him sexually assaulting the girl and raised an alarm. He was later caught from outer Delhi, said the police.“We registered a case of rape under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He is a friend of the girl’s father,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra.Police said that the girl lives with her parents and younger brother at their home in Vijay Vihar. Her father is a mason while the mother is a home maker. Her mother had gone to her village for some work.Police said that on Saturday morning, the child’s father had left for work, leaving his two children at home. Around 1 pm, the friend of the girl’s father reached home and forced himself on her while her brother was sleeping.“The girl’s medical examination was done and she was counselled,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-year-old-minor-girl-raped-by-father-s-friend-in-vijay-nagar/story-v5X2kArxu2yX0ZN6J89QEK.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: Tasting ‘snow’ in old Delhi||It’s just another smoggy morning in the Walled City’s Galli Chooriwallan street. Some people are in masks, many are not. Lazy dogs are snoozing under vegetable carts, and greedy cats are eyeing rejects of meat by the butcher shops.And suddenly, Sanjay Kumar appears with his cart. It has a huge platter filled with a mound of white snow-like substance, topped with what looks like egg yolk. There’s nothing eggy about it though. This is one of Delhi’s most fabled dessert, which appears in winter only.Daulat ki Chaat is more an idea than a dessert. Much romance is attached to its making. One legend is that the milk is whisked under a full moon sky, and that the morning dew sets the resulting froth. A truly well-made version—and that’s rare to find— is so light that it feels like a whisper to the palate. Toss a spoonful of the dish into the mouth and it disappears, like the first snow on the pavement of cities lucky enough to get snowfall. The lingering sweetness is as delicate as a cobweb’s fabric.Made of buffalo milk, Daulat ki Chaat seems to belong to the street — as if it were reluctant to be pro-establishment. You are not likely to see it in mithai shops or in table-and-chair eateries. Sold exclusively on wooden carts or on three-legged mobile stands (called tarona), its sellers are mostly natives from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Roaming about in Galli Chooriwallan, Sanjay Kumar explains he is from Chandausi in UP. Mr Kumar lives with family in nearby Sitaram Bazaar. Every morning he wakes up at three and whisks cream with milk for four hours. Nothing is added into the mixture, he insists, not even sugar. The great froth builds up some hours later. At daybreak, Mr Kumar leaves his house and makes several rounds across the Walled City bylanes. The cart holds 15 kilograms of the dessert, the snow-white surface of which is coloured with golden-yellow saffron, green pistachio nuts and sometimes decorated with (edible) silver foil. Sold for Rs50 a plate, the froth, just before being served to the customer, is dusted with boora (ground sugar) and roasted khoya (condensed milk).Eaten with a wooden spoon, the first sensation is that of licked butter. That impression instantly dissolves. A moment later, the senses dance with flavours of pistachio, saffron and khoya. If you don’t take another spoon quickly, the taste vanishes.Since this cloud of cream melts in high temperature, Daulat ki Chaat vendors are sighted only in winter, from Diwali festival in November to Holi in March. Hawked in the congested alleys of Chandni Chowk, Kinari Bazaar and Chawri Bazaar – amid dust, fumes and flies – the dessert, covered with muslin, proves that beauty can survive in the most adverse circumstances, briefly.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this article gave an incorrect figure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-tasting-snow-in-old-delhi/story-IEvlOsczQubI3BZ7Jnf9lM.html
09-11-2020||India||City’s Covid surge chokes NCR of hospital beds||Noida-resident Bhanupratap Singh stood in queue for hospital admission at Sir Ganga Ram hospital on Saturday. His friend’s mother had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was brought to the hospital emergency when she started having difficulty breathing. “She is still in the hospital emergency. There are no beds in the hospital; we are waiting for beds to free up so she can be admitted. I have called several private as well as government hospitals but was told that even they did not have beds. In fact, the corona app shows that there are beds available in these hospitals but when I called, I was refused,” said Singh, wishing not to give the name of the patient. “My friend’s brother had also tested positive in September and there was no problem in getting him admitted to a hospital at that time,” he added. The situation was the same for Akriti whose 65-year-old father and 62-year-old mother had both tested positive for the infection earlier this week. On Thursday, when her father’s oxygen saturation started dropping suddenly, she took him to the emergency department of a big private hospital in the city. He stayed in the hospital emergency for over 24 hours because they were unable to find an ICU bed. With Delhi reporting over 6,500 cases for five days, hospital admissions in the city have shot up. Over 81% of all the intensive care unit beds available in Delhi were occupied as of Sunday evening, according to data on the Delhi Corona app. Almost 86% of the ICU beds in five big government hospitals were occupied and 93% of those in the five big private hospital chains, according to the data.As for the total beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19, around 50% of 16,067 were occupied as of Sunday evening. “Over the last week or so, the Covid-19 admissions have shot up. And if you see the big hospitals, almost all of the patients need oxygen support, non-invasive or invasive ventilation. Those with mild symptoms are choosing to stay at home. There is a very small proportion of patients admitted to the general wards – those who are very old or have several comorbid conditions and are at a high risk of the disease taking a severe course,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. Unlike in August, when several of the Covid-19 patients were from neighbouring states, most patients in the hospital are from Delhi, he said. However, several hospitals in Delhi NCR say that many of their in-patients are from Delhi.Of 670 Covid-19 patients admitted in Gurugam hospitals, only 300 are city residents, while 144 are residents of Delhi.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said spillovers from Delhi and neighbouring regions had been anticipated earlier. “There is no cause for alarm because so far we are able to absorb this spillover… In certain hospitals, availability of beds is an issue, but there are plenty of beds available in other private and government facilities. There are no curbs on admitting patients from elsewhere,” he said. A spokesperson with a major private hospital in Gurugram, who did not wish to be identified, said that a significant number of patients from Delhi are elderly with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and past cardiac events. “They typically opt for one of three major multi-specialty hospitals in Gurugram that offer Covid-19 treatment, but are also equipped to deal with any complications arising from specific comorbidities. Many also happen to be residents of south and west Delhi, since Gurugram is easily accessible from there…,” the spokesperson said.Private hospitals in Ghaziabad have also reported increase in bed occupancy, and say that they have been admitting Covid-19 patients from Delhi as well.“Our occupancy till last week was about 65-70% and it has now gone up to about 90%. We are now getting patients from Delhi, Noida, Meerut and Bulandshahr besides the ones in Ghaziabad. It is also expected that spike in Delhi and upcoming festival season will surely lead to increase in number of cases,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital at Nehru Nagar.Apart from the 13 private hospitals with 900 Covid-19 beds, there are 576 beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals in the district.District officials said they were getting 1,100 beds readied, and have made arrangements for 43 ventilators in government and 45 ventilators in private sector hospitals for the expected surge in cases in coming weeks. Noida and Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh have enough Covid-19 beds to meet the current demand say officials, however, they are preparing for a surge in demand for ICU beds. “As of Saturday, the district has a total 64 patients in ICU of which eight are on ventilators. The average mortality rate so far for the district is 0.4%. Since there are about 1,500 vacant beds, it seems there is so far no need to increase them, but the department has already asked several private and public hospitals to keeps a few beds in reserve, just in case,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, district surveillance officer, state health department, Gautam Budh Nagar. To increase the number of beds, the Delhi government on Friday directed 22 hospitals to reserve more beds for Covid-19. This will add 1,185 more beds to the city’s then total 15,800 Covid-19 beds. The government has also been trying to challenge a Delhi high court decision that scrapped its September order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals. The problem is likely to get worse, with a committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul estimating that Delhi might see up to 15,000 cases a day during the winters. “Aggressive contact tracing and testing is a part of the reason for the current increase in the number of cases, the number of hospitalisations show that the infection is on the rise in Delhi. The third wave is the worst. Our committee had suggested creating pre-hospital facilities in banquet halls that can support patients who need some oxygen support, but with the increase in the number of patients needing intensive care, ICU beds will have to be increased in the hospitals,” said Dr Arun Gupta, a member of a committee set up by Delhi government in June beginning to help it in estimating and planning scale-up of infrastructure needed to manage Covid-19. He said the government ordering 80% reservation of ICU beds is one way to do so. “If infrastructure gets overwhelmed and people do not receive appropriate care at the right time, the mortality is likely to go up. Apart from what the private sector is doing, there are several free beds in government hospitals that can be upgraded to become ICU-like,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max hospitals. The city is likely to see a further rise in cases for now, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-s-covid-surge-chokes-ncr-of-hospital-beds/story-mFu02XoJH9rKxFLOM8LYYJ.html
09-11-2020||India||No breakthrough in 8th round of India, China military talks||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will ensure their frontline soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during the latest round of talks between senior commanders at Chushul on November 6, said a joint statement issued on Sunday.“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure their frontline troops exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation,” the statement said.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military dialogue has not led to any breakthrough, officials familiar with developments said on the condition of anonymity. The November 6 talks were the eighth dialogue between senior military commanders from the two sides.Both sides agreed to implement the consensus reached by the leaders’ of the two countries, the statement said. The two sides plan to hold the ninth round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers soon. “The two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of India-China border areas,” the statement said. Talks to resolve the border row will continue even as both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh theatre. “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues...,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-breakthrough-in-8th-round-of-india-china-military-talks/story-sibyVC2gCRj05I4L4TlGaP.html
09-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||“If I had ever been here before I would probably know just what to do; Don’t you?” That’s the opening line of Deja Vu, written by David Crosby and one of the tracks on the Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young album Deja Vu. As the number of Covid-19 cases rises in Delhi, and its satellites Gurugram, and Noida — from illness to pollution, these cities in the National Capital Region share pretty much everything, one reason why the area needs coordinated management, but that’s another story — there’s a sense that we’ve been here before. And the truth is, we have. Horror stories about the difficulties of finding a hospital bed, especially one in a critical care unit, and with a ventilator, are beginning to do the rounds in NCR again, around four months after they last did. Delhi has been recording around 7,000 cases a day on average for the past five days. That’s the highest the Capital has seen and experts expect the number to rise in coming days as the natural consequences of winter, bad air, and festive gatherings play out. The first wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic started in India in March, and has either ended or is ending now. That’s a run of eight months, punctuated by a 68-day lockdown that definitely slowed the spread of the virus. The lockdown also roiled an economy that was already not in great shape, and it is only now that some signs of recovery are emerging. Goods and Services Tax revenue has crossed the ₹1 lakh crore (or 1 trillion)-mark in October, the first time it has done so since February; the Purchase Managers’ Index for manufacturing (a lead indicator of manufacturing activity) is up; and several sectoral indicators are in the green, although it remains to be seen whether they stay there after the festive season. Like other countries that imposed lockdowns, and then lived with the debilitating economic consequences, India is likely to be reluctant to impose a second one. Much of Europe was, although many countries there, including the UK, have finally done so. These countries initially believed they could manage rising cases through focused measures, instead of a general lockdown. Many states in the US find themselves in a similar situation now as the number of cases in the country soars to unprecedented levels. The 7-day average of daily new cases in the US was almost 107,000 on Saturday night. The 7-day average of deaths is around 900, less than half of the peaks it saw in April, but US media reports say that deaths are rising in at least half the 50 states in that country. The country’s efforts to deal with the second wave will likely be crimped by the fact that the incumbent President, whose leadership during the pandemic has been questioned, may well choose to continue to disregard science and data for the two more months that he stays in charge. If the pandemic breaks in waves — and it is increasingly becoming clear that it does — then, apart from the Union territory of Delhi, the states that need watching are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Gujarat. In April and May, these were the states driving the pandemic’s early march in India. In late April, these states accounted for most of the cases in the country. All of them would do well to step up their testing, review their hospital infrastructure, and proactively enforce targeted measures (restrictions on gatherings of any kind, curfews for shops and restaurants, limits on the number of people who can work from office, and other such). Many of these regions appear to be either going slow or have entirely abandoned their sero-surveys of the population to test for Covid-19 antibodies as a way to measure the prevalence of and exposure to the infection. That data could prove invaluable now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-kAEqLKQBZQi47FvXBQ6rlN.html
09-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi congratulates US President-elect Joe Biden, admires Kamala Harris’ unwavering courage||Congratulating the US President-elect Joe Biden for his victory, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday expressed hope that under the new regime, India-US’ “close partnership” will be “beneficial to peace and development in our region and around the world”. In a separate letter, Gandhi hailed vice president-elect, Kamala Harris’s victory as triumph of “humanity, compassion and inclusiveness”, admired her “unwavering courage” and mentioned how Harris imbibed beliefs and values from her “remarkable mother”. She stressed on Harris’s unwavering support for human rights and democratic values, and heralded her win as a “triumph for Black Americans and Indian Americans”. “I admire the unwavering courage with which you have fought for your convictions -- the beliefs and values you imbibed from your remarkable mother!” she wrote. Joe Biden defeated Donald Trump to become the 46th President of the US. Kamala Harris, his running mate, is the first-ever Indian-American and Black woman vice president of the US. Gandhi’s letter to the newly-elected leaders underline India’s bipartisan friendship with the US irrespective of the political colour of the ruling dispensation. On Saturday, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi congratulated Biden in a tweet. “Like millions around the world, the Indian people have followed with great interest the course of the election during the last 12 months,” Gandhi wrote to Biden, “We were greatly reassured by your measured speeches, stress on healing divisions among the people and promotion of gender and racial equality...” “The Indian people share these concerns and we are confident that India and the US will continue to work together, as in the past decades, for the welfare of the people of both countries,” Gandhi wrote to Biden. In a separate letter to Harris, Gandhi ended the note with hopes of welcoming Harris to India soon “not just as an admired leader of a great democracy but also as a beloved daughter”. She noted that Harris’ win is also a victory for all the noble values enshrined in the American constitution -- democracy, social justice, and racial and gender equality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-congratulates-us-president-elect-joe-biden-admires-kamala-harris-unwavering-courage/story-KJZZyHXSKwbNRs16QTcgwJ.html
09-11-2020||India||Noida film city will be bigger than one in Mumbai, says Keshav Prasad Maurya||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday asserted that the proposed film city in Noida will be bigger than the one in Mumbai. He was speaking during the inauguration of the office of Film Development Council chairman Raju Srivastava. “The proposed film city in Noida will provide employment opportunities to artistes in the state. The Film Development Council is going to give a bigger film city to Uttar Pradesh than the one in Mumbai,” Maurya said. UP Law Minister Brijesh Pathak said that artistes working in the state will gain from it. Raju Srivastava said that the effort of the state government will attract filmmakers to the state and will provide them every possible facility, a statement issued by the UP Government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-film-city-will-be-bigger-than-one-in-mumbai-says-keshav-prasad-maurya/story-okjtXTtDYSAemPQ9qfF23L.html
09-11-2020||India||Central Vista redevelopment: Contractors will need to curb air, noise pollution||The next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project will require contractors to install air purifiers and keep construction noise under preset thresholds, according to tender documents seen by HT that lay down some broad guidelines for what companies must accept when they file their bids next month.This phase will involve redevelopment and restructuring the Central Vista Avenue, which includes the majority of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that are parallel to it. In addition to the air and noise pollution limits for work in this area, which is one of the Capital’s best known landmarks, the Union government has put a 300-day deadline and the work will need to be carried out in patches in order to minimise the portion of the avenue that is out of bounds at any given time.In its tender, Centre has said the bidder shall follow all green construction practices and shall get periodic green audit conducted as per extant guidelines. “The contractor will also have to install air quality monitors, required number of air purifiers to maintain air quality index below acceptable levels of PM 2.5 -- within 150 [for] up to 500m from the site of work -- during the entire construction period,” the tender documents say.Similarly, the contractor will also have to install noise monitors and take steps to keep the sound level below 90/120 dB between 6:00am to 10:00pm and 60/90 dB between 10.00pm to 6.00am. Construction firms interested in taking up the project will need to submit technical plans and financial bids on December 1. “The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with large manpower of workers, supervisors and professional engineers,” the tender document said.“The site shall be kept clean of all debris, rubbish and dirt & surplus/waste material all the time. It also includes maintenance, cleaning & de-silting the pipe lines laid by the contractor for all internal services etc executed by the contractor to the entire satisfaction of the engineer-in-charge during the maintenance periods,” the document added. These conditions appeared to take on concerns expressed by experts and activists that the redevelopment will pollute one of the cleanest parts of the city.“It is an illusion that air pollution can be managed through fixes like air purifiers. The tender for redevelopment of the Central Vista is being pushed through without a thorough assessment of the ecological footprint, social legitimacy and public health concerns,” said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.“It appears that fait accompli was built into all regulatory and legal processes ever since the timelines were announced in 2019. So inclusion of conditions to manage air pollution pays lip service to a huge health and environmental crisis that the country is facing today. And more importantly gives the signal that the central government is pushing through a massive area development project by ignoring all calls for public engagement and disclosure,” Kohli added.Whichever firm is selected, it will be responsible for comprehensive maintenance and operation for a period of 60 months after completion of construction. The second phase of the project will include the demolition of dozens of office buildings. Broadly, the plan includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are located in 30 buildings.The documents lay down some cost estimates: ₹463.10 crore of which ₹333.12 crore will be for the ‘Civil & Horticulture Component’, ₹114.46 crore for the ‘Electrical & Mechanical component’ and ₹15.51 crore for ‘Operation & Maintenance’ for five years. “This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide,” the tender document said. Site of the work will be handed over to the contractor within 15 days of being awarded the contract, the bid document said, adding that during these 15 days, the “contractor shall take up mobilization activities.”The work on the second phase is proceeding at a time when the Supreme Court is about to decide on a legal challenge against the first phase – which includes the construction of a new parliament building. The plan, being handled by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, and the entire project is slated to be finished by 2024.Tata Projects Limited emerged as the lower bidder for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex by quoting a bid of ₹861.90 crore when the financial bids for the project opened on September 16 and it was awarded the contract to construct the building on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-contractors-will-need-to-curb-air-noise-pollution/story-wq6LtSq3tztzIWkaBUsxuL.html
09-11-2020||India||After Bihar, upcoming elections in Bengal, TN will be held on schedule: Sushil Chandra||The biggest takeaway from the successful conduct of the Bihar polls is that the upcoming assembly elections can be held on schedule even if a Covid-19 vaccine is not developed in the near future, said Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra. In an interview to Deeksha Bhardwaj, Chandra, who is slated to take over as chief election commissioner next year, elaborates on the precautions taken for the first elections since the Covid-19 outbreak to ensure electoral participation.The Bihar election was the first major poll to be held during the pandemic, how was the voter turnout?We ensured that global guidelines for social distancing and sanitisation were unanimously followed. This, in turn, helped us achieve the safety of each voter against Covid-19. Nearly 57.92 per cent voters turned out for the third phase, more than the turnout in 2015, which was 56.66 per cent. Overall, we have seen an increase in electoral participation as compared to the last election, which is very heartening amid a pandemic. What challenges did you face during the election?The biggest challenge, of course, was getting voters to comply with Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and sanitisation. Safety of voters was another big challenge. Everyone assumed that the voter turnout would decrease because of the pandemic, but with the continuous efforts of SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation program is a voter-awareness program of the EC) and other initiatives undertaken by the Commission, we were able to encourage the voters to feel safe during the pandemic. How were the elections amid pandemic different?More CAPF personnel than usual were deployed for the Bihar polls. This ensured that there was not even a single case of booth capturing. In terms of expenditure related seizures, items worth of Rs. 66.41 crore were seized. These included alcohol, narcotic substances, cash and freebies. This is exponentially more than the Rs 28.82 crore-worth seizure during the 2015 assembly election and the Rs 8.1 crore-worth seizure during the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the state. What are the major take-aways from the Bihar polls?The biggest take-away has to be that even if a vaccine for Covid-19 is not developed soon, future elections in the country will be held on schedule. If the Covid-19 pandemic recedes, we will all be very happy. In case it doesn’t, guidelines similar to those put in place for Bihar will have to be observed for other upcoming elections — including those in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. It’s been a very peaceful and safe election in Bihar and that gives us immense hope. The ECI assigned a specific Covid-hour for people who had tested positive for the infection, those under quarantine and those with high temperatures. What was the impact? Over 240 Covid-19 positive patients chose to exercise their franchise and cast their ballot over the three phases. None of them used the postal ballots that were provided to them and cast their votes in person at the polling booths. Additionally, during this one hour, all polling officials were clad in PPE kits. Was the election inclusive in terms of participation from all sections?The election was an especially inclusive one with the commission setting up at least two polling stations in every assembly constituency that were run only by women. Additional arrangements were made for Covid-19 patients, senior citizens and people with disabilities. The commission also conducted an international webinar with participation from nearly 30-40 countries to showcase the arrangements it had made during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-upcoming-elections-in-bengal-tn-will-be-held-on-schedule-sushil-chandra/story-gSiwDNpphNnhcnaGRnLxpL.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’, likely to remain so on Diwali||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “severe” category on Saturday morning as farmers in Punjab and nearby regions continued to set their fields on fire to clear crop residue.The central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city’s air quality is likely to remain “severe” on Diwali as well.Experts said while meteorological conditions were “moderately” favourable for dispersion of pollutants, a “very high” number of farm fires in Punjab was the primary reason for “severe” air quality.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research(SAFAR), Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 443 this morning.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Also watch: Heavy smog In Delhi as air quality remains in ‘severe’ category PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 486 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and inhaled into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India.The levels of PM2.5, finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream, were 292 µg/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe.Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the number of farm fires in Punjab remains very high (around 4,000) which is likely to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India.It said the AQI is likely to remain in the “upper end of ‘very poor’ category on November 13 and ‘severe’ category on November 14 (Diwali)”.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum wind speed was 14 kilometres per hour on Friday and the minimum temperature 11.8 degrees Celsius.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.V K Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said, “A very large number of farm fires over Punjab is the primary reason for the severe air quality in the region.” SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was estimated at 21 per cent on Friday. It was 42 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season.Last year, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-severe-likely-to-remain-so-on-diwali/story-KNGSTLZ0zap64PGChJq40H.html
