10-11-2020||India||SCBA chief writes to top court, complains against ‘extraordinary listing’ of Arnab’s plea||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president has objected to the “extraordinary” listing of the petition filed by Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Manoranjan Goswami and has questioned the Supreme Court Secretary General to disclose whether any order or direction to list the matter was issued by the Chief Justice of India in this regard.SCBA President and senior advocate Dushyant Dave in a communication dated Tuesday to Supreme Court Secretary General Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar said, “I address this letter to you (Secretary General) as the President of the SCBA to lodge strong protest with regard to the subject matter which has been listed for tomorrow (Wednesday)… I am not writing this letter to anyway interfere in with his (Goswami’s) rights to move the Supreme Court….The serious issue here is selective listing of matters that the Registry under your leadership is indulging in for last eight months during the Covid-19 pandemic.”The communication (though not on official letterhead) said, “It is deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Mr Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly.” Dave complained that he received complaints from several advocates on record (AoR) that the “matters filed by them are not getting listed for weeks and months though very urgent and involving serious issues requiring the Court’s urgent intervention including Bail matters.”Goswami had approached the apex court against an order of the Bombay High Court passed on Monday refusing interim bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Dave stated, “The subject matter was filed yesterday, it got instant diary number, though not final, and it is listed tomorrow. This is a gross abuse of administrative power, whosoever has exercised it on the administrative side. It gives an impression that clients represented by certain lawyers are getting special treatment, which does not speak well of the great Institution, that the Supreme Court is.”The letter goes on to say that “it is quite well known that such extraordinarily urgent listings of matters cannot and does not take place without specific orders from the Chief Justice of India,” as he wished to know whether any specific order was issued in this regard by CJI.Without specifying which cases got listed in an extraordinary way, the SCBA President referred to the case involving the arrest of Congress leader P Chidambaram who could not get “similar speed listing” and had to spend long months in jail till the Supreme Court granted him bail. Dave questioned why this was happening despite the listing process being computerized. He also questioned how matters are getting circulated before few benches.Dave demanded that till all matters filed by various AORs with urgent listing requests prior to November 10 are listed, Goswami’s matter should not be taken up and requested to put up this letter before the bench that will take up Goswami’s case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scba-chief-writes-to-top-court-complains-against-extraordinary-listing-of-arnab-s-plea/story-Mu5wqkxVQyRDVLMiCK8MXP.html
10-11-2020||India||6 labourers killed, 10 injured as wall of under-construction factory collapses in Jodhpur||Six labourers were killed and 10 others injured after the wall of an under-construction factory collapsed in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district on Tuesday evening, police said.Search and rescue operations are underway as some more labourers are feared trapped under the debris, they said.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Umesh Ojha said the incident took place in Phase II of Basni Industrial Area.“In the evening, between 5:30 and 6:00 PM, a wall of the factory suddenly collapsed. There was a loud sound and about 15 labourers were buried under the debris,” he said.During the rescue operation, the bodies of six labourers were pulled out from the rubble. Ten labourers, who were injured, were rushed to the hospital. They are undergoing treatment at Mathura Das Mathur Hospital and AIIMS, he said.Ojha said none of the victims has been identified so far. Some of them are said to have come from other districts and working under a contractor.“We would also look into the matter with regard to any negligence by the civil contractor and register a case against him accordingly,” he said.Administration and police officials are supervising the rescue operation. Lighting arrangements have been made to facilitate the operation at night.In a tweet in Hindi, Gehlot said the news about the death of labourers was “extremely unfortunate”.The state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of each of the deceased. The probe into the matter has been handed over to the divisional commissioner, Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-labourers-killed-10-injured-as-wall-of-under-construction-factory-collapses-in-jodhpur/story-p2jSvYcGgvYqqVBCNDM60O.html
10-11-2020||India||Ahead of Diwali, Delhi food safety dept destroys 3,200 kg of spurious khoya||Ahead of Diwali, to ensure that the quality of sweets being sold in Delhi is up to the mark, the government has launched a special drive to maintain strict surveillance on the sale of Khoya and Mawa. The government’s food safety department has deputed six enforcement teams and conducted raids to prevent sale of spurious khoya. The government has also deployed mobile testing vans that are being used to create awareness in people and quickly checking raw material that seem suspicious. The enforcement teams have so far conduced five raids at Khoya Mandi auction site at Mori gate from where the khoya is distributed across Delhi. During the surveillance, officers from the food safety department have collected 188 samples to check for the quality of khoya and 25 legal samples (the results of analysis of these samples can be presented in court as evidence). Around 3,200 kg of khoya that was either spurious or thought to be so was destroyed by the teams. The government is strictly monitoring and inspecting the premises of various food businesses to ensure that the sweets are prepared in a hygienic manner. Around 130,000 food business operators have been sent emails along with attached awareness materials on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and food handling during festive seasons and check on common adulterants in sweets. “The government is very serious about the health of the people of Delhi. We are keeping a vigil on the sale of Khoya and Mawa as these are used to prepare most sweets that are in high demand during Diwali,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The department is also participating in creating awareness where over 2,500 food business operators were sensitized through 10 webinars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-diwali-delhi-food-safety-dept-destroys-3-200-kg-of-spurious-khoya/story-4s3lWgAFaDWQaz04m78n0J.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat by-election results 2020: List of winning candidates as BJP wins all 8 seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday swept the by-elections for eight assembly constituencies in Gujarat, voting for which took place on November 3. Almost all candidates won convincingly, with the margin of 4,649 in Morbi being the narrowest.Also Read | BJP juggernaut steamrolls Gujarat by-elections, wins all 8 seatsThe eight constituencies for which by-polls were held are Abdasa, Karjan, Morbi, Gadhada, Dhari, Limbdi, Kaprada and Dangs. Polling was necessitated as Congress lawmakers from these seats resigned earlier this year, with five of them joining the BJP. The five who joined the BJP were Pradyumansinh Jadeja (Abdasa), Jitu Chaudhari (Kaprada), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), JV Kakadiya (Dhari) and Akshay Patel (Karjan). All of them were fielded from the respective constituencies they had resigned from.Meanwhile, three others who resigned, did not join any party.Taking a jibe at the Congress, chief minister Vijay Rupani called the party a ‘sinking’ ship, adding that the bypoll results were just a ‘trailer’ of the assembly elections in the state which will take place in 2022.Also Read | It is trailer for upcoming elections: Gujarat CM on BJP’s lead in by-pollsThe BJP had won 100 seats in state assembly elections in 2017, with 92 being the majority mark in the 182-member assembly. The Congress, meanwhile, was the second-largest party with 77 seats.Here’s the list of BJP’s winning candidates from Tuesday’s by-poll results:1. Abdasa: Pradyumansinh Jadeja (by 36,778 votes)2. Limbdi: Kiritsinh Rana (32,050)3. Morbi: Brijesh Merja (4,649)4. Dhari: JV Kakadiya (17,209)5. Gadhada: Atmaram Parmar (23,295)6. Karjan: Akshay Patel (16,425)7. Dangs: Vijay Patel (60,095)8. Kaprada: Jitu Chaudhari (47,066)Meanwhile, runners-up on all the eight seats were from the Congress: Dr Shantilal Senghani (Abdasa), Chetan Khachar (Limbdi), Jayantilal Patel (Morbi), Suresh Kotadiya (Dhari), Mohan Solanki (Gadhada), Kiritsinh Jadeja (Karjan), Suryakant Gavit (Dangs) and Babubhai Patel (Kaprada).Results of Gujarat by-polls can also be checked by visiting the official Election Commission of India (ECI) website.Besides sweeping the Gujarat by-polls, the BJP is also doing well in Madhya Pradesh and has won by-elections in Karnataka. Like Gujarat, both Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are BJP-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-by-election-results-2020-list-of-winning-candidates-as-bjp-wins-all-8-seats/story-KFNW9DLjppFe38h3IwGLuK.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Ruling coalition retains both seats in Jharkhand and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jharkhand by-polls: 3rd member of Soren family elected in a ruling alliance showThe ruling allies Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress retained their assembly seats in the Jharkhand by-polls on Tuesday, even as Basant Soren, youngest of the three sons of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, became the third person of the political family to become a member of the current Jharkhand assembly. Read moreBJP juggernaut steamrolls Gujarat by-elections, wins all 8 seatsThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, which has won all eight assembly seats in Gujarat, termed its performance a trailer of sorts before the 2022 assembly polls whereas the Congress wondered how it could not convert the “palpable public anger” that it had claimed to have spotted, into votes. Read moreTwitter’s new feature to curb spreading of misinformation: Here’s how it will workTwitter wants you to see, retweet and like only that news that are legit and doesn’t spread misinformation. While it has been working on that front already, it’s latest efforts now come in the form of expanding “misinformation” labels on misleading tweets. As mentioned by TechCrunch, Twitter has developed a new feature that will pop up a “misleading information” label on a tweet that is already labelled as misinformation, whenever you try to like it. Read moreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC: ‘You got a huge problem’, Gautam Gambhir points out worrying factor for Delhi Capitals top orderDelhi Capitals decided to leave out Prithvi Shaw from the playing XI for the final against Mumbai Indians on Tuesday. Read moreWas Kajal from Hum Paanch a ‘90s LGBT icon’? Ekta Kapoor reacts to theory, says ‘you wish’Producer Ekta Kapoor on Tuesday responded to a social media post claiming that the character Kajal Bhai, from the popular 90s sitcom Hum Paanch, was an ‘LGBT icon’. Ekta dashed the fan’s hopes, and said that Kajal was simply a ‘non-conformist’. Read moreThey missed going to Disneyland’s roller coaster, so they build one in the backyard. WatchDue to the pandemic-induced lockdown all the Disney theme parks were closed. But that didn’t stop this family from California from making their own joyride right in the backyard. Shared on YouTube, the amazing creation by the LaRochelle family is a sight to behold. The video may make your jaw drop in surprise. Read moreBihar result: RJD, Congress raise EVM question, Election Commission respondsEven as counting of votes cast in the Bihar Assembly election continues, some Opposition parties raised questions regarding EVM safety and security. The Rashtriya Janata Dal tweeted a video claiming that vehicles laden with electronic voting machines and postal ballots entered a strongroom in Arrah without clearance. Congress’ Shatrughan Sinha retweeted the video, stating ‘one has to be careful and watch’, but added that he’s offering ‘no comments at the moment’. His son Luv Sinha, who is a candidate in the Bihar elections from Bankipur seat, said that if the NDA can’t win honestly, it would have no shame in doing whatever it takes to form the government. The Election Commission rejected all allegations against EVMs, stating that there is no doubt about the machines’ integrity. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-ruling-coalition-retains-both-seats-in-jharkhand-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7B23zVIQP3sRVjs8X0h1EK.html
10-11-2020||India||Guv Manoj Sinha urges J&K police to ensure maximum participation in DDC polls||While reviewing security arrangements ahead of the District Development Council (DDC) elections between November 28 and December 19, besides by-elections for panchayats and Urban Local Bodies, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday asked the Union Territory Police to ensure maximum participation of the people in the upcoming polls.At the outset of a virtual meeting held by Sinha, the inspector general of police, Kashmir, and district superintendents of police of Kashmir division briefed him about the preparatory measures for the ensuing elections.Stressing to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful elections, he emphasised to provide sufficient security to the participating candidates. “Also ensure maximum participation of the people in the upcoming polls. People should feel secured to cast their ballot on the election day,” Sinha said.He added that the liaison between the different security agencies should be cohesive and strong for effective actions on the ground.The district SSPs informed the lieutenant governor that all the arrangements have been made to ensure the smooth conduct of polling with the deployment of forces and other security arrangements already in place.The lieutenant governor also appreciated the Jammu and Kashmir Police. “The J-K Police is one of the finest professional forces of the country, besides it has a splendid history of valour and sacrifice. I am confident that the J&K Police is capable of dealing with the emerging situation, while maintaining a close watch on all inimical elements to ensure peace in the region,” he maintained.Jammu and Kashmir Election Commissioner K K Sharma had last week announced that the first District Development Council elections in the Union Territory will be held in eight phases between November 28 and December 19.This will be the first electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state and its bifurcation into two Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guv-manoj-sinha-urges-j-k-police-to-ensure-maximum-participation-in-ddc-polls/story-16Kcs7jJxH8zeIKCSsHKWK.html
10-11-2020||India||Greater India-UK collaboration in Indo-Pacific to be key part of roadmap for bilateral relations||Greater collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region on issues such as maritime security and climate change is set to be a key component of a 10-year roadmap being framed for the India-UK relationship, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. The two sides are not yet ready for a free trade agreement (FTA), though the enhanced trade partnership launched by commerce minister Piyush Goyal and UK secretary of state for international trade Elizabeth Truss on Monday is a step in that direction, Thompson told a virtual news briefing. The 10-year roadmap figured prominently in recent discussions in London between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and UK permanent under secretary Philip Barton, with the focus on greater cooperation on climate change, trade and investment, and defence and security. The UK is also conducting a review for a new global strategy that is expected “to point to a decisive shift towards greater engagement with the Indo-Pacific”, she said. The UK’s focus on the Indo-Pacific comes close on the heels of key steps taken by other major European states. Germany recently unveiled its Indo-Pacific policy and France has appointed its first ambassador for the region, who will work closely with India to implement a joint vision for the Indo-Pacific. “There is a lot of potential to collaborate with India in the Indo-Pacific region. Part of the UK’s new international posture is likely to be a very significant tilt around the Indo-Pacific,” Thompson said. “We have a very similar vision to India, in terms of wanting to see a free and open Indo-Pacific region that supports the rules-based international system, there is a lot of synergy there,” she said, identifying maritime security, piracy, trade and investment and climate security as potential areas for cooperation. The new enhanced trade partnership launched on Monday is aimed at addressing trade barriers and “difficult areas”, and could lead to an FTA in future. “For now, we are not yet ready to launch a formal FTA but the enhanced trade partnership is very much a stepping stone towards that,” Thompson said. The UK is the second fastest growing G20 investor in India over the past decade and bilateral trade grew by 10% last year. Since 2000, UK firms have invested nearly £22 billion in India, while the combined revenue of Indian companies in Britain has grown by 87% in the past five years. Thompson said UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab is expected to visit India in next few months, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson too is keen to come to the country. In response to a question on the UK’s position on Hong Kong, Thompson said Britain is committed to “upholding Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy [and] rights and freedoms under the ‘one country, two systems’ framework”. She added, “We have been concerned about some of the measures China has been taking in respect of Hong Kong, for example the national security law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greater-india-uk-collaboration-in-indo-pacific-to-be-key-part-of-roadmap-for-bilateral-relations/story-EcYhRSoXXGI4RlcohaQkXN.html
10-11-2020||India||AMU VC registers himself as first volunteer of Covaxin Phase-3 trial||As the trial of Covid-19 vaccine enters the third phase, AMU Vice Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday got himself registered to be the first volunteer for the Covaxin trials.The phase 3 trials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech began at JN Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) here.Prof Tariq Mansoor volunteered himself to motivate and inspire others to come forward, an AMU spokesman said.Covaxin Phase 3 trial is aimed at evaluating the safety and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine study led in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech, he said.Seeking active participation from all age groups and socio-economic background in the clinical trials, the AMU VC said, “By volunteering for a trial or study, one get a chance to participate in ground breaking research and contribute to developing better cure and treatment options.” JNMCH principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui said an ethical committee comprising doctors, social workers and lawyers, has already been constituted to manage the clinical trials. He said the required staff for conducting the vaccine trial has been recruited and the registration of volunteers has also been started from Tuesday.Principal Investigator Prof Mohammad Shameem said ICMR Covaxin Phase 3 trial is going on after the Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials showed encouraging results.Volunteers who will undergo the Phase 3 trial will receive travel expenses and other benefits as per ICMR guideline, AMU spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-vc-registers-himself-as-first-volunteer-of-covaxin-phase-3-trial/story-vVt2shvZ9NW7RpmS4KzgGO.html
10-11-2020||India||Govt making pensioners ‘atmanirbhar’ by promoting digital life certificates: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said the government is trying to make pensioners “atmanirbhar” by promoting the digital life certificate which can also be given from the comfort of one’s home. Due to the difficulties faced by the pensioners earlier in submitting the life certificate because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has relaxed the existing timeline for submission from November 1 to December 31 this year, he said.“Under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW) is trying to make the pensioners ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) by promoting the digital life certificate for pensioners which can be given from the comfort of one’s home also,” Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said.Addressing an interactive session of Brahma Kumari Sister Shivani on “Power of Thoughts and Meditation in Covid-19 pandemic” organised by the DoPPW here, he said pensioners, as senior citizens being the most vulnerable group in the wake of the pandemic, need a helping hand and compassionate ears in addition to medical care. Such programmes will help them tackle their mental stress levels thus protecting them from physical illness as well, he said.Singh said that senior citizens always have a lot to offer to the society and their valuable experiences can bring changes to the society, according to a Personnel Ministry statement. The key to happiness is being grateful for all that we have and to be self-content which is enshrined in all ancient scriptures and now it has also been acknowledged by science that mental and emotional well-being leads to better physical health and immunity against diseases, he said.Endorsing the thoughts on building positivity in life given by Sister Shivani in her address, the minister said that lifestyle modifications are a must in this period as one should liberate oneself from nagging thoughts. Earlier, while addressing the programme, Sister Shivani called for keeping oneself energised with positive thoughts in this period, the statement said. “Through their sanskars (values), they can take care of not only their own emotional well-being but also contribute to emotional strength of everyone else in their homes and in the society as they are the givers of unconditional emotional support, stability, hope and love to all younger members of their family and society at large,” she added. This programme was aimed at sensitising senior pensioners on mental well-being during the pandemic, the statement said. “The DoPPW has been taking extra efforts for organising programmes for addressing pensioners’ health issues, including providing counselling for Covid-19, yoga sessions for enhancing immunity and overall health, through video-conferencing connecting a large number of pensioners across India with the help of pensioners associations,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-making-pensioners-atmanirbhar-by-promoting-digital-life-certificates-jitendra-singh/story-h4QvFHdudiCssuB6CiFfUM.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: Two more Congress renegade win on BJP tickets||The ruling BJP in Gujarat on Tuesday won by elections to Morbi and Karjan Assembly seats by defeating contestants of the opposition Congress, the Election Commission said.Click here for LIVE updates on Gujarat bypollsThe BJP has already won Abdasa seat.In a tight contest in Morbi seat, BJP’s Brijesh Merja emerged victorious against his nearest Congress rival Jayantilal Patel by a margin of 4,649 votes.Merja was polled 64,711 votes while Patel secured 60,062 votes.In the 2017 assembly poll, Merja, who had contested on a Congress ticket, had defeated five-time BJP MLA Kantilal Amrutiya.Also Read | Gujarat bypolls: Congress turncoat wins Abdasa seat on BJP ticketIn Karjan constituency in Vadodara district, BJP’s Akshay Patel, also a Congress turncoat, won by a margin of 16,425 votes against Congress nominee Kiritisinh Jadeja.Patel garnered 76,958 votes, while Jadeja could secure 60,533 votes.In the rest five seats, out of the total eight constituencies for which by elections were held on November 3, the BJP has established a dominant lead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-two-more-congress-renegade-win-on-bjp-tickets/story-TrnJokrlM3n2mvCyuLIEXJ.html
10-11-2020||India||ICMR clears new test for Covid-19, Kochi lab to ramp up production||With ICMR listing the faster and accurate RT Lamp technology for confirmatory testing of Covid-19 in labs across India, a Kochi-based company Tuesday said it will make available over 10 lakh tests of reagents and supportive equipment in the coming months to augment the nation’s continuing fight against coronavirus.Kochi-based Agappe Diagnostics Ltd (ADL), claimed to be the first company to roll out this technology in India, said in a release it will work closely with the Centre and state governments in their efforts to increase the rate of testing to tackle the spread of the pandemic.“RT Lamp-based test kits can provide accurate test results in the shortest possible turnaround time and at competitive rates. This will relieve the public health sector from the heavy burden of test result backlogs,” company Managing Director Thomas John said.“It will also address the system overload caused by slower results from other confirmatory testing processes for covid,” he said while launching commercial production of the RT Lamp-based equipment and reagent through virtual conference here.He noted that in recent days, test rates across the states have been fluctuating and the number of Covid cases have crossed one crore as on Monday, indicating that conducting more and more tests was the only alternative before the country.“The listing of RT Lamp technology for Covid testing makes it possible for laboratories located in rural India to adopt this test protocol with the minimum investment in infrastructure and logistics,” John said.He said the RT Lamp-based Tests will help reduce backlogs in testing patients for Covid-19 because the process can identify positive samples in 10 minutes.The equipment can be easily handled by lab personnel as it is simple and compact in nature, John said.The first unit of RT Lamp equipment, under the brand name Mispa Lume, was handed to Dr Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer and promoter, Metropolis Kerala, by D M Vasudevan, well-known medical academician and Director and head of the R&D of Agappe.The company officials said Agappe Diagnostics is the first company in India to get ICMR validation for its Covid test kits based on RT Lamp technology with a specificity of 100 per cent and sensitivity of 98.7 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-clears-new-test-for-covid-19-kochi-lab-to-ramp-up-production/story-HH2nzN75UBDUFtGi8LfbhO.html
10-11-2020||India||Fire breaks out in Kolkata’s Topsia area, 20 shanties gutted||Around 20 shanties were completely gutted in a major fire which broke out in the city’s Topsia area on Tuesday afternoon, a fire department official said. At least six fire tenders were pressed into service to control the blaze, which was first spotted around 3.30pm, he said.“No one was injured in the fire. Our officers are trying their best to douse the flames,” the official added.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-kolkata-s-topsia-area-20-shanties-gutted/story-XzAQ2y44af8S6KjH6qyekJ.html
10-11-2020||India||Jats, Muslims renew quota demand amid Gurjar agitation in Rajasthan||Groups from the Jat and Muslim communities in Rajasthan have renewed their demand for reservations, amid ongoing agitations in the state by Gurjars for quota in government jobs and educational institutions. The protest by members of the Gurjar community, who have blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Pilupura and the Hindaun-Bayana road, entered its tenth day on Tuesday after talks between its leaders and the Rajasthan government remained inconclusive on Monday. Leaders from the Jat community in Bharatpur and Dholpur districts have decided to hold ‘mahapanchayats’ at different places to discuss the course of action to get reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. The first of these meetings will be held in Bharatpur district’s Pathena village on November 18. “We will hold ‘mahapanchayats’ at different locations starting November 18 and take a decision. If the government wants to hear us through agitations, then we will do a ‘chakka jam’ after a decision taken in the ‘mahapanchayats’,” Jat Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti convener Nem Singh Faujdar said. The state government should recommend to the Centre to give Jats of these two districts reservation in the Central OBC list, he said, adding that Jats of other districts of the state have already got quota. The Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur districts were excluded from the Central OBC (other backward classes) list after a March 2015 Supreme Court order, and then from the state OBC list following a Rajasthan High Court ruling in August that year. In 2017, the Vasundhara Raje-led government had extended reservation to Jats of these two districts under the state OBC list, but they are yet to be included in the central list. The Muslim Minority Development Committee (MMDC), which has written to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on the reservation issue, has demanded 10 per cent quota for backward Muslim castes. “Muslim OBCs fare worse than other OBCs in education and social backwardness. Separate reservation for Muslim OBCs in education and services should be given in the state on the lines of Karnataka,” MMDC secretary general Yunus Ali Khan said. The Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Bayana’s Pilupura and Hindaun-Bayana road has been blocked by members of the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti over reservation for the community. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government should get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jats-muslims-renew-quota-demand-amid-gurjar-agitation-in-rajasthan/story-zbZHUmPiEUaIkna338srdO.html
10-11-2020||India||Raj mayoral polls: Cong wins in 4 corporations, BJP wins 2||The ruling Congress on Tuesday won the mayoral polls in four corporations of Rajasthan, while the BJP won the seat in two corporations. Elected ward councilors on Tuesday voted to elect the mayors of six municipal corporations of three cities, including Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota.The BJP and Congress workers came face to face during the polls in Kota. The police had to use mild force to control the situation.“I strongly condemn the police lathicharge on Congress workers and journalists in Kota. I hope that the top police officers will take strict action against those responsible in this case,” Congress state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted.According to the State Election Commission, Saumya Gurjar of BJP defeated Divya Singh of Congress in Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation, while Munesh Gurjar of Congress won in Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation defeating Kusum Yadav of BJP. Similarly, Kunti Parihar of Congress was elected mayor of Jodhpur North Municipal Corporation defeating Sangeeta Solanki of BJP. In Jodhpur South corporation, BJP’s Vanita Seth became the mayor after defeating Pooja Pareek of Congress. Manju Mehra of Congress won the mayoral election in Kota North Municipal Corporation defeating Santosh Bairwa of BJP. In Kota South Municipal Corporation, Rajiv Agarwal of Congress won by defeated BJP’s Vivek Rajvanshi.Elections were recently held for a total of 560 wards in the newly formed cities Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jaipur North, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. The Congress got a clear majority in Jodhpur North and Kota North municipal corporations, while the BJP got the lead in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South municipal corporations.The polls to elect deputy mayors of these municipal corporations will be held on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-mayoral-polls-cong-wins-in-4-corporations-bjp-wins-2/story-dA3JsZ1Pd8lJKYbLBnngUP.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab CM announces 2-hour window for use of green firecrackers on Diwali, Gurpurab||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a two-hour window for the use of green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurab, with curb for Christmas too, except in Mandi Gobindgarh where a total ban is imposed from midnight of November 9-10 till November 30-December 1 midnight due to the poor Air Quality Index (AQI) levels.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed cities and towns in India with ‘moderate’ air quality (or below) to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings to burst them during festivals.The NGT published its November 5 order on Monday that specified that average air quality for each city was to be calculated for November 2019 and then declared whether it was ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ or otherwise. For NCR and those cities with ‘poor’ (or worse) air quality, the NGT directed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers from November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, which would be reviewed thereafter.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor. Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution.To address the issue of pollution which could aggravate the Covid-19 situation, NGT said the timings for bursting crackers other than green ones be restricted to two hours during festivals for cities and towns with ‘moderate’ air quality, as may be specified by the state concerned. “If nothing is specified by the state, timing will be 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, 6am to 8am on Chatt and 11.55 pm to 12.30 am during Christmas and New Year’s Eve. All states may initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of potential of aggravation of Covid-19,” read the order.The chief secretaries and director-general of police were directed to issue orders with enforcement guidelines, while pollution control boards were asked to monitor air quality status during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-announces-2-hour-window-for-use-of-green-firecrackers-on-diwali-gurpurab/story-F6Yzr5refnLsQQnwSrmhFM.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP releases 1st list of candidates for J-K DDC polls||The BJP has released the first list of candidates for the upcoming District Development Council polls to be conducted on party basis in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.Meanwhile, the parties of Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), that is jointly contesting the polls, have decided that the alliance candidates will contest the upcoming polls on their respective party symbols.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said that the first list of the candidates for the DDC and panchayat polls has been released by the party high command.“In the first list, total 72 names were announced; 35 candidates from Jammu and 37 candidates from Kashmir, who will be the party candidates for the DDC polls,” Thakur said.Earlier, chairman PAGD, Farooq Abdullah said that the parties of the alliance will put up candidates on all the seats. “PAGD candidates will be contesting polls on the ticket of the parties in the alliance they belong to,” he said.Abdullah had also said that Congress will also be part of the PAGD alliance after his meeting with J&K Congress president on Sunday.Bihar Election Results: Full coverageOn November 7, PAGD leadership held a meeting in winter capital Jammu where it was decided that the alliance parties will jointly contest these polls. “Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded and plundered by divisive forces,” the PAGD spokesman Sajjad Lone had said, while announcing that the Gupkar alliance had unanimously decided to fight the DDC elections.Besides National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples Conference, the CPI (M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018.Also Read: BJP wins both Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in KarnatakaMeanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, reviewed the security arrangements for the DDC election and by-elections for Panchayats and urban local bodies (ULB) on Tuesday.Advisor to L-G, RR Bhatnagar; chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam, secretary, home, Shaleen Kabra, director general of police, Dilbag Singh, ADGPs and IG Jammu were present in the meeting. IG Kashmir, DIGs, SSPs and other senior police officers from Kashmir division attended the meeting via video conferencing.Sinha stressed upon the officers to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful elections. He emphasized on providing sufficient security to the participating candidates besides ensuring maximum participation of the people.“People must be facilitated during these elections so that they feel secure to cast their ballot on the particular election day,” the L-G said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-releases-1st-list-of-candidates-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-gUn0k0JB1hitfvvncjfxtM.html
10-11-2020||India||EVMs absolutely robust and tamper-proof: EC||Against the backdrop of some leaders questioning the reliability of EVMs, the Election Commission (EC) asserted on Tuesday that the machines are “absolutely robust and tamper-free”.After the ruling NDA took a lead over the opposition Grand Alliance in the poll trends for Bihar on Tuesday, Congress leader Udit Raj raised questions on the reliability of EVMs, asking why the machines cannot be hacked if satellites can be controlled from the earth.But another Congress leader, Karti Chidambaram, said the electronic voting machine (EVM) system is robust, accurate and dependable.“This has always been my view. I stand by it. There have been doubters of the EVM from across political parties, particularly when the results don’t go in their favour. Till now no one has demonstrated scientifically their claims. Whatever be the outcome of any election, it’s time to stop blaming the EVM. In my experience, the EVM system is robust, accurate and dependable,” he tweeted.Responding to a question on doubts being raised by some politicians, Deputy Election Commissioner in-charge of EVMs Sudip Jain told reporters here that the machines are absolutely robust and tamper-proof.“It has been clarified time and again that EVMs are absolutely robust and tamper-proof. Even the Supreme Court has upheld their integrity more than once,” he said.Click here for live updates on Bihar Assembly election resultsJain recalled that in 2017, the commission had offered an “EVM challenge” to political parties.“The integrity of EVMs is absolutely without any doubts and merits no other clarification,” he said.Udit Raj asked if Donald Trump could have lost in the US presidential polls had EVMs been used.“If the direction of satellites to Mars and Moon can be controlled from the earth, then why can’t EVM be hacked,” he wrote on Twitter.“If elections were held in America with EVMs, could Trump have lost,” he asked.Udit Raj is the Congress party’s national spokesperson. He is a former BJP MP from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evms-absolutely-robust-and-tamper-proof-ec/story-PtvrrnAGXURg4Or8vBk7QI.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP wins both Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in Karnataka||Celebrations broke out in the Karnataka unit of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party after it registered comfortable wins in both the Raja Rajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) and Sira assembly seats which went to by-polls on November 3.In RR Nagar, Congress turncoat and BJP candidate Munirathna won by a comfortable margin of 57,936 votes defeating his nearest Congress rival H Kusuma. JDS candidate Krishnamurthy came in a poor third.While Munirathna polled 125,734 votes, Kusuma got 67,798 and Krishnamurthy got 10,251 votes. For Munirathna who resigned his seat and crossed over to BJP helping the saffron party topple the 14-month-old Congress-JDS coalition government in the state it was a hat-trick victory having registered wins in two earlier polls too from the seat. The CM during the poll campaign had promised that Munirathna would be made a minister after winning the by-polls. However, it was the upset win in Sira seat which has brought much cheer to the ruling party. BJP had never even been a runner-up in this seat. In the by-poll, however, Dr Rajesh Gowda the BJP candidate defeated Congress party’s five time MLA and former minister T B Jayachandra by a margin of 12,949 votes. Surprisingly, the regional JD(S) which held the seat before the untimely death of its MLA B Satyanarayana due to Covid-19 leading to the by-poll - came in a poor third.BJP’s winning candidate Rajesh Gowda got 74,522 votes, while Jayachandra of Congress got 61,573 votes and JD(S) nominee Ammajamma the wife of the deceased MLA Satyanaryana got a mere 35,982 votes. In his first reaction to the defeat, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said, “While we accept the verdict, it is well known that by-polls tend to favour the ruling party. There is no question of being disheartened. We will continue to oppose the anti-people policies of the BJP government.”BJP state unit vice president and CM Yediyurappa’s son, B Y Vijayendra who led the party campaign especially in Sira warned the opposition parties saying, “At least now they should stop practicing politics of caste. Opposition parties’ money and liqour politics has been rejected by people. Everybody cutting across, caste and class lines have accepted the leadership of Yediyurappa.” Political analyst Manjunath said that while by-polls traditionally tend to favour the ruling party, BJP’s win in the Sira seat was commendable. “This could prolong Yediyurappa’s hold on the reins of the government. It is a setback for the Congress specially the margin of defeat in RR Nagar. It is a wipe-out for the JD(S) which is staring at dis-integration if it continues its poor run.”The results of four graduates and teachers constituencies for the upper house in the state, where BJP does not enjoy a majority is awaited as counting is still on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-both-sira-and-rr-nagar-assembly-by-polls-in-karnataka/story-mLDBoxVWW12BvKZULBdsVL.html
10-11-2020||India||Have always been at the forefront to fight for the nation: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference President Farooq Abdullah announced late Monday that the constituents of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest the upcoming election to District Development Councils in Jammu and Kashmir on their respective party symbols because allotment of combined symbol may not be possible at this advanced stage of the poll process. “Now very little time is left and therefore the alliance partners would contest on their own party symbols but they will be the joint candidates of the PAGD,” Farooq Abdullah told reporters in Kathua.The NC patriarch who has been under fire for recent comments, said those indulging in vicious campaigns against him may have nothing to say about the strong defence put forth by him along with Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a United Nations event in Geneva. “When it comes to fighting for the nation, I have always been in the forefront,” he said.He also said that dubbing him as anti-national was nothing new. The NC chief said that the PAGD’s fight is not against the nation but it is to oppose a certain party that has brought the country to an impasse by dividing the communities and driving a wedge between them. He said he has always opposed divisive politics of the BJP, as he believes in the India of Mahatma Gandhi, which is inclusive, based on the spirit of respect for all, harmony and tranquility. He said India belongs to all, irrespective of region, religion or colour and those trying to trample this glorious and unique ethos were enemies of the nation. To a question on the US elections, he said he hoped that the new regime will clear the mess across the world created during the tenure of Donald Trump. He said the irrational and reactionary politics has no place in democracy. “Like the US, a change is sure to take place in India also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-always-been-at-the-forefront-to-fight-for-the-nation-farooq-abdullah/story-6R7WSScwkoPdXhBW3Uj8eK.html
10-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate office-cum-residential complex of ITAT’s Cuttack bench on Nov 11||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a state-of-the-art office-cum-residential complex of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in Odisha’s Cuttack on Wednesday, according to an official statement.According to the Ministry of Law and Justice, the inaugural function will be virtually attended by Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dharmendra Pradhan, and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Chief Justice and Judges of Orissa high court, ITAT President Justice PP Bhatt, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman PC Modi and other officials.Briefing the media regarding the inauguration, Justice Bhatt said that the ITAT Cuttack has been functioning from rented premises since 1970 for almost 50 years and has jurisdiction for appeals arising from the State of Odisha.“So, the inauguration of this complex will help Cuttack bench of ITAT in imparting justice to the needy. With the e-court facility provided in the new building with good connectivity facility, the Cuttack bench will be able to hear and dispose of even the appeals pending with other benches in the Kolkata Zone which are presently non-functional such as Ranchi, Patna and Guwahati,” he added.While mentioning the performance of ITAT during the Covid-19 pandemic, ITAT President said that The ITAT has set up virtual court at all the benches across the country.“ITAT has been effectively using these facilities to conduct ‘virtual hearings’ during the lockdown period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During this period, ITAT has disposed of 7,251 cases as against 3,778 cases filed. He told that ITAT is making extensive use of technology to make justice more accessible to people,” Justice Bhatt said.“A new e-filing portal is ready which shall facilitate e-filing of appeals, documents and other applications by the litigants. Physical notice boards are being replaced by digital screens displaying the constitution of benches, cause lists and other information. E-office workplace solutions are being implemented. With the e-court facility provided in the new building with good connectivity facility, the Cuttack bench will be able to hear and dispose of even the appeals pending with other benches in the Kolkata Zone which are presently non-functional such as Ranchi, Patna and Guwahati,” he added.On this occasion, an e-coffee table book on ITAT along with an e-book on ‘Reforms in Direct Taxes since 2014’, will also be released.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-office-cum-residential-complex-of-itat-s-cuttack-bench-on-nov-11/story-Ve88O9s9OwCoTz4wfWlmrJ.html
10-11-2020||India||On Pfizer’s big announcement, India says in touch with all Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday India’s national expert group on the Covid-19 vaccine administration is in conversation with all vaccine manufacturers, including domestic and foreign. When asked if India was conducting discussions with Pfizer regarding its vaccine against Covid-19, the health ministry’s Rajesh Bhushan said, “The national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine administration is in dialogue with all vaccine manufacturers including domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers.”Bhushan’s comment came after US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer on Monday announced that its vaccine against coronavirus disease, which is jointly being developed with BioNTech SE, was more than 90 per cent effective based on Phase 3 trial.India’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 8.59 million, according to the Union health ministry’s data. In the last 24 hours, India reported 38,073 new Covid-19 cases and 448 fresh fatalities, taking the death toll to 127,059.The current Covid-19 tally stands at 8,591,730 in the country. India so far has lodged over 7.9 million recoveries from the coronavirus disease, the highest recovery count in the world, the health ministry further said.“In India, recovered cases have crossed 79 lakhs, which is the highest in the world. On average, 51,476 cases have recovered daily in the last week,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary of the Union health ministry.Meanwhile, India has so far conducted nearly 12 crore tests for Covid-19. “More than 11.96 crore Covid-19 tests conducted till now; more than 11 lakh tests conducted daily during last week. Daily positivity rate during last week recorded at 4.2 per cent,” the health ministry said.“India’s Covid tests are the second-highest in the world. If we take the last two weeks figures, we’re testing more than any other country in the world. So, we should look at the brighter side of the current situation in testing,” the ministry added.According to the data provided by the health ministry on Tuesday, 54 per cent of new Covid-19 cases reported in last 24 hours are from six states and Union territories, including Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pfizer-s-big-announcement-india-says-in-touch-with-all-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers/story-sQ66ZS8so95hGL4JkxOvvK.html
10-11-2020||India||Haryana by-poll win for Congress reinforces Hooda’s clout among Jats||The opposition Congress retained the Baroda assembly seat in Haryana by securing a fourth consecutive victory from this rural Jat dominated seat since 2009 assembly polls.The Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal, 40, who comes from Rindhana village defeated BJP candidate and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt by 10, 566 votes. Dutt bagged 50,070 votes, while Narwal got 60,636 votes. The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Joginder Singh Malik, who performed slight better than in the 2019 assembly polls, bagged only 5,003 votes while the Loktantra Suraksha party chief Raj Kumar Saini failed to make a mark on the Jat turf and got only 5,611 votes. Both Malik and Saini failed to save their security deposit. A total 469 votes were polled for None of the above (NOTA) voting options on the EVM.The by-poll was a battle of prestige for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who managed to guard his bastion and demonstrate his influence, particularly in the Deswali belt. Narwal’s win took the Congress tally to 31 in the state assembly.Yogeshwar Dutt has witnessed the second consecutive defeat from Baroda seat after joining the saffron party having quit as deputy superintendent of police (DSP) last year.Bihar Election Results: Full coverageIn the 2019 assembly elections, Sri Krishan Hooda of the Congress got 42,566 votes, defeating Yogeshwar Dutt, who bagged 37,726 votes and INLD’s Joginder Malik, who got only 3,145 votes.Reacting to his defeat, Dutt said he will introspect on the reason for losing the election.“I want to thank my party leadership for reposing faith and fielding me again from this seat. The Baroda voters have given me more love and affection than the previous election,” he added. Also Read: BJP’s Dubbak by-poll win serves a warning to TRS in TelanganaIndu Raj Narwal dedicated his win to party workers and farmers.“I got my nomination due to Bhupinder Singh Hooda. This is a joint win of Hooda sahab and farmers, who are fighting against this arrogant government. Deepender Hooda and Bhupinder Singh Hooda fought my election and ensured a thumping majority,” he added.The Baroda assembly seat recorded a turnout of 68% during voting on November 3. There were 14 candidates in the fray from the constituency. The seat fell vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda, who had won the seat thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-by-poll-win-for-congress-reinforces-hooda-s-clout-among-jats/story-YUPbCKzjJu31bTSqcDsDPO.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: Congress turncoat wins Abdasa seat on BJP ticket||BJP’s Pradhyumansinh Jadeja on Tuesday defeated his nearest Congress rival Shantilal Senghani by a margin of 36,778 votes from Abdasa Assembly seat in Kutch district of Gujarat, the Election Commission said.Counting of votes in the rest seven seats, where bypolls were held on November 3, is underway.The ruling BJP is leading in all the seven seats.Click here for LIVE updates of Gujarat bypollsWhile Jadeja secured 71,848 votes, Senghani was polled 35,070 votes. Independent candidate Hanif Padyar garnered 26,463 votes.Jadeja had won Abdasa seat in 2017 on the Congress ticket.He was one of the five turncoat MLAs of the Congress who had joined the BJP after resigning from their parent party earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-congress-turncoat-wins-abdasa-seat-on-bjp-ticket/story-vDwt7z8hwyzcwwuizFWGTM.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UK trying to sort out Mallya extradition issue as quickly as possible and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK trying to sort out Mallya extradition issue as quickly as possibleThe UK is trying to resolve as quickly as possible the “confidential” legal issue holding up the extradition of fugitive businessman and former member of parliament Vijay Mallya to India, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. Read moreBihar election results: BJP wins Darbhanga and Keoti, emerges as single-largest party; JD(U) in third placeThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has tasted first victory in the Bihar Assembly election. Its candidates have won from Darbhanga and Keoti Assembly seats, according to Election Commission. Read moreRepeated attempts being made to bring bilateral issues into SCO agenda, says PM Modi at virtual summitWhile speaking at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit on Tuesday, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on the importance of countries respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Read moreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC Preview: Mumbai Indians favourites to retain title against upbeat Delhi Capitals“Even my mother can lead this Australian side,” former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns had famously quipped while talking about the great Australian team of the late 90s and 2000s, which went on to win three successive ICC World Cup titles and ruled the roost in Test cricket. That Australian team had an aura of invincibility around itself, which was a by-product of the unparalleled talent it had in store. It was a team that ticked every box and the opposition failed to find a chink in their armour. Read moreRanveer Singh jumps on the roof of his car, delivers important message to sea of fans. Watch videoA video of actor Ranveer Singh, up to his usual antics, is being widely shared on social media. The video shows the famously flamboyant actor, on the roof of his car, surrounded by a sea of fans. Read moreTwitter launches custom Diwali emojiTwitter today announced the launch of a customised emoji for Diwali. The new Diwali emoji can be activated with dedicated hashtags on Twitter, and it’s available in different regional languages as well. Read moreHarley-Davidson left us in the dark, say dealers on India exitAs a part of its new ‘Rewire’ strategy, Harley-Davidson confirmed its India exit in September. The news came as a shock since Harley was the first premium motorcycle brand in the country to set up shop officially and locally manufacture its bikes in India. The company dealers said in a FADA organised conference on Tuesday that they were kept in the dark regarding the company’s future plans and the news struck a huge blow as Harley-Davidson never officially informed its dealer body about its India exit. Read moreWoman bags world record title for completing largest hand-drawn maze in 3 monthsIf you loved solving mazes as a child, a video shared by Guinness World Record may amaze you thoroughly. Even if you didn’t, the intricate design and the hardwork behind the feat will leave you impressed. Read moreWatch why Donald Trump slammed Covid vaccine breakthrough claim by PfizerDonald Trump, the outgoing President of the United States of America, criticised pharma major Pfizer a day after it announced a breakthrough in its research to find a vaccine for Covid-19. The latter claimed that the vaccine it developed with BioNTech showed 90% effectiveness in preventing infection as per a study of initial evidence in the ongoing Phase 3 trial. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uk-trying-to-sort-out-mallya-extradition-issue-as-quickly-as-possible-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9kjUbkYSBVlWoNgNTOOz3O.html
10-11-2020||India||KCR announces Rs 50 lakh, house site, govt job for family of soldier killed in J-K encounter||Chief Minister of Telangana, K Chandrashekhar Rao on Tuesday announced Rs 50 lakh financial assistance to the family of Army Jawan Ryada Mahesh, who lost his life in the anti-terror operation at the Jammu and Kashmir Machil sector.The Chief Minister also said that one member of the family based on the qualification would be given a government job and a house site would also be allotted to the family. Mahesh would be remembered in history as the one who sacrificed his life for the country, said the chief minister.Ryada Mahesh of Nizamabad district in Telangana was among four Indian Army personnel who were killed in an encounter at Machil sector of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday.During the joint operation, the Indian security forces also eliminated three terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-announces-rs-50-lakh-house-site-govt-job-for-family-of-soldier-killed-in-j-k-encounter/story-5Uo3fawhVTz14gmvbovl6N.html
10-11-2020||India||Finance minister asks banks to ensure all accounts are linked with Aadhaar by March 2021||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked banks to ensure that all accounts are linked with Aadhaar numbers of respective customers by March 31, 2021.She said the financial inclusion story is not over and banks still have inclusion to carry forward. There are many accounts which are not linked with Aadhaar.“… by March 31, 2021, every account should have a PAN where needed and where applicable, and Aadhaar in every one of your accounts,” Sitharaman said while addressing the 73rd annual general meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA).She said banks should discourage non-digital payments and should bank on promotion of digital payments techniques and also adopt many of the UPI driven payments.“UPI should be a common parlance word in all our banks,” the finance minister said, adding that banks should promote RuPay cards.“Whoever needs the card, RuPay will be the only card you will promote,” she said.Sitharaman also said that the country is thirsting for large banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-asks-banks-to-ensure-all-accounts-are-linked-with-aadhaar-by-march-2021/story-PPc7iwjM8SW1Lp73S5oygP.html
10-11-2020||India||Gurjar stir for quota continues in Rajasthan, police book 223 agitators||The Gurjar agitation for reservation continued for the 10th day on Tuesday with protesters blocking Mumbai-Delhi railway tracks at Peelupura in Bharatpur even as police registered cases against 223 agitators for blocking train movements, officials said. Talks between Gurjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla and Rajasthan’s sports and youth affairs minister Ashok Chandna remained inconclusive on Monday.“Our agitation continues after the Rajasthan government failed to fulfil our demands. Minister Ashok Chandna didn’t give us anything in writing about our demands,” said Gurjar leader Vijay Bainsla. The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti is demanding that the Rajasthan government get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process. Vijay Bainsla also warned that the anger of the youth could take the agitation towards violence.“If our demands are not accepted, the government will force us to celebrate Diwali on the railway tracks. I can’t say anything about the intensity of the agitation because the youth of the community are angry and they can do anything,” Vijay Bainsla said. “The minister brought cheques for the widows of those who were killed in the last agitation. The talks were held in a positive atmosphere. But Chandna did not commit us anything in writing,” he said. The samiti is demanding ₹5 lakh compensation each to families of three people who died during the last Gurjar agitation. Police registered cases against 223 agitators including Gurjar leaders Vijay Bainsla and Bhura Bhagat for gathering 2,000-3,000 protesters on railway tracks and blocking road traffic. The cases were registered at Bayana police station under sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005, Rajasthan Epidemics Act 2000, Rajasthan State Highways Act and the Railway Act, officials said. Bharatpur district collector Nathmal Didel said, “All efforts were made by the government to convince Gurjar leaders to call off the stir and leave the railway tracks, but they remained adamant on agitation.” The agitation has disrupted the movement of 80-85 trains on the Mumbai-Delhi line since November 1. Deewan Shergarh, a member of the committee formed by 80 Gurjar villages in Bayana block, said, “Government has done everything to convince Kirori Singh Bainsla, but he wants to take the community on the wrong track. Government has fulfilled all 14 demands during talks with a 41-member Gurjar delegation in Jaipur before the start of the agitation.” After a meeting with the Gurjar delegation in Jaipur, a three-member ministerial subcommittee said it had conceded three demands – writing to the Centre again for the Ninth Schedule, ₹ 5 lakh compensation to families of three people who died during Gurjar agitation and regularising the pay of 1,252 government employees who got jobs under the MBC category||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurjar-stir-for-quota-continues-in-rajasthan-police-book-223-agitators/story-cscQ2Lrm1ajr5rxSzLhYkO.html
10-11-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla holds bilateral meetings with Maldivian leadership||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday held a series of meetings with the Maldivian leadership and the Opposition and discussed ways to further strengthen India’s relations with the island nation, and reviewed progress of key infrastructure projects under the USD 1.3 billion bilateral package.Shringla, who is on a two-day visit to Maldives, held a joint meeting with minister for national planning, housing and infrastructure Mohamed Aslam, minister of economic development Fayyaz Ismail and minister of finance Ibrahim Ameer.On Monday, Shringla also called on President of Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and Speaker of the People’s Majlis Mohamed Nasheed.“FS@harshvshringla held a joint-meeting with Minister for National Planning, Housing & Infra Dvpt @AslamAslamtey Minister of Economic Dvpt@faya_i& Minister of Finance @iameeru; they assessed progress in 8 infrastructure projects part of the $1.3 billion bilateral package,” the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted.India is carrying out a wide-range of infrastructure projects in Maldives, including Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) and other projects such as port, roads and reclamation, expansion of airports, building of a new Cricket Stadium and cancer hospital and development of fisheries.Shringla also met Maldivian Home Minister and leader of the Adaalath Party Imran Abdulla and sought the party’s cooperation in further strengthening the bilateral relations.The religious conservative Adaalath party is part of the Maldivian Democratic Party-led ruling coalition.“Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla @HarshShringla met Home Minister & leader of the Adaalath Party @ShimranAb; FS sought continuing cooperation of the Adaalath Party in ensuring the success of #IndiaMaldives relations,” it said in another tweet.In keeping with the democratic traditions India and the Maldives share, Shringla also met the leadership of the Opposition Progressive-Congress Coalition.“He briefed them on India-supported projects in the Maldives, being undertaken as per Maldivian priorities,” it tweeted.“The opposition coalition recognised India’s historical assistance and expressed strong support for further deepening #IndiaMaldives relations,” it said.The foreign secretary also called on former president Maumoon Abdul Gayoom and acknowledged his valuable contribution in laying a solid foundation of the India-Maldives partnership and sought his continued support for bilateral ties.In a tweet, Gayoom said, “Indian FS @harshvshringla called on me today. We had a wide-ranging discussion on our excellent bilateral relations. Once again I reiterated my thanks to successive Indian governments for their outstanding support to Maldives for over many decades.” On Monday, India and the Maldives signed two Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs), including one for a USD 100 million grant to fund the Greater Male Connectivity Project, that are emblematic of the strong development partnership which is multi-faceted and designed to meet the specific requirements of the government and people of Maldives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-holds-bilateral-meetings-with-maldivian-leadership/story-XV5udjKpqWvEPU62HhcapM.html
10-11-2020||India||India will use its vaccine production, distribution capacity to help humanity fight Covid-19: PM Modi at SCO summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that India will use its vaccine production and distribution capacity to help the world fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The prime minister was speaking at the 20th summit of SCO Council of Heads of State which was held virtually. In his remarks, the prime minister said that India is the “largest vaccine producting country” in the world.“In this very difficult time of unprecedented epidemic, India’s pharma industry has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries. As the world’s largest vaccine producing country, India will use its vaccine production and distribution capacity to help the whole humanity in fighting this crisis,” PM Modi said.The prime minister was addressing the summit attended by top leaders of eight countries including Russia, China and Pakistan, who are the SCO members. In 2017, India became a full member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State and ever since then, PM Modi has been leading the Indian delegation to the summit which is held annually. During the summit, the council sets the agenda and main directions for the next year.PM Modi further pushed for new UN reforms. “The United Nations (UN) has completed its 75 years. But despite many successes, the basic goal of the United Nations is still incomplete. The world, which is suffering from the economic and social suffering of the epidemic, is expected to bring about a complete change in the system of the UN,” the prime minister said.This year’s SCO summit which was held through video conference was chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin and each country was given 10 minutes to speak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-use-its-vaccine-production-distribution-capacity-to-help-humanity-fight-covid-19-pm-modi-at-sco-summit/story-ypPTzOv5n12OCzA9pEVeQP.html
10-11-2020||India||Manipur bypolls: BJP wins 1 seat, Independent supported by BJP wins 1||BJP candidate Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the by-election to the Wangoi seat, while Y Antas Khan, an Independent candidate supported by the saffron party bagged the Lilong seat in Manipur, officials said Tuesday. BJP candidates Paonam Brojen Singh and Ngamthang Haokip were leading from Wangjing Tentha and Saitu seats respectively, they said.Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the Wangoi seat by defeating his nearest rival Khuraijam Loken Singh of the National People’s Party by 257 votes, as per the ECI website. In the Lilong seat, Y Antas Khan won by defeating his nearest rival Mohd Abdul Nasir by 3,078 votes. Paonam Brojen Singh was leading over his nearest rival Moirangthem Hemanta Singh of the Congress by over 1,560 seats in the Wangjin Tentha seat.In Saitu constituency, Ngamthang Haokip was ahead of his Congress rival Lamtinthang Haokip by 4,297 votes.The by-polls held on November 7 were necessitated after Congress MLAs of these four seats resigned from the assembly and joined the ruling BJP. The BJP contested in three seats and supported an Independent candidate in Lilong, while the Congress fielded its nominees in all the four constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-bypolls-bjp-wins-1-seat-independent-supported-by-bjp-wins-1/story-tkDO1Ird3xxsbzUkqryrxO.html
10-11-2020||India||T’gana bypolls: Close contest in Dubbak; BJP gains slender lead after 20 rounds of counting||The ruling TRS and opposition BJP were locked in a neck and neck contest in the Dubbak Assembly bypoll and the saffron party gained a slender lead of 240 votes after the completion of 20 rounds of counting of votes on Tuesday.The BJP was ahead of the TRS in initial rounds, but the ruling party bounced back and secured a lead subsequently.The TRS was ahead by 251 votes after 19 rounds, but the BJP again managed to gain upper hand after the 20th round with 240 votes.The counting of votes is expected to be completed in 23 rounds.The bypoll, held on November 3, has been necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year due to health issues and the TRS has fielded his widow Sujatha as its candidate.Though 20 others are also in the fray, the main contest is among the ruling TRS, BJP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/t-gana-bypolls-close-contest-in-dubbak-bjp-gains-slender-lead-after-20-rounds-of-counting/story-fDuylYhXP2Aqh8uvuoxBAL.html
10-11-2020||India||Trends in Gujarat bypolls show BJP has support of all sections, says CM Rupani||With the trends of counting of votes on Tuesday showing the BJP leading in all eight assembly constituencies in Gujarat, the party workers broke into celebration and burst firecrackers at its headquarter here.Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters the BJP’s showing in these by elections was just a “trailer” of the outcome to be expected in upcoming elections to local bodies and in 2022 assembly polls.The BJP is ahead in all the eight seats while the Congress is trailing behind as counting of votes polled for the Assembly bypolls progressed.The CM and state BJP president CR Paatil arrived at the party headquarter “Kamalam”, where they were greeted by upbeat BJP workers who thumped drums and waved the party flags.Women activists broke into a garba gig while holding small cutouts of lotus, the poll symbol of the BJP, in their hands.Rupani said voters have rejected the “negative campaign and activities” of the Congress in Gujarat, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, where counting for bypolls is underway.“Today BJP has emerged victorious across the country, whether it is Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh or Gujarat.This outcome is the result of the work done by Narendra Modi government and the support of people for the BJP,” the CM said.Click here for LIVE updates on Gujarat bypollsHailing voters for exercising the franchise for the bypolls held on November 3 amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, Rupani said the constituencies were spread in different regions of Gujarat and consisted of areas dominated by Muslims, Adivasis, Kolis and Patidars among others.“In all these areas, the BJP has received a huge lead.The BJP bagged more votes than the Congress everywhere. As I had said earlier, this election will prove to be the last nail in the Congress’ coffin,” Rupani said.He said Gujarat will continue to remain a BJP bastion where the Congress has recorded its worst-ever electoral performance.Paatil said the BJP and its workers were confident of winning all the eight seats.“The voters reposed their faith in the BJP and ensured a grand victory for the party. I thank all of them,” he said.He said people supported the BJP for the welfare and developmental works done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trends-in-gujarat-bypolls-show-bjp-has-support-of-all-sections-says-cm-rupani/story-JgaahhXirpn4U7qSDW5fLK.html
10-11-2020||India||Goa professor booked for ‘outraging religious sentiments’||The Goa police have booked a professor at Panaji’s V M Salgaocar College of Law for allegedly “outraging religious sentiments” in a Facebook post on mangalsutras and burqas.Shilpa Surendra Pratap Singh, the professor, insisted her post was academic in nature and was not intended to hurt sentiments. “...it was taken totally out of context. It was never my intention to ridicule religion or women. Since my childhood, I have been curious on questions why we have exclusive marital status symbols for women and not for men in various cultures practices. It is depressing to see that a false opinion has been created about myself by my detractors - that I am an ‘anti-religion’ or a run-of-the-mill ‘god-hating atheist.’ This is far from the truth,” Singh said in a subsequent post. “I wish to express my regret to my fellow women if any of my Facebook posts have caused them hurt and offended them”Singh said her criticism of a set of practices and dogma has little to do with disdain or irreverence for religion or religious believers but more to do with the symbolism they represent.Also Read: Thieves steal cash, electronic items from Se Cathedral heritage site in Old GoaShe has also filed a police complaint alleging she was being threatened. “...instead of countering the point made by me in a rational or logical manner, mob justice is being meted out to me by certain people and organisations with vested interests. I am afraid that this may degenerate into vigilante actions that are aimed at suppressing my voice and even cause physical harm to me,” she said.“My modesty is being outraged, my mental health is being assaulted and yet nobody is able to stop these threatening visuals since it is driven by men. Since men hold all positions of power everywhere, a female will always be penalised for her free thinking.”A First Information Report based on her complaint has also been registered.Earlier Maharashtra branch of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad sought her sacking even as her students and college rallied behind her.She was booked after Ravi Jha, a member of the Rashtriya Hindu Yuva Vahini, filed a complaint against her for insulting religious belief.“We have booked a case under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code and have begun investigating. We have asked her to explain her post,” Police Inspector Sudesh Naik said. Singh could face up to five years if convicted under the section that has been applied, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-professor-booked-for-outraging-religious-sentiments/story-3JljDgc6djd8fQ85X8npKN.html
10-11-2020||India||UK trying to resolve issue holding up Vijay Mallya’s extradition as quickly as possible||The UK is trying to resolve as quickly as possible the “confidential” legal issue holding up the extradition of fugitive businessman and former member of parliament Vijay Mallya to India, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. Extradition proceedings against the liquor baron concluded in May after the UK high court rejected Mallya’s plea to approach Britain’s Supreme Court against the move to send him back to India, but the secret proceedings have held up his departure. Asked about the matter at a virtual news briefing, Thompson said it wouldn’t be possible for her to provide a precise timing for Mallya’s extradition. “I think you are probably aware, because we’ve said it a number of times, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before we would be in a position to extradite Mr Mallya.” Also Read: India seeks expeditious extradition of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi from UKShe said the extradition had “been ordered some time ago”, and it was “difficult for me to comment on it very substantively” because it is a legal matter. “But the extradition cannot take place until that particular legal issue is resolved. It’s a confidential issue, I can’t say any more on it. Nor can I estimate how long it will take to be resolved, but what I can is that we’re trying to resolve the issue as quickly as we can,” Thompson said. India has already said it is not a party to the “secret legal matter” in the UK that has held up Mallya’s extradition. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing in October that the secret legal matter “is yet to be resolved, and that without its resolution, he cannot be extradited”. “We are not a party to this matter and we continue to be in touch with the UK government,” Srivastava had said at the time. The UK magistrate’s court recommended Mallya’s extradition on December 10, 2018. Mallya’s appeal against this order was dismissed by the UK high court on April 20 this year. Mallya then applied to the UK high court for leave to appeal in the Supreme Court and it was rejected on May 14. He has exhausted all avenues for appeal. There has been speculation in London that the most likely issue holding up Mallya’s extradition was an application for asylum, a process on which British authorities do not publicly comment on individual cases as a matter of policy and strict data protection laws. Mallya flew to the UK in March 2016 as a consortium of Indian banks, which claims he owes Rs9,000 crore in principal and interest on loans extended to his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, closed in on him to recover the money. He was subsequently declared a wilful defaulter in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-trying-to-resolve-issue-holding-up-vijay-mallya-s-extradition-as-quickly-as-possible/story-lC23ZUXnJjLrsGwDTPqt4J.html
10-11-2020||India||MP by-polls: Scindia congratulates BJP’s winning candidates, thanks voters||As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took a lead in the Madhya Pradesh by-polls, party leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday congratulated all the winning candidates and thanked the voters as well. “Heartiest congratulations to all the candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party who won the MP Assembly by-elections. At the same time, heartfelt gratitude to all the devout voters. I am confident that all the winning candidates will always be ready for public service and proper development of their constituency,” Scindia tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi).“Congratulations and best wishes to BJP candidate Hardeep Dang Ji for winning by a huge majority in the by-election of Suwasra Assembly,” he added.The BJP is leading on 21 seats, while Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) are ahead on six and one seats, respectively in Madhya Pradesh by-polls, as per the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday.As per the ECI at 3 pm, BJP’s vote share stands at 51.3% with its candidates leading in Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bamori, Ambah, Sanwer, Bandawar and Jaura seats, among others.Meanwhile, Congress candidates, with 39.9% combined vote share, are ahead on Agar, Karera, Biaora, Sumaoli, Dimani and Gohad seats.Celebrations are underway at BJP headquarters in Bhopal.BJP workers and supporters, carrying banners of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia, danced to the beats of dhol outside the party office.The result of 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh will decide the fate of Chief Minister Chouhan led-BJP government, which requires at least eight more MLAs for a clear majority in the state assembly.Jyotiraditya Scindia, a prominent face of the Congress, had resigned from the party on March 11 this year. Scindia’s decision to leave Congress was followed by the resignation of 22 party MLAs loyal to him. He later joined BJP.These resignations paved the way for BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take over as Madhya Pradesh chief minister for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-polls-scindia-congratulates-bjp-s-winning-candidates-thanks-voters/story-DdClW1egz9lhptFx5FVTBP.html
10-11-2020||India||SC tells HC to hear AAP govt’s plea on ICU beds on Thursday||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the Delhi high court’s order staying the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s instruction to private hospitals in the city to reserve a substantial number of beds in intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid-19 patients.The AAP government issued an order on September 12 asking 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the Delhi HC on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers. Later, on October 9, a division bench of the Delhi high court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9.The apex bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and BR Gavai raised a preliminary objection against hearing the case. The bench said, “We know the problem faced by Delhi as cases (of Covid-19) are increasing. But the October 9 order passed by the Delhi high court has merely adjourned the matter. How can a special leave petition (SLP) be entertained against such an order?”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain appearing for the Delhi government pressed the panic button citing the upcoming Diwali festival. He said, “We are willing to go back to the Delhi high court but we request if the HC judgment could be stayed for a week as this week is crucial. Due to Diwali, people are intermingling and cases will go beyond control… If our order (of September 12) would not have been stayed, we could have got 500 more beds to admit Covid-19 patients. The current requirement is for more than 6000 beds and Delhi government hospitals, put together, can provide only up to 4,000 beds.”The bench told Jain, “We are aware that the situation in the city is worsening. Delhi has a problem, sometimes 5,000, sometimes 10,000; this is a fluctuating situation… You can bring this matter to the attention of the high court.”Jain explained that in the last few days, daily average of Covid-9 cases crossed the 7,000 mark. “If possible, please understand my predicament. The city is facing an extraordinary situation. Lots of people from other states are coming into Delhi for better healthcare. A large number of people in the middle class segment in the city prefer to get admitted to private hospitals.” He submitted that the order to reserve 80% ICU beds applied only to 33 private hospitals and was meant to be a temporary measure. “We won’t insist on reserving 80% beds beyond a week or two weeks,” Jain said.Also Read: Centre’s timely intervention could have reduced pollution surge in Delhi: Gopal RaiThe Association of Healthcare Providers, the petitioner before the high court, appeared on caveat and objected to any stay of the HC order. Senior advocate Maninder Singh informed the Court that the high court was functioning till November 12 and till date, no request for early hearing has been made before the division bench. Even the matter arising out of the September 22 order was listed for hearing on November 18. Singh said he had no objection if the top court directs the matter to be heard by the high court this week.The bench recorded this submission and stated in its order, “Looking to the facts of the case and the request made by learned counsel for the parties, we request the concerned Bench (of the Delhi high court) for taking up the letters patent appeal (LPA) on November 12.”Bihar Election Results: Full coverageDelhi government’s standing counsel Chirag M Shroff presented a chart before the apex court showing the availability of ICU beds in Delhi’s government hospitals vis-à-vis private hospitals. In its petition, the Delhi government stated that out of a total of 1,263 registered hospitals and nursing homes, 88 are government-run hospitals while 1,175 fall under private sector. There are 168 private hospitals in Delhi (including the 33 hospitals asked to reserve ICU beds) having 3,239 ICU beds.The Delhi HC in its September 22 order held, “The State cannot discriminate between a Covid-19 and a non-Covid-19 patient requiring emergent treatment. In time of emergency, such patients cannot be told to run around finding a hospital where beds have not been reserved for Covid-19 patients.” Though the HC accepted a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, it felt that the government’s decision was “arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of Article 21 (right to life)” of non-Covid patients suffering from life-threatening diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-hc-to-hear-aap-govt-s-plea-on-icu-beds-on-thursday/story-mpiB2qfIi5l2xFMbNy1kjL.html
10-11-2020||India||Six properties of Dawood Ibrahim in Ratnagiri auctioned today||Six properties of underworld don and India’s most wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim at his ancestral place Ratnagiri were auctioned by the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Authority (SAFEMA) on Tuesday.While four of the properties were successfully bid by Delhi-based lawyer Bhupendra Bhardwaj in the virtual auction held today, the other two bids were won by advocate Ajay Srivastava.“We had an excellent response in the auction. The six properties at Ratnagiri and Goregaon have been sold. While four bids were won by Bhupendra Bharadwaj, two were won by Ajay Shrivastava,” SAFEMA Additional Commissioner RN D’Souza told reporters here.He said the highest bid for two of the properties went from the reserve price of Rs 1.89 lakh and Rs 5.35 lakh to Rs 4.3 lakh and Rs 11.2 lakh respectively. He added that the other properties went for their base prices.One other property, belonging to Dawood Ibrahim, was however withdrawn from the auction by officials due to some technical reasons.“We auction in all three modes -- public auction, e-auction and silk tender. But, this being a very peculiar situation during the Covid-19 pandemic. So, we had to improvise a little. Instead of having a public auction, we conducted a virtual public auction,” D’Souza said.The officials said there were several enquiries for the Mylton apartment, owned by gangster Iqbal Mirchi, but no bids were received for the same.“As per the procedure, 25 per cent of the bid amount has to be deposited within seven days if the total amount is below Rs 50 lakh, if above 50 lakh, 25 per cent of the bid needs to be deposited within a period of one month. The rest of the amount can be deposited within one month and three months respectively. After the entire payment is made a confirmation letter will be issued communicating the same,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-properties-of-dawood-ibrahim-in-ratnagiri-auctioned-today/story-hQ4rGSInJAtOASPnHF59HJ.html
10-11-2020||India||PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’ to reflect global realities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for “reformed multilateralism” that reflects global realities of the present times and discussed topics such as expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges and human welfare.Addressing the 20th Summit of Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Council of Heads of State, via video-conferencing, Prime Minister Modi said the United Nations has completed its 75 years but the basic goal of the world body is still incomplete.“The United Nations has completed its 75 years. But despite many successes, the basic goal of the United Nations is still incomplete. The world struggling with the economic and social suffering of the epidemic is expected to bring radical changes in the system of the UN,” PM Modi said.“A reformed multilateralism that will reflect today’s global realities and discuss topics such as expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges and human welfare. We expect full support from SCO member nations in this endeavour,” he added.Member states of the SCO was convened at the highest level on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Russia. It was attended by all member states including China and Pakistan. Major leaders that are attending the SCO meet are Chinese President Xi Jinping, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and leaders of four Central Asian countries - Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.This is the third meeting, in which New Delhi is participating as a full member.It was granted the observer status of the SCO in 2005 and in June 2017 it became a full member.The summit is expected to conclude with the release of a Moscow declaration, which will reflect the broad agenda of the bloc for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-reformed-multilateralism-to-reflect-global-realities/story-vnio0kum4WFnasQBGDMH1N.html
10-11-2020||India||UP: BJP leads on 6 seats, SP on 1||The ruling BJP appeared set to retain six seats while the Samajwadi Party may get re-elected from the one it held earlier as counting of votes in the bypolls for seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly constituencies continued on Tuesday. BJP’s Usha Sirohi was leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria, Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur and Sangeeta Chauhan in Naugawan Sadat, according to the latest trends . In Malhani, SP’s Lucky Yadav was ahead of independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 3,029 votes. The seat was earlier with SP’s Parasnath Yadav. A tough contest was on for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was minister in Yogi Adityanath’s BJP government. SP’s Javed Abbas was trailing there by 1,862 votes to his BJP rival Sangeeta Chauhan. In Bulandshahr, BJP’s Usha Sirohi was leading by 9,841 votes over Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mohammed Yunus. In Tundla, BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhanghar was ahead of SP’s Mahraj Singh Dhangar by 4,945 votes. BJP’s Shrikant Katiyar was leading by 12,978 votes over Arti Bajpai of the Congress in Bangarmau. In Ghatampur, BJP’s Upendra Nath Paswan was leading by 3,618 votes over the BSP’s Kuldeep Shankhwar. In Deoria, BJP’s Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi had a lead of 5,443 over SP’s Brahma Shankar Tripathi. The bypolls for the seven UP seats recorded a voter turnout of 53 per cent on November 3, when 88 candidates were in the fray. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were earlier held by the BJP. The Naugawan Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan who died of COVID-19. The Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur Nagar district was held by another minister, Kamal Rani Varun, who too died of the disease. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau seat in Unnao was vacated by BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar after his conviction in a rape case. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated by the deaths of BJP MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi and Janmejay Singh, and SP’s Parasnath Yadav. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat had the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat had the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates were in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria and 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bjp-leads-on-6-seats-sp-on-1/story-T3TvDE336mAwAySkfjVvjP.html
10-11-2020||India||Kerala HC grants anticipatory bail to activist who attacked YouTuber||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to dubbing artist and activist Bhagyalakshmi and two of her friends accused of manhandling YouTuber Vijay P Nair in September.Police had registered a case against three after they allegedly trespassed into a lodge where Nair was staying on September 26 and assaulted him for making derogatory remarks against women on his YouTube channel. The incident was live-streamed on the Facebook account of one of the accused. The issue triggered a debate in the state with many activists and others hailing the “direct action”.They said they were forced to take action after police failed to act on their complaint. The police later arrested Vijay P Nair but he was released on bail. Following the incident the state government had decided to bring an ordinance to deal with cyber attack on women.All three were charged under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 452 (house trespassing) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. In the first week of October, the chief judicial magistrate court had rejected their anticipatory bail plea after accepting the contention of the prosecution that it would give a wrong message and it may prompt others to take law into their hands. They later approached the High Court. The petitioners contended that they went to the lodge to talk to Nair about his video and they had no intention to attack or commit robbery. They said they seized videos and other materials and deposited them at the nearest police station immediately and they told police officials about the incident. They also said they bought an ink bottle to pour on him and humiliate but they had no intention to manhandle him.Though the High Court took a strong position in the case initially saying those who take law into their hands should also be ready to face its consequences, Justice Ashok Menon granted them anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-activist-who-attacked-youtuber/story-MqB1sba0j2tMT5NVDWSV5J.html
10-11-2020||India||Repeated attempts being made to bring bilateral issues into SCO agenda, says PM Modi at virtual summit||While speaking at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit on Tuesday, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on the importance of countries respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. “India has strong cultural and historical ties with Shanghai Cooperation Organisation countries. Respecting one another’s sovereignty, territorial integrity should be a basic principle while enhancing connectivity,” PM Modi said.PM Narendra Modi, during his virtual speech, also pointed out the attempts being made to hinder with the SCO’s agenda. “It is unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to unnecessarily bring bilateral issues into the SCO agenda, which violate the SCO Charter and Shanghai Spirit. Such efforts are contrary to the spirit of consensus and cooperation that defines SCO,” he added.The prime minister was virtually addressing the 20th summit of SCO Council of Heads of State, which comes against the backdrop of the India-China border conflict. Ever since India became a full member of the SCO Council of Heads and State in 2017, PM Modi has been leading the Indian delegation to the annual summit. However, this is the first time that the annual meeting was held virtually due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. During the 9-minute speech, the prime minister further highlighted India’s strong opposition against terrorism and drug smuggling. “India strongly believes in peace, security and prosperity, and we have always voiced opposition to terrorism, illegal arms smuggling, drugs and money laundering. India has remained firm in its commitment to work under the SCO as per the principles laid down in the SCO Charter,” he said.Calling for a “reformed multilateralism” that reflects today’s global realities, the PM suggested that countries also discuss topics such as “expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges, and human welfare”.“We expect full support from SCO member nations in this endeavour,” he said.The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit sets the agenda and main directions for the next year. The virtual meeting on Tuesday was attended by the eight SCO members: Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Russian President Vladimir Putin chaired the virtual meeting on Tuesday and each country was allotted 10 minutes to speak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-use-its-vaccine-production-distribution-capacity-to-help-humanity-in-fighting-covid-19-pm-modi-at-sco-summit/story-Wtq8fEvFnU5U0APJ1KdqCN.html
10-11-2020||India||It is trailer for upcoming elections: Gujarat CM on BJP’s lead in by-polls||As BJP leads on all seats in Gujarat assembly by-polls, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said that this is the trailer for the next elections.“BJP is nearing win on all eight seats. It is a trailer for the upcoming elections,” Gujarat Chief Minister said at a press conference in Gandhinagar. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leading on all eight Assembly seats which went to by-polls in Gujarat, as per latest trends of Election Commission of India.As per the ECI, BJP’s vote share is 53.71 per cent, INC is 34.51 per cent and NOTA is 2.09 per cent and Others 9.70 per cent.Click here to follow live updates of Gujarat by-pollsThe by-elections for eight assembly seats in Gujarat were conducted by the poll panel on November 3 and counting of votes began at 8 am today.The by-elections were held after the sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls held in June this year. Five of them later joined the BJP and are contesting the by-polls on the party’s ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-trailer-for-upcoming-elections-gujarat-cm-on-bjp-s-lead-in-by-polls/story-VcdDN7A5O0bL5QbtuqCORM.html
10-11-2020||India||Centre’s timely intervention could have reduced pollution surge in Delhi: Gopal Rai||As air quality continues to deteriorate in the national capital, Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said that Delhi was paying the price of Centre’s negligence as timely intervention by the government on the issue of stubble burning in the fields of Punjab and Haryana could have helped lowering pollution levels in the city.“Had there been timely intervention by the Centre and had they listened to our proposal of bio decomposers which was successful in decomposing 90 per cent of stubble in Delhi, then perhaps Delhi could’ve been protected from 35-45 per cent of pollution due to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana,” Gopal Rai told ANI.Justifying the ban imposed on bursting firecrackers during the on-going festive period in the city, the Delhi Minister said that the ban was necessary amidst rising pollution during the pandemic.“Rise in pollution is affecting the respiration of people. In the wake of that, the Delhi government decided to ban crackers because people cannot do anything about the pollution coming from outside,” he added.In a bid to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic from worsening due to increased air pollution, the Delhi government has banned all types of firecrackers from November 7 to 30. On Monday, Rao had said that if anyone violates the ban on firecrackers during Diwali, then the violator shall be penalised under the Air Act.He also mentioned that the Delhi government is running the ‘Red Light Campaign’ to put a check on the toxic emissions from the vehicles and combat vehicular pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-timely-intervention-could-have-reduced-pollution-surge-in-delhi-gopal-rai/story-16qMGYz98luIyYS5kjZAWN.html
10-11-2020||India||India’s clean fuel transition hindered by belief linking firewood to well-being: Scientists||India’s transition to clean cooking fuels may be hampered by people’s belief that using firewood is better for their families’ well being than switching to Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), a new study says.According to the study, published in the journal Nature Energy, understanding differences in the perspectives of rural Indian women using different fuels is vital to unpack the dynamics of cooking fuel transition.“Despite India’s aim of switching to clean fuels, the scale of solid fuel use in rural areas signals that widespread uptake and sustained use of clean fuels is a distant reality,” said Rosie Day, senior author of the study from the University of Birmingham in the UK.“Whilst cooking is not solely a woman’s job, the reality is that, in rural India, women are considered the primary cooks. It is, therefore, critical to unravel how women see the relationship between well being and cooking fuel if India is to make progress in transitioning to clean fuels,” Day said.The study noted that India has more people relying on solid fuels for cooking than any other country in the world. It said providing universal access to clean cooking fuels has been identified as one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to which the country is a signatory.In the current research, the scientists conducted focus group discussions with women in four villages in the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. They said two of the four villages mostly used firewood whilst the other two comprised of mostly LPG users who had switched from using firewood. According to the scientists, the firewood users believed that cooking with this fuel improved their financial well being because selling firewood generated income, whilst collecting the fuel gave them an opportunity to socialise -- a tradition they hoped to continue. The people in these villages viewed LPG as a financial burden that gave food an undesirable taste, and feared a fatal canister explosion, the researchers added.LPG users told the scientists that their fuel allowed them to maintain or improve social status, as well as making it easier to care for children and other family members. They said cooking with LPG freed up time which they could use to work outside the home and earn money, and spend time with their family.The scientists believe future interventions to promote new fuels should actively involve women who used solid fuels and clean fuels, opening discussion about the benefits of each, and allowing cooks to observe different cooking practices. They said the interaction programmes could inform firewood users about the positive well being outcomes of LPG, address concerns, and promote learning from each other.However, the scientists believe further research is needed to analyse the perceived relationship between women’s fuel use and multi-dimensional well being in other settings. “This will help to increase our understanding of how social and cultural factors come into play in transition to clean fuels,” Day said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-clean-fuel-transition-hindered-by-belief-linking-firewood-to-well-being-scientists/story-5QypFIPvA5WFiF0HGhGvfM.html
10-11-2020||India||Karnataka bypolls: BJP maintains lead in both seats||The ruling BJP has continued to maintain its lead over opposition Congress and JD(S) in the bypolls for two assembly constituencies in the state, poll officials said on Tuesday. Votes polled in the November 3 byelections to Sira in Tumakuru district and Rajarajeshwari Nagar (R R Nagar) in the city were taken up for counting at 8 am and the results are expected to be out in a few hours from now.According to the Karnataka Chief Electoral Officer’s office, the trends show- BJP candidate was ahead with a margin of over 7,800 votes in Sira, while the party has maintained a lead with a margin of over 34,500 votes in RR Nagar.BJP’s Dr C M Rajesh Gowda is leading with 37,808 votes in Sira, followed by Congress’ T B Jayachandra with 29,938. Trends show JD(S) that had won the seat in the 2018 assembly elections being relegated to the third place with the party candidate Ammajamma B securing 19,522 votes. In R R Nagar too BJP’s N Munirathana is leading with 73,932 votes, followed by Congress’ Kusuma H with 39,415. JD(S) is in third place here too with party candidate V Krishtramurthy so far securing 4,660 votes. As the trends clearly showed BJP leading in both seats, the Chief Minister’s office released a video of Ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Seiramulu, Byrathi Basavaraj and others greeting CM Yediyurappa with sweets. The bypoll has been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana in August, while R R Nagar seat here fell vacant due to disqualification of the then Congress MLA N Munirathna last year under anti-defection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bypolls-bjp-maintains-lead-in-both-seats/story-XT8ieF5Symax8NvWYsQ5IM.html
10-11-2020||India||Flood, rain losses over Rs 6,300 crore, Andhra Pradesh seeks Centre’s help||The heavy rain and flash floods that wreaked havoc in several parts of Andhra Pradesh in the second week of October caused an extensive damage to the extent of Rs 6,368 crore, besides claiming around 50 lives, the state government officials said on Monday. A report to this effect was submitted by state chief secretary Neelam Sawhney to the seven-member Central team, led by Saurav Ray, joint secretary in the Union ministry of home affairs, which came to Andhra Pradesh on a two-day visit to assess the extent of damage caused due to rain and floods. Officials of various departments gave a detailed presentation to the visitor. The chief secretary requested that the Centre release an amount of Rs 5,279.11 crore towards flood relief and restoration of damaged infrastructure, including Rs 840.07 crore for temporary restoration as per NDRF norms and Rs 4,439.14 crore towards permanent relief measures. Sawhney requested that the Centre release the flood relief on war footing in the wake of the precarious financial position of the state due to Covid-19 pandemic. She said the state had received a cumulative rainfall of 444.5 mm as against the normal 351.2 mm during the period, which was 26.6 per cent in excess. “Out of 670 mandals (revenue blocks) in the state, 387 mandals in 12 districts had been affected due to incessant rains and floods in Godavari and Krishna rivers,” she pointed out. She said in all, 45 people were killed in rain-related incidents like wall collapse, drowning and landslides. Five more were reported missing and they could not be traced, despite the best possible search and rescue efforts by NDRF and SDRF. In all, 8,784 houses were fully damaged in the affected districts while a large number of cattle was also killed. The chief secretary explained that agriculture crops like paddy, maize, cotton, black gram, pulses and sugarcane, suffered damage to an extent of 2,12,588 hectares. Paddy alone suffered the worst damage in 1,40,485 hectares, while cotton crop was damaged in 25,068 hectares. Horticulture crops, including vegetables, banana, papaya and turmeric, worth Rs 483 crore were also damaged. About 2657 fish and prawn farming ponds to an extent of 5,819.7 hectares were damaged in West Godavari, Krishna, East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. There was extensive damage to road networks, rural water supply schemes, irrigation tanks and drainage systems in urban local bodies. The Central team later split into three different groups and visited Anantapuramu, Krishna and Guntur districts for an on-the-spot inspection of the damage suffered. The teams will visit East and West Godavari districts on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-rain-losses-over-rs-6-300-crore-andhra-pradesh-seeks-centre-s-help/story-oOUbz8BjZjf9tkTnBK62UP.html
10-11-2020||India||PAGD constituents to contest upcoming election individually: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday announced that the constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest the upcoming election to the district development councils in Jammu and Kashmir individually. He said it may not be possible to allot candidates a combined symbol at this advanced stage of the poll process.“Now there is very little time and therefore the alliance partners will contest on their own, but they will jointly represent the PAGD,” Abdullah said, while speaking to media persons on the sidelines of a social function in Kathua late Monday. Also Read: Peoples Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370When asked about the controversy regarding certain remarks attributed to him, Abdullah said those indulging in such vicious campaigns may have nothing to say about the strong defence put forth by him and Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a United Nations event in Geneva. “When it comes to fighting for the nation, I have always been in the forefront,” he said, adding that dubbing him anti-national was nothing new, as some people “are fashioned to speak this language”.The NC chief said that the PAGD’s fight is not against the nation but a certain party that has brought the country to an impasse by dividing communities and creating a wedge between them. He said he has always opposed the divisive politics of the BJP, as he believes in the India of Mahatma Gandhi, which is inclusive, based on the spirit of respect for all, harmony and tranquillity. He said India belongs to all, irrespective of region, religion or colour and those trying to trample this glorious and unique ethos were enemies of the nation.To a question on the US elections, Abdullah replied that he hoped the new regime will clear the mess across the world created during the tenure of Donald Trump. He said irrational and reactionary politics have no place in democracy. “Like the US, a change is sure to take place in India also,” he added.Earlier, replying to media questions, NC provincial president Devender Singh Rana said that the new alliance will carry out its political obligations under the ambit of the Constitution of India.Rana said that his party’s fight is not against the nation but against the divisive thought that is not in consonance with the traditional unity in diversity of this country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-constituents-to-contest-upcoming-election-individually-farooq-abdullah/story-vJTLsQsuum4NXv7wXTG2dM.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: BJP leading in 7 seats, Congress in one||Candidates of the ruling BJP in Gujarat are leading in seven out of the eight Assembly constituencies for which bypolls were held while the Congress is ahead in one seat, as per the early trends of counting on Tuesday.BJP’s Pradhumansinh Jadeja is leading by over 2,300 votes in Abdasa seat while former minister Kiritsinh Rana is ahead by 5,400 votes in Limbdi, among other candidates.Congress’ Jayantilal Patel is leading in Morbi constituency by a margin of more than 1,500 votes, as per the Election Commission data.Click here for all the Gujarat bypolls LIVE updates The counting began at 8 am in eight centres set up in these constituencies, an election official said.The bypolls were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls in June this year.Five of them then joined the ruling BJP, which fielded them from the same seats they had won in the 2017 elections.A 60.75 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls held on November 3 in Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad) Assembly seats.As many as 81 candidates contested the bypolls across the eight seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-bjp-leading-in-7-seats-congress-in-one/story-LD5qTXGotWktnSz42dHZEL.html
10-11-2020||India||India reports less than 40,000 Covid-19 cases for second time in November||India reported less than 40,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in a single day for the second time in November, taking the country’s tally to over 8.59 million, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Tuesday. The Covid-19 tally has surged to 8,591,730 with 38,073 new infections in the last 24 hours and the death toll climbed to 127,059 with 448 fresh fatalities, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.Data showed that the number of people who have recovered from the viral disease is now at 7,959,406 which has taken the national recovery rate to 92.64% even as the case fatality rate stands at 1.48%. The number of active cases remained below 600,000 for the twelfth day in a row. On Tuesday, there were 505,265 active cases of the coronavirus so far, which comprise 5.88% of the total caseload, the health ministry data said.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere have been 127,059 deaths so far in the country, including 45,325 from Maharashtra followed by 11,410 from Karnataka, 11,362 from Tamil Nadu, 7,350 from West Bengal, 7,231 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,060 from Delhi, 6,802 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,338 from Punjab and 3,765 from Gujarat. Out of the 448 new fatalities reported from across the country, 85 are from Maharashtra, 71 from Delhi, 56 from West Bengal, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 22 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab.Also read | Move HC against decision on ICU beds reservation for Covid-19 patients: SC to Delhi govtThe health ministry has said that more than 70% of these deaths have been due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the ministry said on its website and that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.Also read | Union health minister reviews Covid-19 situation in 9 high disease burden statesIndia’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2 million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. On September 16, Covid-19 cases went past 5 million, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11 and crossed 8 million on October 29.ICMR has said that a cumulative total of 11,96,15,857 samples have been tested up to November 9 with 10,43,665 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-less-than-40-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-time-in-november/story-jJs03SK2DTUDC2loYV5ptO.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At 19.2 degrees Celsius, Mumbai records coolest morning of season so far and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesAt 19.2 degrees, Mumbai records coolest morning of season so farMumbai recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season so far on Tuesday.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 19.2 degrees Celsius, over 3 degrees Celsius below normal.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 22.5 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal.Mumbai had recorded 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7, but the minimum temperature kept fluctuating thereafter. It increased to 25 degrees Celsius on November 8 and then dropped back to 23 degrees Celsius over the weekend. Read MoreBihar Election 2020: Trends show smaller parties fail to make a markVoters in Bihar appear to have rejected the smaller parties, which were part of separate alliances in the assembly elections, as per early trends available on the Election Commission (EC) website.Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis–e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) were the only two smaller parties visible on the leader board. Read MoreBy-poll Results 2020 live updates: In Madhya Pradesh, BJP ahead in 17 of 28 seats but 3 ministers trailing, trends showCounting of votes of by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8m on Tuesday. This is being held along the vote-counting process in Bihar where the country’s first major electoral exercise was held amid the coronavirus pandemic.Votes are being be counted for 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, where the stakes are high for the ruling Shivraj Singh Chouhan led-BJP government and the Congress. Read MoreNDA maintains lead in Kosi and Seemanchal region, AIMIM leader trailsGoing against most exit poll predictions, the NDA has maintained lead over the Grand Alliance in Bihar and the Nitish Kumar led alliance is also maintaining a lead over its rival formation in Kosi and Seemanchal region.JD(U) candidates are leading in Supaul, Saharsa and Madhepura against RJD candidates. However, Congress candidate Subhashini Yadav, daughter of Sharad Yadav is leading on Bihariganj seat. RJD’s Lovely Anand is trailing on the Saharsa seat where BJP candidate Alok Ranjan Jha is ahead. Read MoreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC: Biggest thing after the World Cup final, says Kieron PollardThe Indian Premier League is one of the biggest tournaments in cricket if not the sports world. The cash-rich league is watched by millions all around the world as the biggest cricket stars come together to play for their respective franchises. Since its launch in 2008, IPL has gone from strength to strength to make the Indian cricket one of the biggest markets in the sports world. Several nations have prioritised IPL in making plans for their cricketing future. Read MoreDance numbers, in films, are great exposure: Karishma TannaDancing to the tune of a remix song is unlike dancing to iconic dialogues turned into lyrics, feels Karishma Tanna.The actor is enjoying the feedback for her dance number Basanti in the upcoming film, Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari. The lyrics Basanti aaj in kutton ke saamne na naach are from a popular dialogue from the Ramesh Sippy directed iconic film Sholay (1975). “As the lyrics are from a famous dialogue, I was most excited to recreate them with this modern twist. The legendary Hema Malini ji has been our favourite Basanti over the years and nobody can ever change that, so it was definitely an overwhelming feeling for me to step into this new Basanti’s shoes and groove to the song which I thoroughly enjoyed!” says Tanna, who feels the song is quite a catchy and peppy with a fun and sexy vibe to it. Read MoreDelhi-NCR wakes up to dense smog, sixth consecutive ‘severe’ air dayDelhi-NCR woke up to a grey morning as air quality remained in the ‘severe’ category for the sixth consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading on Tuesday morning was 487. The smog reduced the visibility to merely 300 meters in the morning affecting traffic. IMD said improvement in air quality was highly unlikely in the coming days. A combination of an extremely high number of stubble fires in Punjab, low to calm winds in the region and subsidence of air has led to Delhi recording ‘severe’ air quality since November 5. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR as well as much of north India till December 1. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-19-2-degrees-celsius-mumbai-records-coolest-morning-of-season-so-far-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8yPgs1Nnl0MUP1meXelqmM.html
10-11-2020||India||SCO Summit: India to raise importance of rules-based world order, need for action against terror||India is expected to raise the importance of a rules-based world order and the need for concerted action against terror when Prime Minister Narendra Modi joins the heads of state of China and Pakistan at the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Tuesday. This will be the first time that Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff began in May. The two sides are currently discussing proposals for disengagement at friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector and senior military commanders of the two sides are expected to meet again this week. This is the first time the annual meeting of the SCO heads of state is being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia, the current chair of SCO, has organised most of the grouping’s meetings virtually this year, except for meetings of foreign ministers and defence ministers that were held in Moscow in September. Also Read: China ready to talk on all flashpoints: OfficialsThe economic impact of the pandemic, efforts to strengthen the rules-based world order, counter-terrorism and the troubled peace process in Afghanistan are expected to figure in the discussions between the SCO leaders. The SCO Summit is one of five virtual meetings this month that will be joined by the top leadership of India and China. As with all recent virtual multilateral summits and meetings, there will be no bilateral meetings on the sidelines. President Vladimir Putin will chair Tuesday’s meeting and the heads of state of the eight SCO members – Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – will speak for 10 minutes each. The heads of state of four observer countries – Iran, Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia – will join the meet, and the SCO secretary general and executive director of the SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) will also address the gathering. The SCO Summit is the grouping’s main body that sets the agenda for the coming year. The meeting is also expected to focus on all the main areas of activity, including politics, security, trade and economy, and will conclude with the adoption of the Moscow Declaration containing the joint position of the members on global and regional issues. There will also be statements on issues such as digital economy, Covid-19, countering terrorism, including on the Internet, and countering drug trafficking. The summit is also expected to make decisions on major projects and trade and economic initiatives. Modi, who has led the Indian delegation to the annual summit since India became a full member of SCO in 2017, had outlined his vision with the acronym HEALTH – covering healthcare cooperation, economic cooperation, alternative energy, literature and culture, terrorism-free society and humanitarian cooperation – at last year’s summit in Bishkek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sco-summit-india-to-raise-importance-of-rules-based-world-order-need-for-action-against-terror/story-PJhmKblkKbCaCvRugTg5xL.html
10-11-2020||India||K’taka by-polls: BJP candidate leads from RR seat by over 33,000 votes||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leading on both the seats which underwent voting during the by-polls held in Karnataka.BJP’s Munirathna is leading from the Rajarajeshwarinagar seat by a tall margin of 33,185 votes, while its candidate from the Sira seat, Dr CM Rajesh Gowda is ahead by 7,870 votes, as per the Election Commission on Tuesday. While BJP’s vote share at 12:30 pm stands at 53.3 per cent, that of rival Congress is 32.7 per cent. The other big party in the state Janata Dal (Secular) meanwhile is at the third position in terms of vote share with just 11.6 per cent.Congress’ Kusuma H is trailing behind the BJP candidate on the Rajarajeshwarinagar seat, while the party’s TB Jayachandra is trailing from the Sira seat. Counting of votes for the by-election held in two assembly constituencies of Rajarajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) in Bengaluru and Sira in Tumkur in Karnataka began today morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-by-polls-bjp-candidate-leads-from-rr-seat-by-over-33-000-votes/story-zTLVoyeGSIHqqj9yEVxihI.html
10-11-2020||India||SC to hear tomorrow Arnab Goswami’s petition challenging Bombay HC order denying him bail||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami moved Supreme Court after the Bombay High Court dismissed his petition for interim bail in 2018 abetment to suicide case on Monday. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Indira Banerjee will hear the petition at 10.30am on Wednesday.The top court hear the petition tomorrow.Goswami was arrested along with two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - by Alibag Police and remanded to judicial custody for 14 days on November 4 in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. The 47-year-old journalist had earlier filed an interim bail plea before the Bombay high court on Saturday. The court had reserved its order on Goswami’s plea and given him an option to file the application in sessions court, which he took and filed a bail plea before a sessions court on Monday.Following his arrest from his Lower Parel residence, Goswami was kept at a local school designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibag prison till November 8, after which he was shifted to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. ALSO WATCH | Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea rejected; Governor ‘concerned’ l Key updates Speaking to Republic TV reporters from a van that shifted him from the prison quarantine centre to the jail on Sunday, Goswami alleged that he was being subjected to torture and was not being allowed to talk to his lawyers.The decision to move him to the jail before he completed his quarantine period at the school was taken after he was allegedly found using someone’s mobile phone to access his social media accounts in the quarantine centre. His own mobile phone was confiscated by the police at the time of his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-moves-supreme-court-challenging-bombay-hc-order-dismissing-his-interim-bail-plea/story-12qlSsvyUVxUt3gJ2qZwQI.html
10-11-2020||India||Haryana bypoll: Wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt trails from Baroda seat||Congress candidate Indu Raj is leading over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) contender and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt from the Baroda Assembly constituency for a by-election to the Haryana Legislative Assembly, as per the Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday.As of noon, Indu Raj is leading with 17,827 votes, while Dutt has 13,985 votes.The counting of votes for the Baroda Assembly by-poll in Haryana began at 8 am on Tuesday.Click here to read complete bypoll coverage.The fate of 14 candidates, including seven Independents, will be decided today.According to the EC, 68 per cent of the 1.81 lakh electors exercised their franchise on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-bypoll-wrestler-yogeshwar-dutt-trails-from-baroda-seat/story-xKliB3fsJMHC7piYgxnaVM.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP surges ahead in UP by-polls, billed as semi final to 2022 contest||The ruling BJP is putting up a strong show in by-polls for seven Assembly seats in the politically critical state of Uttar Pradesh by maintaining lead in six seats as per trends available three hours after the beginning of counting.An independent candidate was leading on the seventh seat. Six of these seats were earlier held by the BJP, while Malhani was won by the SP in the 2017 assembly election.BJP candidates are leading on Tundla (Firozabad), Bangarmau (Unnao), Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur (Kanpur) and Naugaon Sadat (Amroha), and the independent candidate Dhananjay Singh is leading on the Malhani (Jaunpur) seat, previously held by SP. Counting of votes began at 8am and this is the status till 11 am with the most constituencies touching round 6 or 7 of counting.An average of over 53% voters had exercised their franchise to decide the electoral fate of 88 candidates, including one women candidate in the fray.In Bangarmau, the BJP was ahead with 18,160 votes against its nearest rival SP that had pocketed 10,412 votes so far. Former Congress MP from Unnao Anu Tandon’s joining the Samajwadi Party, a day before the polling, did not seem to have benefited SP in the by-polls.In Ghatampur, the BJP is ahead with 9,016 votes against its nearest BSP rival, who has bagged 8,360 votes so far.In Naugwan Sadat, BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan is leading against her nearest rival Javed Abbas from the SP by a wafer-thin margin of 90 votes as per ECI website. Sangeeta Chauhan has bagged 20,526 votes so far against 20, 436 votes obtained by Javed Abbas of the Samajwadi Party.In Tundla, the BJP candidate is ahead with 16,358 votes against its nearest rival from BSP, who has cornered 11,734 votes so far. Bihar Election Results: Full coverageIn Bulandshahr, BJP candidate has bagged 10,365 votes and BSP is in second place with 6,640 votes. SP was supporting a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) candidate on this seat as per their poll-pact. The RLD candidate is in the third position as per the trends.On the eve of counting, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had accused the BJP of rigging the by-polls; the party spokesperson and former SP minister Abhishek Mishra, however, on Tuesday expressed confidence that SP will put up a strong show in the state.“These are initial trends, ultimately by the time counting ends, SP would emerge the gainer. SP is the only alternative in UP,” Mishra said.The counting of the votes is going on amid tight security and adherence to Covid-19 containment guidelines. Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla said the election commission has made adequate arrangements for protective gears, PPE kits, face shields, masks, thermal scanners, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and water for those engaged in the counting process.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had led the party’s campaign on the seven seats. The Samajwadi Party had also campaigned vigorously but party president Akhilesh Yadav did not venture out to any of the constituencies. The Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress had also campaigned actively for the by-polls.Also Read: Bihar election results: NDA takes lead in cliffhanger trends, hovers around magic markPolitical observer AK Saxena said the results of the by-elections will set the tone for the 2022 UP assembly elections. He said that results on the seven seats, spread across various parts of the state, will reflect the mood of voters both in urban and rural areas in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown. The highest number of candidates, 18, were in fray in Bulandshahr, 16 in Malhani, 14 each in Deoria and Naugawan Sadat, 10 each in Tundla and Bangarmau and six in Ghatampur.The Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Deoria and Malhani seats fell vacant after the deaths of sitting MLAs Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Prasanath Yadav respectively.Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of the then sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, following his conviction in a rape case on December 20, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-surges-ahead-in-up-by-polls-billed-as-semi-final-to-2022-contest/story-8kkIZldUmYAKfY8cwttMZJ.html
10-11-2020||India||Odisha by-polls: Ruling BJD candidates leading on both seats||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) candidates are leading on both the Assembly seats in which by-polls were held in Odisha, as per the Election Commission on Tuesday. As per the ECI, BJD candidate Swarup Kumar Das is leading from the Balasore seat by 2,671 votes, while Bijaya Shankar Das is ahead by 6,400 votes from the Tirtol seat.While BJD’s vote share at 12:15 pm stands at 53.5 per cent, that of its closest rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is 38.77 per cent. BJP’s Manas Kumar Dutta is trailing behind the BJD candidate on the Balasore seat, while the party’s Rajkishore Behera is trailing from the Tirtol seat. Counting of votes for by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8 am on Tuesday. This will be carried out along with the vote-counting process in Bihar where the first major electoral exercise was held amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-by-polls-ruling-bjd-candidates-leading-on-both-seats/story-LfRmVZNeVKe2NuCT2uXBjM.html
10-11-2020||India||MP bypolls: BJP ahead in 17 seats but three ministers trailing||Three ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh are trailing behind their Congress rivals even as the ruling BJP has taken a lead in 17 of the 28 Assembly constituencies, as per the trends of counting on Tuesday.The opposition Congress is ahead in nine seats out of the 27 constituencies for which trends are available. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is leading in Morena seat, as per the Election Commission data.Ministers Aidal Singh Kansana, Girraj Dandotia, and OPS Bhadoria are struggling in Sumaoli, Dimani and Mehgaon seats, respectively, where their Congress rivals have taken a lead.Click here for the full coverage of bypollsElsewhere, BJP candidates are leading in 16 seats by a margin ranging from 312 votes (Dabra) to 17,283 votes (Badnawar), while Congress contestants are ahead in Sumaoli, Dimni, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Bhander, Karera, Biora and Agar constituencies.Tulsiram Silawat of the BJP is leading by a margin of 8,238 votes from Sanver against his Congress rival.BJP candidates are ahead in Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mugaoli, Surkhi, Bada Malhera, Anuppur, Sanchi, Hatpiplya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Suwasara and Jaura seats.A total of 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, contested the byelections held on November 3.Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 70.27 per cent voter turnout was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-bypolls-bjp-ahead-in-17-seats-but-three-ministers-trailing/story-7PTdnJCMEW28e5ETKWJkcN.html
10-11-2020||India||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pays tribute to victims of political violence||On the occasion of the 13th ‘Nandigram Dibas’ on Tuesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee remembered all those who have lost their lives in political violence across the world. The chief minister described the killings at Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district as a “barbaric massacre in the name of new dawn” during the erstwhile Left Front rule.“Today is Nandigram Dibas - the 13th anniversary of the barbaric massacre in the name of new dawn. My homage to all those who have lost their lives due to political violence across the world. Peace must always win,” she tweeted.In January 2007, farmers in Nandigram had erupted in protest led by Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) against a special economic zone (SEZ) proposed by the Left Front government.Fourteen persons were killed in police firing on demonstrators against land acquisition at Nandigram on March 14, 2007.On this day in 2007, several persons were killed in clashes.The anti-land acquisition movement had catapulted the firebrand Trinamool Congress supremo to power in West Bengal.The TMC went on to win 19 seats in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and wrested power from the Left Front in the state in 2011 Assembly elections.Since 2012, the TMC observes the day as “Nandigram Divas” every year.The TMC also observes March 14, which witnessed the killing of 14 farmers at Nandigram, as ‘Krishak Divas’ each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-pays-tribute-to-victims-of-political-violence/story-xEkyiXtXzJc6MfsfHG2K1K.html
10-11-2020||India||Bihar Election 2020: BJP, JD(U) offices see activity after initial trends trickle in, leaders cautious||As election trends trickled in, giving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (United)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) an edge over the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress-led Mahagathbandhan by a slender margin, the BJP and JD(U) offices started seeing some activity. The BJP office at Beer Chand Patel Marg, however, saw a muted response to the initial trends, with leaders and workers not engaging in any celebrations till 11am, probably taking a lesson from the 2015 assembly election—the initial trends then had given NDA a lead, and the euphoria fell flat when the final results were announced.“We are hopeful of winning the polls. The initial results are good and we are waiting for the final outcome,” said a BJP worker. State president Sanjay Jaiswal has not commented on the trends so far and neither has any senior leader of the party, though trends show the BJP is leading in 68 seats. Also Read: Full coverage of Bihar assembly election 2020The BJP’s tally is higher than senior partner JD(U), which is leading in 47 seats, giving credence to opinion and exit polls that the BJP would be doing better than its allies this election. JD(U) state president Basishtha Narayan Singh said he was confident of the NDA getting a majority.ALSO WATCH | Bihar election: Counting underway; Tejashwi’s supporters ready to celebrate On the other hand, the mood outside the 10, Circular Road residence of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, where RJD workers have started trickling in, was upbeat. Senior leaders have not given any reaction so far, with RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Yadav still confined inside his official bungalow. There are chances that Yadav, who has singe-handedly steered the campaign—taking part in 247 election rallies and four road shows in 20 days—will speak to the media in the afternoon. By any standards, the RJD has done well, leading in 63 seats so far, as per trends, with chances the tally could go up. “ We will get a clear majority this time and RJD will cross 90 on its own,” said a senior RJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-2020-bjp-jd-u-offices-see-activity-after-initial-trends-trickle-in-leaders-cautious/story-HfAjWaCYntIVQQnImnHkVO.html
10-11-2020||India||Shopian encounter: 2 unidentified terrorists neutralised in J&K’s Kutpora||At least two unidentified terrorists neutralised in an ongoing operation in Kutpora area of Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. According to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the troops of 178 Bn CRPFalong with the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police conducted a joint cordonand search operation in Kutpora, Shopian, Jammu and Kashmir.A brief exchange of fire had occurred between the troops and terrorists at 6 am, the CRPF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-encounter-2-unidentified-terrorists-neutralised-in-j-k-s-kutpora/story-d4D0XtDhzNAvAnlQqpuXyM.html
10-11-2020||India||Senior Republic TV executive held in fake TRP scam||Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the alleged TRP (Television Rating Point) rigging scam, a Mumbai crime branch official said.Singh, who is also Assistant Vice President of the Republic Media Network, was picked up from his residence around 7.40 am, the official said.The latest arrest has taken the number of people held by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch in the case to 12.Singh was earlier questioned on multiple occasions by the CIU, the official said.The fake TRP scam came to light last month when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters. PTI DC NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-republic-tv-executive-held-in-fake-trp-scam/story-UeTu0ipqGtXP9suud8WVRN.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab revokes ‘general consent’ to CBI||The Congress-led government in Punjab has revoked its general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation for probing cases in the state, joining several other non-BJP ruled states that have carried out similar moves.West Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are among the states that have already withdrawn their “general consent” to the CBI.According to the notification issued by the Punjab government on November 8, its prior consent will be required by the CBI, which comes under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, to investigate any case in the state.“In exercise of the power conferred by section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (Central Act No 25 of 1946), the Government of Punjab hereby withdraws the general consent accorded to the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, anytime herein before,” as per notification issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, department of Home Affairs and Justice.“In view of revocation of all previous general consents issued earlier, prior consent of the Government of Punjab shall be required, hereinafter, on a case-to-case basis for investigation of any offence or class of offences under section 3 of the aforesaid Act, by the Delhi Special Police Establishment,” it further said.The Punjab government had earlier withdrawn consent from the CBI for investigating the 2015 sacrilege incidents there after the state assembly passed a resolution in this regard in 2018.Later, it handed over the probe into the incidents of desecration of religious texts to the special investigation team of the Punjab police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-revokes-general-consent-to-cbi/story-tU7HZJk6YrTf5pQ3GXoLKN.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP candidate wins Singhat in Manipur by-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has secured a victory in the Singhat Assembly constituency (Manipur), out of a total of five seats, in which by-polls were held, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday.According to the data from the ECI, BJP candidate Ginsuanhau has been declared the winner from Singhat, while Oinam Lukhoi Singh is leading by a margin of 268 votes from the Wangoi seat against National People’s Party (NPP) candidate, Khuraijam Loken Singh.Meanwhile, Congress’ Moirangthem Hemanta Singh is leading by a margin of 675 votes against BJP’s Paonam Brojen Singh on the Wangjing Tentha seat.By-polls were held in five Assembly constituencies, including Lilong, Wangjing Tentha and Saitu, in the state on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-candidate-wins-singhat-in-manipur-by-polls/story-pog7loRCVQELJdPSFpEkNL.html
10-11-2020||India||UP Bypoll Results 2020: BJP leading in 4 seats, trailing in 2, early trends show||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was on Tuesday leading in four seats and trailing in two others, early trends showed as votes were being counted in the seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, where by-polls were held last week.The by-polls are being seen as a test of popularity for the government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as the BJP, which has a comfortable majority in the state assembly, is contesting on seven seats. The party had won six of these in the 2017 elections and one was held by the Samajwadi Party.The BJP is leading in four, while the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Independent candidates are ahead in one each by margins varying from 1,000 to 2,000 votes. The BJP’s Usha Sirohi is leading in Bulandshahr, while Prem Pal Dhangar is leading from Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar from Bangarmau and Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria. The SP’s Javed Abbas is leading from Naugawan Sadat and BSP’s Kuldeep Shankhwar from Ghatampur. Independent Dhananjay Singh is leading from Malhani seat.Also read | D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 statesThe ruling party in the state was trailing in seats held by state ministers Chetan Chauhan and Kamla Rani Varun, Navgawan Sadat and Ghatampur respectively, while the SP was trailing in Malhani.The Naugaon Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of state minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan. The Ghatampur bypoll in Kanpur Nagar district was necessitated due to the death of state minister Varun. Both the ministers died of Covid-19. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, SP Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged.Also read | BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after resultsThe by-polls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively.The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in “rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections”.Adityanath and the BJP’s state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had led the party’s campaign on all the seven seats. The SP had also campaigned vigorously.An average of over 53% of voters had exercised their franchise to decide the electoral fate of 88 candidates, including nine women, for the Naugawan Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani assembly seats.UP chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has made adequate arrangements for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits such as face shields, masks, thermal scanners, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and water for those who have been deputed for the counting.“A maximum seven tables have been be placed in a counting hall. The counting of votes for Bulandshahar and Malahani assembly segments are being done in three halls each while counting for the remaining five constituencies are being conducted in two halls each,” Shukla said. “Adequate security forces have been deployed at the counting centres to maintain law and order. The ECI has deputed seven observers to monitor the exercise. The results of all the seven seats are likely to be declared by Tuesday evening,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bypoll-results-2020-bjp-leading-in-4-seats-trailing-in-4-early-trends-show/story-VuwpK4z4dTaSnJVU4iSTzM.html
10-11-2020||India||MP by-polls: BJP ahead on 13 seats while Congress leads on 5||As per the Election Commission of India’s trends at around 10:05 am on Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is ahead on 13 seats while the Indian National Congress (INC) is leading on five seats. The counting of votes is underway at the centres across the state. As the counting began the state looks on for the effect of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia factor in the changed political scenario in Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, the by-poll results are equally crucial for the former Chief Minister, Kamal Nath who lost power in the State when a group of Congress MLAs revolted against him after Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP.Click here to follow all the live updates of MP bypollsCounting of votes for by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8 am on Tuesday. This will be carried out along with the vote-counting process in Bihar where the first major electoral exercise was held amid the pandemic.The result of 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh will decide the fate of Shivraj Singh Chouhan led-BJP government which requires at least eight more MLAs for a clear majority in the state assembly.By-polls were held in Joura, Sumaoli, Morena, Dimani, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bhander, Karera, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mungaoli, Surkhi, Malhara, Anuppur, Sanchi, Biaora, Agar, Hatpipliya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Sanwer and Suwasra of Madhya Pradesh. By-elections were held on 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. The results will be declared on November 10. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-polls-bjp-ahead-on-13-seats-while-congress-leads-on-5/story-FGS5ZbO18lUFRjEmDifxRL.html
10-11-2020||India||India’s active Covid-19 cases fall below 6% of total cases, says health ministry||India’s Covid-19 active cases have fallen below 6 per cent of the total cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday.In a tweet, the Health Ministry said, “Demonstrating a landmark achievement, India’s Active Cases have fallen below 6% of the Total Cases. The Recovered Cases have leaped past 92% of the cumulative cases.”In another tweet, it said, “Calibrated and effective strategy of the Centre focused on high levels of testing for early identification combined with timely tracing, isolation and hospitalisation for the severe cases have resulted in a manageable number of active cases and continuously rising number of recoveries.”On Monday, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held a virtual meeting with Health Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, and West Bengal to review the Covid-19 situation.With 45,903 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total cases surged to 85,53,657, the MoHFW said on Monday.With 490 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll has mounted to 1,26,611.The total number of active cases stands at 5,09,673 in the last 24 hours while the total cured cases are at 79,17,373.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-6-per-cent-of-total-cases-health-ministry/story-fPWZKxNc3CKtb1KHllZWgN.html
10-11-2020||India||NDA has an edge over RJD+ alliance but there’s bad news for Nitish Kumar||In early Bihar poll leads, the BJP seems to zoom ahead of its partner Nitish Kumar - who faces a massive anti-incumbency after helming the state for 15 years - the chief ministerial face of the ruling National Democratic Alliance. The early numbers suggest that the BJP is the gainer, while the JD(U) faces a stiff test. Nitish Kumar’s party has always played the role of the senior partner in the Bihar alliance. However, if the trend carries on, there will be a reversal of roles. The BJP has never held the chief minister’s post in the state. The Tejashwi Yadav-led Mahagathbhandan, which most exit polls have given an advantage, appears to be in a tight contest with the NDA. For full Bihar polls coverage,click hereTejashwi Yadav, mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial face, ran a spirited election campaign and centred on the promise of 10 lakh jobs if voted to power. The issue seems to have galvanised them as was evident by the huge numbers at his rally. The young leader, who critics say has come into his own during this election, marshalled his party well with no Lalu Prasad to guide him around. ALSO WATCH | Bihar results | ‘We’re losing because...’: JDU leader amid counting of votes The Congress, contesting on 70 seats, is the junior partner in the alliance. The BJP campaign was bolstered by Prime minister Narendra Modi. Other star campaigners were defence minister Rajnath Singh, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP chief JP Nadda, among others.Chirag Paswan, who lost his father Ram Vilas Paswan in the middle of the polls, has kept up his unrelenting attack on Nitish Kumar. Despite breaking away from the NDA alliance in Bihar, Chirag’s Lok Janshakti Party continues to support the BJP at the Centre. The Jamui MP has openly professed his support for PM Narendra Modi while keeping up his attacks on Nitish Kumar. The BJP, on its part, has kept its distance from Chirag Paswan, insisting that it is with Nitish Kumar. Paswan even put up candidates in all seats against the JD(U) and at one stage during the campaign even vowed to put the CM in jail.Nitish Kumar, 69, contested the 2015 assembly polls in alliance with the RJD - his archrival Lalu Prasad’s party. The two went on to form the government with Tejashwi Yadav becoming the deputy chief minister. However, by 2017, the bonhomie disappeared and Nitish Kumar was back in the NDA fold.The other block in this election is the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) led by Upendra Kushwaha’s the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party. The GDSF is a coalition of six parties - the RLSP, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), the BSP, the Suheldev Samaj Party (SBSP), the Samajwadi Janata Dal Democractic and the Janatantrik Party (Socialist).The counting of votes for the 243-member state assembly is underway. The majority mark is 122.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-early-bihar-leads-it-s-advantage-bjp-over-nitish-kumar-s-party/story-E2pp67DIEZjFY6rYyt1DrO.html
10-11-2020||India||6 workers heading home to Jharkhand killed in road accident near Hyderabad||Six migrant workers were killed and four others seriously injured in a ghastly road accident on an expressway on the outskirts of Hyderabad in the early hours of Tuesday, police said. Ten workers, said to be carpenters from Jharkhand, were travelling from Hyderabad to their native places in an SUV with Delhi registration on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) expressway when a van rammed into the vehicle from behind at near Patancheru in Telangana’s Sangareddy district.“Due to the impact the SUV lost control and overturned killing six people on the spot. The van that hit the SUV did not stop, but we could find parts of it on the road,” Patancheru inspector Rami Reddy said. Five of the deceased were identified as Kamalesh Lohare, Hari Lohare, Pramod Buhare, Vinod Buhare and Pavan Kumar – all from Ramgarh district of Jharkhand. The identity of the sixth person is yet to be established. Four others – Pramod Kumar, Arjun, Anand Kumar and Chandra Vamsi – all from Gorakhpur in Jharkhand, who sustained grievous injuries were shifted to the government hospital at Patancheru, the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-workers-heading-home-to-jharkhand-killed-in-road-accident-near-hyderabad/story-A8VbRdwsEonS9IXTqBHx9L.html
10-11-2020||India||Karnataka formulates SOPs for colleges reopening from November 17||The department of higher education has formulated SOPs (standardized operating procedure) as per the UGC guidelines, in view of the opening of degree, engineering, and diploma colleges in the state from November 17.Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana, who is also the minister of higher education informed on Monday that preparation is underway to enable the start of the off-line classes.“The SOP has separate advisories set for the students of the final year and the classes will be conducted accordingly. Likewise, there are separate advisories set for the students of first and second-year students of the courses,” he said.Postgraduate and final year students who wish to attend classes physically should bring in the consent letter of their parents in the prescribed duly signed by them.While conducting the physical classes social distance needs to be maintained by taking into account the total number of students and the available total number of classrooms, as per the guidelines of the health department and the present advisories.Teaching, practical and project classes should be conducted on shift system, if it is necessary. For those students who want to skip attending physical classes, an online facility will be there.Contact classes should be conducted every day to facilitate students to clarify any doubts and resolve issues of such students with regard to topics, as per the SOP.“The time table should be prepared at the college level itself so as to enable to maintain the social distance as per the guidelines of the health department and the present advisories based on the total number of students and the available number of classrooms while conducting the contact classes,” it said.According the SOP, the teaching faculty should prepare the study materials required for the duration of one month based on each period/session and compulsorily send it to concerned students via Telegram/ WhatsApp/E-mail.Study materials should be in the form of video Lectures, PowerPoint Presentations, E-Notes, E-Books, Audio Books, Practice Questions and it is also mandatory to upload it on the website of the college.All those students (exclusive of post-graduation and final year) who attend online/ contact classes can stay in hostels located on-campus or off-campus, read the SOP.Apart from these the SOPs, general guidelines which include cleansing of buildings, entrance, furniture, teaching materials by sanitizers, Covid-19 test of teaching faculty, students, and non-teaching staff, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-formulates-sops-for-colleges-reopening-from-november-17/story-jh8u1FRVbfZI5XgROXYMeI.html
10-11-2020||India||Dawood Ibrahim’s properties in Ratnagiri to be auctioned today||The competent authority of the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (Safema) will go ahead with an auction of seven land parcels of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district in Konkan on Tuesday, officials said.Two flats of Dawood’s aide Iqbal Mirchi will also be auctioned, officials said. Safema’s competent authority Harigovind Singh will supervise the auction. Under Safema, the finance ministry had planned to auction all 13 properties of Dawood in the first quarter this year. However, the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown forced them to defer the plan. A Safema official said that properties were inspected by prospective bidders as per procedure. “All three modes of sale – e-auction, public auction and sealed tenders – would be used,” he said. Section 68F of Safema empowers the authority to attach properties of family members and relatives of the fugitive. “As the lockdown has adversely affected people across all sections financially, we are not sure what kind of response we would get,” said another official. In April 2019, Safema officials auctioned a flat measuring 600 sq ft at Gordon Hall Apartments in Nagpada, belonging to Dawood’s sister Haseena Parkar, for ₹1.80 crore. Parker died in 2014 and later her brother Iqbal Kaskar had come to stay there. In 2018, Safema auctioned Dawood’s property, Amina Mansion, on Pakmodia Street. The reserved price of the property was ₹79.43 lakh, and it was won by the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for ₹3.51 crore. In November 2017, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) had made the highest bid for the three sealed properties of the fugitive don. The Rounaq Afroz restaurant, also known as Delhi Zaika, was sold for ₹4.53 crore. Six flats in Damarwala building were sold for ₹3.53 crore, while Shabnam Guest House fetched a price of ₹3.52 crore. The reserve price for the land parcels to be auctioned at Mumbake village taluka, Khed, range from ₹1.38 lakh to ₹2.23 lakh. Another plot of land with a two-storey bungalow has a reserved price ₹5.35 lakh. The reserve price for another plot of land with a structure for petrol pump and other buildings is ₹61.48 lakh.Two flats, 501/502, in Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West), belonging to the late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, will also be sold||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-properties-in-ratnagiri-to-be-auctioned-today/story-wCiylG9WinJ59HkeRxlv6H.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discrimination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesMHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discriminationThe Union home ministry has constituted a five-member panel to address complaints of Scheduled Caste (SC) employees pertaining to discrimination in promotions or seniority, vacant reserved vacancies, termination from services and denial of pensionary benefits, etc, people familiar with the development said. Read moreDelhi air severely polluted for sixth consecutive dayDelhi continued to record “severe” air quality for the sixth consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading on Tuesday morning was 487. On Monday, the city’s average AQI reading was 477. Read more Internal differences widen in TMC, BJP watches minister Suvendu AdhikariDifferences over running the party and selection of candidates for the coming assembly polls in West Bengal have rapidly widened in recent weeks between the top leadership of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and several district leaders, especially transport minister Suvendu Adhikari. Read moreEver wonder what happens when you open a jar of honey in space? Watch to find outLife in space can seem intriguing to many. If you’re among those who often wonder what it’d be like to live outside Earth, then this video by the Canadian Space Agency may interest you. Watch here‘As outsiders in Bollywood, you get one ball and you must make 7 runs off it’: Pankaj Tripathi on his eight-year strugglePankaj Tripathi took his sweet time watching Mirzapur. It took him a lockdown to sit down and watch the popular Amazon Prime Video series, which has him in the lead role as the don, Kaleen bhaiya. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor takes Instagram back to the 1950s with her yesteryear fashion in brocade, polkas and blue netted sareeGoing retro on a fresh Monday evening, Gunjan Saxena star Janhvi Kapoor took the Internet by storm as she treated netizens with a flood of her dolled up pictures which took Instagram back to the 1950s. Read moreFirst for Delhi or fifth for Mumbai?It had come down to the game’s last ball. For their fourth Indian Premier League (IPL) title, Mumbai Indians (MI) had to stop Chennai Super Kings (CSK) from scoring two. Lasith Malinga bowled the ball of IPL 2019, a slow yorker, to win it for MI. Read moreIndia’s anti-satellite missile system statue unveiled by Rajnath SinghA statue of India’s anti-satellite missile system was unveiled in Delhi at the DRDO headquarters. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveiled the statue at a ceremony. PM Modi had announced successful testing of the missile on mar 27, 2019. A low earth orbit satellite was destroyed as part of mission Shakti. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mha-forms-committee-to-look-into-complaints-of-caste-based-discrimination-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RKXnBBADFufO6RdwYwibOL.html
10-11-2020||India||MHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discrimination||The Union home ministry has constituted a five-member panel to address complaints of Scheduled Caste (SC) employees pertaining to discrimination in promotions or seniority, vacant reserved vacancies, termination from services and denial of pensionary benefits, etc, people familiar with the development said.The committee, headed by joint secretary Saheli Ghosh Roy, will look into all kinds of complaints from the SC employees and submit its report within one month to Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla.Also Read: Bedi refers proposal for 10% reservation in medical courses for govt school students to MHAPeople cited above, who did not want to be named, said the decision to form the Internal Grievance Redressal Committee was taken on the recommendation of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, which has asked all the central ministries and departments to look into complaints of SC employees.The NCSC has said thousands of complaints are received by it every year from SC employees in which they allege discrimination in promotions, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-forms-committee-to-look-into-complaints-of-caste-based-discrimination/story-5AQTb06TSEzlKy5bG5lsjJ.html
10-11-2020||India||What BJP, Congress, JD(S) have at stake in Karnataka bypolls||All the three major parties in Karnataka - the BJP, the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) - are going all-out for win in the Sira and RR Nagar bypolls though their results will have no effect on the survival of the state government.For chief minister BS Yediyurappa victories in one or both the constituencies would underscore the BJP’s continued dependence on his appeal in the state. Also the fate of Vijayendra, the younger son of Yediyurappa, would be determined by the Sira bypoll outcome. Vijayendra is the vice president of the state unit of BJP. A victory in Sira, where the party has never even come second, would underscore his ability to pull off upsets after a similar one in KR Pete last year.Any loss in both the constituencies might further shorten Yediyurappa’s tenure as the high command is keen on replacing the ageing Lingayat leader with a fresh face. So it is important for Yediyurappa and his son Vijayendra to ensure victories although the state government, with 117 members plus the support of three independents in a house of 225 members, is safe.The stakes are equally high for the DK brothers - state Congress chief DK Shivakumar and his parliamentarian younger brother DK Suresh. RR Nagar assembly constituency is a part of Bengaluru Rural which Suresh represents in the Lok Sabha. Also, this is the first electoral challenge that the Congress is facing after Shivakumar took over as state party chief in March of last year. Shivakumar also handpicked the candidate in RR Nagar and chose to back an old warhorse - a former minister TB Jayachandra in Sira.Regional JDS has the most to lose as it has been shrinking for several years now. For the JDS, led by the Gowda family, HD Deve Gowda, HD Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna - a loss in both seats might mean that their traditional hold on the Vokkaliga community is a thing of the past.Their aspiration to remain as kingmakers in Karnataka politics by being the swing third pole which determines who rules the state might also be impacted if they lose both the seats which are Vokkaliga dominated. So all three players are keen to emerge victorious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-bjp-congress-jd-s-have-at-stake-in-karnataka-bypolls/story-OLXC9hvqZ2GCF187Sama9H.html
10-11-2020||India||Bihar election results: Tejashwi Yadav’s grand alliance takes early lead over Nitish Kumar’s NDA||The grand alliance led by Tejashwi Yadav made a propitious beginning in early leads as counting of votes for the Bihar assembly elections started at 8 am on Tuesday at centres across the state. Tejashwi Yadav has been fronting the opposition offensive against Nitish Kumar who has been Bihar’s chief minister for 14 of the last years and is the face of the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) campaign.Full Coverage: Bihar Assembly electionIn very early trends, according to counting data provided by C Voter, the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led alliance is leading in 119 Bihar assembly seats as against the NDA which is ahead in about 93 seats at 9 am. There will be many more rounds of counting of votes in the bitterly-fought elections to the 243-member assembly.Bihar polls: Counting begins, track live updatesThe early trends are in line with projections by most exit polls that predicted the 31-year-old, who has emerged from the shadow of his father and RJD founder Lalu Prasad Yadav in the 2020 elections, could halt Nitish Kumar’s juggernaut. This is the first election that Tejashwi has led his party into the state election on his own since father Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving time for the fodder scam.Nitish Kumar, who has been Bihar chief minister for over 14 years, won the 2015 assembly election in alliance with RJD but switched sides in 2017 when he pole vaulted from the grand alliance with the RJD and Congress into the BJP’s team. Nitish Kumar had then painted Tejashwi Yadav as the villain, attributing his decision to dump the RJD to corruption cases against deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav.Track party wise results hereBack then, Nitish Kumar and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had hoped to stitch together a winning combination in 2020. But over the next three years, the NDA in Bihar first lost Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) in 2018 and closer to the state elections, Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), over differences with Nitish Kumar and his party. To be sure, Chirag Paswan has made it clear that his party still supports the BJP at the Centre.It is Nitish Kumar that he had a problem with. And to get back to him, Chirag Paswan’s party fielded candidates on 137 seats, mostly upper castes in constituencies allocated to the JD(U) to chip away at the NDA’s support base. Exit polls have indicated that Chirag Paswan’s strategy could cost the JD(U) dearly in about two dozen constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-results-tejashwi-yadav-s-grand-alliance-takes-early-lead-over-nitish-kumar-s-nda/story-ipliIR4V1yIPS46ziUGb1H.html
10-11-2020||India||After 12-day blockade over border row, trucks start moving from Assam to Mizoram||Ending a 12-day blockade of a national highway following a border row between the two states, trucks started moving from Assam to Mizoram on Monday. Circle Officer of Sonai in Cachar district of Assam Sudeep Nath said that 21 trucks carrying essential goods as well as buses carrying passengers moved from Lailapur on the border with police escort. He added that empty trucks, which were stranded on the Mizoram side due to the blockade, also started entering Assam from Monday. The movement of vehicles resumed after Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla brokered chief secretary-level talks between both states on Sunday to end the impasse. According to Nath, there has been no untoward incident along the 164-km long border between the two states since Saturday and the situation is slowly returning to normalcy. Residents on the Assam side had blocked the NH 306 leading to Mizoram on October 28 seeking removal of Mizoram security forces from the border areas between two states. Assam had claimed that Mizoram’s security personnel had encroached upon its territory and had even started construction while the latter maintained that its personnel were on its territory. The residents of Lailapur decided to call off the blockade a day after Mizoram agreed to withdraw its forces from the border and deploy 3 companies of Border Security Force (BSF) along the disputed area. Tensions between both states flared up last month after some huts on the border were allegedly burnt by miscreants. In the violence that followed several persons from both sides were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-12-day-blockade-over-border-row-trucks-start-moving-from-assam-to-mizoram/story-al5gQAQP0sCBf9z4SxQx3M.html
10-11-2020||India||Four kids die in mudslide in Bhopal||Four kids including three girls and a boy were killed while two other were injured in a mudslide in Bhopal on Monday, police said. The deceased were identified as Manoj Singh, 7, Asha Singh, 7, Sheila Singh, 9 and Kavita Singh, 10, all residents of Barkhedi village of Bhopal while Rohit, 8, and Vikram, 9, sustained serious injuries. The children were extracting mud from near a drain when loose soil caved in.Bhopal’s additional superintendent of police (ASP), Rajesh Singh Bhadoriya said, “Seven kids had gone to extract mud for their houses on Monday morning. While extracting mud, they got trapped in the mudslide. A six-year-old girl Bunty who cried for help was saved by a villager named Laxman Singh. Later, the girl told him that six more kids were trapped in the mud.” “The children were pulled from the head of mud and were rushed to Hamidia Hospital where doctors declared four of them brought dead,” said the ASP. In the preliminary postmortem report, the cause of death of kids was found to be suffocation, said the officer. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the incident and announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-kids-die-in-mudslide-in-bhopal/story-8oqU6VIHQPYvIqBCbiIHfI.html
10-11-2020||India||Internal differences widen in TMC, BJP watches minister Suvendu Adhikari||Differences over running the party and selection of candidates for the coming assembly polls in West Bengal have rapidly widened in recent weeks between the top leadership of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and several district leaders, especially transport minister Suvendu Adhikari.Many party veterans said they are apprehending desertions in the rank and file ahead of the polls which are due in about six months. A two-time former Lok Sabha member with an impressive fan following among party workers, Adhikari, 50, is acknowledged as one of the leaders who helped TMC chief Mamata Banerjee galvanize the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram in East Midnapore district during the Left Front rule. The two-year-long movement became a key factor in the CPI(M)’s ouster in 2011 because of the violence. The former youth leader of the TMC also oversaw poll preparations in other districts after the TMC came to power. Adhikari’s differences with the TMC has increased so much that on Tuesday he will observe the success of the Nandigram movement and condole the death of party workers outside the ambit of the TMC. The Nandigram Diwas (day) rally has been organised by Adhikari’s followers who, over the past few months, have been putting up banners and posters in districts across Bengal, declaring Adhikari as their leader and making no mention of the TMC. Over the last seven days, these posters appeared in north Bengal as well. This is unprecedented in the TMC. Senior party leaders told HT on condition of anonymity that Adhikari is specifically unhappy with Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in by the chief minister after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. “Suvendu wants the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. We are aware that he was approached by the BJP. There is nothing one can do if he is determined to leave. But we have information that he is not yet ready to join the saffron camp,” a top TMC leader told HT on Monday evening. “Like several other district leaders, Adhikari is also not ready to follow instructions from I-Pac, Kishor’s company,” said another TMC leader. Adhikari was not available for comment but a leader known to be close to him said, “He will lose his independence if he joins the BJP. He may launch his own platform instead for the time being which will give him bargaining power whichever way the poll results go.” Incidentally, Union home minister Amit Shah, who was on a two-day tour of Bengal last week, avoided answering questions on whether the BJP was keen on taking Adhikari on board. On Monday, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and national vice-president Mukul Roy (a former TMC leader) flew to Delhi for a few hours to discuss poll strategy with national leaders. Members of the party’s core team led by B L Santhosh, national general secretary (organization) and a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pointsman, also discussed the issue of desertions from the TMC. “It is different thing if Adhikari joins the BJP. Otherwise our party is unlikely to form an alliance with anyone before the elections. What may happen after the polls is something only the future can tell,” said a senior BJP leader who did not wish to be named.Adhikari and his family have played a key role in the growth of the TMC in East Midnapore. The Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats, most of the assembly segments comprising these and a many local bodies are controlled by 78-year-old Sisir Adhikari and his three sons since 2009. Sisir Adhikari, who served as a minister in the Manmohan Singh govt (2009-2012), is the sitting MP from Kanthi. His second son Dibyendu is the MP from Tamluk. Dibyendu’s elder brother Suvendu, who held the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat twice, resigned in 2016 to become a minister in Bengal. Dibyendu won the Kanthi South assembly seat in 2009, 2011 and 2016. He vacated it to become an MP when Suvendu became a minister. Sisir Adhikari’s youngest son Soumendu is the chairman of Kanthi municipality. Troubled by infighting among district TMC leaders, Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor travelled to Siliguri in north Bengal last month to sort things out. Mihir Goswami, the lawmaker from Cooch Behar South seat, who did not meet them despite being summoned, announced on Monday that he will leave the TMC. At Singur in south Bengal, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the local lawmaker and former school teacher with a clean image, also threatened to quit in protest against appointment of some organizational leaders at community block level. “The thought of joining another party has crossed my mind. I have received proposals,” said Bhattacharya, who is fondly called “Mastermoshai” (teacher) by local people. Singur had witnessed a major anti-land acquisition movement by Mamata Banerjee against the Tata’s small car project. Though infighting is not new in the TMC, the current spate has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees during a reshuffle in July this year. Done on the recommendations of Kishor, the structural changes have made many old-timers insecure. In May 2017, the state BJP started acting on a masterplan prepared by Amit Shah who was then party president. Taking some pointers from the Marxists’ proverbial organisational strategy, Shah instructed state leaders to expand the BJP’s presence right down to 77,000-odd polling booth areas. Since that work is not yet complete, split in the TMC’s district units can only help the BJP, saffron camp leaders feel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internal-differences-widen-in-tmc-bjp-watches-minister-suvendu-adhikari/story-WFyQqUjyueygCIlLVSv0VI.html
10-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: The joys of signage art||Here’s a delicious assault of the shop signages. New Fashion House has “parde hi parde,” boasting a great choice of curtains. Sudhiksha Beauty Parlour also happens to be a Training Centre (presumably for aspiring beauticians). And Kavya Collection is stocked with “fancy kurtis, slex, top, leggings, etc.”These vital infos are screaming out from the shop hoardings in Yasin Plaza. This ramshackle multi-storey shopping complex is nothing like the glitzy malls that this part of the National Capital Region is known for. It’s a shabby building, in old Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar, faces the Jama Masjid and a grassless park. It has many tailoring establishments, plus a popular eatery serving passable chhole bhature.It would be fair to say you won’t miss much by never stepping inside. In the old times.But now you ought to drop by.After months of staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, of making online shopping a habit, and of succumbing to all sorts of snazzy ads popping up on your Instagram and Facebook feeds, entering Yasin Plaza is like stepping into a museum. Here’s a world of archaic advertising, and of small businesses tempting customers with small hoardings announcing their shop names and specialities in multi-coloured Hindi and English fonts.Think of it. Increasingly, as independent shops turn into retail chain outlets, their hoardings have become uniform in all cities—all showing the same brand names in the same aesthetics. But a walk inside the Yasin Plaza forcefully transports the viewer to the shrinking world of early visual advertising. Simply mulling over the eclectic names of the shops gives a sense of the aspirations, identities and diversities of the place, its store owners and customers.Start with the huge column on the plaza’s staircase that is decked with banners. Among other things, it champions interfaith tolerance—Om Collection - Ladies Boutique is atop Khan Tailors - Men’s Wear. Other placards evoke other wonders. Does Continental Tailors have European dressing as its ideal? What can Rajput Fashion - Leather Items be all about?Each signage is a palette of many colours, with separate words done in separate shades. They get more descriptive as you approach the individual shops. The so-named Rafiq - The Tailoring Point is a mishmash of fonts and images. It prominently shows a painting of a safari suit, a dress that went out of style some decades ago.Delhi Tailors choses to be text-heavy—like those super-confident minimalist book covers, whose publishers think that putting only the title and the author’s name on the page will be enough.Also check the pillar-length advertisement of the aforementioned chhole bhature establishment. This is a neatly executed geometrical arrangement of dish names in Devanagari, and is more tasteful than the chhole.In our globalised world, as all of us are being bombarded with the same choices, brands and advertising slogans no matter how disparate our GPS coordinates, here is an opportunity to gaze upon something so hyperlocal that it exists nowhere else. The complex opens daily from 9am to 9.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-joys-of-signage-art/story-bFyJoiQG1sIonvez15ffiK.html
10-11-2020||India||Cut adjournments in criminal trials against lawmakers, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has asked for major changes in how cases against sitting and former lawmakers are heard, putting a bar on unnecessary adjournments and indefinite stays in pending criminal trials, and considering to offer protection even without a formal request to all witnesses.These new rules, which will apply to cases against both sitting and former members of Parliament and legislative assemblies, are part of a Supreme Court order on November 4 in a PIL filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The full order was made public on Monday. Upadhyay’s petition, being heard by the top court since 2016, demanded the quick resolution of criminal trials pending against lawmakers. Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita, who are assisting the SC as amicus curiae in the case, pressed for many reforms in a report submitted on November 2.There are 4,859 criminal cases pending against lawmakers across the country. Of these, 2,556 cases involve sitting legislators.In the order, a three-judge bench, headed by justice NV Ramana and also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said: “Keeping in mind the public interest involved in these matters, and in order to prevent undue delay, we direct that no unnecessary adjournments be granted in these matters (involving MPs/MLAs).”Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan, appearing for Upadhyay, argued that stay orders cannot be indefinite.The court was also particular about enhancing the scope of the witness protection scheme for people deposing in cases against lawmakers. “Keeping in mind the vulnerability of the witnesses in such cases, the trial court may consider granting protection under the said scheme to witnesses without their making any specific application in this regard,” the top court said in the order. Advocate Sneha Kalita, who is assisting the amicus curiae in the present case said, “Using political might, money and muscle power, trial in such cases get prolonged. The decision of the court is a step in the right direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cut-adjournments-in-criminal-trials-against-lawmakers-says-supreme-court/story-XD2rGbNrR2GujcN9YnR5LN.html
10-11-2020||India||Derek O’Brien questions Parliamentary panel functioning on data privacy||Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien expressed “serious concern” at what he described as the hasty functioning of the parliamentary panel on the Data Protection Bill, 2019, saying “this is not how a Joint Parliamentary Committee functions”, signalling differences in the process to fine-tune India’s first data privacy law.In a letter to panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, O’Brien argued that more stakeholders should be consulted and said it was difficult for MPs living outside Delhi to attend successive meetings within a week.“For a Bill that seeks to establish a comprehensive data policy in India, a committee which is simply going through the motions is a grave injustice. This committee has been formed with the mandate of both Houses of Parliament but it is unfortunate that the essence of the JPC is being violated,” O’Brien wrote on November 7. The JPC on the Personal Data Protection Bill, formed December last year with members from LS and RS, has met representatives from Facebook, Twitter, Google, Amazon, telecom service providers Jio and Airtel and some payment service providers like Paytm.O’Brien wrote: “It is of serious concern that the Committee is considering clause-by-clause consideration of the contents of the Bill before completing its consultations with all stakeholders.” The consideration of clauses of a bill is usually the last stage of discussion in a parliamentary panel before the draft report is finalised. O’Brien suggested, “consumer groups, e-commerce companies, online streaming platforms and aggregators, civil society groups & think-tanks operating in the domain, more legal groups with expertise in the areas of cyber policy, data privacy and data protection” to be invited to depose before the panel.When contacted, Lekhi said, “It’s almost a year since this JPC was constituted and like all JPCs this is also time bound; this one was given three months. Two extensions have already been sought and taken. It’s a sensitive issue as admitted by Mr O’Brien himself, which needs effective and timely redressal and cannot be hanging fire. So many leaders across party lines including from his own party have been attending the meetings diligently.”The TMC leader said there have been 18 meetings of the committee over 10 months. “In the first 7 months, the Committee had only 5 meetings. Post that, in only 3 months, we have had 13 more meetings. Now in the middle of a pandemic, the committee is meeting three days a week.”Lekhi responded: “This seems like a belated realisation from someone who has been absent. Facilities in Delhi are provided for Parliamentary work. He has been attending Parliament even during the pandemic, but cannot find the time to attend committee meetings. Histrionics may work in Rajya Sabha, but committee proceedings are hard work behind closed doors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derek-o-brien-questions-parliamentary-panel-functioning-on-data-privacy/story-5ytb81BFYWBQj4DW58I3LJ.html
10-11-2020||India||15th Finance Commission submits report to Kovind||The 15th Finance Commission, which decides the sharing of resources between the Centre and states, submitted its report for the five-yearly period between 2021-22 and 2025-26 to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday, making wide-ranging recommendations that are likely to be seminal in the area of health care, financial incentives to states based on performance, and national security.The report by the commission, headed by NK Singh, comes at a juncture when the Covid-19 pandemic has greatly strained government revenues, shrinking the resource pie, and amid a turbulent Centre-states relationship over payment of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess.Titled “Finance Commission in Covid Times”, the four-volume report contains, for the first time, a chapter on the health care scenario of the country, accompanied by recommendations likely to prove crucial in ramping up public-health spending in a post-pandemic era. “Over the next five years, the Centre alone should be able to spend at least 2.1% of GDP on health,” chairman NK Singh told HT in an interview on July 8.A key term of reference by the Centre to the commission is the creation of a non-lapsable defence and internal security fund, either through allocation from the divisible pool of funds, from which resources are shared between the Centre and states, or through a cess. The report has addressed this, and several other wide-ranging proposals written into its mandate. “The commission has sought to address all its terms of references in this report to the Union government. The commission has analysed the finances of each state in great depth and has come up with state-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual states face,” an official statement said.The Constitution, through Articles 280 to 281, provides for finance commissions, set up every five years, as a mechanism to divide taxes and revenues vertically i.e. between the Centre and states, and horizontally, i.e. among all states, based on their levels of development, prosperity and regional needs.Over the years, finance commissions have incrementally increased the share of states in resources, but also linked grants and incentives to states based on their performance in various areas, such as demography, sanitation, public health, and so on. The previous 14th Finance Commission recommended a leap in states’ share, raising it by 10 percentage points to 42%. The 15th commission has reviewed the recommendations of the 14th commission, which was one of its mandates.According to its terms of reference set by the President, the commission has examined and recommended performance incentives for states in several areas, such as power-sector reforms, adoption of direct benefit transfers, solid waste management, and others.Given the shrinking base, what states would get in absolute terms would matter more than the percentage share over the next five years, a senior official told HT requesting anonymity in a November 7 interview. Also, since the pie is smaller, the grants component recommended by the commission “becomes very important for states”, he said.The recommendations, for the next five years, are unlikely to be made public anytime soon, and will possibly be tabled in the Parliament, along with an action-taken report, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the Budget next February.The report’s Volume I and II contain the main report. Volume III is devoted to the central government and examines key departments in greater depth, with the medium-term challenges and the road map ahead. Volume IV is devoted to the states. Members of the commission included Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand, who along with chairman NK Singh and secretary to the commission, Arvind Mehta, presented the report to the president.According to NR Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics, the pandemic need not impact the “devolution formula” mainly because all states had been affected equally. “What might be impacted is the fiscal responsibility and budget management road map because the pandemic has put huge pressure on both expenditure and revenue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15th-finance-commission-submits-report-to-kovind/story-X9DPENCPlfh48WPcd0ZhkN.html
10-11-2020||India||Foreign secy to visit Nepal to boost bilateral ties||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for a formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go the extra mile to improve bilateral ties that nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.The decision to send the foreign secretary comes days after Indian Army chief General MM Naravane was conferred the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army. Naravane met Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli who underscored that the two countries could resolve all problems between them through dialogue because they have a longstanding special relationship.Oli faced resistance within his cabinet to Naravane’s visit but dealt with it, even withdrawing the defence portfolio from deputy prime minister Ishwar Pokhrel, according to people aware of the developments.Naravane’s visit was considered crucial, particularly given that he was the first one in the Indian side to react to protests by Nepal’s government over a border road built in Uttarakhand. It was very possible that Nepal raised the issue at someone else’s behest, he said in May, a remark that was interpreted as implying that Beijing could have prodded Nepal to create a new boundary dispute.It was not clear if Oli directly broached the topic when Naravane called on him last week.People familiar with the discussions said Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio after shunting out Pokhrel, did make a pointed reference to the fallout of the row over Nepal’s political map, describing it as a “misunderstanding”. At the same time, he underlined that Nepal takes its sovereignty very seriously, a remark that is being seen in New Delhi as explaining his decision to issue a fresh political map.During the two days – November 26 and 27 – that Shringla spends in Kathmandu, he is scheduled to hold meetings with his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal, who took charge just last month, and foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The career diplomat will also meet President Bidhya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli during his visit.Shringla’s conversations in Nepal are also expected to lead both sides to finalise the schedule for the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.Officials stressed that the boundary issue was going to be only one aspect of the visit. “This is not a single-agenda visit,” a senior diplomat said, pointing out that the visit could see India committing to help Nepal with coronavirus vaccines once its production begins. Also, the two sides will discuss the revival of the Pancheshwar multi-purpose project on river Mahakali as well as other hydro-electric projects.India was holding off on Shringla’s visit for most of this year to convey New Delhi’s displeasure over the Nepal government’s move to issue a new political map that included a slice of land including the Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas to the west of Nepal. New Delhi rejected the map, brushing away what it said was Nepal’s effort at a cartographic expansion.Nepal has been working at mollifying New Delhi for some time and withdrew school textbooks that contained the new political map. Last month, Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Kumar Goel did the groundwork for restoring ties during his quiet visit to Nepal, according to the people quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secy-to-visit-nepal-to-boost-bilateral-ties/story-HTISCig2S97NnLo3ZHdtBJ.html
10-11-2020||India||If you can talk to China, why not Pakistan, says Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said on Monday that militancy was on the rise in Kashmir, even as she said that dialogue with Pakistan and stakeholders in Jammu & Kashmir was important to bring peace to the region.Mufti on Monday visited Jammu for the first time after her release from a 14-month detention following the revocation of the special status to Jammu & Kashmir. Speaking against the Centre’s move in August last year, Mufti said the “arbitrary and illegal decision” forced youngsters to pick up arms.“Today, 10-15 young men are joining militancy from each village because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suppressed their voices. People don’t have any option left. Faced with the option of either going to jail or picking up arms, they choose to pick up arms and die. As the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] doesn’t allow people to speak, they are ready to explode,” she said.Asking the Centre to hold dialogue with Pakistan in a bid to bring border skirmishes to an end and restore peace, she said: “If you can talk to China, why can’t you talk to Pakistan? We have been pleading with China to give us our land back but they are not budging from their stand. Why can’t we talk to Pakistan?” She said that there was no other way to resolve the Kashmir issue than the one shown by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “My father (Mufti Mohammad Sayeed) always wanted to see border opened between India and Pakistan. Let J&K become a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan,” she added.“We have to take a leaf out of that book and start a dialogue with them (Pakistan) and with the stakeholders in J&K. When we can hold eight rounds of talks with China which martyred our 20 soldiers and we did not even raise our finger,” she said.“Our jobs, natural resources and land… everything has been put on sale by the BJP. Article 370 was a protective shield provided by Maharaja Hari Singh to protect the distinct Dogra identity and culture under the Indian Constitution. However, the BJP has desecrated Dr BR Ambedkar’s Constitution,” she added.“Article 370 is not linked to Muslims or Hindus. It was enacted to protect the identity of J&K,” Mufti said.The BJP recently said that Mufti was attempting to disturb peace in the region by instigating the people of Kashmir. Jammu & Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said that “no power on earth” could restore Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-can-talk-to-china-why-not-pakistan-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-1E9auzxuPGJrkbdsR9stFN.html
10-11-2020||India||D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 states||Along with a pitched battle for the Bihar state elections between the National Democratic Alliance and the Opposition Grand Alliance, or Mahagathbandhan, votes will be counted on Tuesday for 58 assembly seats across 11 states, with Madhya Pradesh accounting for nearly half of them, as India ends its first major electoral exercise during the Covid-19 pandemic. The only Lok Sabha seat to be decided is this round of polling is Bihar’s Valmiki Nagar, where an election was necessitated after the death in February of Janata Dal (United) MP Baidyanath Mahto.Counting will begin at 8 am with social distancing norms at all counting centres, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI). The stakes are high for the ruling BJP and the Congress in Madhya Pradesh, with the former needing to win at least eight seats (out of the 28 going to the polls) to retain a simple majority in the state assembly. The BJP, at the moment, has 107 MLAs in a House with an effective strength of 202. The halfway mark after the bypolls will be 115. The Congress, which lost 25 sitting MLAs when they walked out of the party with Jyotiraditya Scindia in March a show of support, has 87 seats. The shift toppled the Kamal Nath government and brought Shivraj Singh Chouhan back to power as chief minister.In Uttar Pradesh, the bypolls will a test of popularity for the Yogi Adityanath government, as the BJP, which has a comfortable majority in the state assembly, is contesting on seven seats -- six of which it won in the 2017 elections; one of the seats up for grabs was held by the Samajwadi Party. The counting of votes will also take place in eight seats in Gujarat, four in Manipur, and one in Haryana -- all held by the Congress. The elections to the Gujarat seats were needed after eight Congress MLAs resigned during the Rajya Sabha polls in June. The by-elections were necessitated in Manipur after Congress MLAs in the four seats resigned from the assembly, quit the party, and switched to the BJP. If the BJP wins all four seats, it will get a majority on its own in the 60-member house. The fate will also be decided of one seat in Chhattisgarh, two in Jharkhand, and two in Karnataka. None of these elections will have an impact on the status of the state assemblies. But Chhattisgarh’s Marwahi seat, where polls was necessitated due to the death of sitting Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA and former CM Ajit Jogi in May, is particularly interesting because there is a direct fight between the Congress and the BJP after the nomination of Jogi’s son Amit and daughter-in-law Richa Jogi were rejected on the grounds that their caste papers were not in order. The Marwahi seat is reserved for Scheduled Tribes.There are another two seats in Nagaland, one in Telangana, and two in Odisha to be decided on Tuesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/d-day-for-58-assembly-seats-across-11-states/story-7ZcvxMtyps9ZKgWuuj41rN.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab also takes back consent to CBI to probe cases||The Congress-led government in Punjab on Monday became the latest state government to withdraw the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate cases in the state. It now joins a list of non-BJP ruled states that have enacted similar measures.The move by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government means that the central agency will have to seek permission from the state government on a case-to-case basis to investigate cases in the state.Jharkhand, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala and Chhattisgarh are other states that have withdrawn the general consent accorded to the CBI to exercise its powers under the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DPSE) Act.The withdrawal of the consent is not unprecedented but never have so many states withdrawn the consent to the federal investigating agency. As per the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that governs the CBI, the agency requires prior consent to exercise its authority in states.The withdrawal of consent through a notification issued by the state home department comes amid a standoff between the state and the Centre over the contentious farm laws. “The general consent granted to the CBI under Section 6 of the DPSE Act has been revoked. If the CBI has to investigate any offence or class of offences related to the state, prior consent of the Punjab government will be required on a case-to-case basis,” said a senior officer familiar with the matter.The official said that law and order is a state subject and there are multiple agencies in the state to probe cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-also-takes-back-consent-to-cbi-to-probe-cases/story-9wvPpzzCB6zISPxMWW3sHJ.html
10-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The big news of Monday is, of course, on Page 1 of this paper -- on the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine being at least 90% effective in preventing Covid-19 according to the first interim analysis of late stage trail data. Pfizer’s CEO termed it a “great day for science and humanity,” and history may well prove him right, although there are still a few hurdles the vaccine has to clear. If it does that, it may well be available by the end of the year (See front page). But this column isn’t about vaccines; it is about spillovers. David Quammen’s 2012 book, Spillover: Animal Infections and the Next Human Pandemic, and the chapter on AIDS from it, later published as a separate book, The Chimp and the River: How AIDS Emerged from an African Forest, are among the best reads on zoonotic diseases. A spillover is an infection that originates in a non-human species but spills over into humans. In the case of AIDS, as Quammen chronicles, everything began with one “bloody encounter” between a Cameroonian hunter and an infected chimpanzee. In the case of Mers (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome), a camel figures somewhere in the chain. And in the case of Sars, the virus was traced back to civets (hunted for meat), and further back to a species of horseshoe bats. Sars-CoV2, the virus behind the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is believed to have jumped from horseshoe bats, perhaps to an intermediary (pangolins are likely candidates), and then to humans, although this chain is still being investigated. Spillovers are far more common than people think (to be fair, many of the zoonotic pathogens are common ones such as Salmonella), although there are times when a new virus emerges. The virus behind AIDS was new. As were those responsible for Sars, Mers, and Ebola. And, more recently, Covid-19. These are so-called black swan events that result in nightmarish scenarios – and, unfortunately, given indiscriminate commercial farming of animals for meat or fur, and rampant deforestation and hunting (the consumption of bushmeat is widely believed to be behind Ebola), they are becoming far more common than the generic term used to describe them would suggest.There’s been a lot of interest in spillovers in recent days because of minks in Denmark. Minks are small carnivorous mammals that belong to the same family as weasels, otters, ferrets, and wolverines (Mustelidae). In Dispatch 151 on September 7, I wrote about Netherlands deciding to close its mink farms by next March ahead of a planned 2024 deadline following research by the Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, that showed workers in mink farms (the animals are farmed for fur) were infected by other workers, who passed on the infection to more workers, suggesting that the virus was anthropozoonotic (capable of jumping from humans to animals), apart from being zoonotic (capable of jumping from animals to humans) in the case of minks. Last week, Denmark announced that it is culling the entire mink population of its farms – around 17 million – citing mutations in the virus as it jumped from humans to minks, and then back. Worryingly (and scarily), the country’s environment ministry said in a statement that state health authorities “have now found a mutation in tests from five mink farms in Northern Jutland and in tests from 12 persons, and testing shows that the potential vaccines would not work effectively on this mutated virus”.The statement also clarified that “there is no evidence that those people infected with this mutation experience a more serious disease”. Denmark has already started sharing the results of its genomic sequencing of the mutated virus on scientific databases, and more research is needed to understand and confirm the effect the mutation has on the infectivity of the virus, the severity of the disease, and the response to vaccines under development. This is the year that proved Murphy’s Law beyond doubt, so how worried should we be? The opinion of most experts is: not much (although they’d like to see more data); many think the link Denmark makes about the mutation and the effectiveness of vaccines may not be backed by research. It’s not uncommon for viruses to jump from humans to animals. And Sars-CoV2 is no longer a strange virus whose effect on the human body is unknown. Still, it is 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-J4sDUP6WROA2SwZyMwubRN.html
10-11-2020||India||Emergency in the air: NGT extends cracker ban, curbs||Bursting or selling firecrackers in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) as well as much of north India will be prohibited till December 1, the National Green Tribunal said on Monday, announcing a near-sweeping ban that stems from concerns that already critical levels of air pollution will add to the growing toll of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a 58-page order, NGT said the ban will apply to all cities or towns where the average air quality during November (as per last year’s data) was in “poor” category, or worse. The order refers to submissions by an amicus on the links between severe air pollution and Covid-19 infections as well as mortality. In Delhi, where the air quality index remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day, state environment minister Gopal Rai announced that people not complying with the ban on firecrackers will face action under the Air Act which means a jail term of up to six years and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh. The announcement was made after a meeting between the state government, and district and police officials to discuss standard operating procedures to implement the ban.Firecrackers emit plumes of heavy metals into the air, which is already a toxic mix of ultra-fine PM2.5 and fine PM10 particles spewed by farm fires and local sources such as vehicles and construction dust. The air is already past the point of what is fit for breathing, experts said, welcoming Monday’s ban.“Air pollution in Delhi is at hazardous levels. This time, the period of hazardous air seems to have arrived even before Diwali. The relationship of air pollution with severity of pneumonia is well established. Therefore, it is expected that there will be an increase in positivity and severity of Covid 19. All efforts should be made to curb pollution,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care and former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Across the country, in cities or towns where air quality is “moderate” , only green crackers can be sold — and burst for two hours during festivals. If nothing is specified by a state, the timing for firecrackers will be 8 to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, and 6am to 8am on Chhath. On Christmas and New Year’s Eve, this can be between 11.55pm and 12.30am. In other places, ban/restrictions are optional but if there are more stringent measures by the state authorities, they will prevail, NGT said.By HT’s estimates, seven states and Union territories around the country have completely banned crackers. The NGT order directed chief secretaries and police chiefs of all states and Union territories to issue and circulate appropriate orders and enforcement guidelines. It added that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards are to regularly monitor the air quality during the ban and upload all data on their websites. An independent analysis by HT of CPCB’s publicly released AQI data for November 2019 showed that of the 110 cities for which AQI was released that month (which will serve as the basis for the ban), 42 had an average AQI that was “poor” or worse through the month.CPCB collects AQI data from 387 cities across the country, of which only 110 were published in the agency’s daily AQI bulletins in November 2019. CPCB officials said that data of remaining cities is collected manually, and thus not included in the daily bulletin. This will be included in the final list of cities, they added.“The assessment of where the ban on firecrackers will be imposed will have to be made by respective state pollution control boards based on NGT’s order. But generally, we understand that ban may be imposed in all of north India while peninsular; parts of northeast India may not have to impose the ban,” a senior CPCB official said, asking not to be named. To be sure, some states have already banned the use of firecrackers this year. These include Odisha, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Sikkim, Delhi, Bengal and Tripura. Two key NCR states, Haryana and Punjab have a partial ban in place, but will now need to follow the NGT direction. The ban is not likely to be easy to enforce given religious sensitivities and economic compulsions. “Diwali is a special challenge this year given the twin crisis of Covid pandemic and winter pollution. Past experience has shown that enforcement of ban and restrictions on crackers need strong public support and awareness. It is therefore important to make people aware that we cannot afford to increase disease burden from short term toxic exposure when winter smog is also worsening the health risk,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.Similar bans in the past, particularly the one enforced by the Supreme Court in 2018, were widely flouted.The Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturer’s Association, Sivakasi (TNFAM) claimed during the NGT hearing that there is no correlation between use of firecrackers and increase in the number of Covid cases. They cited data from Ayodhya, where people celebrated the beginning of the Ram Temple construction with fireworks but there was no increase in Covid 19 cases. Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research, said, “The NGT order is a welcome move... Also, this idea of laying out a broader principle restricting firecrackers across the country is useful. Now, the responsibility is with state governments. However, instead of a last minute order, if such directions had been provided a few months earlier, it would have improved the implementation and likely reduced economic hardship for those that depend on the fireworks industry.”Firecracker traders said the timing of the ban would impact their earnings, especially since the lockdown earlier in the year had caused hardships. “States like Maharashtra have announced that they won’t ban firecracker despite having a high number of cases in the state. Though we are worried about the number of Covid-19 cases and the pandemic threat, what about the economic hardship faced by small-time traders? ” asked Subhash Chandra Jain, a firecracker trader in old Delhi who has been in the business for around four decades.Jain said that traders like him who deal in the business all year round will not face losses as huge as those who took loans to secure firecracker stocks and temporary licences. “The Delhi government officials held meetings with the fireworks traders and gave us the thumbs-up for green crackers. Now, they have imposed a ban. The government should have done its homework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-in-the-air-ngt-extends-cracker-ban-curbs/story-VsLmL81ABbFkuWrnHeDvhI.html
10-11-2020||India||IIMs offer one-year MBA despite ministry caution||Months after the Union education ministry wrote to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) that the one-year-MBA degree programmes being run by them violated norms, many of these B-schools have decided to continue offering them, triggering a fresh debate on the issue of their autonomy.IIM-Indore on Monday invited fresh applications for its one-year Executive Post Programme in Management for the year 2021-22 while the IIMs at Ahmedabad and Bangalore also carried details of similar programmes on their websites.A senior official at one of the IIMs, who asked not to be identified, confirmed that many of the IIMs that were offering the one-year MBA degree course have decided to pursue the matter with the ministry and meanwhile “continue with the programmes”.“The ministry raised objections to the one-year course and that is being discussed including with the ministry. Meanwhile, several of the IIMs are continuing with the course. Some of the IIMs are also keeping aspirants updated about the status through caveats,” added this person. One such warning/caveat was visible on the IIM-Bangalore website in the section where it gave details of the one-year course.“IIM-B is working with all the other IIMs to engage with and address the concerns of the MHRD related to the programme. The final structure of the programme (degree /diploma) will depend upon the outcome of the said interaction,” the warning said.IIM-Ahmedabad has a similar caveat in a brochure on the one-year degree programmes.Senior officials from IIM-Ahmedabad, Bangalore and Indore when contacted were not willing to speak on the matter on record.“There is a view among the IIMs that they have autonomy in such matters. Also they can take up any issue with ministry if required,” said a second senior official of one of the IIMs who did not wish to be identified.In June, the Union education ministry wrote to the B-schools saying they cannot offer one-year post graduate degrees in management and should follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations which do not allow this .The ministry said it sought the opinion of the law ministry on the matte and that the latter’s recommended was against one-year degrees.The education ministry said that the quality of degrees could be compromised if the duration were curtailed.When contacted , an official at the education ministry said there is no change in the ministry’s position. “The ministry has already made the position clear,” added this person who asked not to be named.The IIM Act of 2017 granted degree- giving powers to the 20 IIMs who are the country’s premier B-schools. However, after the passage of the act, which gave academic autonomy to these management institutes, a debate has raged on whether the IIMs can also decide to provide one-year post graduate degree courses. Post graduate programmes usually have a duration of two years. Some of the IIMs were of the opinion that they were empowered to issue one-year degrees . Education ministry officials, however, have argued that the issuance of one-year degrees also creates a precedent. If the IIMs can issue such degrees, then other institutions may also want to, they argue. And it the programme can be one-year long, then how long before someone decides to make it six-months long? The UGC Act defines the duration of programmes.Experts said that a one-year course may end up “diluting” degrees.“A one-year PG MBA degree at this stage is academically incorrect. It is true that since 2017, IIMs have been given academic autonomy but it should not result in diluting their degrees. In NEP2020, there are provisions for three- or four-year UG programmes. One year MBA programme after four years of UG may be justified. But that situation shall arise after few years, not now,” said professor Inder Mohan Kapahy, a former UGC member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iims-offer-one-year-mba-despite-ministry-caution/story-Vqe73Cgs43vFWSj3QoP1jO.html
10-11-2020||India||Local4Diwali: Ministries and celebs get on board PM Modi’s appeal to buy from local artisans||Festivals bring communities closer and are a time to spread cheer. Propagating this thought, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi urged people to buy local this Diwali. “It will strengthen local identity and will illuminate Diwali of craftsmen and artisans who make these products. Celebrate Diwali with local, be vocal for local. You will see, it will bring a new life to the entire economy,” Modi said. Diwali is approaching. Inspired by the festive spirit, let us spread brightness, happiness and prosperity. Support Indian talent! #Local4Diwali https://t.co/RIzEkbTDNJNo sooner was this message heard that people sprung into action, with various union ministers sharing it. Union Cabinet Minister for Textiles Smriti Z Irani posted it on her social media, asking people to share their photos using handicraft products, weaves, art and more. Among the many celebrities and boards sharing this is FDCI (Fashion Design Council of India).   I always practice what I tweet. I just bought this from a local in Goa. Earlier we came together to honour our weavers & now it's time to support our artisans by bringing in the joy of a simple earthen diya, rangoli & other embellishments from our local market. This Diwali, let's help our artisans, local & small businesses! #Local4Diwali @smritiiraniofficialA post shared by  AMIT SADH (@theamitsadh) on Nov 9, 2020 at 5:20am PSTSunil Sethi, chairman, FDCI, says, “We are making people aware that we need to go and buy local for Diwali. Whether it is to bring to your own home or to gift, go out and buy something made by an artisan. If you don’t support the artisan, then local will never prosper. The idea is to support the local artisan wherever you are. No matter how austere we need to be given the pandemic, the fact remains that Diwali and other festivities are an occasion for celebration. FDCI is not only appealing to the designers but also to out fraternity. When you buy local from artisans, there is also a feel-good factor.”  #Repost @lakmefashionwk Under the aegis of the Ministry of Textiles, we support the social media campaign #Local4Diwali. Encourage Diwali sales through the medium of weavers, artisans, local and small businesses and show your support on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Use the hashtag #Local4Diwali; take a picture of your favourite article ---- be it clothing or handcrafted product, tag the person you purchase it from and go #Local4Diwali. @ministryoftextilesgoi @smritiiraniofficial @fdciofficial #imgreliance #Local4Diwali @lakmefashionwkA post shared by  FDCI (@fdciofficial) on Nov 9, 2020 at 4:33am PSTThe initiative has gained steam, especially given the power of social media. Designer Nachiket Barve, who shared a photo of him and his wife Surabhi wearing chanderi gota-patti kurtas against the backdrop of a pichwai painting, says, “This initiative reinforces this idea and the kind of reach social media has it can influence popular imagination. Over the years, everything which is foreign or foreign-endorsed became the benchmark of excellence. We forgot what it means to celebrate where we are and who we are. As a designer and a brand, I believe in local, whether it is art, décor at home or the kind of clothes we make.”  Always Vocal for Local... in our festive best... handwoven chanderi and gotapatti Kurta and the Tusshar Silk textured Men’s Kurta ... as we get ready to celebrate Diwali! Our home and our loves are intertwined with Indian Art, India’s rich Craft and our modern spin on these craft traditions. The exquisite #pichwai created in Nathdwara forms the favourite backdrop for our photos. @smritiiraniofficial @ministryoftextilesgoi #local4diwali #Local4DiwaliA post shared by  NACHIKETBARVE (@nachiketbarve) on Nov 9, 2020 at 2:53am PSTInteract with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local4diwali-ministries-and-celebs-get-on-board-pm-modi-s-appeal-to-buy-from-local-artisans/story-PFV9EfM8omF4P1dLwjk8II.html
10-11-2020||India||Over 31 million exposed to Covid in Karnataka: Sero study projections||Close to 31.5 million people in Karnataka are projected to have been infected by the Sars-COV-2 virus, according to a seroprevalence study carried out by an independent group of researchers, which suggests the actual number of infections in the state could be close to 100 times higher than the 327,000-odd cases confirmed till end of August.The research uses a survey design that has previously been utilised to gather detailed household econometrics, making it one of the most comprehensive such exercises yet. Sero prevalence studies, which involve drawing blood to determine presence of antibodies, typically require careful consideration in sampling in order to get a true picture of prevalence in a given area.“Adjusted seroprevalence across Karnataka was 46.7%, (95% CI: 43.3-50.0), including 44.1% (95% CI: 40.0-48.2) in rural and 53.8% (95% CI: 48.4-59.2) in urban areas... The relatively high prevalence in rural areas is consistent with the higher level of mobility measured in rural areas, perhaps because of agricultural activity,” said the researchers from IDFC Institute in their paper published as a preprint on medRxiv.The researchers collected samples from close to 3,000 households in 20 districts in the state from mid-June through August 2020 and also swabbed respondents for RT-PCR tests to determine active infections. “The proportion of those testing positive on RT-PCR, ranged from 1.5 to 7.7% in rural areas and 4.0 to 10.5% in urban areas, suggesting a rapidly growing epidemic,” they added. “Our findings provide new evidence that the Covid-19 epidemic in India has affected rural areas almost as severely as urban areas, despite early attention to the epidemic in urban areas,” the researchers adding, identifying two key factors: “First, the release of the lockdown imposed in March was immediately followed by a large migration of daily labourers who lost their sources of income in urban centers and returned home to rural parts of the country...“A second contributing factor was that, while urban areas experienced severe lockdowns, rural areas experienced fewer restrictions on mobility because agricultural activity was deemed an essential sector,” they said.Survey design is a “critical challenge,” said lead author Manoj Mohanan, a professor at Duke university and a fellow at IDFC Institute. He added that for the study, they partnered with CMIE, which runs the world’s largest household survey panel known as the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey covering a little under 175,000 households in India. Among these, 9717 are in Karnataka.“We worked with a randomly drawn subset of a quarter of these households and then followed up with each of them (and their household members) to collect swabs and blood samples. This strategy has two major advantages: First, because we have data from CPHS survey in previous rounds on exactly who is in these households, we are able to adjust the proportion of tests positive to reflect the composition of households... Second, it gives us a sampling frame that is very well defined and we know exactly how to extrapolate findings from this CPHS population to arrive at a statewide number,” he added.The researchers add that their findings have several policy implications. “With nearly half the population in the state being infected with Covid as of August 2020, stringent suppression policies across the general population will impose significant costs on those who are already infected,” they said in their paper. To address this, Mohanan, in a separate conversation over email with HT, said states could “consider strategies that are more targeted, to focus on areas where there is a growing infection and limit opportunities for transmission there rather than general statewide suppression measures”. The researchers also use their sampling strategy of reaching out to households to pitch for pooled testing. Mohanan added that the team is working on future studies that focus on understanding how antibodies and immunity might progress over time. “This will be important to understand any risks of re-infection and also to help inform policies on vaccination, which will be a key challenge in coming months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-31-mn-exposed-to-covid-in-k-taka-sero-study-projections/story-VqCA0prkzY2mUFSJIHfT8J.html
10-11-2020||India||China ready to talk on all flashpoints: Officials||There are signs of a forward movement in military talks between India and China, with the neighbour agreeing to discuss disengagement at all flashpoints in eastern Ladakh and not insisting on talking about only the southern bank of Pangong Tso where the Indian Army holds dominating heights, officials familiar with developments said on Monday.The Indian side is considering a Chinese proposal for disengagement at all friction points, including some that the neighbour had been unwilling to discuss till now, and the next meeting of the military commanders is expected to be held by Friday, the officials said, asking not to be named.The Chinese side shared the proposal at the eighth round of talks between senior commanders from the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Chushul on November 6, said one of the officials cited above. India has been demanding that the dialogue should focus on all flashpoints along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not be confined to a specific sector.The next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies could take place as early as this week. There was currently no proposal for a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which forms the diplomatic leg of the ongoing discussions on disengagement and de-escalation, the official said.“Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry, who co-chairs the WMCC, has been part of the most recent meetings of the military commanders and there is no real need for separate meetings of the WMCC,” he said.There is also a perception on the Indian side that the Chinese military is grappling with the difficulties of mobilising and deploying tens of thousands of troops along the LAC during the harsh winter – something that it hasn’t done in the past, a second official said.In a joint statement issued after the November 6 talks, the two sides said they would ensure their frontline soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. The statement also said both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, take forward the November 6 discussions and push for the settlement of “other outstanding issues.”Until now, China had been insisting that India withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction along the LAC, while the India side was firmly pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the military talks. “With China agreeing to discuss all flashpoints, we hope future talks lead to some breakthrough. Earlier, they were only focussed on the southern bank of the lake,” said a third official.The PLA’s aggressive forward deployments in the eastern Ladakh theatre have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La.The scope of the military talks changed after the Indian Army occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing chunks of Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said: “If the PLA is willing to discuss disengagement at all friction points, it is at least a sign of some moderation in their stand. However, keeping in view the positions that both sides have taken in the military and diplomatic level talks held so far, we should not expect any quick breakthroughs.”The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the lake’s southern bank that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights.The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.Last week, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said India will not accept shifting of the LAC in eastern Ladakh even as he did not rule out the possibility of the situation escalating into a larger conflict in the sensitive theatre.In September, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh sector, signalling a strong resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ready-to-talk-on-all-flashpoints-officials/story-PdLGcSaYDKsskl2dBZU6JO.html
10-11-2020||India||LSR college student dreamt of becoming an IAS officer||The 19-year old undergraduate student of Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College for Women, who died by suicide at her residence in Shadnagar of Telangana’s Ranga Reddy district on the night of November 2, was a brave girl who was determined to fight against all odds to chase her dream of becoming an IAS officer, said her parents. Her mother Sumathi Reddy, who tailors clothes for a living, told reporters that her daughter, who was pursuing second year of BSc (Honours) in Mathematics in LSR College, was compelled to take the extreme step because of the coronavirus pandemic that ruined her career and the family. “My daughter was dreaming of becoming an IAS officer. It was precisely for this reason that she had chosen to go to Delhi to study in a prestigious institution, so that she could chase her dreams. We had high hopes from her and did our best to support her financially, though it was beyond our capacity,” Sumathi said. The coronavirus pandemic shattered all their plans. Sumathi’s husband Srinivas Reddy, a bike mechanic, sacrificed everything for his elder daughter, right from mortgaging his home, pledging gold ornaments and even discontinuing the education of his 16-year old second daughter. “She had come back from her college due to lockdown in March and since then, she had been staying at home. When online classes started, she was in dire need of a laptop, but we couldn’t afford it,” Sumathi said. She said her daughter had been in a state of depression ever since she received a message from the college authorities asking her to vacate the hostel room by October end, which was later extended till November 10. “She replied to the college authorities that she would vacate the room by November 7, but she was worried about the expenses she would incur if she had to stay in a private accommodation. We had no money even to buy a ticket for her travel, let alone pay advance for her private accommodation,” Sumati said. Having seen her parents struggle for mobilising money, the girl took her own life. In her brief suicide note in Telugu, which was seen by HT, the girl said her education had become a burden for everybody in the family. “I cannot live without my studies. I have been thinking about it for a long time and I felt my death is the only solution to my problem. Nobody is the reason for my death. I should have got INSPIRE scholarship for at least one year,” she said in the letter. Her father Srinivas Reddy said she had earned the seat in LSR through merit. “Right from the beginning, she was a brilliant student and topped the school in Class 10. We tried our best to give her the best education,” she said. Congress president Rahul Gandhi expressed shock over the suicide of the LSR student from Telangana due to poverty. “I extend my profound condolences to the family members of the student who died under unfortunate conditions,” he said in a tweet in Telugu. He blamed it on the BJP government which he alleged had ruined the lives of several families with its measures like demonetisation and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsr-college-student-dreamt-of-becoming-an-ias-officer/story-dQ1HvLmbytGXlYxZ4imsOM.html
10-11-2020||India||Cracker ban triggers row||The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) directive against bursting or selling firecrackers evoked differing political reactions on Monday, with a number of Bharatiya Janata Party-(BJP)-ruled states leaning against a complete ban and Congress and some other Opposition parties treading cautiously and leaving the final decision to local administration.The BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat did not enforce a statewide ban on busting of crackers until print time, even though each government said they will implement the NGT order. The state will comply with the NGT decision, said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi but added that green crackers -- which are less polluting than the usual brands -- will be sold and promoted. Meerut banned crackers and Agra stopped issuing license to traders. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ruled out a ban on crackers. ”MP is a state of happiness. Here, there will be no ban on happiness. Celebrate return of Lord Ram to Ayodhya, burn crackers and celebrate Diwali,” he said on Twitter. Gujarat also didnt clamp a complete ban. Maharashtra, ruled by an alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress, didn’t ban crackers but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people not to burn crackers as it could aggravate the Covid pandemic. Only Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) imposed a partial ban. The Congress-led Punjab government didn’t impose a full ban but said it will implement the Supreme Court guidelines to allow fire crackers for two hours on festivals beginning from Diwali to New Year celebrations. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress coalition that rules Jharkhand said no final decision was taken on a ban. ”We are studying the AQI (air quality index) of Jharkhand cities. Following the study, we will decide either to go for complete ban of crackers or window period like previous year,” said Jharkhand state pollution control board member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi.The banning of crackers during Diwali is a sensitive issue and many BJP leaders say the celebrations are important for Hindus and cannot be banned.“There are many factors that contribute to air pollution and instead of trying to combat those problems, states like Delhi and Punjab trying to deflect attention by imposing a ban on crackers during Diwali,” said a senior party functionary.Odisha, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Sikkim, Delhi, West Bengal and Tripura have banned crackers. Two prominent BJP-ruled states, Haryana and Karnataka, walked back a complete ban on crackers after pressure from within the party and Hindu groups. Both states have allowed crackers for a limited period during the festivities.Goa BJP chief Vinay Tendulkar said no such move was necessary in Goa as a ban for one day cannot improve air quality. The Congress has left it to party-ruled states to take a call on the ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cracker-ban-triggers-row/story-UCNE1Mu9XqoyN80emROVDL.html
