11-11-2020||India||Top commander of banned ULFA (I) Dhristi Rajkhowa surrenders||Deputy commander-in-chief of the banned United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) Dhristi Rajkhowa surrendered to the Meghalaya police on Wednesday evening in big success for security forces. He is being escorted by Meghalaya police to Assam where he will be handed over to their counterparts. Sources inform that the army was keen to take possession of the militant but was denied by Meghalaya police who intended to deliver him to the Assam police.Rajkhowa, with his four bodyguards, gave up after an intense encounter with Meghalaya police’s elite SF10 commandos at around 6pm in an area in South Garo Hills district, highly placed police sources confirmed to HT.“It’s true, Rajkhowa has surrendered and presently there is still movement and so we are not in a position to comment further. Suffice to say that it happened today evening,” a senior police official said requesting anonymity.An AK-81 assault rifle with two magazines of 90 rounds, 2 pistols with magazine and ammunition were recovered from the rebel leader and his team.Sources further told HT that the rebel leader was on the run lately after two encounters with Meghalaya police almost landed him in the net. The first was in March in Bolbokgre village in the same district and as recently as on October 20 when he narrowly escaped an encounter with commandos of the Meghalaya police in Bolchokgre village also in the same district.“Ever since then, he has been under tremendous pressure and has been on the run trying to avoid our teams because we were maintaining the heat consistently,” the official said.Rajkhowa - known to be a close confidant of Paresh Baruah, the commander-in-chief of ULFA (I) - is an explosives expert and is also a central committee member of the rebel group. His prowess and loyalty to Baruah earned him a promotion to the present position of deputy-commander-in-chief in November 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ulfa-i-leader-dhristi-rajkhowa-surrenders-to-meghalaya-police/story-G7p0mq4kSrDiawDS0L4V7L.html
11-11-2020||India||Delhi reports 8,593 Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike ever||For the first time ever, Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 8,000-mark on Wednesday as the Capital reported 8,593 cases. The total tally of the city now stands at 45,9975 and the positivity rate has jumped to 13.40 per cent. In the last 24 hours, 64,121 tested have been conducted and 85 deaths have been reported. Over 24,000 people in Delhi are now under home isolation, the health bulletin said.On Tuesday, the city recorded 7,830 fresh infections which was the highest till yesterday.The unprecedented spike in the number of daily cases comes at a time when experts have been pointing out overall laxity in maintaining social distance. All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria has said super-spreader events might have led to the recent surge in the number of cases. The Delhi High Court on Wednesday pulled up the AAP government for relaxing safety norms for public gatherings. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramanium Prasad also noted that the wearing of masks has not been made mandatory in Delhi. The court also asked the government why it has increased the number of people allowed in weddings, public transport etc.Since October last week, Delhi has been reporting a spike in the number of daily cases. In the last two days, it has surpassed Kerala and Maharashtra in the maximum number of daily Covid-19 infections.The onset of winter with pollution combined is being blamed for what has now officially been called the third wave of Covid-19. The first wave was in June and the second was in September. But the third wave is the worst, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has said. “The third wave of COVID-19 is at its peak in Delhi. The number of cases suggests it is the worst wave so far. But the cases will come down soon,” Jain said earlier.The latest report of serosurvey, which the government submitted to the high court on Wednesday, has found that Covid-19 antibodies were present in 25 per cent of the persons tested. After going through the report, the court pointed out that the virus has touched almost every household in the national Capital. One in four persons in the city appears to be infected by Covid-19, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-8-593-cases-highest-daily-spike-ever/story-Vi6BYRgBiWX0fIRlUo4aPM.html
11-11-2020||India||WHO chief Tedros thanks PM Modi for Covid-19 vaccine initiative||World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanon Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his strong commitment to Covax — a global vaccine pool led by WHO and Gavi — and for making Covid-19 vaccines a global public good. “The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for the world, and we agreed to work shoulder to shoulder to end it,” Tedros tweeted. I thanked Prime Minister @narendramodi for his strong commitment to COVAX and making #COVID19 vaccines a global public good. The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for the world, and we agreed to work shoulder to shoulder to end it. #ACTtogetherIt was an excellent conversation, Prime Minister Modi said. “We discussed the vast potential of traditional medicine for promoting health and wellness in the world. I also assured India’s support to WHO and the world community in the fight against Covid-19,” PM Modi tweeted. Had an excellent conversation with DG of @WHO @DrTedros. We discussed the vast potential of traditional medicine for promoting health and wellness in the world. I also assured India's support to WHO and the world community in the fight against COVID-19. https://t.co/IjvFRMOzUvDuring the conversation, PM Modi expressed his appreciation for WHO’s important role in facilitating a coordinated global response to the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement issued by the PMO said. “He also noted the need to not lose sight of the battle against other diseases, and appreciated the importance of WHO’s support to the health systems of developing countries,” it said.Tedros, on the other hand, stressed the close and regular collaboration between the WHO and the Indian health authorities. The WHO chief also appreciated India’s domestic initiatives like the Ayushman Bharat scheme and India’s campaign against Tuberculosis. The duo discussed on traditional medicine solutions, including Ayurveda, and on the need to integrate traditional medicine solutions into modern medical practice, the statement said.“Namaste, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for a very productive call on how to strengthen our collaboration and advance access to knowledge, research and training in traditional medicine globally. WHO welcomes India’s leading role in global health and to universal health coverage,” Tedros tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thanked-pm-modi-for-making-covid-19-vaccine-a-global-public-good-says-who-chief-tedros/story-NyCMmHzUROn6GuzSZouVPP.html
11-11-2020||India||Kerala chief minister’s office knew about gold smuggling: Probe agency||Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s private secretary M Sivasankar and some officials at the CM’s office were aware of smuggling activities, the Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday informed the special court in Kochi. This is the first time the central agency has named the CM’s office in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case.The ED said the main accused in the smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, had divulged this information during her interrogation. Last week the ED had summoned Raveendran, CM’s additional secretary, but he could not appear after he tested positive for Covid-19. According to officials, who are part of the multi-agency probe, Raveendran was summoned on the basis of the statements of Sivasankar and Suresh. A party leader from Kannur (north Kerala), Raveendran was very close to the CM and served under many ministers earlier. In the remand statement, the ED also said Sivasankar was aware of the kickbacks in many dream projects of the government like Life Mission and KFON. He also leaked out vital project details and other information to firms which vied for the projects, the ED added. “Sivasankar shared confidential information with Suresh relating to many key projects. There could be possible kickbacks to certain private parties. It is no coincidence that he knows all main accused in the gold smuggling case,” the statement said. The latest report will invite trouble for the CM’s office which distanced from Sivasankar after his arrest. It said “Sivasankar and some officials at the CM team were fully aware of illegal activities”. Later the court extended his custody for one more day. His bail plea is coming up before the court on November 12. While investigating the gold smuggling case, probe agencies came across alleged irregularities and commissions in some other projects also. When Sivasankar was arrested on October 28, the government quickly distanced itself from him but in Raveendran’s case it will be difficult for the party to drop him. Besides the government, the party is also in big trouble after the arrest of secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drugs case. While opposition parties stepped up pressure for the CM’s resignation, the ruling CPI(M) said it was a move aimed at destabilising the government. “It proved beyond doubt that the CM office was reduced to a den of smugglers and racketeers,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But the ruling party came down heavily on central agencies. “It is a political move aimed at stalling developmental projects in the state,” said party leader A Vijayaraghavan. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after seizure of 30 kg smuggled yellow metal from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic consignment. A multi-agency team headed by the NIA is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-chief-minister-s-office-knew-about-gold-smuggling-probe-agency/story-m3ZL1htjHEOjbPsiJAERlL.html
11-11-2020||India||Every life saved from Covid-19 is a success story for India, says PM Modi at BJP headquarters in Delhi||While addressing party workers in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday applauded India for showing the best response to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and said that recent polls held in the country endorsed it. The Assembly election held in Bihar was India’s first major election since the Covid-19 outbreak. Crediting the BJP’s model of good governance, PM Modi said that people’s vote for the party for their combat measures taken against the virus crisis in the country is a sound proof of their support. “The way we have fought the Covid-19 pandemic from ‘Janta Curfew’ till today was reflected in these election results,” PM Modi said. “Every life saved from Covid is a success story for India,” he added.“Polls results have endorsed the way we have tackled the coronavirus crisis situation in the country,” the prime minister said.On NDA’s victory in Bihar, the prime minister said the formula behind the win was simple: “Sabka saath, Sabka vikas, Sabka vishwas”, which is BJP’s mantra.“If you ask me today about the Bihar election results, then my answer is as clear as the people’s mandate. It’s simple: ‘Sabka saath, Sabka vikas, Sabka vishwas’ has won. The development has won in Bihar. Truth and faith have won in Bihar,” PM Modi said.Further in his speech, PM Modi termed Bihar election results as “special” and said that during vote counting, BJP was the only party that witnessed its numbers go up despite being in power in the state for three terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rresults-2020-every-life-saved-from-covid-is-a-success-story-for-india-says-pm-modi-at-bjp-headquarters-in-delhi/story-JuT2sBH81pYxGcZXRqoVJI.html
11-11-2020||India||India’s decentralised but unified mechanism drove Covid-19 unique response strategy: Harsh Vardhan||India’s decentralized but unified mechanism to provide universal, accessible, equitable and affordable healthcare to one and all was the driving force behind the unique response strategy for Covid-19, Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. Addressing BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) health ministers conference, he said India’s Covid-19 response approach was pre-emptive, proactive, and graded. Starting with early screening and isolation of passengers, imposing lockdowns and creating containment zones to prevent over burdening of health facilities and personnel, propagating behaviour change as an integral move to contain the spread, and ultimately recognizing the imperative need for reopening of the economy in a phased, cautious and responsible manner, he said. Vardhan said while the Centre steered this movement with constant monitoring and evaluation, providing handholding support to the states to tackle this crisis holistically, respective state governments also undertook various unique strategies to keep their response mechanism agile and vigilant. “Our decentralized but unified mechanism to provide universal, accessible, equitable and affordable healthcare to one and all was the driving force behind our unique response strategy for Covid-19,” Vardhan stated. He said India has curated its response, keeping in mind the large population size. “Several technological innovations were also leveraged in our pandemic management efforts. While applications such as Arogya Setu and ITIHAS facilitate rapid contact tracing and surveillance, the interactive and dynamic Covid India Portal enabled real time tracking and monitoring,” Vardhan added. The iGOT portal (Integrated Government Online Training) was also launched as a training module for our frontline health workers, he said. “We worked round-the-clock to boost domestic production and expand our healthcare workforce, thus bridging major gaps in demand and supply of essentials such as testing kits, PPEs, ventilators etc. Furthermore, an Aatma Nirbhar Bharat movement has now been launched to become self-sufficient in all our capacities,”Vardhan said. He underlined the need for an aggressive roadmap and a strong show of solidarity to curtail any present and future risks threatening safety and wellbeing of millions of global citizens.  “There is also an impending need to share reliable and accurate data and any lessons drawn in the course of managing this pandemic, to eliminate any threat of emerging disease outbreaks and ensuring equitable and inclusive access to healthcare for one and all,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-decentralised-but-unified-mechanism-drove-covid-19-unique-response-strategy-harsh-vardhan/story-sqLOS09l1ygXzv4rMPeKBM.html
11-11-2020||India||Firecracker ban: Vijay Goel submits memorandum to NGT, seeks direction to Delhi govt to compensate traders||The Bharatiya Janata Party( BJP) leader Vijay Goel on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) urging it to direct the Delhi government to compensate traders who have suffered losses due to the ban on firecrackers in the city.The state government should have taken the decision to ban firecrackers well in time, the former Union minister said.After a meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 5 announced a ban on firecrackers in the city.The blanket ban, including on green crackers, restricts sale, purchase and use of firecrackers till November 30.“The Delhi government issued licences for selling firecrackers. Its environment minister said green crackers would be allowed and then the government banned firecrackers. The NGT should direct the Delhi government to compensate (traders) who had stocked crackers for sale during festivals,” Goel said.In his memorandum submitted to NGT Registrar General Ashu Garg, the BJP leader also suggested various steps to check pollution in Delhi.On Sunday, Goel had staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar to press his demand.He had said traders had purchased crackers worth lakhs of rupees after getting licences. Due to the ban, they stand to suffer huge financial losses that the Delhi government should compensate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firecracker-ban-vijay-goel-submits-memorandum-to-ngt-seeks-direction-to-delhi-govt-to-compensate-traders/story-k4qHRGKtGhqrw8TKNCsiuN.html
11-11-2020||India||‘Worry about Delhi first’: Goa CM Pramod Sawant’s advice to Arvind Kejriwal||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday advised his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal to look after his own state rather than worry about the Goa government. Kejriwal had lent his voice to the ‘Save Mollem’ campaign. Protesters have been opposing a trio of projects, a double tracking of a railway line, highway expansion and power line that will all slice through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park in the coastal state. “No state is as polluted as Delhi. They should look at that first. People in Delhi are desperate to breathe fresh air. You can go to Delhi for yourself and check. The coronavirus situation too is very bad, they are in the midst of a third wave,” Sawant, who recently returned from Delhi, said a press conference.“Instead of commenting on Goa, I want to tell Kejriwal to worry about Delhi first and not Goa,” Sawant said. “Goans camping day n nite to #savemollem and stop #coalprojects. FIRs done against many Goans incl (including) AAP volunteers. Muzzling protests and lodging FIR will not dampen [the] spirit of Goans to save Goa from being a coal hub. Govts shud (should) not implement projects against the wishes of people,” Kejriwal had tweeted joining the cause with various political leaders and celebrities. Sawant said that his government was also committed to the preservation of the ecological diversity and that his discussion with the Union minister of shipping in New Delhi centred around reducing the coal being imported viat the Mormugao Port.The railway line, by far the biggest of the three projects will come at a cost of diversion of 113.857 ha. of forest land and felling of 18,541 trees.The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost 31.015 ha of forest land and 12,097 trees. The third is a 400KV power line, 3.5 km of which passes through protected forest to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka and to provide additional feed to Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worry-about-delhi-first-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-s-advice-to-arvind-kejriwal/story-kmrg1tPMMOjFHEpm6kv20L.html
11-11-2020||India||Covid-19 patients missing postal ballots to be allowed to vote in last hour in civic polls: Kerala govt||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance for enabling voters who test positive for Covid-19 or quarantined after the deadline for seeking postal ballot to vote in the last hour of polling in the local body elections to be held next month.The state cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, decided to recommend to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for promulgating the ordinance amending relevant sections of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government had recently amended the acts to extend the voting time by an hour till 6 pm and also to provide postal ballot facility to Covid-19 patients.An official release said at present those seeking postal ballot need to apply to the returning officer three days prior to the voting day and submit their votes in a sealed manner to the concerned authority.“The amendment is to allow those who test positive or gets quarantined after the deadline (to cast their vote),” the release said.The cabinet also decided to direct the health department to issue specific guidelines on the arrangements required for the Covid-19 patients and the quarantined people.The department would also issue guidelines on the safety measures for the staff on polling duty. The polls are to be held in three phases.While the first phase on December 8 will cover the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki, the second phase on December 10 would be held in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad.Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod would go to the polls in the third and final phase on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-missing-postal-ballots-to-be-allowed-to-vote-in-last-hour-in-civic-polls-kerala-govt/story-lwZYccoFsJFotRQQXpfXBK.html
11-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Airlines to raise flight operations capacity to 70% as per Govt orders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt allows airlines to raise flight operations capacity to 70%As Covid-19 cases have started to decline across the country, the civil aviation ministry on Wednesday allowed airlines to extend their operation to 70% of their capacity. Earlier, the airlines were running at 60% capacity. Read More‘Started with two seats...’: PM Modi reminisces in victory speech, says development only poll plankAfter a resounding victory in Bihar state assembly election and several bypoll elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday addressed party workers in BJP headquarters in New Delhi. The victory celebration comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic and thousands of workers assembled at the venue. Read MoreNo Chhath Puja at public places in Delhi due to Covid-19, rules DDMAIn view of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital, the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed officials to ensure Chhath Puja is not performed at public places, river banks and temples. Read MoreNDA would have won regardless of our candidates, Owaisi takes swipe at ‘vote katwa’ jibeAsaduddin Owaisi is being credited for winning five seats in a close five between NDA and Mahagathbandhan where local Lok Janshakti Party has been reduced to a diminutive state, but the Congress has alleged that AIMIM’s presence silently helped the NDA. Countering this allegation, Owaisi on Wednesday took to Twitter and said NDA would have won regardless of AIMIM candidates. Read MoreBangladesh orders significant cuts in 2 China-funded railway projectsThe Bangladesh Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has issued directions to significantly reduce the cost of two China-funded railway projects after carrying out a review, with authorities describing it as the first such action taken for ventures backed by Beijing.The PMO directed the railway ministry to reduce the cost of the project to convert the metre-gauge line between Akhaura and Sylhet to dual-gauge line by 3,354.31 crore takas or 20.8% of the total cost, according to a report by The Daily Star newspaper. Read MoreIPL 2020: Brett Lee names two uncapped Indian cricketers as ‘most impressive’ part of Indian Premier LeagueCurtains were drawn in the 13th edition of Indian Premier League on Tuesday in Dubai with defending champions Mumbai Indians defeating Delhi Capitals by 5 wickets in a lopsided final. The tournament may not have given a grand finish to the millions of cricket fans but it lived up to all the expectations and surpassed a few of them through the 55 days and 60 matches. Read MoreKajal Aggarwal is raising the bar for celebrity honeymoons, check out stunning new pics from her photoshoot with husband Gautam KitchluActor Kajal Aggarwal has shared nine new posts from her Maldives honeymoon. The actor, who tied the knot with businessman Gautam Kitchlu last week, has been keeping her fans updated with regular social media posts.There is a theme to her new set of pictures: the deep blue sea. Kajal and Gautam seemed to be twinning in matching blue outfits in several pictures, while others showed her posing near the pristine water. “Tranquility in paradise,” she captioned one post, which shows her sitting on the edge of her room, with her feet dangling just above the water. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-airlines-to-raise-flight-operations-capacity-to-70-as-per-govt-orders-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sa5Rk7Z7L3Lgg2LP38L5pM.html
11-11-2020||India||Why is Delhi is seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases? AIIMS director blames super-spreader events||All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi (AIIMS), director, Dr Randeep Guleria said on Wednesday that super-spreader events can be the reason behind the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi. “What happens is if in a crowd one does not wear a mask, a person who may be asymptomatic and is highly infectious he can spread the disease to a large number of people in the crowd. If they get the disease, they will take it to the area they go to, their own family members, their relatives and they will again spread the disease. So you can have super-spreading events, and it is likely that this has happened in Delhi. There were crowds, people did not take precautions and they were super spreading events and this led to an increase in the number of cases,” Dr.Guleria told ANIA super-spreader event is one where a single person with the virus can come into contact with multiple other people and spread the virus to them. They have been gaining widespread attention following reports that Donald Trump’s pre-election fundraiser and his election night watch party might have been superspreader events, where members of his campaign were infected in significant numbers. In Kerala too, cases spiked after Onam celebrations. Agreeing that it is difficult to avoid crowds in the festive season, the AIIMS director warned that with the drop in temperature and rising air pollution levels there is a dire need to exercise caution. He also advised senior citizens and people with comorbidities to be extra vigilant during this phase and said there is an acute need for everyone to wear masks whenever they are in places with a considerable number of people. Talking about the sudden rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, he said, “We are seeing an increasing surge of cases in Delhi, and the numbers are increasing with time. The number of cases had come down to 2,000 from 4,000, and now they are going upwards of 7,000 and up to 8,000 in a day, this is also reflected in increased hospital admissions and to some extent in mortality.”As per the Union health ministry’s website on Wednesday, there are 41,385 active Covid-19 cases in the national capital, while 4,02,854 patients have been cured and discharged. Over 7,000 fatalities have been reported in the national capital so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-delhi-is-seeing-a-spike-in-covid-19-cases-aiims-director-blames-super-spreader-events/story-il5Pz8vhzZDI1iq6JXZhzL.html
11-11-2020||India||Out on campaign, Congress leader killed after tree falls on her in Kerala||A Congress candidate for the upcoming local body election died on Wednesday after a tree fell on her during the campaign in Karode panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district. Candidate Girija Kumari was 35.Police said the Kumari was travelling with her husband on a two-wheeler when the accident took place. Some workers were engaged in cutting a big tree in the area but they lost control of the rope and a portion of the tree fell on the motorbike. The women’s husband had a narrow escape. Though she was rushed to the government hospital in Parasala her life could not be saved, doctors said. A former local body member, the Congress said she was a hard working leader involved in many developmental activities in the area. She is survived by her two daughters. Police have registered a case against workers. Local body elections in the state will be held in three phases from December 8 to 14. It is considered as the semi-final before the assembly elections due in six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-on-campaign-congress-leader-killed-after-tree-falls-on-her-in-kerala/story-WX7oKUcU2VMcdZpNg45fUP.html
11-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami, granted bail by SC, seeks shield to prevent his arrest again||Hours before Arnab Goswami walked out of Mumbai’s Taloja jail on Wednesday evening, the Republic TV editor-in-chief and his wife Samyabrata Ray moved a Mumbai court to seek pre-arrest bail in a second criminal case registered against him for allegedly assaulting Alibag police officials who came to arrest him on November 4.Goswami was arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 for allegedly abetting the suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in 2018. At the time of arrest, Arnab and his wife had been accused of assaulting members of the police team that went to arrest him.A woman officer, part of the team of police officials had lodged a complaint against Arnab, his wife and son and two unidentified persons, accusing them of assault. A first information report was filed by the police under several provisions of the penal code including assault to deter a public servant from discharging his or her duty, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, criminal intimidation and under the Damage to Public Property Act. Goswami had denied the charge, insisting that they had only protested their illegal arrest. “The basic contention is that no case is made out against him as the arrest itself is illegal. We are relying on the video recorded to put forth our contentions,” Arnab Goswami’s lawyer Shyam Kalyankar said,The prosecution has also filed a reply before the court opposing his request. The prosecution has claimed that Goswami had no fear for law and he may influence witnesses in the case if granted protection. The court is likely to hear the plea on Thursday.The request for pre-arrest bail was filed after the Supreme Court granted Arnab Goswami’s request for interim bail in an order that sought to protect the liberty individuals, The court ordered the release of Goswami and two others in an abetment to suicide case dating back to May 2018. The three are accused in an abetment to suicide case filed in May 2018 by the wife of architect Anvay Naik who died by suicide that year and left a suicide note naming Goswami , Niteesh Sarda, and Farooq Sheikh whose companies owed him money for services rendered.The Supreme Court, which heard Arnab Goswami’s appeal against the high court rejecting his bail request, underlined that it was dealing with a person’s liberty.“Across the country, if this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty....you may dislike a person’s ideology and challenge it but if this is what our States will do to nail persons, we have to put across this message to all High Courts to preserve the liberty of citizens,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-granted-bail-by-sc-seeks-shield-to-prevent-his-arrest-again/story-BkKXGBxNjzV8RC1gMwbuVI.html
11-11-2020||India||‘Victory of the people of India’: Arnab Goswami walks out of Taloja Jail after Supreme Court grants interim bail||Hours after the Supreme Court granted interim bail on Wednesday, Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami walked out of Mumbai’s Taloja Jail in adjoining Raigad district.At around 8.30 pm, Goswami, who was granted interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case, stepped out of the jail and waved at people gathered outside. The journalist thanked the apex court for its judgement as he flashed victory sign to the crowd outside Taloja jail. “This is the victory of the people of India,” Goswami said.On November 4, Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai’s Lower Parel by Alibaug police for allegedly abetting the suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik, 53. The abetment to suicide case was filed by Naik’s wife in May 2018.Earlier on Wednesday, the Supreme Court court ordered the release of Goswami and two other accused in the 2018 suicide case, allowing the accused to be released from Taloja jail on personal bond of Rs 50,000. Also read | Arnab Goswami, granted bail by SC, seeks shield to prevent his arrest again The apex court’s order came on separate pleas filed by the three accused against a Bombay high court’s November 9 order where it refused them interim bail in the matter. The bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said that the high court was wrong to reject interim bail pleas submitted by the accused. “We are of the view that the HC was in error of rejecting the application for grant of interim bail,” Supreme Court said on Wednesday while announcing its order.During the long hearing, Goswami’s lawyer, senior advocate Harish Salve accused the state of targeting his client.“We’re past FIR stage. FIR was lodged in May 2018 and after this matter was probed. The power to re-investigate was wrongly used,” Salve told the court. “We are dealing with a person’s liberty. Across the country, if this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty. You may dislike a person’s ideology and challenge it but if this is what our States will do to nail persons, we have to put across this message to all high courts to preserve the liberty of citizens,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami-walks-out-of-mumbai-s-taloja-jail-after-supreme-court-grants-interim-bail/story-PNJIt0hr1EsPLK2QpWVqYM.html
11-11-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray govt would not last full term: BJP Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said on Wednesday that though his party did not mind sitting in opposition, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in the state will not last for another four years.The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, formed after the Sena fell out with the BJP, will complete one year this month.Speaking to reporters here, the BJP leader claimed that if there was an election now, 900 out of 1,000 people will say that they will vote for the saffron party.To a question if the BJP will `resume’ its efforts to form government in Maharashtra following favourable results of the Assembly polls in Bihar and by-polls elsewhere, Patil said it will not do anything to topple the government.“We are ready to sit in opposition and work as the main opposition party for the next four years, but this government will not last for four years,” he said.Considering the “atrocities against women” in Maharashtra, people want this government to go, he claimed. “A girl was raped and murdered in Parola tehsil of Jalgaon district. The Hathras incident (in Uttar Pradesh) was unfortunate, but will Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi come and meet the victims’ family here like they went to Hathras?” Patil asked.“We will not do anything against the Constitution.Toppling this government is not our culture,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-govt-would-not-last-full-term-bjp-maharashtra-chief-chandrakant-patil/story-qbEEVcsAaqvRgjseqk0a6H.html
11-11-2020||India||Inequality continues to rise in India: Report||Inequality started to rise in India and China substantially in the early 1990s and 2000s, while it was stabilised in China, it continued to rise in India, according to a report. “In China, the top-1 per cent captured eight per cent of national income in 1990 and rose to 14 per cent in 2019, while in India, the corresponding figures are 11 per cent in 1990 and 21 per cent in 2019,” the World Inequality Lab said in the report. It said while inequality started to rise in India and China substantially in the early 1990s and 2000s, it was stabilised in China but continued to rise in India. The report added that this suggests that development and higher growth rates do not necessarily mean more inequality in the distribution of growth. “As a matter of fact, national economic policies matter.” In both the countries, inequality increased substantially after the economic liberalisation of the 1980s and 1990s, it said. The report said communist countries like China and Vietnam display lower inequality levels than non-communist countries like India and Thailand. They still display much higher levels of inequality as compared to the western europe, the least unequal region worldwide, it added. China and Vietnam also appear to be more unequal than post-communist eastern Europe but somewhat less unequal than post-communist Russia, it said. According to the report, in the bottom 50 per cent, the population share of India as well as other South Asian economies have been expanding and contrasting to the sharp decline of the Chinese population share in this group. The World Inequality Lab is the open source for global inequality data, both within countries and between countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inequality-continues-to-rise-in-india-report/story-qfuwzp81SgWVlLarDWsyhN.html
11-11-2020||India||‘Shooting in real locations is the in-thing…’||Director Manoj Sharma is currently filming his fifth movie in Uttar Pradesh. It has been 25-long years when he left Khurja, district Bulandsheher in UP for city of dreams, Mumbai. And today, he feels blessed that within a year he is already shooting his second film in Lucknow. Manoj is directing ‘Dehati Disco’ at Piparsand in suburb of the city that stars choreographer Ganesh Acharya, Manoj Joshi, Manoj Sharma, Ravi Kishan and Remo D’Souza. “Earlier, no one was keen to shoot in UP. But today, instead of foreign locales, everyone wants to shoot in real locations like Mathura, Agra, Meerut, Varanasi, Kanpur and Lucknow. All big actors are shooting here. Besides, subsidy and ease of shooting are add-ons. Apart from four major artistes from Mumbai, all other cast is from UP,” shared the director. “Here we have lesser Covid cases compared to Mumbai, the weather is pleasant, and we have rustic location and great infrastructure-technical support which made Lucknow our first choice. Also, we got a real temple and village location which plays a character in the film. Our producer Kamal Kishor Mishra is also from Lucknow.” This is Manoj’s fifth film in UP. He has earlier, shot ‘Chal Guru Hoja Shuru’ in Khurja, ‘Prakash Electronic’ partly in Agra, ‘Sharma Ji Ki Lal Gai’ in Kanpur-Varanasi and last winter he was in Lucknow for ‘Khali Bali’ that stars Rajneish Duggal, Dharmendra, Madhu, Vijay Raj and Kainat Arora. Manoj recently, completed 25 years in Mumbai. “My first big project as a director was Altaf Raja’s chartbuster song ‘Tum Toh Thehre Pradesi.’ Then for Venus label I’ve directed thousand odd songs. Then I started assisting and editing films like ‘Yeh Dillagi’, ‘Tahelka’ and ‘Maa’. In 2010 I directed my first film ‘Swaha’. Now, this is my tenth film as director.” Started on Dussehra, ‘Dehati…’ has a 35-day long schedule in the state capital. “Set in a village, the film is about a competition between London return dancer played by Sahil Khan who is challenged by desi dancers (Acharya and his son played by master Saksham Sharma).” Talking more about his journey Manoj said, “Be it film industry or any other field for that matter, if you go from small town then the struggle is manifold as there is no one supporting you. And once you start working and make contacts it’s only then you get recognition. I feel one has to work extremely hard to get success here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/shooting-in-real-locations-is-the-in-thing/story-KRz6TD4F7Aww1lnAKkYu1J.html
11-11-2020||India||It’s gratifying to make people laugh in tough times’||Actor Harveer Singh feels more than happy to be able to make people laugh by the characters he portrays. “It’s very gratifying that in such tough times our shows and characters are providing some laughter and relief to the audience. As an actor it’s a feeling of absolute fulfilment for me. I have tried taking up work which is solely for family entertainment because cheap comedy with below-the-belt jokes is not my cup of tea,” he said.Last seen in the show ‘Madam Sir,’ Singh began his career with a fun stint in the show ‘Yum Hai Hum’. Later his character Pintu Bhabhi in ‘Jijaji Chhat Per Hai’ proved to be a turning point for him.Talking about his journey, Singh, who hails from Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh, said, “My love for creative arts brought me to Lucknow from my small town where it was all about farming. I joined Bhatkhande Music Institute to learn singing and later joined theatre in Lucknow including Padma Shri Raj Bisaria sir’s group, before shifting to Mumbai and getting a show for Doordarshan.”Currently in Lucknow, Singh is shooting for a feature film. “When I got this film, ‘Dihati Disco’, I was elated to learn it will be shot in Lucknow. It’s a beautiful film with a fun and spirited story where I play a villager. Choreographer Gansesh Acharya plays a pivotal role and Remo D’souza will be seen in an interesting stint,” he said.Singh said Lucknow is one of his favourite places. “The kind of food you get here and the kulladh tea, all of it is so delightful. I went to BNA roadside shops to reminisce about those theatre days and to savour samosas and chaat. I miss it in Mumbai,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-gratifying-to-make-people-laugh-in-tough-times/story-XNvvjFirI9kG3S93i1tV7M.html
11-11-2020||India||‘It’s difficult to find a place in the industry’||Known for her numerous comical sketches, series and commercials, actor Anjali Barot feels it’s difficult to make it big in the entertainment industry on your own.“I always wanted to be an actor. But never shared this dream with anyone as I knew I’ll be mocked at. So, I completed my course in Bachelor of Mass Media and took up a job at a production house. Soon, I realized that this way I will never reach in front of the camera,” said the ‘Wrong Number’ actor. So, she quit her job and started auditioning. “Nothing much changed as after scores of auditions only one or two materialised. Finally, I decided to take up web sketches for better prospects. It’s actually very difficult to find a place in the industry on your own,” she said.Her long-nurtured dream needed that one break to get that instant recognition all actors think of. “It was in 2018 that I auditioned for ‘Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story’ and waited for a year for it to materialised. I used to have sleepless nights as it was such a big project that too under filmmaker Hansal Mehta and I desperately wanted it to go on floors and release.” Feeling delighted with her latest series getting good reviews and more work coming her way Anjali wants to work across mediums. Talking about her role, she said, “It was challenge playing a 30-year-old non-fictional character. The role had an enchanting charm and a beautifully sketched journey of a common man’s housewife, who stood by him in all his thick and thin. I’m working on a few interesting projects set for next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-difficult-to-find-a-place-in-the-industry/story-2J6rSVqHrWe47glRk1Hl2L.html
11-11-2020||India||In Bihar victory, Nitish Kumar tweets thank you to PM Modi||Nitish Kumar, in his first comments, on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the National Democratic Alliance’s win in the Bihar assembly election. “The people decide. I bow to them for giving the NDA a majority. I also thank PM Modi for his support,” the Bihar chief minister tweeted.The tweet came as PM Modi was addressing the party workers in Delhi after the Bihar results. “It is the win of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas,” said the PM, underlining the reasons for the NDA’s win.He said that the “silent voter” in Bihar has spoken and continues to bless the BJP.Defying exit poll predictions, the NDA retained power in Bihar. The NDA comprises the JD(U), BJP, Vikasshel Insan Party (VIP) and the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAM).The BJP emerged the second biggest party with 74 votes, one short of RJD’s 75.Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), however, ended up with 43 seats, a sharp drop from 71 in the 2015 elections. Together, they are well placed to form the government. The BJP insists that Nitish Kumar will remain the chief ministerial face of the alliance, a promise made before the polls. Nitish Kumar remained the pivot around which the JD(U) revolved. He centred on his inclusive development work and initiatives for the empowerment of women, Dalits and extremely backward classes (EBCs). At the last poll rally before the third phase of voting, Nitish Kumar did say that it was his last election. “This is my last election, all’s well that ends well,” the CM told the voters during campaigning in Purnea. The results do have ended well for Nitish Kumar, who has been on the winning side in every state election since 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-victory-nitish-kumar-tweets-thank-you-to-pm-modi/story-jHdMUMUngCItTOQIi5ds0O.html
11-11-2020||India||Textile industry thanks PM Modi for output linked incentive scheme||Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for introduction of the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for 10 key sectors, including textile products.The scheme would enhance manufacturing capabilities and exports under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan for a period of five years.Under the scheme, Rs 10,683 crore have been allocated for textile products - man-made Fibre (MMF) segment and technical textiles.ITF convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan said the scheme would help the apparel sector build the much-needed scale and bring specialisation as a strategy to garner focus on top MMF products which are in great demand globally.MMF apparels is a Rs 3-lakh crore market in the US alone, he said in a press release.The industry is confident of the Indian apparel sector using the opportunity to build capabilities in MMF sector to achieve double-digit growth in exports, he said.Meanwhile, Southern India Mills’ Association chairman Ashwin Chandran also thanked Modi and Union Textile Minister Smriti Irani for including textile industry and allocating budget for improving manufacturing capabilities and boosting exports.Though the country could become a major player in cotton textiles and exports, it has been lagging behind in the MMF textile trade due to expensive raw material and high tariff barriers apart from cheaper imports from neighbouring countries.The scheme would benefit the industry to attract huge investments and create jobs for millions of people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/textile-industry-thanks-pm-modi-for-output-linked-incentive-scheme/story-CxxITBc02fTBTbqw1J9UaN.html
11-11-2020||India||Govt allows airlines to raise flight operations capacity to 70%||As Covid-19 cases have started to decline across the country, the civil aviation ministry on Wednesday allowed airlines to extend their operation to 70% of their capacity. Earlier, the airlines were running at 60% capacity.“Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May and have reached 2.06 lakhs on 8 Nov. Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 60% to 70% of the pre-Covid approved capacity,“ said aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter.After being grounded for two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian airlines resumed domestic operations on May 25. At the time, airlines were allowed to operate only up to a third of their total capacity, with the cap later being increased to 45% and then to 60%. Since May, air traffic has picked up, however due to the still prevailing fear of contracting Covid-19, the bookings are still low.This comes as the number of daily Covid-19 cases began to decline in the country. As of Wednesday morning, the country’s Covid-19 caseload was above 8.6 million. While the death toll stood at 1,27,571.Meanwhile, the number of active cases dropped below the five lakh-mark for the first time after 106 days, the health ministry said. The active cases in the country are 4,94,657.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-airlines-to-raise-flight-operations-capacity-to-70/story-4SY00dAP0XMAJ6HWZRTJzM.html
11-11-2020||India||No Chhath Puja at public places in Delhi due to Covid-19, rules DDMA||In view of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital, the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed officials to ensure Chhath Puja is not performed at public places, river banks and temples.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn an order, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the DDMA executive committee chairman, directed all district magistrates (DMs) and deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) to ensure strict compliance of its order and to encourage people to celebrate the festival at their homes during the pandemic.Additionally, the order also directed the DMs and DCPs to meet religious and community leaders, as well Chhath Puja organisers, to get their cooperation to maintain law and order and harmony, and to sensitise people regarding compliance of the DDMA guidelines and other norms to combat Covid-19.DDMA’s directive comes at a time Delhi is witnessing a fresh surge in its daily Covid-19 cases, in what many, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, have called the “third wave” of the pandemic in the city. On Tuesday, there were 7,830 new Covid-19 cases and 83 related fatalities in the national capital, taking the total caseload here to 451,382, including 7,143 deaths, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government.On Wednesday, the government was also taken to task by the Delhi high court for relaxing norms for public movement and gatherings even as Covid-19 cases were increasing. The court also called the situation “alarming.”Also Read | Delhi HC pulls up AAP govt for relaxing norms as Covid-19 cases spikeIn view of Covid-19, as well as air pollution, firecrackers have already been banned in Delhi till November 30. Earlier, all Delhi schools were directed to remain closed till further orders.The Chhath Puja is celebrated in Delhi in a big way by the natives of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh The two-day festival falls on November 20-21 this year and involves worship of the Sun God at a water body like a river, pond or tank. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chhath-puja-at-public-places-in-delhi-due-to-covid-19-rules-ddma/story-VS4nTZUOVcYpy6CSnbtJ2H.html
11-11-2020||India||No pre-final exam for classes 10, 12 in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that no pre-final examination would be held for class 10 and 12 in the state in view of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Due to the ongoing Covid pandemic situation, the State Education Department has decided that students currently studying in classes 10th and 12th will not have their pre-final tests, said Banerjee.Banerjee had earlier said that her administration will think about reopening educational institutions after Kali Puja on November 15 “depending on the Covid-19 situation at that time”.The development comes amid speculations that the Central Board of Secondary (CBSE) might change the schedule of Class 10, Class 12 exams in 2021 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the CBSE had postponed the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) due to pandemic and the CTET examination will now be held on January 31, 2021.West Bengal on Tuesday reported the highest single-day recovery of 4,415 Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of cured people to 3,72,265, the health department said in a bulletin.The death toll rose to 7,403 after 53 more people succumbed to the disease.The bulletin said that 3,891 people tested positive for the infection during the day, pushing the tally to 4,13,112.The number of active cases now stands at 33,444.In the last 24 hours, 44,117 samples were tested for coronavirus in the state, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-pre-final-exam-for-classes-10-12-in-bengal-mamata-banerjee/story-RyRf7IOxTPJljw0kYr5bJM.html
11-11-2020||India||BY Vijayendra steps out of father BSY’s shadow, delivers Sira to BJP||It is a truism in Indian politics that ruling parties generally tend to do well in bypolls as they control the administrative machinery. However, it would be a mistake to dismiss victories in two specific assembly segments that the BJP has won in the last one year in Karnataka. While it is true that since November 2019 there have been 17 bypolls in the state and BJP has won 14. However, it is the saffron party’s victory in the KR Pete seat last year and the Sira seat now that really stands out. The reasons for that are fairly straightforward.The BJP has for long been seen as a ‘Lingayat’ party, primarily because of the leadership of Yediyurappa, who belongs to the community. With a 17 per cent Lingayat population in the state, the party also has benefited from that perception.The second is that the BJP has been a North Karnataka party with nearly 81 of the 104 MLAs that won in the 2018 assembly polls coming from that part of the state.It has historically been weak in what is seen as the ‘Old Mysuru region’ – comprising the districts which were in the past ruled by the Mysuru Wodeyar dynasty – and which incidentally is also dominated by the Vokkaliga community.Vokkaligas, at around 13 per cent of the state population, are not only the second largest community but they have largely been immune to the charms of the BJP in spite of the party’s best efforts. The JDS has always championed the community’s cause and whenever the party has fallen out of favour, Vokkaligas have tended to back the Congress.For the BJP, which fell 10 seats short of a simple majority in 2008 and in 2018, the need to expand its social base especially in the Old Mysuru region and amongst the Vokkaligas is key if it wants to dominate the state politics.Which is where, the wins in KR Pete of Mandya district last year and Sira in Tumakuru now is so important. Both are Vokkaliga dominated and are in the old Mysuru region. Both are seen as bastions of Janata Dal (Secular) and the power alternated between the regional party and the Congress.In both the battles, the BJP entrusted the task of winning those seats to the young party vice president Vijayendra. When last year, KR Pete, where JD(S) turncoat Narayana Gowda who helped BJP topple the Congress-JDS coalition stood for bypolls, the JD(S) vowed revenge. Vijavendra ensured victory of Narayan Gowda against odds but it was dismissed as a fluke.Now, Vijayendra has repeated the feat in Sira where the BJP had never even come second and mostly lost deposit in all previous polls. By ensuring victory of its candidate Rajesh Gowda, Vijayendra has proved that he is somebody to watch in Karnataka politics.It has helped that he is the son of chief minister Yediyurappa. At 45, he is very young by political standards, articulate and has got his father’s knack of taking people along.While his elder brother BY Raghavendra, the MP from Shivamogga, is seen as more reserved, Vijayendra is seen as more accessible by the party workers and public.Given the political acumen he has displayed till now, most analysts, and even political opponents, believe that it is Vijayendra who will be the inheritor of Yediyurappa’s political legacy. Vijayendra has, in a recent chat with HT, dismissed such speculation, saying that the family is united and that there is no internal rivalry.But it is also increasingly clear that Vijayendra is trying to carve out a niche for himself and step out of his father’s shadow. Vijayendra is not without his share of controversies, with the opposition accusing him of being the super CM and also being involved in corruption, which he dismisses as the “price I pay for being the bridge between the CM and people as well as party workers”.There is a growing clamour for Vijayendra to contest the Basva Kalyan bypoll which is likely to take place in the next few months. The incumbent Congress MLA Narayana Rao passed away due to Covid and the BJP will have to find a candidate for the seat.In the 2018 assembly poll too, Vijayendra was an aspirant for the Varuna constituency which was eventually won by another former CM’s son Yathindra Siddaramiah. Even as CM Yediyurappa dismissed speculation that Vijayendra would be fielded from Basva Kalyan, the ambitious son himself is more careful and says “will take up any responsibility given by the party”.For Vijayendra, the challenge would be to continue growing an identity outside of his father Yediyurappa and at the same time inherit his political mantle as a leader of Lingayats and beyond. How successful he is in this journey would determine his political future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/by-vijayendra-steps-out-of-father-bsy-s-shadow-delivers-sira-to-bjp/story-tiQJ1zBJFf6QJSsNGGndcK.html
11-11-2020||India||‘Started with two seats...’: PM Modi reminisces in victory speech, says development only poll plank||In a speech oft-punctuated by the chants of BJP workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated India for showing unparalleled trust in the process of democracy, charted our the road map ahead and reminded the party workers how success came to BJP. The speech was part of BJP’s grand celebration at its headquarters in New Delhi following the resounding victory in Bihar assembly elections and in the other bypoll elections. Thousands of BJP workers assembled at the headquarters in what was the first gathering of this scale amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. As he thanked the country, BJP workers in his speech, he also mentioned BJP chief JP Nadda — who delivered his first victory in Bihar after he took over the reins of the party — and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.“Thank you, not just because people voted for us but because we all celebrated this festival of democracy with great enthusiasm.The election may have been held in only some parts of the country but entire country’s attention was focused on news channels, Twitter and the election commission’s website,” he said.Also Read: In Bihar victory, Nitish Kumar tweets thank you to PM Modi“There is something that we have almost forgotten. Earlier, a day after polling, we used to get news of repolling, booth capture. But today we only read news of the increase in the percentage of votes, female voters,” the PM said.Thanking BJP chief JP Nadda for the victory, the Prime Minister said the implications of the results are far-reaching. “It wasn’t easy having elections. This expands on the results of the Lok Sabha elections. These elections are significant. We have won in the east in Manipur, in the Kutch desert. If you dedicate yourself to the country, try to do something new, you will get the results too. People see the hard work you put in, your intentions. So during elections, people suffer hardships to vote for you,” the Prime Minister said.Taking a journey down memory lane, PM Modi said there was a time when the BJP had only two seats. “And we started from two rooms. But today we are everywhere. How did this happen? The answer lies in the verdict of yesterday. People are relying on our development plank. Development will be our only poll issue,” PM Modi said adding that BJP is the only party that has kept on adding more seats — also in states where it has been in power, indicating that there is no anti-incumbency factor as well.“Good railways, better airports, bridges, internet connectivity, some will say, are not important in elections. People are telling political parties that this is not the case. This is going to be the basis of development. People who did not understand this...have lost their deposits,” PM Modi said.In his victory speech, the Prime Minister attributed BJP’s electoral success to BJP’s governance. “ When people think of governance, they think of BJP,” the PM said.A majority of exit polls, which predicted Mahagathbandhan’s victory in Bihar, attributed their miscalculation to silent voters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a reference to that and said that this has always been BJP’s strength. “Who are these silent voters? They are our mothers and sisters for whom the party is working relentlessly. Be it cooking gas or sanitary napkin, BJP has schemes for them and the work went on during the pandemic too.”Without naming Congress, the Prime Minister slammed the family-run parties from ‘north to south’ and said these parties are threat to democracy. “It is unfortunate that a national party has become a family party. In this situation, we have to remain more alert to strengthen the democracy inside the party. Otherwise, how will we trust each other to take the party ahead,” the Prime Minister said, urging the youth from across the country to join the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celebrations-for-bihar-victory-at-bjp-headquarters-in-dehi-pm-modi-addresses-party-workers/story-bBiZtgFmMuUY54FM49T5pN.html
11-11-2020||India||NDA would have won regardless of our candidates, Owaisi takes swipe at ‘vote katwa’ jibe||Asaduddin Owaisi is being credited for winning five seats in a close five between NDA and Mahagathbandhan where local Lok Janshakti Party has been reduced to a diminutive state, but the Congress has alleged that AIMIM’s presence silently helped the NDA. Countering this allegation, Owaisi on Wednesday took to Twitter and said NDA would have won regardless of AIMIM candidates.“Congress is still shouting vote katwa just as before. They have already started blaming their own failure on AIMIM’s success in Bihar elections,” the Hyderabad MP tweeted. Congress is still shouting 'vote katwa' just as before. They've already started blaming their own failure on @aimim_national's success in #BiharElections. Here are the facts:-We contested 20 seats, won 5, MGB won 9 & NDA, 6-On seats where NDA won, the victory margin... [1/2]Giving out figures, Owaisi said the AIMIM contested 20 seats and won five among those. Among the rest 15, Mahagathbandhan won nine seats and the NDA won six seats.  ...was higher than our votes. NDA would have won regardless of our candidate. In other words, MGB failed to defeat NDA on these seatsIn Sherghati, RJD fielded a candidate from extremist Durga Vahini but still won. What does that say about radicalisation & 'vote cutters'? [2/2] pic.twitter.com/r68GGTGv3a“On seats where NDA won, the victory margin was higher than our votes. NDA would have won regardless of our candidates. In other words, MGB failed to defeat NDA on these seats,” Owaisi wrote.Replying to Congress’s charge of ‘radicalisation’ on AIMIM during a television debate, Owaisi wrote, “In Sherghati, RJD fielded a candidate from extremist Durga Vahini but still won. What does that say about radicalisation and vote cutters?”The party has also decided to fight in West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh state elections. “You mean we should not fight elections. You (Congress) went and sat in Shiv Sena’s lap (in Maharashtra). If anyone asks why did you fight the elections... I will fight in West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and will fight every election in the country,” he said.“Do I need to ask anyone’s permission to fight the polls,” Owaisi said when asked whether the party would contest in any other state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-would-have-won-regardless-of-our-candidates-owaisi-takes-swipe-at-vote-katwa-jibe/story-nZz1PrjHmljkk4D7FB1pvI.html
11-11-2020||India||Only green cracker sale allowed in 6 Uttarakhand cities, 2-hour window for bursting them during festivals||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday allowed the bursting of green crackers with a two-hour window in six urban areas of the hill state during the upcoming festivals while complying with the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The tribunal had issued a directive to curb the worsening air quality index (AQI) that could further aggravate the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.The Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government allowed the public to burst green crackers from 8 pm to 10 pm on the occasion of Diwali and Gurupurab and from 6 am to 8 am for Chhath Puja.An order, issued by Om Prakash, chief secretary, Uttarakhand, said: “Only green crackers will be sold in the urban areas of Dehradun, Haridwar, Kashipur, Rudrapur, Rishikesh and Haldwani in the state. Crackers can be burst for only two hours in these six urban areas.”Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that works on environmental issues, said, “Air pollution is a silent killer. However, the issue in Uttarakhand may not be as grave as Delhi-national capital region (NCR). But pollution has increased drastically in the hill state in the past few years. We need to do much more than lift the ban for two hours to arrest the decline in air quality.”The state government should clarify what it means by “green crackers in a bid to ensure understanding and correct implementation of the (NGT) guidelines,” Nautiyal added.The NGT has directed cities with “moderate” AQI to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings to burst them during the upcoming festivals.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor; and 401-500 as severe. Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional firecrackers and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-green-cracker-sale-allowed-in-6-uttarakhand-cities-2-hour-window-for-bursting-them-during-festivals/story-CHAEMvStzortwYyqpSFj4L.html
11-11-2020||India||‘India moving from tax terrorism to tax transparency,’ says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated an office-cum-residential complex of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in Cuttack, Odisha through video conferencing on Wednesday. During the inauguration PM Modi highlighted recently introduced tax reforms and said,”Public should not be put at unease when tax is collected.”“Taxpayer now doesn’t have to wait for years for tax refund,” said PM Modi. “India moving from tax terrorism to tax transparency,” PM Modi also said citing faceless appeals, dispute resolution mechanism.Underlining the tax reforms, PM Modi said, “nil tax on income of up to Rs 5 lakh is helping low-income individuals,” adding “Corporate tax has also seen a historic reduction.” “India among select nations which recognise taxpayers’ rights and responsibilities; step towards creating trust in tax system,” he also said during the inauguration. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Chief Minister of Odisha Naveen Patnaik also attended the event.The newly-built office-cum-residential complex of ITAT, Cuttack is spread over an area of 1.60 acres of land allotted by the Odisha government free of cost in the year 2015.The total built-up area of the office complex is 1,938 sq meters, over three floors including, inter alia, the spacious courtroom, ultra-modern record room, well-equipped chambers for the Members of the Bench, library room, well-equipped modern conference hall, with sufficient space for the litigants, bar room for lawyers, chartered accountants, etc.ITAT Cuttack has been functioning from rented premises since 1970 for almost 50 years and has jurisdiction for appeals arising from the State of Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-office-cum-residential-complex-of-itat-in-odisha/story-YaUaRAYPE5uL2zphDJToBL.html
11-11-2020||India||IRCTC to offer tourist packages||MUMBAI:To increase the popularity of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express, the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced tour packages between Mumbai-Vadodara and Mumbai-Ahmedabad.IRCTC will introduce curated packages for Tejas Express for three days in the first week of December of stay along with sightseeing in Vadodara and Ahmedabad. The prices of the packages are yet to be fixed but they will approximately be Rs 2,000 per passenger daily.“Passengers can travel on-board the Tejas Express and explore Vadodara and Ahmedabad from Mumbai. The stay will be provided in a four-star hotel and all tourist attractions will be covered. Vehicles will be provided to passengers,” said Rahul Himalian, group general manager, west zone, IRCTC.The itinerary from Mumbai will include Lakshmi Vilas Palace, Akshardham temple, Sabarmati riverfront, Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat. Similar packages for Mumbai for passengers travelling from Gujarat are also being prepared by the IRCTC.The Tejas Express between Mumbai and Ahmedabad resumed its operations on October 17 after being suspended for seven months due to the pandemic.The train presently has 40% passenger occupancy as opposed to 95% before the services were suspended.The premium outstation train has a capacity for 736 passengers. The IRCTC is currently offering only 60% seats while providing alternate seating to maintain social distancing inside the coaches.Mumbai- Ahmedabad Tejas Express is the second privately operated train of the Indian railways and was introduced on January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-offer-tourist-packages/story-GnR7bLvnPZ2QhT1EVEuahK.html
11-11-2020||India||BJP regains lost bastion in Gwalior-Chambal belt in MP bypolls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya Pradesh regained its lost bastions in the Gwalior-Chambal and the Malwa region in particular which kept the party away from power in the state assembly elections two years back, per votes polled by the party candidates in the bypolls held in 28 assembly constituencies. The bypoll results which were declared on Tuesday gave 19 of the 28 seats to the BJP and 9 to the Congress. Contrast it with the 2018 assembly elections, where the BJP could win just one of these seats.In the bypolls, the BJP won 9 seats out of 16 in the Gwalior-Chambal region while it made almost a clean sweep in the Malwa region where it won six of the seven seats. It won the remaining four seats in central MP, Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions. There was a huge difference in the poll percentage of the two parties. While the BJP got 49.46% votes polled, the Congress’ was almost 9% percentage points less than that of the BJP at 40.50%. The vote percentage of the BJP in the 2018 assembly elections was 41.33% which was almost equal to the poll percentage of the Congress (41.35) but voters’ mood in the two regions in particular denied the former a fourth consecutive term in power in the state. In the Gwalior-Chambal region which has 34 assembly seats, the Congress won as many as 26 in 2018 whereas the BJP, which had won 20 seats in 2013, had to be content with just 7 seats. Similarly, in the Malwa-Nimad region which has 66 seats and was supposed to be the saffron brigade’s strong bastion, the BJP’s strength was reduced to 28 seats in 2018 from 56 seats in 2013 assembly polls whereas the Congress got 35 seats in the region in 2018. It had won just 9 seats in the 2013 assembly polls. Political analyst Jayant Singh Tomar said, “The BJP’s debacle in the Gwalior-Chambal region in 2018 could be attributed to a major factor i.e. ‘My ka laal’ speech delivered by Chouhan in a meeting of SC/ST government employees in 2016 besides Congress’ promise for farmers’ loan waiver ahead of the polls. Chouhan had said no one could snatch reservation from them (SC/ST). “In the caste-ridden politics of the region, the speech deeply hurt sentiments of upper castes, traditionally BJP voters, who moved away. But in the past two years, anger in public dissipated and what overshadowed Chouhan’s speech was the Congress’ failure on the governance front in its 15 months rule.” He said, “Another major factor which gave an edge to the BJP in the bypolls in the region was having on its side senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. Congress hardly had any leader in the region who could match the appeal and stature of Scindia. All these factors coupled with Congress’ failure in stitching a pre-poll alliance with smaller parties gave a chance to the BJP to regain its lost bastion in the region.” Political analyst Girija Shankar said, “Having made inroads in the BJP’s bastion in 2018 the Congress was expected to work on its gains in the two regions in particular to strengthen its base but the Kamal Nath government wasted its entire time of 15 months in power while being oblivious of the fact that BJP has a tremendous strength under the leadership of chief minister Shviraj Singh Chouhan to make a comeback anytime to regain its lost bastions.” The Congress alleged that the polls were not held in a “free and fair atmosphere”. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “It’s difficult to say if the BJP regained its lost bastions. For, bypolls were not held in a free and fair atmosphere. There was massive misuse of government machinery and the BJP in power used all the tactics to ensure its victory. But despite all these manipulations, Congress won 9 of the seats which shows people were angry with the BJP government and they didn’t vote for the BJP.” State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “Bypolls gave an opportunity to voters to undo what they had done in the 2018 assembly elections by giving slightly more seats to the Congress then. The bypolls have proved that the BJP continues to retain its base in the state on the strength of its policies and its leadership at the Centre and in the state. This will continue in the next assembly elections too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-scores-big-in-gwalior-chambal-malwa-in-madhya-pradesh-bypolls/story-J0oGOd1LFFfJGgNUhBDxbM.html
11-11-2020||India||This Diwali is all about a collective prayer to win over the pandemic||This Diwali is very different from all the other years because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has taken the entire world by storm. But musicians Shilpa Rao, Palak Muchhal, Rochak Kohli, Jubin Nautiyal, Armaan Malik and Payal Dev are not giving up on the spirit of the festival and are praying for the well being of everybodyShilpa RaoDiwali every year is all about catching up with friends and I have a massive party at my place each year but that is not possible this year. But again, we have the option of doing video calls etc. I usually make kheer every year, but during this lockdown, I have learned to make a lot more dishes so I will make those and send it to my friends. The most important message this Diwali should be to abstain from firecrackers. It is a civic responsibility this year as many people are coping with breathing and lung problems. We should all just reach out with food and love and companionship to all our family and friends this year especially those who are alone because of the pandemic. Wishing everyone a very happy Diwali and I hope we can overcome this crisis together.  Palak MuchhalThis Diwali will be different of course, but not that different in essence. We will be having our puja at home and we have already started making sweets etc., at home and we have also started decorations. My dada and dadiji are here, we managed to fly them out. Over all, there is a certain if not sadness, a feeling of numbness in the environment, even when we are stepping out for shopping, it feels like everybody is very sad. So, we are trying to keep the same spirit at home at least. I have a long list of thank yous this year because despite the pandemic, I have had a good year and I am very happy that everybody in my family is safe. I do pray that the suffering ends for the many people who are in a difficult situation right now. Rochak KohliI will be back from Goa to celebrate Diwali at home, and I will be leaving a day or two for Himachal Pradesh to shoot the video of my next song. So, this Diwali, even though, will be very different, I am just grateful that we are getting to celebrate this festival at least even if at homes. This entire year I have not worn any good clothes and have been only living in shorts, so I am very excited about wearing formals and seeing my family in formals, too, this Diwali. My sincere wish is that we do not pollute the environment this year because we have seen what happens when the environment decides to give it back to us — we have to deal with such pandemics and problems that we have no solutions to. My heart goes out to everybody who lost their means of livelihood this year and I hope they are able to get back on their feet soon. Jubin NautiyalThis year is going to as special as every year of Diwali just because I will get to spend the festival with my family and friends. We will not be bursting any crackers this year, it will be all about diyas and lights and music. There is going to be a lot of jamming this year. I will be inviting all my musician friends and we will be using some instruments to make music instead of making noise. Payal DevI haven’t planned anything as the lockdown is still ongoing, and the situation is not so good yet. So, I don’t know how this Diwali will be for us because we can’t go out and celebrate with our friends and family . Usually, we used to go to our hometowns to celebrate with our family which is also difficult this year. It will be very different this year, but we will definitely try to make some sweets and a good meal for my family. It will be a home Diwali with my daughter and husband this year.Armaan MalikThis year Diwali is going to be very different for me but for good reasons. I have not been spending Diwali with my family for the last two years due to work commitments, but this year, finally, I will be able to enjoy the festival with my closest people at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/this-diwali-is-all-about-a-collective-prayer-to-win-over-the-pandemic/story-DxcoMonL8aeVq32WNjzvAK.html
11-11-2020||India||CPCB orders closure of stone crushers, asks Punjab, Haryana to curb stubble burning||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has directed stone crushers and hot mix plants to remain closed till November 17 in view of high air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR.Frequency of mechanised sweeping and water sprinkling on roads with high dust generating potential and guidelines and standard operating procedures for dust control at construction sites are strictly to be followed. In case of violations, a penalty will be imposed or construction activity will be stopped temporarily, CPCB said on Wednesday.Punjab and Haryana should take immediate action to curb stubble burning and Delhi NCR should take immediate measures to curb biomass burning, the statement said, adding that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order on firecrackers is to be strictly followed. Also Read: Experts warn of double trouble in Delhi with rising air pollution, Covid-19The Commission on Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas decided on November 10 that the task of implementing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) will be temporarily given to CPCB until the newly constituted commission develops a mechanism for implementation of GRAP.CPCB said PM 2.5 concentrations in Delhi NCR exceeded 300 micrograms per cubic metres at 7 pm on November 8 and persisted for more than 48 hours till 7 pm on November 10. A declining trend in PM 2.5 concentrations was observed from noon of November 10. Air quality on Wednesday is in “very poor” category but is forecast to be in “very poor” to “severe category” on November 13 owing to adverse meteorological conditions. In view of the forecast CPCB has made these interventions.There has been confusion among agencies after the Centre issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new centralised agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against sources of air pollution across five north Indian states. It replaced all ad-hoc committees and bodies created as per court orders including the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Control Authority that was formed to oversee measures to check air pollution in NCR in 1998 and had been monitoring the enforcement of emergency measures under Grap.While the commission had its first meeting only on Monday, the fifth consecutive day air quality was severe in Delhi, CPCB officials said they were not sure if emergency measures such as curbs on construction activities, restriction on use of personal vehicles and waste burning under the Graded Response Action Plan were to be implemented.“After the Commission came, we did not have legal mandate to hold meetings or enforce GRAP. The Commission gave us the responsibility only yesterday so we couldn’t take any measures on our own in the past few days,” a senior CPCB official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpcb-orders-closure-of-stone-crushers-asks-punjab-haryana-to-curb-stubble-burning/story-8mFmExQkGxynUP0mQkqhxK.html
11-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Keeping Pfizer vaccine at minus 70 degree Celsius tough, says AIIMS chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Keeping Pfizer vaccine at minus 70 degree Celsius tough, says AIIMS chiefThe announcement by American pharmaceutical major Pfizer about Covid-19 vaccine trial has led to renewed hopes in a wold battered by the coronavirus pandemic. Experts, however, point towards the logistics of giving the potential vaccine to a larger population. Read moreRepublic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by Supreme Court in 2018 suicide caseThe Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami who was arrested last week in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Read moreCentre takes 1st step to level the field; to set ground rules for OTT, online newsIn the first step to regulate digital content, the government has expanded the powers of the information and broadcasting ministry to start regulating over the top, or OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime videos and Hotstar and other digital content including online news. Read moreIndia, China agree on 3-step disengagement plan in Pangong lake area: ReportIn a major development, the ongoing India-China border conflict may be resolved soon as the armies of the two countries have agreed for disengagement from parts of the Eastern Ladakh sector under which they would be moving back to their respective positions before April-May timeframe earlier this year. Read moreApple macOS Big Sur update: MacBook eligibility and how to download itApple, at its virtual event on November 10, not just unveiled two new MacBooks and a Mac Mini with M1 processor, but also announced that much-awaited macOS Big Sur will be coming to all the eligible Mac devices within a week. Read moreWatch: Maruti Suzuki S-Presso gets zero stars in Global NCAP crash testMaruti Suzuki S-Presso has failed to earn any stars in the latest round of safety ratings’ test conducted by Global NCAP. The test was conducted on three ‘Made-in-India’ cars in controlled lab conditions with Hyundai Grand i10 securing two stars and Kia Seltos earning three. Read more‘Development our agenda but…’: BJP’s Amit Malviya on 2021 Bengal poll strategyAfter having emerged as the largest party in the NDA in Bihar with 78 seats, the BJP is now shifting focus to West Bengal and other states where polls are scheduled in 2021. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-keeping-pfizer-vaccine-at-minus-70-degree-celsius-tough-says-aiims-chief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aPQD7F03Ugoh2iI6PKomXL.html
11-11-2020||India||Contempt plea in Delhi High Court against Delhi Chief Secretary, others for inaction in regulating online pathological labs||A contempt application has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking initiation of proceedings against Delhi Chief Secretary, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare(MoHFW), Directors General of Health Service and The Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR) for allegedly not complying with a court order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in Delhi and to regulate online pathological labs.The contempt petition, moved by one Rohit Jain through counsel Shashank Deo Sudhi, said the respondent has completely failed to comply with the said order of this court by not taking appropriate legal actions against online health aggregators despite the direction.“The court had on August 6 directed the concerned respondent authorities to initiate action in accordance with law against any illegal online health service aggregators operating in Delhi in violation of the applicable law including the Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulations) Act, 2010, if applicable, or in violation of any rules, regulations or government policies applicable to the facts of the case. Action will be initiated in accordance with law against such violators of the law as expeditiously as possible and practicable, after giving an adequate opportunity of being heard to the concerned parties,” the plea said.The plea, which was moved on Tuesday and is likely to come for hearing on Thursday, alleged that the respondents are equally responsible for restraining the illegal practices of online aggregators, which are freely being carried out under the eyes of these officials in utter violations of the rules and regulations laid down by statutes and the guidelines issued by the respondents from time to time ever since the outbreak of deadly Covid-19.It also said several illegal online aggregators are advertising freely by offering attractive packages for body check-ups including the test for Covid-19 through texts or various online modes and added that the petitioner himself has received advertisements of online aggregators through e-mail for getting tested.“It’s also submitted that it is an extremely serious issue that the online aggregators are operating without any authorization and approval. Besides, these online aggregators are not accredited by any accreditation agency. The existence of such illegal online diagnostic aggregators are posing serious health challenge as a large number of people are falling prey to the attractive health packages being offered by these illegal online aggregators,” the plea stated.“The acts of respondents clearly constitute the contempt of the court and appropriate contempt proceedings should be initiated against them for acting against the order dated August 6, 2020 of this court,” it added.The plea further alleged that the respondents’ officials have been playing with the precious lives of the innocent people by promoting unqualified, unregistered medical practitioners to sign the pathological report and exposing the common people to the mercy of untrained and highly incompetent medical/pathological professional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-plea-in-delhi-high-court-against-delhi-chief-secretary-others-for-inaction-in-regulating-online-pathological-labs/story-yNXA483sLRmRxEd9SY24NO.html
11-11-2020||India||Secondary schools, colleges to reopen in Gujarat from November 23: Know all guidelines||The Gujarat government has decided to reopen secondary schools and colleges after Diwali vacations from November 23, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Wednesday.Schools, which have been shut since March in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, will reopen only for students of classes 9 to 12 and attendance is not mandatory, the minister told reporters.A decision on reopening of primary schools for classes 1 to 8 will be taken at an appropriate time, he said.“After holding discussions with stakeholders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has decided to reopen secondary schools and colleges. Their campuses will function as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines issued by the Centre. A decision to open primary schools for students of classes 1 to 8 will be taken later,” Chudasama said, according to news agency PTI.The minister said it was not compulsory for students to attend schools physically now and the online mode of education will continue as per the guidelines issued by the Union government.Know all guidelines to be followed:1. Managements of schools will be required to take a written consent from parents before calling students to schools. They will also have to ensure that students wear mask, don’t share food, and maintain social distancing.2. A distance of six feet needs to be maintained in classrooms in schools and colleges.3. To prevent crowding, schools and colleges are advised to implement the odd-even formula, wherein half of the students come to school on odd dates and the remaining lot attend school on even dates.4. Students can be given home assignments for the days when they are not attending schools or colleges.5. As a precautionary measure, schools and colleges are required to sanitise their premises, keep hand sanitisers and soaps for students and staff and procure thermal temperature guns to detect any possible Covid-19 case.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/secondary-schools-colleges-to-reopen-in-gujarat-from-november-23-know-all-guidelines/story-3VV5Xf5nSLpfrcCjjsoMaK.html
11-11-2020||India||Family members of Arnab Goswami meet Assam CM, Sonowal speaks to Uddhav Thackeray||Family members of Arnab Goswami, who got bail on November 11 in an abetment to suicide case after being in judicial custody for a week, have approached Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal asking him to look into Goswami’s security. Arnab Goswami hails from Assam’s Guwahati. Sonowal on Wednesday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray who assured the Assam chief minister of Goswami’s security. Goswami was lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. His family members claimed his life was under threat. As he was shifted from Alibag jail’s Covid-19 centre to Tiloja jail for allegedly using a mobile phone on Sunday, the 47-year-old journalist also claimed life threats. He said he was being assaulted by police. During his arrest on November 4 from his Lower Parel house, he complained of physical arrest. But an FIR was filed against Goswami and his family members for trying to stop police.On Wednesday afternoon, following a hearing that extended for hours, the apex court granted him bail in the 2018 case where designer Anvay Naik named him and two others for non-payment of crores, which allegedly led him to end his life. His mother also dies of suicide. Though the case was closed in 2019, it was reopened by an order of Maharashtra home minister. Uddhav Thackeray has assured Sonowal of Goswami’s security, the Assam CM tweeted before Goswami got bail. Talked to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray ji and requested him for adequate security arrangements for renowned journalist Arnab Goswami. I talked to him as Mr. Goswami's family members approached me and intimated that there is not enough security provided to him. @OfficeofUT “Talked to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray ji and requested him for adequate security arrangements for renowned journalist Arnab Goswami. I talked to him as Mr. Goswami’s family members approached me and intimated that there is not enough security provided to him,” Sonowal tweeted.A few days ago, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari urged home minister to allow Goswami’s family members to see him. “The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow the family of Arnab Goswami to see him and to speak to him. The Governor had earlier conveyed his concern over the manner of arrest of Arnab Goswami to the State Home Minister,” a Raj Bhavan release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-members-of-arnab-goswami-meet-assam-cm-sonowal-speaks-to-uddhav-thackeray/story-nLIlkb0pgXc00SsElffT3H.html
11-11-2020||India||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by Supreme Court in 2018 suicide case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami who was arrested last week in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case. The court also asked the high courts to exercise their jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty.The bench, headed by Justice Chandrachud, granted Arnab Goswami and two other accused interim bail on a bond of Rs 50,000. The bench directed the Commissioner of Police to ensure the order is followed immediately.Senior lawyer Harish Salve, who was representing Goswami, argued that the power to re-investigate was being wrongly used. “We are well past the FIR stage. The FIR was lodged on May 5, 2018, and after this matter was investigated. The Power to re-investigation has been wrongly used, he said. His argument came in the backdrop of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordering a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by the family of designer interior designer Anvay Naik, who along with his mother Kumud had died by suicide in May 2018. In a suicide note, Naik had alleged non-payment of dues by firms of the accused. A vacation bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee expressed concern over state governments targeting “individuals on the basis of ideology, difference of opinion” and said that they must realise there is an apex court to protect liberty of citizens. The top court observed that Indian democracy is “extraordinarily resilient” and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab’s taunt on TV). “Whatever be his ideology, least I don’t even watch his channel but if in this case constitutional court’s do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably,” Justice Chandrachud said, adding, “the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations”.“We are seeing case after case where HCs are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people,” the court added. The news anchor had moved the top court on Tuesday challenging the high court’s order denying him bail. Goswami, and two other accused Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, was arrested on November 4. They were produced before the court on the same day. The magistrate, however, refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-gets-interim-bail-supreme-court-stays-bombay-hc-order/story-bX1TUytW5UeFsfVRqnWVNI.html
11-11-2020||India||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to visit Nepal||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is set to visit Nepal this month to take forward bilateral ties that were rocked by a border row earlier this year, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday. Shringla’s visit will come close on the heels of a two-day trip to Kathmandu last week by the Indian Army chief, Gen MM Naravane. During his meeting with Naravane on November 6, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said the two countries could resolve all problems through dialogue. There has been no formal announcement regarding Shringla’s visit so far, and the people cited above said he is expected to be Kathmandu during November 26-27. The people added that officials of both countries had been working behind the scenes to put the bilateral relationship back on an even keel against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff in the Ladakh sector. India has also been keep a wary eye on China’s stepped-up efforts to increase its influence in Nepal, where Beijing has invested in infrastructure projects. Also Read: Foreign secretary Shringla holds bilateral meetings with Maldivian leadershipThis will be Shringla’s fifth foreign visit in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions. He visited the Maldives this week, and has also travelled to Bangladesh and Myanmar in the neighbourhood. Earlier this month, Shringla travelled to France, Germany and the UK. One of the people cited above said the upcoming visit to Nepal was in line with India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and would provide the two sides an opportunity to give fresh impetus to bilateral ties after the border row over the Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadura areas. Every Indian foreign secretary usually visits key countries in the neighbourhood shortly after assuming office. The travel plans of Shringla, who became foreign secretary in January, were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Naravane’s visit, during which he was conferred the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army in keeping with a long-standing tradition, was seen as a key part of efforts to improve the relationship. The army chief travelled to Nepal days after Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel made a low-key visit to Kathmandu during which he met Oli. India-Nepal ties were hit in May after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a key border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory. This exacerbated the border row. India is yet to respond formally to several requests from Nepal for talks on the border issue and the people said the foreign secretary’s visit will prepare the ground for such a dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla-to-visit-nepal/story-oEfDv0iiGq8KAT4qacS0JM.html
11-11-2020||India||Old rivalry leads to double murder in Odisha’s Sambalpur district||Two brothers were killed and three of their family members critically injured after they were attacked Tuesday night by a person who was at loggerheads with them for the last few years in Burla town of Odiha’s Sambalpur district, police said.Police said that before the deadly attack, the accused Sandeep Suna had driven a car in which some of his friends were also there and almost bumped into the two young men - Bulu Bisoi and Muna Bisoi who were sitting on a heap of sand. The two brothers jumped aside to save themselves.“Soon after, the Bisoi brothers had an altercation with Suna and his friends. The two families were already at loggerheads over the last 4-5 years and had filed FIRs against each other. Suna left after the altercation only to return with some of his friends to Bisoi’s house and started assaulting the two brothers, their parents and maternal uncle with sharp weapons,” said Burla sub-divisional police officer Sishu Ranjan Mohapatra.It was after the miscreants left that locals informed the police who had admitted the family to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, where brothers Muna Bisoi (30) and Bulu Bisoi(34) died. Their father Pitabasa Bisoi (50), mother Sangita Bisoi (47), and maternal uncle Narendra Bhandekar (52) are critical.Police have detained the main accused and three other persons in this connection and seized the car allegedly used by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-rivalry-sparks-leads-to-double-murder-in-odisha-s-sambalpur-district/story-nLwwcuM6TyD5lXyzkIpAjJ.html
11-11-2020||India||LS Speaker Om Birla pays tribute to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his birth anniversary||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday paid tribute to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the first Education minister of India, on his birth anniversary at Central Hall of the Parliament. The Central Hall of the Parliament was well decorated with lights and florals.Birla tweeted, “A heartfelt tribute on the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the eminent freedom fighter and the first Education Minister of India, awarded with the Bharat Ratna. Your remarkable contribution in the field of education as ‘National Education Day’ is an inspiration for everyone today.”Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu remembered Azad for his enduring contribution in the field of education and for relentlessly striving for national unity.“Tributes to veteran freedom fighter and nationalist, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his birth anniversary today. He will be always remembered for his enduring contribution in the field of education and for relentlessly striving for national unity,” he tweeted. The National education day or Rashtriya Shiksha Diwas is celebrated every year on November 11 on the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-speaker-om-birla-pays-tribute-to-maulana-abul-kalam-azad-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-1Ky40AXtSDorlw88dGt6DL.html
11-11-2020||India||Keeping Pfizer vaccine at minus 70 degree Celsius tough, says AIIMS chief||The announcement by American pharmaceutical major Pfizer about Covid-19 vaccine trial has led to renewed hopes in a wold battered by the coronavirus pandemic. Experts, however, point towards the logistics of giving the potential vaccine to a larger population.One of those experts is director of the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Randeep Guleria. He has expressed concern over the storage of Pfizer vaccine highlighting that the shots need to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius which would be a challenge for developing countries like India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Pfizer vaccine has to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius which is a challenge for developing countries like India where we will have difficulties in maintaining a cold chain, especially on rural missions,” Guleria told news agency ANI on Wednesday. “But it is overall encouraging news in vaccine research for those in Phase III trial,” he added.Pfizer recently announced that its vaccine for coronavirus, in development with collaboration with German firm BioNTech, is 90% effective in preventing infections. The news came as a ray of hope as the countries across the world are battling unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | On Pfizer’s Covid vaccine announcement, Rahul Gandhi asks govt key questionsBased on supply projections, the companies are expecting to supply 50 million vaccine doses globally by the end of this year. Up to 1.3 billion doses will be supplied in 2021.The AIIMS director also spoke on Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Guleria attributed the recent spike to “super spreading events”.“We’re seeing a surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Super spreading events, which are big crowds with attendees not taking precautions must have happened here. So we need to work aggressively towards curbing this number,” he said.Delhi is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, recording a spike in the number of daily cases.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain attributed the jump in cases to people not adhering to the Covid-19 precautionary measures and showing negligence in wearing a face mask.Citing experts, he also said that the third wave could last for another 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keeping-pfizer-vaccine-at-minus-70-degree-celsius-tough-says-aiims-chief/story-ge4u4pJiTpBp7vAsBZohkL.html
11-11-2020||India||Asean-India summit on November 12 to focus on boosting trade, connectivity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc will co-chair the virtual Asean-India Summit on November 12 to discuss ways to boost cooperation in areas such as connectivity, trade and maritime issues. The summit between India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) will be held on the margins of the 37th summit of the 10-member grouping. Vietnam is the current chair of Asean. Leaders of all 10 Asean states will participate in the summit with India. The summit will review the status of the Asean-India strategic partnership and assess the progress made in key areas such as connectivity, maritime cooperation, trade and commerce, education, and capacity building, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday. Also Read: ASEAN nations to sign China-backed trade deal amid US presidential uncertaintyThe leaders will discuss ways to strengthen Asean-India engagement, including through the Asean-India Plan of Action for 2021-25. The Covid-19 crisis, post-pandemic economic recovery and important regional and international developments will also be discussed at the summit. The Asean-India Summit provides an opportunity for the two sides to engage at the highest level, and Modi attended the last summit held in the Thai capital of Bangkok in November 2019. The Asean-India strategic partnership “stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilisational ties” and India’s “Act East” policy, underlining the centrality of Asean, reflects the importance New Delhi attaches to engagement with the grouping, the ministry said. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement, which the 10 members of Asean are set to sign with five other partners of the grouping, is also expected to figure in the discussions as several of the Southeast Asian states are still keen on roping in India for the pact, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. India pulled out of the proposed trade pact last year, saying it didn’t fit in with the country’s national interests. The members of Asean intend to sign the agreement with Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea, while leaving the door open for India to join at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asean-india-summit-on-november-12-to-focus-on-boosting-trade-connectivity/story-GFuUMZuIN68LCA463VfiQP.html
11-11-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses to interfere with HC cracker ban in West Bengal, says preserving life more important||The Supreme Court refused on Wednesday to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order banning the sale and use of firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja, saying preservation of life was more important amid the coronavirus pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said though festivals were important, but “life itself has been imperilled now” amid the pandemic. It said the high court knew the local condition better and it should be allowed to do the needful. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association, challenging the high court order last week banning the use and sale of firecrackers during upcoming festivals, including Kali Puja and Chhath Puja, to curb pollution. Kali Puja will be celebrated on Saturday. “We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home,” it observed. “We are in a situation where, at this time, preservation of life is more important and the high court knows what is required at the ground level.” It added that the high court had taken care of the interest of citizens, especially senior citizens who may have comorbidities.Also Read | UP govt to celebrate Diwali using lasers, digital technology amid firecracker ban The high court had directed that the ban would also be in force during the Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja, adding that the guidelines -- which were in place during Durga Puja, such as no entry to pandals -- would also be in effect. It had lauded the state government for effectively implementing the court-directed guidelines during the Durga Puja and asked the police to ensure that the norms are strictly enforced on the other festivals as well. Fifteen people will be allowed in the Kali Puja pandals having an area up to 300 sq metres, and 45 in the bigger ones, the court had said, while disallowing procession during immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-hc-cracker-ban-in-west-bengal-says-preserving-life-more-important/story-ogR3AGJ3nH2yhsJenFlK8O.html
11-11-2020||India||PM Modi, Vietnamese counterpart to co-chair 17th ASEAN-India Summit on November 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with Vietnamese counterpart HE Nguyen Xuan Phuc, is set to co-chair the 17th ASEAN-India Summit on November 12, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Wednesday. The leaders of all ten ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) member states will participate in the virtual summit, which will review the status of ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership and take stock of progress made in key areas such as connectivity, maritime cooperation, trade and commerce, education and capacity building etc.“The leaders will discuss ways to further strengthen ASEAN-India engagement and in this context will note the adoption of the ASEAN-India Plan of Action (2021-2025). Covid-19, post-pandemic economic recovery, and important regional and international developments will also be discussed at the Summit,” the MEA said.ASEAN-India Summit provides the opportunity for India and ASEAN to engage at the highest level.Prime Minister Modi attended the 16th ASEAN-India Summit in Bangkok in November last year. The latest 17th ASEAN-India Summit will be the eighth ASEAN-India Summit attended by him.“ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilisational ties. India’s Act East Policy, underlining ASEAN centrality, reflects the importance, India attaches to engagement with ASEAN,” the MEA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-vietnamese-counterpart-to-co-chair-17th-asean-india-summit-on-november-12/story-dYBefLoziJXGlX5TuCtTGN.html
11-11-2020||India||Assam Pollution Control Board orders complete ban on firecrackers in Guwahati||The Pollution Control Board, Assam (PCBA) has ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in Guwahati till the end of this month, including on Diwali, to curb pollution amid the Covid- 19 pandemic.The decision has been taken in view of high pollution in the city with the air quality being in the “poor” category, the board said in an order on Tuesday.“There will be total ban against sale or use of all kinds of fire crackers in the Guwahati city from midnight of November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, 2020, to be reviewed thereafter,” the order said.In areas other than Guwahati, only green crackers have been allowed for two hours on Diwali -- from 8pm to 10pm.On Chhath, firecrackers can be burst from 6 am to 8 am, and 11:55pm to 12:30am on Christmas and New Year’s eve, the order said.“The District Magistrates and Commissioners/ Superintendents of Police shall implement the aforesaid directions. Daily Action Taken Reports to be submitted to the Pollution Control Board, Assam,” it added.However, state Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the government has no plan to impose restrictions on the bursting of crackers during Diwali as Hindus have the right to celebrate festivals.“Like any other religion, Hindus have the right to celebrate festivals. With improvement in #COVID19 situation in Assam,we plan no restrictions on celebration of #Diwali including use of #Firecrackers,” the minister had tweeted on Tuesday.He, however, urged people to exercise self-restraint as this was the key to combat Covid-19.Police have also banned firecrackers in some parts of the city.According to an order issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the cities and towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers can be sold and the timings for use and bursting of crackers should be restricted to two hours during festivals such as Diwali, Chhath, Guru Parab, Christmas and New Year’s eve. PTI TR SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-pollution-control-board-orders-complete-ban-on-firecrackers-in-guwahati/story-z9adr2llOhz9iiRacLI8RO.html
11-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand fines firm Rs 15 cr after it fails to account for debris on Char Dham road||The Tehri Garhwal district administration in Uttarakhand has slapped a fine of Rs 15 crore on a company after it found no records of 1.53 lakh cubic meter of muck generated during construction of a stretch of the Char Dham road.Akanksha Verma, sub-divisional magistrate of Kirtinagar in the district said that during inspection of the Devprayag-Kaudiyala stretch of the road last week, officials found that the company had no record of around 1.53 lakh cubic meters of muck. “The implementing agency was allotted eight dumping zones in this area of which four have reached maximum capacity. Apart from dumping of muck, the agency also has the option of selling the debris generated or reusing it for construction purposes. For these options, it has to pay royalty to the state government. When the records were checked, we could not find any account for 1.53 lakh cubic meters of debris, either in terms of royalty being paid or dumped at dumping zones,” said Verma. She added that as no records were found and officials from the company were not able to give any proper explanation, it is being “suspected that the muck was dumped in the rivers.” “We have imposed a fine of over Rs 15 crore on the agency as we suspect that they dumped the muck in the rivers illegally,” Verma said. Last year, the road construction was stopped at five locations between Chamba and Dharasu as environmental norms were allegedly being flouted by the construction companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-fines-firm-rs-15-cr-after-it-fails-to-account-for-debris-on-char-dham-road/story-5G79I9yuubMLVX6AZBF1uO.html
11-11-2020||India||Diwali with a difference: NGO runs campaign to help marginalised people||In keeping with the spirit of the festive season, a Pune-based non-government organisation (NGO) is running a pan-India initiative by distributing “Diwali happiness kits” that include groceries and hygiene essentials. Apart from this, it is also procuring material from local businesses. The Mukul Madhav Foundation is reaching out to over 3,00,000 marginalised people across 24 states. The kits, being distributed this week, include rice, flour, semolina, tea powder, pulses, gram flour, sugar, poha, spices, soap, biscuits, edible oil, sanitary napkins, mask, and festive decorations. The foundation has been working with marginalised communities to provide better healthcare and educational facilities.“The products have been procured from over 120 small scale local businesses, micro-entrepreneurs, self-help groups and foundations engaged in skill development,” Ritu Prakash Chhabria, managing trustee of the foundation said.For instance, the foundation has included diyas (earthen lamps) made by differently-abled students of the ADAPT, a foundation that works with the students in Mumbai. It has also procured masks from the Sharda Social Welfare Trust in Gujarat. The trust has been involved with specially-abled women and children. The foundation has also procured groceries from a kisan sanghatana in Madhya Pradesh and sanitary napkins from a women’s self help group. In Maharashtra, the foundation has distributed 17,000 kits so far and is looking at distributing 20,650 kits in total. Each kit costs about Rs 1,000 and will support a family for 21 days. The foundation is looking at distributing 70,000 kits across India. Chhabira also said that the initiative is being funded by corporates like CavinKare, Finolex Industries Ltd, Marico, Hinduja Foundation, Nestle, Indorama, IndusInd Bank, SBI Foundation and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-with-a-difference-ngo-runs-campaign-to-help-marginalised-people/story-Uk2e2fvT53nT835DOdaA6I.html
11-11-2020||India||At Cabinet meet, ministers laud PM Narendra Modi for Bihar election win||Union cabinet ministers on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the victory of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Bihar assembly polls and the by-polls across the country. Sources claimed that all Ministers, who virtually attended the cabinet meeting, congratulated PM Modi and dedicated the victory of Bihar to his vision and support that he enjoys amongst the masses.It was one of the moments that made the meeting even more pleasant, stated one of the highly placed sources. “The Prime minister was smiling when he was congratulated on the victory. He was looking happy,” said another source.“Can he not be happy? He has all the reason to be. The victory wasn’t an easy one and his charisma did wonders for the party as well as for the NDA,” added another source with a broad smile.The Prime minister was the lead campaigner for the NDA alliance and addressed 12 rallies across the three phases of assembly polls in the state. Senior leaders in the party said that the core voters who used to vote for Nitish Kumar have thrown their weight behind PM Modi.“Be it Ujjawala scheme or water to every household, women were the main beneficiaries and did vote for PM Modi. Youth too voted for the Prime Minister. Our PM’s popularity is unmatchable,” said one of the sources explaining why BJP performed well in Bihar. While there were other agenda topics that were discussed at the meeting, it was the Bihar elections results that made ministers share a light moment with the Prime minister. The BJP performed well in Bihar and secured 74 seats out of 110 seats it contested. Whereas its ally, the JD(U) was able to win on 43 seats. On the other hand, Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD emerged as the single-largest party with party’s ally, the Congress, performing poorly in the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cabinet-meet-ministers-laud-pm-narendra-modi-for-bihar-election-win/story-VOinY5QsMQEs26P7TD0gGI.html
11-11-2020||India||PM Modi congratulates JD(U) nominee for Lok Sabha bypoll win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Janata Dal (United) candidate Sunil Kumar for winning the Lok Sabha bypoll to Valmiki Nagar in Bihar and lauded the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance for its hard work on the ground. Kumar defeated Parvesh Kumar Mishra of the Congress by over 22,500 votes, the counting of which took place on Tuesday. “I thank the people of Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat for blessing NDA with their support in the by-poll,” PM Modi tweeted. “I congratulate Shri Sunil Kumar Ji on his win and wish him the very best for his Parliamentary tenure. I also laud the efforts of the NDA family that worked hard on the ground,” he added.The by-poll to the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency has been necessitated by the death of JD(U) sitting MP Baidyanath Mahto, Sunil Kumar’s father.The polling was held on November 7, when the third phase of voting had taken place for the three-phase Bihar assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-jd-u-nominee-for-lok-sabha-bypoll-win/story-pgko5N0mD2Xpzfw4CsE8jL.html
11-11-2020||India||Paswan annihilated in his own ‘chirag’, says Jitan Ram Manjhi||Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party won only one of the 243 assembly seats — Matihani — despite promising campaign in the run up to the Bihar Assembly Election 2020.. Reacting to the abysmal performance of the LJP, Hindustani Aswam Morcha chief, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi said the result was Paswan’s own doing as he attempted to cut the same branch where he was sitting on. “The branch has been cut, but he also feel. Apne chirag se bhasm ho gaye hain (he got burnt in his own light),” Manjhi said. HAM managed to win four seats, which — as part of NDA ally — contributed to NDA’s total tally.LJP had decided to go alone in this election and Paswan had said his only aim was to defeat Nitish Kumar. Going spearately, LJP fielded 137 candidates. During the campaigning, Paswan made it a point to appeal to voters to vote for BJP candidates where there is no LJP candidate. Speculations were rife whether Bihar will get a BJP-LJP coalition as JD(U)’s numbers were poor as well. JD(U), however, managed to win 43 seats. सभी लोजपा प्रत्याशी बिना किसी गठबंधन के अकेले अपने दम पर शानदार चुनाव लड़े।पार्टी का वोट शेयर बढ़ा है।लोजपा इस चुनाव में बिहार1st बिहारी1st के संकल्प के साथ गई थी।पार्टी हर ज़िले में मज़बूत हुई है।इसका लाभ पार्टी को भविष्य में मिलना तय है।Chirag Paswan, however, didn’t see the result as a defeat. “I am proud of all LJP candidates who fought without the help of any alliance. We received voters’ love. The vote share of the party has increased. The party organisation has got strengthened in every district. We will reap the benefits of it in future,” Chirag tweeted soon after the results were announced on Tuesday night. As many as 25 Bharatiya Janata Party rebel leaders had joined the LJP after being denied a ticket by the party. In 2015, the LJP had won two seats after contesting from 42 assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-results-2020-paswan-annihilated-in-his-own-chirag-says-jitan-ram-manjhi/story-JcwDFnRuRgwQmKOWvcA5yI.html
11-11-2020||India||J-K’s Covid-19 tally nears one lakh mark but govt says numbers not worrying||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 tally is likely to cross the one lakh mark on Wednesday but the government remains optimistic and says the numbers are not “worrying”.The first Covid-19 case in the union territory was detected nine months ago in Jammu in March. A senior government official said that when data will be released Wednesday evening the Covid-19 tally would cross the one lakh mark. “Yesterday evening the total cases were a few hundred short of one lakh and today the number will be crossed. We have been getting more than 300 cases every day,” he said.The union territory’s Commissioner Secretary (Health), Atul Duloo said that J&K’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 99,844 which is 8,139 cases per million and recovery rate is 93.03 per cent. “Our mortality rate is 1.55 per cent and positive rate is 3.9 per cent,” he said.So far J&K has conducted 2,06,227 tests per million population which is more than double the national average that stands at 98,786. Till Tuesday night there were 5,415 active patients in the UT. The doubling rate of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir in the last seven days stood at 130.1 which is less than the national average of 142.6 days.Dr Qazi Haroon Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty for Covid mitigation in Kashmir said that J&K is placed better as the graph of positive patients is declining.“We were expecting a bit of hue and cry due to the fact that normal seasonal flu will add to our miseries and will be labeled as Covid but so far things are well under control.”Dr Shafkat Khan, health expert and Jammu and Kashmir’s former nodal officer for Covid-19 said that the recovery rate and the people tested for Covid in the union territory seem far better than other states. “It is however, difficult to predict whether there is a next wave in the offing. The Government seems to have come a long way in augmenting the infrastructure and required logistics and is geared up for any such eventuality. It now entirely depends upon the precautions to be taken up by the people to prevent the further spread of the virus till a vaccine comes up.”However, many doctors say the number of positive patients could be more as dozens of patients are getting treatment at home. “I know many people who receive treatment at home for Covid-19 as they don’t want to go to hospitals and Covid centres. Yes the situation is better than what it was four to five months ago. Today we know many things about the disease which helps us in treating the patients either in hospitals or at home,” said a senior consultant who is treating Covid patients on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-s-covid-19-tally-nears-one-lakh-mark-but-govt-says-numbers-not-worrying/story-Nq2e3CVlX6K2pz5zAdDqyO.html
11-11-2020||India||PM Modi to co-chair virtual India-Asean summit on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday co-chair a virtual summit between India and 10-nation Asean that is expected to focus on measures to recover from the economic turmoil triggered by the coronavirus pandemic and ways to further broadbase the strategic ties.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the summit will review the status of Asean-India strategic partnership and take stock of progress made in key areas such as connectivity, maritime cooperation, trade and commerce, education and capacity building.The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners.The summit is taking place amid China’s aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea as well as in eastern Ladakh. A number of Asean countries have territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea.Along with Modi, the 17th India-Asean summit will also be co-chaired by Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc.“The leaders will discuss ways to further strengthen Asean-India engagement and in this context will note the adoption of Asean-India Plan of Action (2021-2025). Covid-19, post-pandemic economic recovery and important regional and international developments will also be discussed at the summit,” the MEA said in a statement.The 10 member countries of Asean are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia.Prime Minister Modi attended the 16th Asean-India Summit in Bangkok in November last year.“Asean-India strategic partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilisational ties. India’s Act East Policy, underlining Asean centrality, reflects the importance, India attaches to engagement with Asean,” the MEA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-co-chair-virtual-india-asean-summit-on-thursday/story-WfxJMtJK15yij58da560tJ.html
11-11-2020||India||Only green crackers to be sold in Uttarakhand’s 6 major cities||In view of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) directions amid Covid-19 pandemic and surge in levels of air pollution, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday permitted the sale of only green crackers in six cities and restricted bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali, Gurpurab and Chhath.These six cities include Dehradun, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Haldwani Rudrapur and Kashipur. While the state government has fixed a time slot of 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and Gurpurab during which the crackers can be burst, green crackers can be used from 6am till 8am on Chhath. “Only green crackers should be sold in Dehradun, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Haldwani, Rudrapur and Kashipur. In these cities, crackers can be burst from 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and Gurpurab, and from 6am to 8am on Chhath,” the Uttarakhand government said.The NGT had reserved its order on the issue of imposing a temporary ban on the use and sale of firecrackers across the country in a bid to protect vulnerable people from the increase of air pollution amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The NGT has directed cities and towns in India with ‘moderate’ air quality (or below) to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings to burst them during festivals.The NGT published its November 5 order on Monday that specified that average air quality for each city was to be calculated for November 2019 and then declared whether it was ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ or otherwise. For NCR and those cities with ‘poor’ (or worse) air quality, the NGT directed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers from November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, which would be reviewed thereafter.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor. Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-green-crackers-to-be-sold-in-uttarakhand-s-6-major-cities/story-vVleS7Af8JRKEkbgANWERN.html
11-11-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Court extends Sivasankar’s custody till November 12||A special court on Wednesday extended by one more day the ED’s custody of M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, arrested in connection with the alleged money laundering in the Kerala gold smuggling case.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) moved an application in the Special PMLA court here, seeking one more day custody of Sivasankar to investigate in connection with the case as his custody period ended today.Considering the plea, the court extended by one more day the ED custody of the suspended IAS officer.Last week, the court had extended by six more days the custody of Sivasankar to probe details of communication between him and Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the sensational gold smuggling case.Also Read: Grilled by Customs, Kerala minister lands in fresh row over ‘plagiarized’ PhDSivasankar, arrested by the agency on October 28, was earlier sent to seven day custody of the ED.The ED, probing the money trail in the gold smuggling case, has alleged multiple offences against Sivasankar.The National Investigation Agency, Customs and the ED are conducting separate investigations into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a “diplomatic baggage” of UAE Consulate at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-court-extends-sivasankar-s-custody-till-november-12/story-si1Baj2lGA4JSAr9sVGAXO.html
11-11-2020||India||Centre takes 1st step to level the field; to set ground rules for OTT, online news||In the first step to regulate digital content, the government has expanded the powers of the information and broadcasting ministry to start regulating over the top, or OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime videos and Hotstar and other digital content including online news.The change is part of a comprehensive exercise at the I&B ministry to enact a new law that would decriminalise offences under the 1867-vintage Press and Registration of Books Act and make it mandatory for news websites to get themselves registered with the Registrar of Newspapers of India (RNI). The proposed law is to be placed before the Union Cabinet soon.The presidential order amending the powers of the information and broadcasting ministry was issued on Monday, weeks after a public interest litigation was filed in the Supreme Court that sought directions to the Centre to set up a mechanism to monitor, manage and regulate content on video streaming platforms. The order brought films and audio-visual programmes made available by online content providers and news and current affairs content on online platforms under the purview of the I&B ministry.People familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that the order is the outcome of an exercise that had been started in the government some time back and isn’t directly linked to the petition before the Supreme Court.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ordered for the change in the I&B ministry’s powers on May 30,” a senior government functionary said.He said the government had been receiving complaints about unregulated, sexually-explicit, vulgar and legally restricted content being put out by the OTT platforms and others. “But there was no mechanism to redress the grievances that people had,” the functionary said.The ministry of electronics and information technology, or Meity, the only department of the government that could have any jurisdiction over the digital media, is not equipped to monitor content but only the technical aspects.The information and broadcasting ministry is likely to require these platforms to enlist with the ministry to be able to operate in the country. This would imply that even international on-demand streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Videos would be required to register with the government and follow the ground rules for the videos that they stream, an official of the information and broadcasting ministry said. This would bring the treatment of foreign players on par with domestic players such as MX Player, Voot, Altbalaji, ZEE5, Sun NXT and Eros.Parallelly, the government has also finalised the draft Registration of Press and Periodicals (RPP) Bill that has been in the works for years. In its refurbished format, the proposed law would make it mandatory for news websites and online channels to register with the government.Officials said there was a need for a mechanism to ensure that digital content did not cross the widely-accepted redlines. While there is a Press Council of India headed by a retired judge to hear complaints relating to the print media, television news channels come under News Broadcasters Association (NBA).The changes, seen as an effort to level the field between the traditional media and the digital media space, also simplify the registration procedures. For instance, news websites and newspapers would not need to file a separate request to the district magistrate but only apply online to the Press Registrar General, which shall seek the feedback from the district magistrate concerned, before approving the request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-1st-step-to-level-the-field-to-set-ground-rules-for-ott-online-news/story-65lF4I68qUpTBShqJDn3MN.html
11-11-2020||India||DMK chief M K Stalin congratulates Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Yadav on Bihar poll results||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin on Wednesday congratulated Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, on National Democratic Alliance (NDA) victory, and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, for his leadership making RJD emerge as the single largest party in the Bihar Assembly elections. “Hearty congratulations to Nitish Kumar for being re-elected to serve as Chief Minister of Bihar. On behalf of the DMK, I convey my best wishes to his Government to lead Bihar on the path of equitable, just and inclusive development,” he said congratulating the Bihar CM through a tweet.Further, in another tweet, he said, “The remarkable performance of RJD to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar inspires confidence in our democracy. I wholeheartedly congratulate Tejashwi Yadav for leading the RJD. On behalf of DMK, I wish him and RJD a bright future.”The leader of the chief opposition party in Tamil Nadu added that the safe conduct of elections in Bihar reflected the ‘resoluteness of our democracy’. He also raised concerns over the allegations of malpractice raised by the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan leaders in the state.“Conduct of elections during Covid-19 is testament to the resoluteness of our democracy. Nevertheless, allegations of malpractice raised by Mahagathbandan leaders are deeply concerning. The hope of every Indian that elections are free, fair and impartial must not belied,” he added.The Election Commission of India (ECI) announced results of Bihar Assembly polls in the early hours on Wednesday with the BJP winning in 74 of the 110 seats it contested and JD(U) bagged 43 seats out of the 115 seats it fought.The other NDA constituents, HAM bagged 4 seats, while VIP got 4, making the NDA cross the figure of 122 seats in the 243-member Assembly needed to form the government.The RJD, however, emerged as the single largest party in the state by winning 75 seats while its main ally Congress could bag just 19 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-chief-m-k-stalin-congratulates-nitish-kumar-tejashwi-yadav-on-bihar-poll-results/story-6bwmyEqShA5Bbu4mWqwMHI.html
11-11-2020||India||AIMIM ready to contest Assembly polls in West Bengal: Owaisi after Bihar gains||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday stated that he is ready to fight next year’s Assembly elections in West Bengal.While responding to a question to ANI, Lok Sabha member from Hyderabad, Owaisi said, “We will contest election in West Bengal, if our party member is ready to fight. Will surely take a decision on it.”The Hyderabad-based party, AIMIM made gains in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly elections. The party has won five constituencies, in the state’s Seemanchal region - Baisi, Amour, Kochadhaman, Bahadurganj and Jokihat. Party was also able to secure a vote share of 1.2 per cent in the total votes polled. AIMIM had fielded candidates under the umbrella of “Grand Democratic Secular Front” whose chief ministerial candidate was Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), chief Upendra Kushwaha.West Bengal Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in 2021. With 294 seats, a keen contest awaits the state as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tries to wrest power from Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-ready-to-contest-assembly-polls-in-west-bengal-owaisi-after-bihar-gains/story-VcDsSQCe1J5oVkBGuQxrMO.html
11-11-2020||India||‘There is Supreme Court to protect liberty of citizens’: What top court said while hearing Arnab’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday began heard Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s petition for interim bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Lawyer Harish Salve appeared for Goswami and argued that the power to re-investigate was wrongly used at the time of his arrest. The top court questioned the Maharashtra government and said that it would be a travesty of justice if the personal liberty of a person is curtailed like this.The petition is being heard by a vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee. During the hearing, the top court also asked the state whether there was any need for custodial interrogation.Here are the top quotes from the Supreme Court bench during the hearing:“Whatever be his ideology, I don’t even watch his channel but if in this case constitutional court’s do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably,” Justice Chandrachud.“The point is can you deny the personal liberty of a person on these allegations?” Justice Chandrachud asked while questioning the Maharashtra government.“If state governments target individuals, they must realise there is a Supreme court to protect the liberty of citizens.”Also Read | SC hears Arnab Goswami’s bail plea in 2018 suicide case: What we know so far“We are dealing with personal liberty here and because he was owed money, Naik committed suicide due to financial stress. Is this a case of custodial questioning?... Assuming the FIR is the gospel truth and that is a matter of investigation but is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending.”The top court is hearing Goswami’s plea seeking interim bail in the case of alleged abetment to suicide of designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in 2018. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court’s November 9 order refusing to grant him bail in the case.He was arrested on November 4 along with two other accused - Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-supreme-court-to-protect-liberty-of-citizens-what-top-court-said-while-hearing-arnab-s-bail-plea/story-iruSWtE4iQQCmsydyOAXNJ.html
11-11-2020||India||TN Health Minister to sue opposition leader Stalin for defamation||Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar has said he would file a defamation suit against opposition leader MK Stalin of the DMK for making “false remarks” about agriculture minister R Doraikkannu who died on October 21 due to Covid-19.On Tuesday, Vijayabaskar condemned Stalin for indulging in “cheap politics” and released medical records of Doraikkannu, 72 from Kauvery hospital in Chennai where he was admitted on October 13. Doraikkannu had co-morbidities and was on life support. He had been shifted from a government hospital in Villupuram. The death summary notes cause of death as septic shock and Covid induced pneumonia. Last week, Stalin had said in a statement that there is mystery surrounding Doraikkanu’s death and accused the AIADMK of corruption. Citing local reports Stalin claimed that money was kept in the late minister’s house for election related expenses and the ruling party had pressured the family to return the money which could be anywhere between Rs 300 and 800 crore. “Only after the family guaranteed to return the money was his death declared,” Stalin said in his statement adding that the income tax department and election commission must take action. “It is our bad luck that such a person is in the opposition,” Vijayabaskhar said, recalling that Stalin’s father M Karunanidhi was also treated in the same private hospital. He added that the state government provided all necessary medicines for DMK’s J Anbazhagan treatment before he also died due to Covid. DMK leaders said if the issue goes to court, the truth will come out. “Let them file,” said senior DMK leader and MLA M Subramanian. “Why hasn’t any minister said anything about the Rs 800 crore which we said is stashed by benamis? They are filing defamation only on the matter of us saying there is mystery in his (Doraikkannu’s) death. We have also said there is mystery surrounding Jayalalithaa’s death - why aren’t they filing defamation for that?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-health-minister-to-sue-opposition-leader-stalin-for-defamation/story-yRnxHZzUSKYiyNkR23leyH.html
11-11-2020||India||HC questions AAP govt about not writing to CCRH for clinical trial of homeopathic meds||The Delhi High Court asked the AAP government on Wednesday as to why it was not writing to the CCRH for carrying out clinical trials of homoeopathic medicines for prevention and cure of Covid-19 despite requests from two doctors.“Why are you resisting it? Obtain instructions on why you (Delhi government) have not written to CCRH,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said to the counsel appearing for the AAP government. The bench issued the direction after impleading the Delhi government as party in the matter which was listed for further hearing on November 19.The Delhi government was made a party on the suggestion by the counsel for the Ayush Ministry and Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH). The court was hearing a plea by two homeopathic doctors, one based in Kerala and the other in West Bengal, seeking directions to the ministry and CCRH to allow doctors to treat Covid-19 by dispensing homeopathic medicines as supplement to allopathic ones if so desired by the patients.Read more | Arnab Goswami bail plea hearing update: ‘Power to re-investigate wrongly used’, Supreme Court toldThe doctors have also sought directions to the ministry and CCRH to carry out clinical trials on three sets of homeopathic medicines for treating Covid-19 infection. The petitioners claimed that Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal and Kerala, which account for the maximum number of COVID-19 cases, have to write to the CCRH for carrying out the clinical trial. They said that they were informed in June by CCRH that the state governments have to approach it for clinical trials and it cannot go to the states.Subsequently, they wrote to the Delhi government in June itself to approach CCRH for clinical trials, however, no steps have been taken by it till date, the petitioners have claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-questions-aap-govt-about-not-writing-to-ccrh-for-clinical-trial-of-homeopathic-meds/story-ZaTmZwaXyV9c3uiZaSlAMK.html
11-11-2020||India||Centre brings online news and video content under I&B ministry’s purview||In a major step aimed at regulation of online content, the Centre has brought news and entertainment websites, including platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, under the purview of the Information and Broadcasting ministry.According to a gazette notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat on Monday, film and audio-visual programmes made available by online content providers as well as news and current affairs content by online platforms would come under the I&B ministry under the government of India’s allocation of business rules.The move is significant as it paves way for regulation of online content, which has been largely free of any control, even as the print and electronic media have been under some form of regulatory ambit or the another.There was no direct body or mechanism for online content regulation.Also Read: Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on PIL to regulate OTT platformsThe government has in the past talked of creating a self-regulatory mechanism for the Over the Top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney Hotstar etc.Presently, self-regulatory mechanisms exist for the entertain television segment, which is overseen by a body (the Broadcasting Content Complaints Council), and also the television news segment, which is regulated by the News Broadcasting Standards Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-online-news-and-video-content-under-i-b-ministry-s-purview/story-yfi14vz5go7mDu3eQ7BGgM.html
11-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi asks govt key questions on Pfizer’s Covid vaccine announcement and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Pfizer’s Covid vaccine announcement, Rahul Gandhi asks govt key questionsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the logistics for making Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine available to Indian citizens need to be worked out adding that the central government has to define a vaccine distribution strategy. Read moreArnab Goswami bail plea hearing update: ‘Power to re-investigate wrongly used’, Supreme Court toldRepublic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to order a CBI inquiry in a 2018 abetment to suicide case in which he has been arrested. Appearing for Goswami, senior lawyer Harish Salve said the power to re-investigate was wrongly used. Read moreAmerica is back, Biden tells world leadersUS President-elect Joe Biden said on Tuesday he told world leaders calling to congratulating him that “America is back”, signalling the country’s return to increased global engagement in a reversal of President Donald Trump’s isolationism driven by his ‘America First’ motto. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘You don’t get Indian players with that kind of talent,’ Gautam Gambhir names ‘KKR’s biggest loss’Former India batsman Gautam Gambhir led Kolkata Knight Riders to two IPL titles in alternate years – 2012 and 2014 – but ever since, KKR haven’t been able to add a third IPL crown. Read moreAashram Chapter 2 The Dark Side review: Bobby Deol needs to rethink his choices after this shockingly amateurish seriesPrakash Jha thinks you’re stupid. The sheer contempt that his debut web series, Aashram, has for its viewers can only be rivalled by the condescension with which its anti-hero protagonist Baba Nirala treats his ‘bhakts’. Read moreFord to add jobs to boost output of electric F-150, add electric vanFord Motor Co said on Tuesday it plans to hire 350 more U.S. workers to expand production capacity for its electric F-150 pickup truck in Michigan and add assembly of electric commercial vans at a plant near Kansas City, Missouri. Read moreLike Durga, Cardi B is a dominant female voice? Cardi B pays homage, compares self to Maa Durga to promote new sneaker collection, Indians lash out at her ‘bare-bodied’ displayCardi B doesn’t need to do much to stir up controversy, but she definitely musn’t have thought that about the release of her debut sneaker collection with Reebok which is due on Friday, November 13. Read moreThis doggo is quite unsure of this kitty’s affection. Video may leave you in splitsThe relationship between canines and felines is still a mystery. While some videos on the Internet show them staying together in harmony, others show scenarios that are quite the opposite. One Instagram video, however, shows a completely unique side of a doggo-kitty relationship. Read moreFive lessons from Bihar Assembly elections 2020BJP’s performance enabled the ruling NDA to attain a simple majority in the Bihar assembly despite a sharp fall in the tally of the JD(U) headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. BJP, which had contested 110 seats, won 72 and was leading in another two while the JD(U) which fought 115, won only 42 and was ahead in another. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-key-questions-on-pfizer-s-covid-vaccine-announcement-and-all-the-latest-news/story-guKtlFxvcGahZNySW5M1gP.html
11-11-2020||India||Covid-19 mortality rate in Maharashtra drops in last two weeks||Along with the steady fall in the daily caseload, positivity rate and improvement in the recovery rate, the weekly case fatality rate (CFR) of the Covid-19 cases has declined over the last five weeks in Maharashtra, the health department said.The weekly CFR which ranged between 2.51 and 2.67 for the first three weeks in October has fallen to 2.15 in the last two weeks.Maharashtra’s overall CFR, which was 2.63% is second highest in the country after Punjab (3.14%) and much above national rate of 1.48%. Though the national rate has been steadily coming down, Maharashtra’s CFR hovered around 2.64% for the last six weeks.The weekly CFR had increased to 2.51% in the first week of October (Sept 30-Oct 6), 2.54% in the second week (Oct 7-13) and 2.67 in the third week (Oct 14-20). It had dropped to lowest to 1.84 for two weeks (August 29 to September 13) only to rise thereafter. Again, it dropped to 2.03 last week (Oct 28 to Nov 3) and 2.28% this week (Nov 4-10).The state authorities have attributed the high CFR also to the transparency the state has been maintaining in caseload and the mortality rate. “If you compare the caseload and the fatality rate, Maharashtra leads the chart also because of the transparency we maintain. In many states in northern India and some of the neighbouring states, they have underreported the cases. They have not been conducting tests in the proportion of the spread of infection. It results in a low number of cases and in turn the mortality rate,” said a state health officer on the condition of anonymity.Dr Avinash Supe, head of the state death audit committee, said, “We have been able to bring CFR down through early detection and high testing, but it will remain hovering around 2% because of the age factor and the morbidities among the patients. We have suggested that the government conduct a death audit in each of the hospitals and also divisional scrutiny to explore reasons for high rates in any particular hospital. We have also suggested training and expert clinical advice to the doctors in rural areas through tele communication to avoid the deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mortality-rate-in-maharashtra-drops-in-last-two-weeks/story-oSYuUOMN6RIrqpQFYNgvSJ.html
11-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami bail plea hearing update: ‘Power to re-investigate wrongly used’, Supreme Court told||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to order a CBI inquiry in a 2018 abetment to suicide case in which he has been arrested.Appearing for Goswami, senior lawyer Harish Salve said the power to re-investigate was wrongly used.As the hearing began, the vacation bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said they will only look at the petition seeking quashing of the FIR against the journalist.Also Read | Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by Supreme Court in 2018 suicide case“Before you begin, there is one aspect we look at in these matters where there is a challenge to the FIRs. The only prayer which survives is the quashing of FIR,” the bench said.ALSO WATCH | Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea rejected; Governor ‘concerned’ l Key updates But Salve argued that overlay of malice and fact, abuse and conduct of state power is not something that happens on daily basis. “We’re past FIR stage. FIR was lodged in May 2018 and after this matter was probed. The power to re-investigate was wrongly used,” he told the court.The hearing is still continuing.Goswami has challenged the Bombay high court order which refused to grant him interim bail in the 2018 case. Goswami, who is currently lodged in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail, called his arrest and “illegal” detention a violation of his right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, 1950.Also Read | Family members of Arnab Goswami meet Assam CM, Sonowal speaks to Uddhav ThackerayGoswami, along with two other accused Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, was arrested on November 4 in connection with the 2018 suicide abetment case of designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud. The designer, in a suicide note, had alleged non-payment of dues by firms of the accused. The three accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18.The Republic TV editor was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He, however, was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-bail-plea-hearing-update-power-to-re-investigate-wrongly-used-supreme-court-told/story-0sm6nJ2YH38WFoBqiwvtBO.html
11-11-2020||India||On Pfizer’s Covid vaccine announcement, Rahul Gandhi asks govt key questions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the logistics for making Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine available to Indian citizens need to be worked out adding that the central government has to define a vaccine distribution strategy.“Even though Pfizer has created a promising vaccine, the logistics for making it available to every Indian need to be worked out. GOI has to define a vaccine distribution strategy and how it will reach every Indian,” Gandhi tweeted. The Congress leader has been vocal about the Covid-19 crisis and has criticised the Centre over testing, imposition of lockdowns, migrant exodus etc.On being asked when India would start discussions with Pfizer, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Tuesday that the national expert group on coronavirus vaccine administration was in dialogue with all vaccine manufacturers - including domestic and foreign. Even though Pfizer has created a promising vaccine, the logistics for making it available to every Indian need to be worked out. GOI has to define a vaccine distribution strategy and how it will reach every Indian. pic.twitter.com/x5GX2vECnNPfizer, a US-based pharmaceutical company, developed a vaccine to combat coronavirus in collaboration with German firm BioNTech. The data released from the late-stage human trials of the vaccine showed that it was found to be over 90 per cent effective, Pfizer said.Governments across the world were satisfied with the results of the trial with a hope that it might bring a halt to the Covid-19 disease which has already killed over 1.2 million people across the globe.But, the American and German firms pointed out that the vaccine would not be available for public use any time now since the data on safety is not released and would be out in the later days of November.Also Read: India achieves ‘unprecedented peak’ as active Covid-19 cases drop below 5 lakh-mark; recoveries soar past 8 millionMeanwhile, India on Wednesday registered 44,281 fresh Covid-19 cases and 512 more related fatalities which pushed the overall tally to 8,636,011, according to the Union health ministry’s website.The active cases dropped below the 500,000-mark for the first time after 106 days and recoveries climbed to 8,013,783.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pfizer-s-covid-vaccine-announcement-rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-key-questions/story-90TTGCKQpEYvTdt5C9ZCWM.html
11-11-2020||India||People need to raise the bar for politicians | Opinion||Even as India is passing through multiple crises, the results of the Bihar assembly election have provided an opportunity to the people to ponder over the ways Indian politics is being conducted. Over the decades, the politics of vested interest pursued by political organisations of various hues have pushed aside people-oriented politics. While misleading sloganeering has overtaken real issues, the masses living in abysmal conditions are in a fix as to how to improve their plight. With every electoral exercise either at national or state level, the developmental agenda takes a back seat and all kinds of divisive agendas are pushed ahead. Bihar assembly election was no exception.It is unfortunate that while the world is moving ahead, the Indian nation is caught in a quagmire of problems filled with hatred and acrimony against each other. At a time when the country has been facing immense socio-economic problems, corruption and mal-administration have been holding its octopus-like grip over the entire system. How seriously corruption in our system has influenced our lives is an issue which has not been documented properly. People generally complain about corruption but fail to gauge the real impact it has had on our lives. Time has come that people are told about it in detail and not in general terms as has been done. The problem has assumed such alarming proportions that nothing less than a total war against this malaise is going to change the situation for the better.India is endowed with the most fertile land available anywhere in the world. We also have the largest arable irrigated land in comparison to any other country. Our water and other natural resources are comparable to the most advanced nations in the world. The quality of our human resource is second to none. We are a democratic country and freely exercise the power and authority to decide our own future. Despite all these positive factors, why do we not perform as well, if not better, than some of the other less endowed countries who became masters of their own destiny almost at the same time when we gained our independence?One can, of course, argue that the country has made tremendous progress in self-sufficiency in food production; we have one of the biggest armies in the world; we have the technological capability of manufacturing everything from a needle to satellites; our trained manpower is compared to the very best in the world etc. No disagreement with the above except the preponderating fact: We should have achieved much more than what we have done so far.There are numerous questions that we must answer. Why should nearly 30 percent of our population still continue to be below the poverty line and be cut off from the progress we have made? Why did we fail to set up the required number of schools and colleges to enable every child to have access to proper education? Who is responsible for nearly 35 percent of our population remaining illiterate? Why are our roads and other basic infrastructure facilities so bad? Why does most of our population remain deprived of basic facilities of sanitation and have almost no access to electricity for a large part of the year? Why are our civic facilities almost non-existent in most of our 6 million villages? And why are millions homeless? We have even failed to provide safe drinking water to our population. These are just some of the crucial areas where we could have done much better like other countries which have performed admirably. In fact corruption, mal-administration, lack of transparency in governance are core issues haunting the country but no political party is ready to discuss them. It is high time that people focus on social, political, economic and administrative reforms to abolish utter poverty and pave the way for all round development without compartmentalisation of various communities. For this to happen the central government needs to show leadership and take the state governments along and work together to get a roadmap prepared for developing our great nation.The Bihar results are indicative of people’s yearning for change but they could not find a proper alternative. Hence, they seem to have fallen back on the ruling dispensation. The reduced number of Janata Dal (U) lawmakers led by chief minister Nitish Kumar has given enough indication about anti-incumbency against the chief minister but there appears to be no hostility against BJP which was a partner in the same government. Henry David Thoreau in his famous essay titled “Civil Disobedience” wrote, “ I ask for, not at once no government, but at once a better government. Let every man make known what kind of government would command his respect, and that will be one step towards obtaining it.” The time has come for people to unequivocally convey in no uncertain term that they only want development minus corruption and there is no place for caste, communal and such other divisive forces in politics any more.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-need-to-raise-the-bar-for-our-politicians-opinion/story-KX22zYEtIN4papx8qNzFxN.html
11-11-2020||India||Odisha to introduce fish in nutrition programme of children and pregnant women||The Odisha government signed a memorandum of understanding ( MoU) with international non-profit organisation World Fish on Tuesday for a pilot programme to include fish and fish-based products in the supplementary nutrition programme for children, pregnant and nursing women and adolescent girls at 50 Anganwadi centres of Mayurbhanj district.The technical collaboration between the Odisha government and World Fish would run for five-years, Development Commissioner Suresh Mohapatra said.“Such innovation will go a long way in accelerating nutrition status in the state. Fish are commonly eaten by tribal communities and are culturally appropriate animal-source food,” said Mohapatra. Gareth Johnstone, director general of World Fish said technical experts from the NGO would support women SHGs in preparation of fish powder with help of Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin.Small fish like Indian Anchovy, Indian Sardine and lesser sardine would be given to the beneficiaries in powder form or in packets after being dried.Officials said the pilot study dovetails into the Odisha Nutrition Action Plan that outlines a multi-sectoral approach to reducing malnutrition. The ONAP launched in 2016, puts a special focus on reducing malnutrition among women and children from hard to reach tribal districts as well as high rates of stunting and underweight within these populations.At present, Odisha government is giving take home ration as well as hot cooked meals to children, pregnant and lactating women and adolescent girls under supplementary nutrition programme funded by Centre. Under take home ration, chhatua (a powder of roasted Bengal gram, wheat, groundnut and sugar), suji halwa, maize halwa, ragi halwa, jaggery laddoo, besan laddoo are given. Apart from this 3-4 boiled eggs are given to the beneficiaries every week while children are given hot cooked meals at the anganwadi centres. Fruits such as banana, papaya, guava, pineapple, watermelon, mango, orange and local berries are also given to children.But despite the nutrition programme, 47% of children from tribal-dominated districts in Odisha are stunted. That figure is higher than the national average of 38%. Officials said fish, especially small fish eaten whole, would be a rich source of nutritious animal-source food. Studies have shown that Omega-3 fatty acids in fish promote brain growth and eye health, vitamin B12 leads to healthy red blood cells and prevents anemia. Iron and zinc in fishes prevent iron-deficiency and help faster recovery from diarrhoea.The pilot project would integrate fish-based products into the diets of pregnant and lactating women, adolescent girls and children of tribal villages and determine the nutritional potential of adding fish to meals. While 15 gram of fish powder would be added to the daily curry of children at anganwadi centre, dried small fish would be given to the adolescent girls and pregnant women as part of take home ration. The fish powder and dried fish would be sourced from CIFT, Cochin.Women SHGs in the coastal fishing villages will also be trained for seeking business opportunities in solar dried fish and fish powder following food safety standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-introduce-fish-in-nutrition-programme-of-children-and-pregnant-women/story-O7voSGpep1ONb5pni2GZ3L.html
11-11-2020||India||Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, online news portals now under govt regulation||The government has brought online mediums, including films and news content, under the ministry of information and broadcasting. The I&B ministry will also regulate online audio-visual programmes and current affairs content, according to the amendment order signed by President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday.This means that digital content providers such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and Hotsar will now be regulated by the Union ministry headed by Prakash Javadekar.While the Press Council of India (PCI) looks after the print media, the television news channels come under News Broadcasters Association (NBA). The Advertising Standards Council of India is for regulating the content of the advertisements and Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) monitors films, but there is at present no law or autonomous body governing digital content or Over-the-top (OTT) platforms. The Supreme Court had last month sought the Centre’s response on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) for regulating OTT platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video by an autonomous body. The PIL stated that digital content on these platforms is made available to the public at large without any filter or screening.A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had issued notices to the central government, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) and Internet and Mobile Association of India(IAMAI).None of the OTT/streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by the I&B ministry since February 2020, the plea had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-brings-online-films-news-content-under-ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting/story-r9CN46LnObQqpA9V0GoXoL.html
11-11-2020||India||Congress wins Marwahi assembly bypoll in Chhattisgarh by huge margin||The ruling Congress won the Marwahi assembly bypoll by a huge margin of 38,197 votes on Tuesday. The seat, reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST) candidates, falls in the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district and the bypoll was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi died in May this year. Congress candidate Dr Krishna Kumar Dhruw won the seat defeating his nearest rival BJP’s Dr Gambhir Singh by 38,197 votes. Dhruw secured 83,561 votes while Singh got 45,364 votes in the bypoll which was held on November 3. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel congratulated Dr Dhruw for his victory and claimed that the victory is of the people of Marwahi. “Marwahi’s by-election was not merely an election to elect an MLA, but was a test of public response against the deceit of the last 18 years,” Baghel said. The Marwahi constituency was the bastion of Jogi for the last two decades but this is the first time in the last 20 years Jogis were not in fray in Marwahi. On October 19, Ajit Jogi’s son and JCC candidate Amit Jogi’s nomination was rejected by the collector on the basis of a high-power committee’s report which found that Amit was not a tribal. The nomination papers of Jogi’s wife Richa Jogi, who had filed nomination for the same seat, were also cancelled by the district collector on the same ground Ten days before the polling, Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (Jogi) had extended support to the BJP candidate alleging that the ruling Congress had insulted Ajit Jogi. The JCC has four MLAs in the 90-member Chhattisgarh assembly. Later, two of the JCC MLA extended their support to Congress in a press conference in Marwahi. Chief minister Baghel led the Congress campaign and visited the constituency four times in the last one month while the BJP’s national vice president and former chief minister Raman Singh led his party’s campaign.The Congress highlighted several pro-farmer and pro-tribal initiatives of the state government including the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, cow dung procurement scheme, distribution of forest rights certificates, and relief measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP in its campaign accused the Congress government of failing on all fronts and alleged that the law and order situation in the state has deteriorated. Meanwhile, JCC chief Amit Jogi claimed that the Congress won because the Congress government did not let a Jogi family candidate fight in this election. “The victory is the death of democracy,” Amit said in a statement. With this victory, Congress the tally of Congress in the 90-member state assembly has gone up to 70 MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-wins-marwahi-assembly-bypoll-in-chhattisgarh-by-huge-margin/story-qzqRrVtvuVadaPMWrfXiRL.html
11-11-2020||India||Contestants, campaigner, rebel: Dynasts don different mantles in UP bypolls||The Uttar Pradesh assembly bypolls saw dynasts essaying different roles. Some contested, others simply campaigned. The bypolls also had a dynast rebelling against the party and losing. Of the seven seats that went to the polls, the ruling BJP won six and the Samajwadi Party bagged one with both parties retaining the seats they had won in the 2017 UP assembly election.When Sangeeta Chauhan, a retired banker and the wife of former India cricketer and UP minister, the late Chetan Chauhan, was named by the BJP as its candidate from Naugawan Sadat assembly seat in Amroha, many had dismissed her as an outsider. Despite a see-saw battle during the initial rounds of counting, when Samajwadi Party candidate Javed Abbas kept catching up with her and, at times overtook her, Sangeeta Chauhan finally prevailed. Immediately afterwards, an emotional Chauhan said she would strive to fulfil the promises and works initiated by her late husband, whose association with Amroha was over two decades old. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had begun campaigning from Naugawan Sadat where deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya too had sought votes for the party. Far away from Amroha, another Sangeeta (Sengar), wife of former BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar, who was convicted in the rape of a minor and subsequently disqualified from the assembly, was at her residence in Unnao, watching the election results where the BJP’s Shrikant Katiyar was elected as the new MLA from Bangermau. The Sengar family had lobbied for a party ticket for Sangeeta from Bengarmau but after the bid failed to materialise, Sangeeta joined the campaign for Katiyar, the party nominee. Sangeeta Sengar is also a local BJP leader and district panchayat chairperson. “She campaigned as, despite his conviction, Kuldeep still has a considerable following in Bangermau and that is why even opposition parties refrained from attacking the BJP over the former MLA’s conviction and disqualification,” a local BJP leader from Unnao said. In Deoria, late BJP MLA Janmejay Singh’s son Ajay alias Pintoo rebelled against the party decision to deny his claim on his father’s seat. Ajay contested as an independent at the last minute, but failed to stop the BJP from winning. In the Ghatampur reserved seat, where a bypoll was necessitated due to the death of sitting MLA and minister Kamal Rani Varun, her family, which was also in the reckoning for a party ticket, supported the BJP. Kamal’s daughter Swapnil actively supported the party in the by-polls. In Bulandshahr, the BJP fielded its sitting MLA Virendra Singh Sirohi’s widow Usha and she won comfortably. In 2017 UP polls, Virendra Sirohi had won the seat. He had polled 1,11,538 votes and secured his victory over BSP’s Mohd Haji Aleem (88,454 votes), Shujaat Alam of Samajwadi Party (24,119 votes) and Bhagwan Sharma of Rashtriya Lok Dal (17,216 votes). This time Usha Sirohi’s main rival was Mohd Yunus of the BSP. Yunus put up a decent fight initially but the BJP finally won by an impressive margin of 21,702 votes The Samajwadi Party (SP) also backed 35-year old Lucky Yadav, the son of former MLA Parasnath Yadav, whose demise led to the by-poll in the Malhani assembly seat of Jaunpur. Despite trailing in the initial rounds of counting, Lucky Yadav prevailed against independent candidate Dhananjay Singh, a criminal-turned-politician. In 2017, Lucky’s father and former UP minister Parasnath had defeated Dhananjay by around 21,000 votes. Back then, Dhananjay had contested on the Nishad party ticket. “If there is any lesson, it’s this. That none is bigger than the party and dynasts who followed the party line have done well, others who haven’t have flopped,” said SK Dwivedi, a political expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contestants-campaigner-rebel-dynasts-don-different-mantles-in-up-bypolls/story-UWRd5dh19ubVxxBQfqAbhM.html
11-11-2020||India||India achieves ‘unprecedented peak’ as active Covid-19 cases drop below 5 lakh-mark; recoveries soar past 8 million||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded on Wednesday stood at 44,281, which pushed the nationwide tally to 86,36,011, according to Union health ministry website.The country also recorded 512 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours and the death toll reached 1,27,571.But, in a remarkable development, the number of active cases dropped below the five lakh-mark for the first time after 106 days, the health ministry said. The active cases in the country are 4,94,657.“This assumes significance in the context of many countries reporting a surge in their active caseload,” it said on Wednesday morning. The ministry called it “unprecedented peak”. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia scales an unprecedented peak.Active Cases drop below 5L mark for the first time after 106 days. pic.twitter.com/QW903Phoa1On Tuesday, it had said that India has conducted the second highest number of tests for detection of Covid-19 cases in the world - at 11.96 crore - with rapid antigen tests comprising 49 per cent and RT-PCR 46 per cent of the total tests.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference that the positivity rate is reducing and has come down to 7.18 per cent. The daily positivity rate in the last week was 4.2 per cent, he said.“If we take into account the last two weeks’ figures, we are testing more than any other country in the world,” Bhushan said.Bhushan further stated that India still figures among the countries having lowest cases per million population. While the world average of cases per million is 6,439, India has 6,225 cases per million.He said that India recorded an average of three new Covid-19 deaths per million population in the last seven days as against the global average of seven new deaths per million population.The health secretary, however, appealed that everyone should be cautious in the ongoing festival season and always wear face-cover or mask in the proper manner, maintain 6 feet distance from others and wash hands with soap and water frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-achieves-unprecedented-peak-as-active-cases-drop-below-5-lakh-mark-recoveries-soar-past-8-million/story-kyxAZn3ghJ8AcjtVvd6xuO.html
11-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s air quality shows marginal improvement and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air improves slightly, recorded as ‘very poor’ after six consecutive days in ‘severe’ zoneThe air quality index (AQI) of Delhi showed a marginal improvement on Wednesday morning after six consecutive days of pollution in the “severe” category. The AQI was in the “very poor” category as the early morning recording of 394 showed. Read more Actor Arjun Rampal to appear before NCB after being summoned in drug-related caseActor Arjun Rampal has been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday in connection with a drug-related case. The summons were issued to the actor after the agency conducted raids at his premises on Monday. Read more Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Tejashwi Yadav gets largest party, but not crownIn a small village in Vaishali, during his first election in 2015, Tejashwi Yadav, now 31, was campaigning, going door-to-door, and asking for the blessings of elders. That election was centred largely on caste, with the then alliance of Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), questioning the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)‘s commitment to reservations. Read moreUS has a plan to start Pfizer vaccine shots in December: Health secretaryIf Pfizer Inc submits the positive initial data from its Covid-19 vaccine trial to health regulators as quickly as expected, the US government plans to begin vaccinating Americans in December, health secretary Alex Azar said on Tuesday. Read moreTime-lapse video shows Comet ISON travelling through space. Seen it yet?Ever wondered what it would feel like to travel through space? Well, the latest video shared on the official Instagram account of NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope may not let you ‘experience’ the journey but can indeed allow you to witness it. Read moreTata Gravitas seven-seat SUV’s launch details announcedTata Motors is gearing up for the launch of the seven-seat Gravitas SUV in the Indian market. The homegrown automaker has announced that the Gravitas will be launched by the last quarter of the current calendar year. Read moreHere are the India prices of the new Apple MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac miniApple just wrapped up its last event for 2020 by announcing the much-awaited Apple Silicon - the M1 chip, a new MacBook Air, a MacBook Pro and and a Mac mini. All the three devices will be powered by the new M1 chip that promises significant upgrades to all the features on the Macs. Read moreAnushka Sharma shares Virat Kohli’s pic as he cleans his shoes with a toothbrush ahead of Australia tourCricketer Virat Kohli may have taken a paternity leave from the upcoming tour of Australia after the first Test, but he is still prepping for the matches that he is supposed to play. His wife, actor Anushka Sharma shared a picture of him cleaning his shoes. Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians high on title no. 5It wasn’t so much a defence of the title as a night-long and campaign-long attack on the IPL trophy. The best side of this tournament by a distance and then some, Rohit Sharma’s Mumbai Indians, won not only their second season in a row but their fifth in eight years. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-air-quality-shows-marginal-improvement-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Hfmvy7xpzH3ggIaXTNQCYN.html
11-11-2020||India||SC hears Arnab Goswami’s bail plea in 2018 suicide case: What we know so far||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s petition challenging Bombay high court order which refused to grant him interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case was heard by the Supreme Court on Wednesday.A vacation bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee began hearing the case at 10:30 am. The high court had on Monday refused to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others and asked them to move to the local court.In his plea to the apex court filed through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey, Goswami stated that “the balance of convenience is also in favour of the petitioner and he would suffer irreparable harm and injury” if the high court order is not stayed during the pendency of the present petition, according to news agency ANI. Goswami, who is currently lodged in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail, called his arrest and “illegal” detention a violation of his right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, 1950.Apart from the Maharashtra government, Goswami has made the Centre, the Alibaug police station SHO, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Akshyata Anvay Naik as parties to his appeal.The 47-year-old journalist has also filed a bail plea in the sessions court after the Bombay high court order.Shortly after the matter was listed for Wednesday morning, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president objected to the “extraordinary” listing of the Goswani’s petition and questioned the top court’s secretary general to disclose whether any order or direction to list the matter was issued by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) in this regard.Goswami, along with two other accused Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, was arrested on November 4 in connection with the 2018 suicide abetment case of designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud. The designer, in a suicide note, had alleged non-payment of dues by firms of the accused. The three accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18.The Republic TV editor was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He, however, was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.Pradeep Bhandari, a consulting editor with Republic news channel, on Sunday wrote to CJI SA Bobde urging him to take cognizance of shifting of Goswami to Taloja Jail to keep him allegedly with “hardened” and “underworld” criminals and provide “some sort of safety” to him. He said Goswami has said that “his life is in danger”. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-s-bail-plea-in-2018-suicide-case-in-supreme-court-today-what-we-know-so-far/story-1qcs0T9Vajk9Pi7sOEZqhJ.html
11-11-2020||India||In third phase of Covaxin trial, AMU VC signs up as first volunteer||Vice chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Professor Tariq Mansoor has registered himself to be the first volunteer for the third phase of trials of Covaxin – one of the vaccines against coronavirus - at the JN Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday. The registration process for volunteers began Tuesday at the hospital which is affiliated to the AMU. Volunteers would be administered the vaccine later.To motivate and inspire others to come forward, Prof Mansoor volunteered himself and said the Covaxin Phase-III trial was aimed at evaluating the safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine under a collaboration between the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech. “By volunteering for a trial or study, one gets a chance to participate in ground breaking research and contribute to developing better cures and treatment options,” Prof. Mansoor said as he sought active participation from all age groups and socio-economic strata to participate in the clinical trials. JNMCH principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui said that an ethics committee comprising doctors, social workers and lawyers had already been constituted to manage the clinical trials and the required staff for conducting the vaccine trial had been recruited.Principal investigator Prof Mohammad Shameem said the Phase-I and Phase-II trials had shown encouraging results. Volunteers who would undergo the trial would receive travel expenses and other benefits as per ICMR guidelines. Dean, faculty of medicine, Prof Rakesh Bhargava urged all colleagues to volunteer for the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-third-phase-of-covaxin-trial-amu-vc-signs-up-as-first-volunteer/story-EiXRYxUua5CbF6AGarBhaL.html
11-11-2020||India||Actor Arjun Rampal to appear before NCB after being summoned in drug-related case||Actor Arjun Rampal has been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday in connection with a drug-related case. The summons were issued to the actor after the agency conducted raids at his premises on Monday.Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades has also been summoned by the NCB to appear before it on November 11, reported news agency ANI.The NCB carried out searches at Rampal’s residence a day after arresting film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed. The sleuths of the agency had allegedly recovered 10 gm ganja at Nadiadwala’s residence in suburban Juhu.It seized some electronic gadgets during raids at Rampal’s house. The NCB has already questioned the 47-year-old actor’s driver.Meanwhile, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday that assuming the whole Hindi film industry is “bad” because “some are involved with drugs” is not right, and the government will take actions against the guilty.He further reiterated that consumption of drugs is against law, but the Maharashtra government will ensure that action is taken against such people. “But if someone is maligning Bollywood and working towards shifting it elsewhere from Mumbai then it’s wrong. We won’t let it happen,” he further said.The NCB launched an investigation into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-arjun-rampal-to-appear-before-ncb-after-being-summoned-in-drug-related-case/story-Glg7r7Gmx3k0mI1cfUyfOP.html
11-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: A visit to Vishnu’s courtyard||The courtyard is flooded with daylight. The marble feels cold to the bare feet. A hand pump lies in the corner.This tranquil destination is one of the very few ‘aangans’, or traditional courtyards, of Old Delhi that an outsider can experience without worrying about intruding into the privacy of its dwellers. Simply because it’s not part of a house, but of a temple.Lakshmi Narayan Mandir, in Kucha Pati Ram, has to be among Delhi’s most beautiful temples—even if it’s rather small, and barely known. The arched entrance door and the long tunnel-like corridor leading into the temple give the first hint of its exquisite quaintness. The courtyard is lined by an arched verandah on either sides. A balcony railing on the upper floor runs about the entire length of the temple. Indeed, the entire space strongly resembles the old houses and havelis that are gradually disappearing from the face of the Walled City, giving way to modern-style apartment blocks.This morning, priest Anand Shukla is perched about the main shrine, consisting of idols of Vishnu and his consort Lakshmi placed inside a marble niche. “The temple is more than a 100 years old,” he says. He himself, a native of Lucknow, has been officiating as its priest for a year.A most distinguished aspect of the temple is that it is home to a God whose idol is rarely kept in temples. Lord Brahma, the four-headed creator of the world, is enshrined on one side of Vishnu. On the other side is the shrine of Varaha, one of Vishnu avatars—he too is rarely seen.The shrine has a series of small brass bells hanging from long chains, each wrapped in a red cloth so that devotees do not touch them.“Because of coronavirus,” the priest explains. Indeed, a bottle of hand sanitiser is placed on a wooden stool.One of the verandahs has a young priest. With arms folded, he is intently staring into the air in front of him, as if in deep thought, making one wonder about his inner life, spirituality, and how he got to chose this life.Meanwhile, a masked visitor in formal pants and shirt enters and offers a brief prayer at each of the three shrines.The temple opens daily with the morning aarti at 7.30 and closes with evening aarti at 7pm.On your way out, don’t forget to check out the letter box in the corridor. It’s painted red.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-visit-to-vishnu-s-courtyard/story-z1MLXYDkG3uNF2btgAjoCO.html
11-11-2020||India||Bypoll Results 2020: Voters keep faith in ruling parties||Voters imposed their faith in ruling parties in 10 states where bypolls were held for 30 seats. This tally excludes Madhya Pradesh, where the Bharatiya Janata Party won 19of the 28 seats on offer, consolidating its position in power.In the others, the BJP won 21 of the 25 seats it contested, winning all eight in Gujarat and six out of seven in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress won a seat each in Jharkhand and Haryana while losing seats it contested in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka.Gujarat (8 seats)The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, set to win all eight assembly seats in Gujarat, termed this a trailer of the 2022 assembly polls even as some Congress leaders wondered how they could not convert the “palpable public anger” into votes.Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said: “This is only a trailer” of the outcome of coming elections to the local civic bodies and the 2022 State Assembly polls.Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani said: “This was not expected. One doesn’t know whatever happened to the people’s anger. Perhaps we were lacking somewhere. We will start afresh.”The BJP candidates, mostly former Congress legislators deployed a campaign that effectively dismantled their erstwhile party’s charge of “gaddaars (traitors)”. They harped on the theme that as Congress MLAs they could not effectively meet the public’s development aspirations.Describing this as the tipping point of the campaign, political scientist and veteran journalist Hari Desai said: “People are no longer bothered about political affiliations or loyalties, but more about who delivers for them in the immediate context. Congress tried to corner them (its ex-MLAs) on this, but couldn’t do much.”The BJP now has 111 lawmakers in the 182-member Gujarat assembly. The Congress has 65, four are others and two seats are vacant.Uttar Pradesh (7 seats)The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) retained six assembly seats while Samajwadi Party (SP) won one in the by-election to seven assembly seats . The BJP won the Bangermau, Deoria, Ghatampur, Tundla, Naugawan Sadat and Bulandshahar seats; it won all of them in 2017 too. For the SP, it was also a repeat performance of 2017 election as it retained the Malhani seat in Jaunpur. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress failed to open their accounts.Terming the victory an endorsement of the BJP government’s performance, CM Yogi Adityanath said the state government has worked for the welfare of the people during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The people have given their blessings by ensuring the victory of BJP candidates on six seats,” he said. The division of votes among Opposition parties — the SP, the BSP and the Congress made the task easy for the BJP.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, BSP national president Mayawati and Congress UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi did not campaign for their party candidates.Jharkhand (2 seats)The ruling allies Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress retained assembly seats in the bypolls on Tuesday, even as Basant Soren, youngest of the three sons of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, became the third person from the state’s first family to become a member of the assembly. In Bermo assembly seat, Jai Mangal Singh, son of Congress veteran Rajendra Singh, won by over 14,000 votes, defeating former BJP legislator Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. The seat fell vacant after Rajendra Singh, who was representing the seat for the sixth time died in May.Basant Soren, 41, defeated former BJP minister Lois Marandi by over 6,400 votes in party stronghold Dumka, the constituency vacated by his elder brother and incumbent chief minister Hemant Soren. Sita Soren, wife of late Durga Soren, eldest son of Shibu Soren, represents Jama seat in the Jharkhand assembly. JMM chief Shibu Soren is currently a member of the Rajya Sabha. The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine won a comfortable majority in the assembly polls in December.Manipur (4 seats)Of the four by-elections held in Manipur, the BJP won three and a party-supported independent candidate won the fourth seat, helping it cross the majority mark in the 60-member assembly having effective strength of 58. With these wins, the BJP now has 29 MLAs in the house. BJP candidates won from Wangoi, Wangjing Tentha and Saitu seats and independent Y Antas Khan won from Lilong. The BJP had already won Singhat assembly seat unopposed.Karnataka (2 seats)The ruling BJP won both the seats for which by-elections were held, wresting Sira from the JD(S) and Rajarajeshwari (RR) Nagar from the Congress. It created history by recording its first ever victory in the Sira assembly segment Dr C M Rajesh Gowda winning with a margin of over 12,000 votes.In R R Nagar, N Munirathana emerged winner with a margin of over 58,000 votes against his nearest Congress rival Kusuma. The elections were necessitated by the death of Sira JD(S) MLA B Satyanarayana in August and the resignation of RR Nagar Congress MLA Munirathna from the assembly last year. The BJP now has 119 lawmakers in the 224-member state assembly.Odisha (2 seats)The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) retained the two assembly seats. BJD’s Bijaya Shankar Das defeated BJP candidate Rajkishore Behera by 30,000 votes in Tirtol seat in Jagatsinghpur district and in Balasore, party candidate Swarup Kumar Das defeated BJP rival Manas Kumar Dutta by close to 9,000 votes. The deaths of Balasore’s BJP MLA Madan Mohan Dutta and Tirtol’s BJD legislator Bishnu Charan Das necessitated the by-elections.Chhattisgarh (1 seat)The ruling Congress won the reserved Marwahi bypolls by a margin of 38197 votes on Tuesday. The bypoll was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi died in May. The Congress candidate, Dr Krishna Kumar Dhruw won the by poll defeating his nearest rival BJP’s Dr Gambhir Singh by 38,197 votes. “Marwahi’s by-election was not merely an election to elect an MLA, but was a test of public against the deceit of the last 18 years,” chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said.Nagaland (2 seats)The ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) retained the Southern Angami-I Assembly seat as its candidate Medo Yhokha won the by-election by a close margin of 598 votes. In Pungro-Kiphire, BJP hopeful Lirimong Sangtam was defeated by independent candidate T. Yangseo Sangtam who secured 8,747 votes. INC candidate Khaseo Anar polled only 347 votes out of 27013. In the house of 60, the NDPP has 20 MLAs, its ally BJP has 12, opposition NPF has 25 and two others are independents.Telangana (1 seat)The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday recorded an emphatic victory in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly constituency in Siddipet district by winning the seat, albeit with a slender margin of 1,470 votes.BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao secured 62,772 votes as against 61,302 votes polled by TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha, widow of former MLA S Ramachandra Reddy, whose death necessitated the by-elections. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, son of former Dubbak MLA Ch Mutyam Reddy, finished a poor third with 21,819 votes. With this victory, the strength of the BJP in the state assembly goes up to two - Rao will join T Raja Singh of Hyderabad in the house.Haryana (1 seat)The opposition Congress on Tuesday retained the Baroda assembly seat after its candidate Indu Raj Narwal defeated BJP nominee and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt by a margin of 10,566 votes. This is the second time that Dutt has lost from the constituency. In the 2019 assembly poll, he had lost by about 4,800 votes to Congress candidate Krishan Hooda. The Baroda bypoll was necessitated following the death of Hooda in April. He had won the constituency thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypoll-results-2020-voters-keep-faith-in-ruling-parties/story-NuY2xph4505AzhEC7tTmUK.html
11-11-2020||India||BJP gets 19 seats in Madhya Pradesh, seals assembly majority||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) achieved a major victory in bypolls held to 28 legislative assembly constituencies, winning and leading in 19; the Opposition Congress, which won 27 of these seats in the 2018 state assembly elections, could win or lead in just nine.The bypolls were necessitated by 25 Congress MLAs resigning from the state assembly — 22 (all loyalists of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress in March to join the BJP) and three in July — and due to death of three more (two from the Congress and one from the BJP). Of the constituencies that saw by polls, 16 fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region.Analysts said the results are significant for several reasons: one, the BJP has got a clear majority in the 230-member state assembly by increasing its strength from 107 to 126 MLAs ; two, it is a victory for Scindia, who campaigned for many of the candidates; and three, the BJP’s margin of victory on many of the seats was high.Of the lawmakers who quit the Congress in March and subsequently joined the BJP, 12 were made ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government. The win allows them to remain ministers.The BJP won nine out of 16 seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region, and six of the seven seats in Malwa.Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Scindia’s influence was clearly visible in the results in Guna, which is Scindia’s own parliamentary constituency, where his party won all three seats.This, experts said, was a repudiation of the personal and bitter campaign waged by the Congress against him.“People have given a befitting reply to the policies of Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh and policies of corruption and anti-development. I bow to the people of Madhya Pradesh and the workers of BJP for their blessings and support in this election,” said Scindia.Outside his area of direct influence, the BJP didn’t perform as well. For example, in Morena, the BJP won two out of five seats.With the BJP’s victory, chief minister Chouhan and Scindia, who led the BJP’s campaign from the front and dubbed themselves the “Shiv-Jyoti Express” have emerged stronger within the BJP, political analysts said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “This victory is of people of Madhya Pradesh, their trust in the BJP and also of democracy, development and social justice.”Admitting the party’s defeat former chief minister Kamal Nath said: “We respect the public’s mandate. We made our efforts to convey our message to people. I am thankful to voters. We will discharge our duties as a responsible Opposition and will continue to fight to protect the interests of people and the state. We will review the results. I hope that BJP government will take care of interest of farmers, youth, women and others.”Congratulating the BJP candidates on their victory and expressing his gratitude to all the voters, Scindia said: “I strongly believe that all the winning candidates will always be eager to ensure development of their constituencies.”Political analyst Girija Shankar said, “The by poll results have silenced all the critics of Chouhan and Scindia. They have emerged stronger in the BJP. Scindia has proved once again that he is a true mass leader.”“The results also suggest that people are still angry with the Congress and Nath for not fulfilling their poll promises.”The Congress won the 2018 elections in the state and formed the government, which fell earlier this year on the resignation of the lawmakers.Political analyst Jayant Singh Tomar said the Congress may have suffered because of its “negative campaign.“It appeared as if the party had nothing to say about its governance for 15 months,” he said.Senior state Congress leader Manak Agarwal said the party would review its performance and “take corrective measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gets-19-seats-in-madhya-pradesh-seals-assembly-majority/story-JIsnO4RBbYttlPnyanw8JJ.html
11-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: How to read the Bihar results||Defying exit poll predictions, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has retained power in Bihar. At the time of going to press (11:45 pm), the NDA had wins/leads in 124 out of the 243 assembly constituencies in the state, two above the halfway mark of 122.The Mahagathbandhan (MGB) had wins/leads in 111 ACs. The NDA comprises the Janata Dal (United), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Vikasshel Insan Party (VIP) and the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAM). The JD(U) and the BJP have allocated seats from the HAM and VIP from their own quota.Click here for complete Bihar election coverage The MGB has the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and the three left parties, namely the Communist Party of India Marxist Leninist Liberation (CPI-ML), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M) and the Communist Party of India (CPI). An HT analysis shows that the headline numbers on seat shares hide a lot of nuances which define the 2020 Bihar contest.This was a really close electionWhile the NDA has a 5.3 percentage point lead over the MGB in terms of seat share, they had almost identical vote shares of 37.21% and 37.23%. To be sure, this is not the first time that a winning party/coalition has got a disproportionately higher seat share than its vote share. For example in the Congress managed to surge ahead of the BJP in the 2018 Madhya Pradesh elections in terms of seats, despite getting a lower vote share than the latter. The NDA’s vote share is the lowest for the winning alliance in Bihar since the 2010 assembly elections, and only slightly higher than 36.1% vote share of the NDA in the elections held in 2005 October. The vote share of parties outside the two major alliances has increased to 25.6%, 1.5 percentage points more than the 2015 assembly elections. The fact that the non-NDA non-MGB parties have won just 3.3% of the ACs, the lowest since October 2005, shows that they have acted largely as spoilers in these elections.See Chart 1: Vote share and seat share of NDA, RJD plus and others in BiharThe NDA got its act together from the second phase onwardsA phase-wise analysis of the elections suggests that the NDA gained a massive momentum after the first phase. While the MGB won 67.6% of the 71 ACs in the first phase, its strike rate dropped to 44.7% and 26.9% in the second and third phase. For the NDA, strike rates improved in each phase; from 29.6% in the first phase to 54.3% and 66.7% in the second and third phase. This pattern suggests a silent counter-polarisation behind the NDA, indication that its strategy of attacking the MGB by evoking memories of “jungle-raj”; a term often used to attack poor governance when the RJD was in power from 1999 to 2005, has paid rich dividends. The fact that the MGB was shown as gathering momentum as the polls progressed might actually have aided this counter-consolidation. An HT analysis of gender-wise voting pattern shows that women vote might have played a big role in the NDA’s victory.See Chart 2: Phase-wise strike rateAn election of churning in both identity and ideologyAn established way of analysing elections, especially in the crucial states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has been to use the binary of social identity versus Hindutva. While the forces of Mandal, a term used for parties which have had their core support base among other backward classes (OBCs), such as the RJD and the Samajwadi Party, have banked on a dominant OBC plus Muslim consolidation, the BJP has tried to build a rainbow Hindu coalition to counter this strategy. In Bihar, the JD(U) has been an integral component of the BJP’s strategy of building a disparate Hindu coalition against the RJD’s Muslim-Yadav support base. Both the Congress and the left got pushed out in this realignment of political forces.The 2020 Bihar elections suggest a churning on both the identity and ideology fronts. The fact that the BJP has performed much better than the JD(U) shows that the votaries of Hindutva are increasingly asserting that the BJP should replace the JD(U) as the senior partner in the NDA in Bihar. An almost mirror image of this phenomenon can be seen in the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) impressive performance in the Muslim dominated Seemanchal region of Bihar. It shows that a significant section of Muslims have given up on being supporters of the RJD and are willing to do business with a party which champions their identity, even at the risk of bringing the BJP to power. In the five ACs where the AIMIM has won is leading, MGB candidates were in the third position in four ACs, whereas the NDA was in the second place.Similarly, the fact that the left parties, which are expected to have a more coherent ideological critique of the BJP, have outperformed both the RJD and the Congress in terms of strike rate in the MGB, suggests that merely evoking identity or adopting a centrist plank, might not be enough to counter the BJP’s political appeal in today’s age.See Chart 3: Party-wise strike rate of NDA and MGB partners||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-how-to-read-the-bihar-results/story-7R4bxFrRhUuoHf3Mo6Tp7K.html
11-11-2020||India||PM Modi takes dig at Pakistan during virtual SCO meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a swipe at Pakistan at the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Tuesday, saying it is unfortunate that repeated attempts were being made to violate the grouping’s charter by raising bilateral issues. Modi also said connectivity initiatives should be built around respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries, and reiterated that India stood ready to help all nations fight the Covid-19 crisis with its vaccine production and distribution capabilities. The SCO heads of state summit, chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin, was held virtually owing to the pandemic. It was the first time that Modi and President Xi Jinping shared the same platform since the India-China standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) emerged in the open in May. Modi, who spoke in Hindi, said India believes in peace, security and prosperity, and has always opposed terrorism, illegal arms smuggling, drug trafficking and money laundering, he added. Without naming Pakistan, he said: “It is unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to unnecessarily bring bilateral issues to the SCO agenda, which violate the SCO Charter and Shanghai Spirit. Such efforts are contrary to the spirit of consensus and cooperation that defines SCO.” India has reacted sharply to Pakistan’s repeated efforts, often with support from its traditional ally China, to raise the Kashmir issue at multilateral bodies such as SCO and the UN Security Council since the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was scrapped in August last year. In September, India walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. Russia, which chaired that meeting, subsequently informed India that the Pakistani representative had gone ahead with the action despite being asked not to do so. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who spoke after Modi, criticised India without naming the country. Khan praised China, including for its assistance for tackling the pandemic and its support for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, which is opposed by India as it passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Noting that SCO was established to ensure security across Eurasia, Khan said, in an apparent reference to Kashmir: “SCO stands for strict observance of this principle and the principles of the UN charter such as equality and sovereignty of states, respect for territory integrity, sanctity of borders, non-aggression, non-use of threat of force and people’s right for self-determination.” Khan further said “unilateral and illegal measures to change the status of disputed territories in violation of the UN Security Council resolutions run counter” to SCO’s objectives, and such steps must be opposed. Modi said the International North South Transport Corridor and Iran’s Chabahar port reflect “India’s strong resolve towards connectivity”. He added, “India believes that to further deepen connectivity, it is necessary to move forward with the core principles of respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-takes-dig-at-pakistan-during-virtual-sco-meeting/story-zlgfG0WUup4DkKwu736cpM.html
11-11-2020||India||Wary of second Covid-19 wave, Odisha capital bans marriage processions||With the possibility of a second Covid-19 wave looming large in Odisha due to onset of winter, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Tuesday banned marriage processions in the Odisha capital and limited attendance in marriage functions to 100 and funerals to 50.The guidelines released by BMC said children below 10 years, old people, pregnant women and people with co-morbidities should not attend marriage functions while people with severe acute respiratory illness would not be allowed to such functions.The new guidelines came on the day; Odisha reported 987 cases, the first time in more than 3 months when the daily Covid-19 cases in the state dropped below 1,000. On July 20, Odisha had last reported less than 1,000 cases. Odisha has now 3.03 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 1507 have succumbed to the virus.The state government has already banned burning of firecrackers till November-end and extended closure of schools till end of December. However, the daily positivity rate has now dropped below 3 per cent even as more than 43,000 tests are being done daily. The government is now planning to go for population-based testing strategy to curb the spread of the virus more effectively.Health department officials said while the testing strategy till now was based on the disease burden in the districts, it has been decided to conduct tests in proportion to the population of a particular area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wary-of-second-covid-19-wave-odisha-capital-bans-marriage-processions/story-m5kmotBeSh32iRybxqZTTO.html
11-11-2020||India||PM Modi hails BJP’s assembly bypoll victories across states||Hailing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) performance in assembly bypolls in various states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday praised the party’s leadership there and expressed his thanks to people.  Powered by the “progressive agenda” of the government under Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan and the hardwork of its workers, the BJP has emerged as the “unparalleled choice” of people in Madhya Pradesh, Modi said, adding that the people’s affection for the party is “invaluable”. The BJP has won 16 seats and was leading in three others in the bypolls to 28 seats in the state.   In a tweet about the party’s win in two bypolls in Karnataka, Modi said, “The @BJP4Karnataka’s victories in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira are extremely special. It reaffirms the people’s unwavering faith in the reform agenda of the Centre and State Government under @BSYBJP Ji. I thank the people for their support and laud the efforts of our Karyakartas.” Lauding the party’s win in all eight assembly seat bypolls in Gujarat, he said the bond between the people of state and the BJP is “unbreakable”. This affection is again seen in the eight by-polls where the BJP made a clean sweep, he said, appreciating voters for support and the work of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani-led government.  “In Uttar Pradesh, the pro-people policies of the Centre and UP Government under @myogiadityanath Ji have endeared our party to the citizens. They have given unequivocal support to the BJP, for which I express gratitude. I also appreciate the good work of the @BJP4UP Unit,” he tweeted.   It won six of the seven seats where bypolls were held in the state.  The prime minister also described the party’s win in the solitary assembly bypoll in Dubbak in Telangana as historic.  “This is a historic win and gives us strength to serve the state with greater vigour. Our Karyakartas worked very hard and I laud their noteworthy efforts in furthering BJP’s development agenda,” he said.  About Manipur, he tweeted, “I thank the people of Manipur for once again reposing faith in the development agenda of BJP! Congratulations to @BJP4Manipur for the phenomenal wins in the by-polls. These victories will strengthen the State Government under @NBirenSingh Ji and help fulfil people’s aspirations.” The BJP won four of the five assembly seat bypolls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-bjp-s-assembly-bypoll-victories-across-states/story-5OxJrVatcMKTRleuKxHD3I.html
11-11-2020||India||BJP juggernaut steamrolls Gujarat by-elections, wins all 8 seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, which has won all eight assembly seats in Gujarat, termed its performance a trailer of sorts before the 2022 assembly polls whereas the Congress wondered how it could not convert the “palpable public anger” that it had claimed to have spotted, into votes.The counting for votes in the by-election for eight assembly seats in Gujarat was held on Tuesday. Right from 8 a.m. when counting began on Tuesday, BJP candidates maintained clear leads over their Congress rivals, except in Karjan in Vadodara district and Morbi in Morbi district where it expected to overtake the BJP. That hope too was short lived.The Congress had been counting these two seats among the sure-shot victories that it could score. The BJP had maintained it would get all but one. As the BJP broke into celebrations right in the afternoon when its candidates established formidable leads, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters, “This is only a trailer”. It was a reference to the upcoming elections to the local civic bodies and the 2022 assembly polls.The by-elections, held for Abdasa (Kutch district), Karjan (Vadodara), Morbi (Morbi), Gadhada (Botad), Dhari (Amreli), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Kaprada (Valsad) and Dang (Dangs), were necessitated after the eight Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. Five of them were given BJP tickets and all have won.Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani appeared to be on the verge of breaking down when he conceded his shock and surprise at the poll outcome. “This was not expected. One doesn’t know whatever happened to the people’s anger. Perhaps we were lacking somewhere. Well, we will start afresh,” he said.Gujarat Congress chief spokesperson Manish Doshi said, “We were up against the police and money muscle of a ruling party which had made even a by-election a prestige issue. We will need to figure out how to face this unequal challenge.”Claims and rebuttals aside, the turncoat BJP candidates on five seats deployed a campaign that effectively dismantled the Congress charge of “gaddaars (traitors)”. They harped on the theme that they had crossed over since they were not able to meet the public’s development aspirations as long as they stayed in the Congress and their shift to the ruling party would obliterate this disadvantage.Political scientist and veteran journalist Hari Desai believes this pitch tipped the campaign. “People are no longer bothered about political affiliations or loyalties, but more about who delivers for them in the immediate context. Congress tried to corner them (its ex-MLAs) on this (party loyalty), but couldn’t do much because of this,” he said.The BJP candidates, who had crossed over from the Congress, didn’t mince words. BJP’s Karjan candidate Akshay Patel had cited various examples how his shift from the Congress to the BJP had helped people. “About Rs 25 crore of our Karjan sugar factory was stuck in the State Government and I couldn’t do much. Soon after I joined the BJP, this work was instantly done.”In the Adivasi constituency of Kaprada in south Gujarat, Jitubhai Chaudhary spoke about how he couldn’t get government approvals for grants as long as he was in the BJP. “But now things would be easy after my joining the BJP.” All the five former Congress MLAs turned BJP candidates made this a key point.Veteran political and social scientist Vidyut Joshi said the Congress needs to address the “larger malaise.”“The Congress in Gujarat today has a few leaders and an almost absent grassroots network. You bring in Hardik Patel as the working president or replace any leader, it won’t serve any purpose till you have a force that mobilises the voters to the polling station on the D-day,” he said.Newly-appointed state BJP president CR Paatil’s entire focus, like in his own Navsari Lok Sabha constituency where he won in 2019 with the country’s highest margin of 6.89 lakh votes, was on the “Page Pramukhs (key coordinator of every page on the electoral rolls)” and making them accountable. This is the BJP’s - and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s - time-tested strategy. “You need a match to this strategy, but there are no traditional Congress wings like Seva Dal and Youth Congress working in tandem,” Joshi pointed out.Congress brought in maverick Patidar leader Hardik Patel, who, to his credit, has continuously been on the move even after the 2017 assembly elections, but he could not do much either in front of the BJP’s juggernaut. For the same reason, absence of a well-oiled machinery down to the last man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-juggernaut-steamrolls-gujarat-by-elections-wins-all-8-seats/story-PZHBwDbR2PeoWx8XyBzn1J.html
11-11-2020||India||By-poll Results 2020 live updates: A BJP sweep in bypolls, crucial gains in Madhya Pradesh||Counting of votes of by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8am on Tuesday. This is being held along the vote-counting process in Bihar where the country’s first major electoral exercise was held amid the coronavirus pandemic.In Madhya Pradesh, except for 2 seats, results for all by-polls have been declared, said the Election Commission. By-polls were held in Joura, Sumaoli, Morena, Dimani, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bhander, Karera, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mungaoli, Surkhi, Malhara, Anuppur, Sanchi, Biaora, Agar, Hatpipliya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Sanwer and Suwasra.Also Read: D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 statesWhile counting is taking place for eight assembly seats of Abdasa, Limdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada (ST), Karjan, Dangs (ST) and Kaprada (ST) in Gujarat, votes are also being counted for seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. The Naugaon, Ghatampur (Kanpur), Bulandshahr, Tundla (Firozabad), Bangarmau (Unnao), Deoria and Malhani seats had fallen vacant in the northern state.Votes are also being counted for by-elections held for two seats each in Karnataka, Jharkhand, Odisha, Nagaland and one each in Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Haryana. There will be no impact of the by-poll results on the ruling governments in Jharkhand, Karnataka, Odisha and Nagaland. By-polls were also conducted across four seats in Manipur and the votes will be counted in this northeastern state on Tuesday as well.Here are the live updates on the by-polls results:BJP’s Imarti Devi loses to Cong’s Suresh Raje in Madhya Pradesh by-pollsMadhya Pradesh by-polls: Bhartiya Janata Party’s Imarti Devi loses to Congress’ Suresh Raje from Dabra constituency.Madhya Pradesh by-polls: BJP wins 17 seats and leads on 2 out of the total 28 seats Madhya Pradesh by-polls: BJP wins 17 seats and leads on 2 out of the total 28 seats in fray. Congress wins 8 seats and leads on 1.BJP wins 4 seats, Independent candidate 1 seat in Manipur by-pollsManipur by-polls: Bharatiya Janata Party wins four seats and independent candidate one seat.BJP wins Dubbaka assembly constituencyBJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao on Tuesday won the by election to the Dubbak Assembly constituency bypoll in Telangana,the Election Commission said.Congress wins Marwahi assembly bypoll in ChhattisgarhThe ruling Congress won the Marwahi Assembly bypoll in Chhattisgarh on Tuesday, an election official said.BJP wins 6 and Samajwadi Party wins 1 seat in Uttar Pradesh by-polls BJP wins six and Samajwadi Party wins 1 seat in Uttar Pradesh by-polls 2020. Polling was held on 7 seats.BJP wins all 8 seats in Gujarat by-pollsBJP wins all the eight seats that were in the fray in Gujarat by-polls 2020Madhya Pradesh health minister wins by-poll from Sanchi Madhya Pradesh health minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary wins by-poll from Sanchi by 63,809 votesNDPP and Independent win 1 seat in Nagaland by-pollNationalist Democratic Progressive Party and Independent win 1 seat each that went to Nagaland by-poll.Congress turncoat wins Abdasa seat on BJP ticket in GujaratBJP’s Pradhyumansinh Jadeja on Tuesday defeated his nearest Congress rival Shantilal Senghani by a margin of 36,778 votes from Abdasa Assembly seat in Kutch district of Gujarat, the Election Commission said. Counting of votes in the rest seven seats, where bypolls were held on November 3, is underway.Ruling coalition retains both seats in Jharkhand In Jharkhand, the ruling coalition has retained both seats that went for by-polls. The JMM has won from Dumka while the Congress has emerged victorious from Bermo, joint chief electoral officer Hiralal Mandal. Result out for by-polls on Mandhata seat in Madhya PradeshBJP’s Narayan Patel has won the assembly by-election from Mandhata in Madhya Pradesh by a margin of 22,129 votes. BJP’s CM Rajesh Gowda wins Sira assembly constituency in Karnataka CM Rajesh Gowda of the BJP won the byelection to Sira assembly constituency in Karnataka by a margin of over 12,000 votes, officials said. In Manipur, BJP wins 1 seat, Independent supported by BJP wins 1BJP candidate Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the by-election to the Wangoi seat, while Y Antas Khan, an Independent candidate supported by the saffron party bagged the Lilong seat in Manipur, officials said Tuesday.BJP wins the RR Nagar assembly seat in Karnataka The BJP won the RR Nagar assembly seat in Karnataka with Munirathna defeating H Kusuma by a margin of 57936 votes. JDS’ Krishnamurhty was the second runner-up with 10,251 votes. Congress’s Indu Raj Narwal defeats BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt in Haryana’s Baroda Congress’s Indu Raj Narwal on Tuesday won the Baroda assembly seat in Haryana. BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt was the runner-up. BJP regains lead of 491 votes over TRS in Telangana’s DubbakBJP regains lead of 491 votes over TRS at the end of 20th round in Telangana’s Dubbak. Overall lead of BJP is 240 votesTRS gains a lead of 176 votes on BJP in Telangana’s DubbakAfter the 18th round of counting of votes in Telangana’s Dubbak, the TRS was ahead of BJP by 176 votes. The counting will conclude after five more rounds. In Jharkhand, Congress ahead in Bermo, BJP in Dumka BJP candidate Lois Marandi was leading in the by-election to the Dumka seat while Congress nominee Anup Singh was ahead in the Berma constituency in Jharkhand after eighth round of counting, an official said on Tuesday.BJP leads on 8 seats in Gujarat, leaders show victory signThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leading on all the eight Assembly seats which went to by-polls in Gujarat on November 3, as per the latest trends of the Election Commission of India (ECI).Wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt trails from Baroda seatCongress candidate Indu Raj is leading over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) contender and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt from the Baroda Assembly constituency for a by-election to the Haryana Legislative Assembly, as per the Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday.BJP continues to lead in Telangana’s DubbakThe BJP maintained its lead over ruling TRS after completion of seven rounds of counting of votes for Dubbak assembly bypoll in Telangana on Tuesday. BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao was leading over his nearest TRS rival Solipeta Sujatha by 2,485 votes after seven rounds.In Odisha, BJD candidates lead in both Balasore Sadar and Tirtol The BJD candidates were leading on both Balasore Sadar and Tirtol assembly where counting of votes polled in the by-elections is underway.BJP leads in Jharkhand’s Dumka, Congress in BermoBJP candidate Lois Marandi was leading in the bypoll to Dumka Assembly seat while Congress nominee Anup Singh was ahead in Bermo constituency in Jharkhand, as per trends at 12 noon.BJP ahead in 17 seats but three ministers trailingThree ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh are trailing behind their Congress rivals even as the ruling BJP has taken a lead in 17 of the 28 assembly constituencies, as per the trends of counting.BJP ahead in 7 of 8 Gujarat seatsThe BJP is also ahead in seven seats and the Congress in one in Gujarat, where by-elections were held in eight seats. Early trends show BJP leading in 2 seats, Congress 1 seat in ManipurAccording to early trends, BJP candidate Oinam Lukhoi Singh was leading over his nearest rival Khuraijam Loken Singh of the National People’s Party by 268 votes in the Wangoi seat. In Saitu constituency, Ngamthang Haokip of the BJP was ahead of his nearest rival Lamtinthang Haokip of the Congress by 1,827 votes, as per the ECI website. Congress candidate Moirangthem Hemanta Singh was ahead of his nearest rival Paonam Brojen Singh of the BJP by 675 votes in the Wangjing Tentha seat.BJP ahead in 14 seats in Madhya Pradesh, 4 in Uttar PradeshThe ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh is leading in 14 of the 28 assembly constituencies for which byelections were held while the Congress is ahead in five seats, as per the early trends of counting in Madhya Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, BJP was leading in four seats and trailing in two others as counting of votes progressed. BJP ahead in 2 UP seats While counting is underway on seven assembly seats, the BJP is leading on two, Ghatampur and Bangarmau, at the end of two rounds. Congress ahead in Haryana’s Baroda According to early trends, Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal is leading ahead of BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt by 1,021 votes in Haryana’s Baroda .BJP takes lead in Telangana’s Dubbak The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken a slender lead of 341 votes in the first round of counting of votes polled in Dubbak by-polls in Telangana.Why were by-polls held in Gujarat The bypolls were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls in June this year. Five of them then joined the ruling BJP, which fielded them from the same seats they had won in the 2017 elections.What Madhya Pradesh result will signify The results of the Madhya Pradesh by-polls will be an indicator of the effect of the Jyotiraditya Scindia factor in the changed political scenario in the state.The ruling BJP needs to win at least eight of these 28 seats to attain a simple majority in the 230-member Assembly, whose effective strength is 229.1453 postal ballots and 51 service votes to be counted in TelanganaCounting has begun in Dubbak by-elections in Telangana’s Siddipet district. As many as 1453 postal ballots and 51 service votes are being counted at the Indur Engineering College at Ponnala on the outskirts of Siddipet town.Counting beginsCounting of votes for 58 assembly constituencies spread across 11 states has begun. Covid-19 safety protocols to be strictly followed As counting of votes is set to begin shortly, the administrations have ensured that the protocols to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease are followed strictly. Counting to begin at 8amThe counting of votes across 58 assembly seats in 11 states will begin at 8am Tuesday. The result of by-polls is particulary important for Madhya Pradesh, where the ruling BJP government is needs to win on at least eight seats for a clear majority in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/by-poll-results-2020-live-updates-by-election-results-for-58-assembly-seats-madhya-pradesh-gujarat-karnataka-jharkhand-odisha-nagaland-elangana-chhattisgarh-haryana-manipur/story-X9lHXKrgkKLzeKvG3HxK2O.html
