12-11-2020||India||PM Modi underlines centrality of Asean in India’s Act East policy||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) on Thursday emphasised the need to build on convergences and synergy to maintain peace and security in the Indo-Pacific, against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness across the region. The situation in the South China Sea, where China is engaged in disputes with several Asean members, and all regional issues of concern figured in the discussions during the Asean-India Summit that was co-chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc. Vietnam is the current chair of Asean. “India and Asean share a vast maritime space in the Indo-Pacific and Asean is at the centre of this space. There is great convergence and synergy between our visions of the Indo-Pacific as articulated in the Asean outlook for the Indo-Pacific and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative,” said secretary (East) Riva Ganguly Das of the external affairs ministry. “We seek to build on this convergence for maintaining peace, security and sustainable development of the Indo-Pacific and ensuring security and growth for all in the region,” she told a news briefing after the summit. While addressing the summit, Modi underlined the centrality of Asean in India’s “Act East” policy and said a cohesive and prosperous Asean is also central to India’s Indo-Pacific vision. He called for strengthening convergence between India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s outlook on Indo-Pacific to “ensure a free, open, inclusive and rules-based” region. PM Modi announced a contribution of $1 million to the Covid-19 Asean Response Fund and reiterated New Delhi’s offer of a $1-billion line of credit to support connectivity between Asean states. He also called for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement. Asked specifically if China’s aggressive actions, which have affected both India and Asean states, had figured in the summit, Ganguly Das said all regional issues of concern were discussed, including the situation in the South China Sea. “Both Asean and India agreed on the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, stability and security in the South China Sea, and reaffirmed the importance of upholding international law, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) while ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight above South China Sea and ensuring unimpeded lawful commerce,” she said. The Asean leaders acknowledged India as a long-term friend and partner and the country’s contributions towards promoting regional peace and stability. In the field of digital and physical connectivity, the two sides agreed to consider a report by Jakarta-based think tank Economic Research Institute for Asean and East Asia (ERIA) on extending the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway to more countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-underlines-centrality-of-asean-in-india-s-act-east-policy/story-4DV5MklpIRhoghpTRMsvfL.html
12-11-2020||India||Lucknow, on a sweet high!||Online intra-city delivery, dry fruits, perishable sweets and immunity booster delicacies remain in demand, this Diwali. During the pandemic year, life remains unpredictable but the festivities refuse to slow down. Buying of sweets, dry fruits and bakery items have surely taken a hit with corporate clients, specially the mid-segment business houses and retail clients having a tight budget. The local mithaiwallahs and bakery enterprises too are witnessing change in trend with many preferring the online route for purchase and changing their shopping pattern. But still a good number report improved business as the festival of light inches closer. “Surely there is big dent due less corporate gifting. There’s a change in pattern as organizations have bought e-coupons and for their employees and clients as per budget. This is saving us from hassle of delivery as many are working from home and beneficiary can use it as per their choice,” said Vikas Malik of Danbro by Mr Brown. With immunity a big thing these days, buyers are preferring items like power seeds cookies. “Natural sweetener-based delicacies like Bakhlawa, super-food cookies, and dry-fruit based items are in demand. But, people are buying smaller packs due to reduced budget,” he adds. Ravindra Gupta of Chhappan Bhog tells that as the festival approached the retail clients have finally started buying. Many visited personally and are taking order on online-App or courier route. “There are surely few who are not ordering while many have limited their quantity but rest are ordering and gifting as it’s a tradition. Since Diwali is late this year, people prefer dry fruits and its sweets over traditional ones,” he said. With lesser orders from corporates, we are expecting are retail buyers to add a big boost from Dhanteras to Bhai Duij informs Matrika Gupta of Ram Asrey. “Next five-six days are hot dates for sale and we hope for a good business,” she said Shrinking of budget of both individual and businessmen has been a reason of lesser sales shared Rajesh Pahwa of Kundan Kirana Store. “Seeing the market condition, we have stocked only 60% of gift packs since last year. We tapped our traditional clients but barely a few eventually ordered. Retail clients also have a very less budget. I feel we will end-up with surplus and spending on need-based items,” he said. Srajal Gupta of Madhurima Sweet told that corporate orders are 25% lesser to last Diwali. “Still, I’m content that with every passing day buyers are growing. Perishable gift hampers and cookies in our bakery are best sellers. Traditional sweets are also selling. The online order trend has surely gone up this time,” said Gupta. Sweets shops and bakeries are pinning on Diwali day and post-festival sale of Bhai Duij to see a surge in numbers of retails buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-on-a-sweet-high/story-9qvxczqhLSoo60w86JvdeO.html
12-11-2020||India||Maharashtra Governor calls for safe, pollution free Diwali amid Covid-19 pandemic||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday extended Diwali greetings to people of the state and urged them to celebrate the festival in a “safe, eco-friendly and pollution-free” manner in view of the Covid- 19 pandemic.In a message to citizens, the Governor said, “I extend my hearty greetings to all on the auspicious occasion of Diwali. May the festival of lights bring happiness, prosperity and contentment in the lives of all.” Koshyari noted that the challenge thrown by the novel coronavirus is “far from over”.“I appeal to the people to celebrate a safe, eco-friendly and pollution free Diwali. Let us make Diwali truly inclusive by sharing our joy with at least one poor and underprivileged person,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-calls-for-safe-pollution-free-diwali-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-hCECqAZHakNFBePmFfLHFO.html
12-11-2020||India||India-Nepal launch construction of 3rd integrated check post to boost trade||India and Nepal on Thursday launched the construction of a Rs 147.12-crore integrated check post (ICP) at Nepalgunj to streamline and boost cross-border trade, weeks ahead of a visit to Kathmandu by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to take forward bilateral ties. Commerce minister Piyush Goyal and Nepal’s urban development minister Krishna Gopal Shrestha witnessed the groundbreaking ceremony to mark the beginning of construction of the ICP, which will smoothen cross-border movement of cargo trucks by bringing customs and immigration facilities under one roof. This will be the third ICP on the India-Nepal border and similar facilities at Birgunj and Biratnagar were operationalised in April 2018 and January 2020. India has also built ICPs on the borders with neighbours such as Bangladesh and Pakistan. Goyal announced the Indian government will take up the construction of a fourth ICP at Bhairahawa in Nepal with Indian funding. The modalities for this project and the implementing agency are under consideration, he said. The ICP at Nepalgunj will have export and import cargo handling facilities such as warehousing, refrigerated cargo facilities, medical, plant and animal quarantine areas, and amenities for drivers and passengers. It will also have extensive security systems, including CCTV cameras, round the clock power backup, and waste water treatment facilities. “The facility is envisaged to promote systematic approach to cargo handling and, therefore, will result in saving of time and inconvenience to visitors and reduce overall transaction costs for cross-border trade and commerce,” the Indian embassy in Kathmandu said in a statement. The portion of the ICP on the Nepalese side will be built on 61.5 hectares by a Pune-based company under the supervision of state-run RITES International Ltd. The construction period is two years. A portion on the Indian side is being built at Rupaidiha by Lands Ports Authority of India and the work started in May. More than 10% of the construction has been completed. During the construction period, the Nepalgunj project is expected to create local employment and boost the economy through supply of raw materials and items from Nepal’s markets. The creation of advanced cross-border logistics and infrastructure facilities over the past three years has boosted connectivity and mutually beneficial trade and people-to-people ties, the Indian embassy said. Shringla is expected to visit Nepal during November 26-27, close on the heels of a two-day trip to Kathmandu last week by the Indian Army chief, Gen MM Naravane, to take forward ties that were rocked by a border row earlier this year. Both countries had been working behind the scenes to put the bilateral relationship back on an even keel against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff in the Ladakh sector. India-Nepal ties were hit in May after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a key border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory. This exacerbated the border row. This will be Shringla’s fifth foreign visit in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions. He visited the Maldives this week, and has also travelled to Bangladesh and Myanmar in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-launch-construction-of-3rd-integrated-check-post-to-boost-trade/story-cpbd3yvuvHqA8fgBo8wRVM.html
12-11-2020||India||26 fire tenders rushed as major fire breaks out in Delhi||A major fire broke out at a shop in Delhi on Thursday. The incident occurred at a cloth shop cum go-down in a three-storey building in Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar area.As many as 26 firefighting trucks are currently at the stop working to douse the fire.No injury has been reported as of yet.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-fire-tenders-rushed-as-major-fire-breaks-out-in-delhi/story-jHm2WDJOVKWf9ew6TGdwWI.html
12-11-2020||India||Delhi records 107 deaths in a day, highest daily toll in Capital ever||Delhi on Thursday recorded 107 deaths due to Covid-19 — the highest ever since the pandemic broke out, pushing the cumulative death toll to 7,332. In the ongoing third wave of the infection, the Capital has been adding 70-80 deaths per day on an average. This is the first time that the toll breached 100-mark. Even in June-July, when the Capital was under the grip of the first wave, the maximum number of deaths didn’t reach beyond 95. On June 16, 93 people died of Covid-19. In the last 24 hours, Delhi recorded 7,053 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a day after its daily Covid-19 tally breached the 8,000-mark. While the number of new infections reported on Thursday was lower than that of Wednesday, the number of people who were tested also decreased. On Wednesday, 64,121 tests were done, according to the government’s bulletin. On Thursday, 60,229 tests were conducted. The positivity rate in Delhi now stands at 11.71 per cent. Over 26,000 people are under home isolation now.Delhi has been witnessing an uptick in the number of cases with the onset of winter and pollution since the last week of October. The ongoing season of festivities has added to it as social distancing norms are being flouted and markets are almost back to their pre-Covid bustle. On Thursday, the Delhi High Court allowed the AAP government to reserve 80 per cent of beds in the intensive care units of the private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the situation in the national Capital is fairly dynamic and the state has to be “much more alive” to the circumstances. It also noted that the government is doing everything under the Sun to “unlock things”.“Eighty to ninety per cent cases are recovering at home. Our home isolation policy was a successful model and had it not been implemented, it would not have been possible to handle such a massive surge in Covid-19 cases we are seeing today,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-death-toll-in-24-hours-breaches-100-mark/story-Y6GoQWV63LhAPx3VM3nJQK.html
12-11-2020||India||India, China to hold another round of talks on border standoff soon: MEA||The external affairs ministry on Thursday declined to comment on reports that India and China are discussing proposals for disengagement in the finger area and around Pangong Lake in Ladakh sector, saying the two sides will soon hold another round of talks on the border standoff. The two sides are reportedly discussing proposals to withdraw tanks and artillery from along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), creating a zone between fingers four and seven where there will be no patrolling by both sides, and thinning troops on the south bank of Pangong Lake, which will be followed by a joint verification. Asked about the matter at the weekly news briefing, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava declined to go into details and said: “Discussions are ongoing.” During the eighth round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders, held in Chushul on November 6, the two sides held “candid, in-depth and constructive” talks and exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points along the LAC in the western sector, he said. “India and China have agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting of the senior commanders, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues. They have also agreed to have another round of the meeting soon,” Srivastava said. The border standoff has entered its seventh month and tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in for the winter along the LAC in Ladakh sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-another-round-of-talks-on-border-standoff-soon-mea/story-QrN4XVfa72yozChplKfPTK.html
12-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Iconic structure’ planned near Yamuna, Central Vista length to double and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Iconic structure’ planned near Yamuna, Central Vista length to doubleThe Central government has decided to build an ‘iconic structure’ called the ‘Nav Bharat Udyan’, or New India Garden, next to the Yamuna river bank spread over 22 acres to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) called a design competition for the new structure. Read More‘Deliberate’: Centre puts Twitter on notice for showing Leh as part of J&KThe ministry of Electronics and IT has issued a notice to Twitter seeking explanation in five days as to why legal action shouldn’t be taken against the social media platform for disrespecting India’s territorial integrity as Twitter has shown Leh as part of J&K, not Ladakh. Read MoreOur ideologies should not go against national interest, PM Modi to JNU studentsSharing his experience of Emergency with the students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said one doesn’t need to sacrifice his or her own ideology to fight for a common, greater cause. “When people joined Mahatma Gandhi, they didn’t leave their ideologies. Read MoreKunal Kamra to face contempt case. Attorney General says he crossed the lineAttorney General KK Venugopal on Thursday gave his nod to initiate contempt of court proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for his ‘highly objectionable’ tweets against the Supreme Court.The Attorney General has said that the tweets by Kamra are ‘not only in bad taste but also clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the Court’. Read MoreWe couldn’t take our family photo like every year, says PM Modi at 17th ASEAN-India SummitThe strategic partnership of India and ASEAN is based on our shared historical, geographical and cultural heritage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, addressing the 17th ASEAN-India summit. “ASEAN has always been the core of our Act East Policy. . Read MoreAsif Basra found dead: Manoj Bajpayee, Anushka Sharma, Kareena Kapoor lead Bollywood in paying tributeDirectors Hansal Mehta and Onir were among the first to condole the death of actor Asif Basra on Thursday. The 53-year-old actor was found dead in a private complex in Dharamshala. Suicide is suspected.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-iconic-structure-planned-near-yamuna-central-vista-length-to-double-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nhW0uENt68wDk1oATrPR4H.html
12-11-2020||India||Odisha rights commission asks cop to pay Rs 5 lakh for filing false case||Nearly four years after two youths were arrested on trumped up charges of murdering a 19-year-old in Bargarh district, the Odisha Human Rights Commission asked the investigating police official to pay Rs 2.5 lakh compensation to each of the youths for misutilisation of his power that led to the two remaining in jail for about eight months.The Commission chairperson Justice BP Das and member Asim Amitabh Dash in their order said continuance of the police official was detrimental to the interest of general public as well as threat to common citizens.“Fairness and effectiveness in policing is important to anyone concerned about police work, police supervisors, policy makers and administrators. Yet we find a decorated police officer is lacking in these qualities. The officer brought immense embarrassment to the police organisation by forcing two persons to confess to a crime that they had not committed,” the OHRC said, asking the investigating official Prakash Kumar Karna to pay Rs 2.5 lakh each to Halu Gurla (26) and Raghab Naik (26), the two who were arrested in the case.During the 2019 Independence Day, Karna was awarded President’s Police Medal for gallantry.Jitu Dandasena, a 19-year-old youth of Piplipali village under Paikmal Police station of Bargarh district had gone missing from his home on December 7, 2016. An FIR was lodged by the man’s father on December 25. Paikmal police station inspector Prakash Kumar Karna who investigated the case arrested two men - Halu Gurla and Raghab Naik - in June 2017 on charges of murdering the boy and destruction of evidence though he could not find the body.The police official then filed a chargesheet in the local court on the basis of statement of the two accused under section 164 of CrPC, extra-judicial confession and identification of the spot in front of witnesses. The investigating police officer then got the two accused to confess that they had killed the youth and buried the body in the riverbed.However, the body could not be recovered.But Dandsena, who was allegedly murdered by the two youths, reappeared in a dramatic fashion at his home in May 2018. He revealed he was attacked by the two youths on December 7, 2016 and had become unconscious in the attack. He told his family that after gaining consciousness, he went to New Delhi where he worked in a catering firm instead of returning back home. He then shifted to Kolkata and started working in a band party. There he met an ice-cream seller who telephoned his family members about him.The youths then approached the OHRC complaining about the lackadaisical attitude of the police in investigating the case that violated their human rights.While castigating Karna for his lack of professionalism by turning a missing persons case to one of murder before recovery of the body, the OHRC said he might have used extra-judicial methods to get confessions out of the accused. “Extraction of a confession self-implicating a person in an offence which he has not committed shows the amount of pressure, may be physical or psychological, undergone by the victims and looking at the conduct of the investigating official, we do not rule out the extraction of confessional statement by means of physical assault and use of force during police custody. Otherwise, a person cannot self-implicate himself in a case where in trial, it may take him to the gallows,” the human rights panel said. Karna is now working as inspector in Kuchinda police station of Sambalpur district.The panel also took exception to the way the sub divisional police officer, the supervisory officer of the case, handled the whole thing. But it did not impose any penalty as he had retired from service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-rights-commission-asks-cop-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-for-filing-false-case/story-aqYlE8ZchNIrLxVw6jqPHI.html
12-11-2020||India||‘Only 12,270 votes’: What RJD’s new figure claims||The Rashtriya Janata Dal, which has been alleging foul play since the day of counting, on Thursday quoted Election Commission data to show that NDA was ahead only by 12,270 votes. Alleging that the administration machinery was deployed to make NDA win, the party said on the basis of only 12,270 votes, the administration ‘helped’ NDA win 15 seats. “To believe these numbers, check the 15 seats which were lost by a thin margin,” the RJD tweeted on Thursday. NDA को कुल वोट मिला- 157,00728महागठबंधन को कुल मिला- 156,88458कुल वोट का अंतर- 12270मात्र 12270 वोट के अंतर से प्रशासन ने एनडीए को 15 सीट ज़्यादा जीता दी। इस आँकड़े पर विश्वास करने के लिए कम मार्जिन से हारने वाली 15 सीटें और भाजपा आयोग के आँकड़े देख लीजिए। pic.twitter.com/AhpCErpLopFor the first time after the election results were declared late on November 10, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav offered his reaction. “I thank Bihar’s people. The mandate favoured Mahagathbandhan, but the Election Commission’s result was in NDA’s favour. This hasn’t happened first time. In 2015 when Mahagathbandhan was formed, votes were in our favour but BJP made back door entry to gain power,” Tejashwi said.On the day of the counting, several Congress and RJD leaders had alleged many Mahagathbandhan candidates were not given certificates though the Election Commission told them they had won. Later, they were told they lost. Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi were calling up district magistrates to not let Mahagathbandhan’s count go over 110, the party had earlier alleged. The Grand Alliance finished at 110, while the NDA alliance managed 125 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-12-270-votes-what-rjd-s-new-figure-claims/story-4svoS02me0XpcBT5YwZMJO.html
12-11-2020||India||Modi-Biden call will happen in ‘due course’: External affairs ministry||A telephone call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US president-elect Joe Biden will happen “in due course” at a mutually convenient time, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. Statements issued by Biden’s transition team over the past two days said the president-elect had so far spoken on the phone with the leaders of France, Germany, Ireland, the UK, Australia, Japan and South Korea. Responding to a question at the weekly news briefing on a call between Modi and Biden, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said it would “happen in due course at a mutually convenient time”. He noted that the Prime Minister had congratulated Biden through a tweet on November 8 and also appreciated the president-elect’s contribution to strengthening India-US relations in his former capacity as vice president. Modi had also conveyed that he “looks forward to working with [Biden] to take India-US relations to greater heights”, Srivastava said. Srivastava said the foundation of the India-US relationship is strong and the comprehensive global strategic partnership between the two countries has bipartisan support from the Republican and Democratic parties in the US. “It has also been seen that every successive US president and administration has raised the status of these relations,” he said. Modi had tweeted separate congratulatory messages to Biden and vice president-elect Kamala Harris, the first woman and the first Indian American person to be elected to the position. Also Read | Groundwork done, Modi govt all set to deal with incoming Biden administration “Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights,” he said. “Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership,” Modi added. Biden’s outreach to and contacts with world leaders has been affected by the lack of cooperation from the outgoing Donald Trump administration, which has refused to accept the results of the US elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-biden-call-will-happen-in-due-course-external-affairs-ministry/story-Upphs7Ml7zWTHzcoNO5HjO.html
12-11-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in war of words with Goa’s Pramod Sawant over Mollem track doubling project||A war of words took place on social media between the Chief Ministers of Delhi and Goa over Wednesday and Thursday, with Arvind Kejriwal accusing his Goan counterpart of ignoring local voices under “the Centre’s diktat”, in return being accused by Dr Pramod Sawant of doing “divisive politics”.The spat began on Twitter on Wednesday after Delhi Chief Minister responded to a news portal’s tweet citing Sawant, a BJP member, as saying that “Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should first fix issues of pollution in his area before getting worried about Goa.”There has been an ongoing feud in Goa between the ruling BJP and Kejriwal’s AAP over environmental issues.Responding to the news portal’s tweet, Kejriwal said, tagging the Goa CM, “It’s not about Delhi’s pollution vs Goa’s pollution. Both Delhi and Goa are dear to me. We are all one country. We all have to work together to ensure there is no pollution in both Delhi and Goa.”His Goan counterpart replied, “Dear Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal ji, we are making sure that there is no pollution issue in Goa and our government will ensure that our state remains pollution-free. I am sure the people of Delhi also want the same in their beautiful state.”The spat spilled over to Thursday when the Delhi CM raised the issue of a Railway track doubling project, which will pass through Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, and asked him to save Goa from becoming a “coal hub”.“It is heartening to hear that Dr Pramod Swanat ji. (But) Goans are opposing (the) double tracking project. Kindly hear their voice and save Mollem as they (sic) are the lungs of Goa. I understand the Centre is forcing this project on Goa. Please stand with Goans, say NO to Center and save Goa from becoming (a) coal hub,” tweeted Kejriwal on Thursday morning.The Goa CM replied to this by accusing Kejriwal of being an expert in “creating Center vs State issues”, and said the state will skip his advice.“Dear Arvind Kejriwal ji, Doubling of Railway tracks is a nation-building exercise. There is no threat to Mollem and we will ensure it remains that way. We will not allow Goa to become a coal hub. Knowing your expertise in creating Center vs State issues, we will skip your advice,” tweeted Sawant.Taking the matter further, the Delhi CM asked Sawant to listen to the local people’s voice as they have a “say in their own state”.“Dr Pramod Sawnat ji, you don’t need to listen to my advice but please listen to the voices of (the) Goans. Shouldn’t Goans have some say in their own state? Is Central diktat more important than (the) Goan voices?” Kejriwal asked.Replying, Sawant said, “Our feet and ears are firmly on the ground Arvind Kejriwal ji. Please stop your divisive politics of Center vs State. We are ONE NATION! Thank you.”As per reports, Goa residents have been protesting against the state government for allowing the expansion of a railway line through the protected areas in Mollem to increase the coal-carrying capacity of its Mormugao Port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-in-war-of-words-with-goa-s-pramod-sawant-over-mollem-track-doubling-project/story-RWSU1bOPN9v9HQppmXvNaL.html
12-11-2020||India||‘Iconic structure’ planned near Yamuna as part of Central Vista project||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced a design competition to construct an “iconic structure” on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project to commemorate 75 years of independence.The structure would be part of the New India Gardens or the Nav Bharat Udyan that is proposed to come up on 20.22 acres on the western bank of Yamuna. It is expected to be unveiled to the public by August 15, 2022.A CPWD proposal dated November 12 said the structure so built must “realise the grand vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, symbolising emerging New India with equitable growth opportunities, rooted in values of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwaas and representing the aspiration of clean India, free from poverty, corruption, terrorism, communalism and casteism”.“The structure will be part of a complex that will also have facilities for entertainment and to showcase “India’s rich historical and cultural heritage,” the proposal stated.To be sure, the master plan submitted by Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd — the architecture firm that has been tasked with developing the Central Vista — included the construction of the New India Gardens near the Yamuna river, though the firm will not be involved in its construction.HCP has been tasked with redeveloping the Central Vista avenue, which includes building a new Parliament complex, also by August 15, 2022.According to the CPWD proposal, the new structure must come up on the central axis — which starts at the Rashtrapati Bhawan, moves on the central line between North and South Blocks and Rajpath and culminates at India Gate — thereby extending the axis from 2.9km to 6.3km.“Under the Master Plan, the Central Vista Axis will be extended from the present 2.9 km to 6.3 km from ridge to river. On the eastern side, it will culminate at the western bank of River Yamuna. This will restore the original design envisioned for the Central Vista,” the proposal stated.The Nav Bharat Udyan will be open to the public and will also have facilities such as the “Sphere of Unity”, “Milestones Walkway”, “Journey of India”, “Tech Dome”, “Amphitheatre” all of which are meant to showcase India’s heritage and scientific advancement and “to symbolise unity in diversity and aspirations of the New India”.The CPWD proposal mandated that only such material and technology should be used to build the structure that would endure like “Ashoka’s edicts, Iron Pillar in Qutub Minar complex etc.”As per the rules of the design competition, any Indian citizen or organisation is allowed to participate. It will include architects, architectural firms, students, student groups, architectural or planning schools / colleges and other institutions across India, or any combination of the above. All submissions have to be made by December 11 while the winners will be announced in the last week of December 2020.“The structure should be iconic in design and represent the national capital. For example, at present India Gate erected by the British in the Central Vista in the early 20th century prominently signifies Delhi. The proposed iconic structure being built in independent India should now become a new symbol of the national capital,” CPWD’s proposal said.The structure can be a tower or a sculpture or any other form besides a building that can be occupied, according to the rules.The maximum permissible height at the proposed site as per colour coded zonal map prepared by Airports Authority of India is 134 metres from the present ground level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iconic-structure-planned-near-yamuna-central-vista-length-to-double/story-UhTc80n4LDWgBetAZ1zVdO.html
12-11-2020||India||Congress leader Sachin Pilot tests positive for Covid-19||Congress leader and former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday.“I have tested positive for Covid 19. Anyone who may have come in contact with me over the last few days, please get yourselves tested. Am taking appropriate doctoral advice. Hope to recover soon,” Pilot informed via Twitter.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wished Pilot a speedy recovery. “Wish you a speedy recovery @SachinPilot ji. May you get well soon,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Rajasthan has reported 2,176 new COVID-19 cases, 13 deaths, and 1,804 recoveries/discharges on Thursday.According to the official data, total cases in the state has reached 2,19,327 including 17,352 active cases, 2,032 deaths and 1,99,943 recoveries/discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sachin-pilot-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-vtAlFWuOlzpjbdNAKQz07O.html
12-11-2020||India||AYUSH Ministry approves manufacture of Ayurvedic Covid-19 drug||Dalmia’s Astha-15 will be the first Ayurvedic drug and an indigenous formulation from India in the global market addressing the respiratory disorders in Covid.“This is a proud moment for India, our own indigenous Ayurveda and Dalmia Healthcare Limited –has developed Astha-15 for the effective treatment of respiratory disorders in Covid patients,” said Sanjay Dalmia, Chairman, Dalmia Group of Companies. Dalmia’s research arm Dalmia Centre for Research and Development (DCRD) has developed Astha-15 after extensive research and developed this polyherbal combination.“We are happy to announce that the outcome of the Clinical Trial showed that Astha-15 has significantly reduced the cough and wheezing, improved the respiratory rate and aid in the speedy recovery of Covid-19 patients with the improvement of quality of life during the treatment cycle,” he asserted.Aptly named Astha or faith, Astha-15 brings back the faith of the healthcare fraternity in Ayurveda. The pathbreaking medicine acts as a bronchodilator, decongestant, anti-inflammatory and lung detoxifier. It helps in eliminating the infection and regulating the allergic reactions. This has a specific action on the mucosa of the respiratory tract and the muscular walls of the lungs that act as the airways. It has an anti-inflammatory effect which reduces inflammation and congestion inside the lungs. Its continuous use reduces the damage on the lungs and the muscular walls and brings out a significant reversal in their dysfunction. All these disorders which have been found in Covid-19 patients have been confirmed to be treated by Astha-15.Dalmia Healthcare had earlier sought approval for Astha-15 by conducting a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of polyherbal combination for the treatment of Covid-19 along with standard care approved as per AYUSH/ICMR guidelines. After two successful phases, Phase III trial was conducted on 120 subjects at multi-centric sites viz. JNUIMSRC, Jaipur, Govt. Medical College & Govt. General hospital, Srikakulam (Old RIMSGGH) and RGMC & CSMH, Thane by following the regulatory guidelines of AYUSH and the Informed Consent Declaration, Insurance Terms and Hospital Ethics Committee approvals which are registered at DCGI to perform the clinical trial.Astha-15 will be made available in the First Phase through prescriptions written for mild and moderate Covid patients undergoing treatment in Covid Hospitals. Dalmia Healthcare would be applying for permission/approval of Astha-15 usage in allopathic hospitals, as per the procedure in each hospital.Also Read: Bank of England governor Bailey says Covid-19 vaccine news lifts uncertaintyAbout Dalmia Health Care Dalmia Healthcare Limited (DHL), a Dalmia Group Company, has made foray into the healthcare business in the year 2000 and offers plant-based formulations (Ayurvedic/herbal) prepared through scientific validation followed by clinical trials undertaken by its research centre, Dalmia Centre for Research and Development (DCRD).The essence of pre-marketing efforts focuses on clinical trials compared and measured with those for various Allopathic drugs indicated for similar conditions. Extensive toxicological studies are conducted while formulating DHL products in order to ensure that our products are safe and devoid of adverse side-effects. All products of Dalmia Healthcare are manufactured and evaluated in accordance with the standards of modern medical parameters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-approves-manufacture-of-ayurvedic-covid-19-drug/story-0tfVN24dCHcX142yaeFFIJ.html
12-11-2020||India||BrahMos to be exported to third countries starting with Philippines: Russian official||India and Russia are planning to export the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile to the Philippines and several other countries, Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin said on Thursday.The BrahMos missile is produced by an Indo-Russian joint venture and it can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft or from land platforms.People familiar with the talks on export of the missile said India is likely to ink an agreement with the Philippines early next year to supply a batch of BrahMos to the Southeast Asian country.In the last few weeks, several tests of the new version of missile were carried out in multiple locations. The range of the new version of the missile has been extended to 400 km from the original 290 km.Also Read | India, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terrorHowever, its speed has been maintained at Mach 2.8 which is nearly three times that of sound.“All tests of contemporary versions are successful. They were carried out mainly to increase the range of this exclusive missile. We are exporting it to third countries beginning with the Philippines,” Babushkin said at an online media briefing.It is learnt that India has held preliminary rounds of talks with the Philippines for supply of the missile.On October 18, a naval version of the BrahMos missile was successfully test fired from an indigenously-built stealth destroyer of the Indian Navy in the Arabian sea.Days later, the Indian Air Force test-fired an air launched version of the BrahMos missile from a Sukhoi fighter aircraft in the Bay of Bengal.A number of countries including in the Gulf region showed interests in procuring the missile.India has already deployed a sizeable number of the original BrahMos missiles and other key assets in several strategic locations along the de-facto border with China in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh.The IAF is also integrating the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile on over 40 Sukhoi fighter jets which is aimed at bolstering overall combat capability of the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-to-be-exported-to-third-countries-starting-with-philippines-russian-official/story-0faa9Tx75cY4JsyYLEi8CP.html
12-11-2020||India||Akshaya Patra aims to serve mid-day meals to 5 million children by 2025||Standing on the threshold of three decades of service, the Akshaya Patra Foundation announced it aims to serve mid-day meals to five million children by 2025.On November 11, 2000, twenty years ago, the Foundations first kitchen was inaugurated by the then Minister of Human Resource Development, Murli Manohar Joshi, and Karnataka Chief Minister S M Krishna.Today, Akshaya Patra is commemorating two decades of making a positive impact on the lives of children by providing them wholesome mid-day meals.As the implementing partner of the Government of India’s flagship school feeding programme, the Mid-Day Meal Scheme, Akshaya Patra serves over 1.8 million children in 19,039 Government and Government-aided schools across 12 States and 2 Union Territories, the Foundation said in a statement.The Foundation stated it has cumulatively served over 3.3 billion mid-day meals to children since its inception in 2000.With the schools closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foundation is currently providing assistance to the Government’s efforts of providing meals to vulnerable communities in 18 states and two UTs with the proactive support of its donors.Over 100 million meals have been served since March 2020 in the form of freshly cooked food and food relief kits with essential groceries. Akshaya Patra said its mission is to reach five million children by 2025. “The organisation will strive to enhance its initiatives with solutions focusing on food and nutrition security for children and implement innovative solutions to supplement welfare programmes to contribute to their health and well-being,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akshaya-patra-aims-to-serve-mid-day-meals-to-5-million-children-by-2025/story-bX0mPgDIhwEKZuEVTVDzKP.html
12-11-2020||India||‘Deliberate’: Centre puts Twitter on notice for showing Leh as part of J&K||The ministry of Electronics and IT has issued a notice to Twitter seeking explanation in five days as to why legal action shouldn’t be taken against the social media platform for disrespecting India’s territorial integrity as Twitter has shown Leh as part of J&K, not Ladakh. The notice has been sent to global Vice President of Twitter, people familiar with development said. It also termed the mistake as an “deliberate attempt to undermine the will of sovereign Parliament of India” which had declared Ladakh as a Union Territory of India with its headquarters in Leh.Ministry in its notice sent to global Vice President of Twitter has mentioned that showing Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir is a deliberate attempt by Twitter to undermine the will of sovereign Parliament of India which had declared Ladakh as a Union Territory of India with its headquarter in Leh. A Twitter spokesperson said they have responded to the letter and shared a comprehensive update with the government. “Twitter remains committed to partnering with the Government of India and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to serve the public conversation. We have duly responded to the letter and, as part of our correspondence, shared a comprehensive update with the latest developments regarding the geo-tag issue,” the spokesperson said. This goof-up adds to series of mistakes that Twitter has recently done in geo-tagging. Earlier, Twitter had shown Leh as part of China after which secretary, Ministry of Electronics & IT had written to Twitter CEO raising an objection. In response, Twitter had rectified the error. But it has not yet corrected the map to show Leh as part of Union Territory of Ladakh, the ministry said.Recently, a parliamentary committee reviewing India’s privacy bill observed that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate. The act accounts to a criminal offence with an imprisonment of seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-notice-to-twitter-for-showing-leh-as-part-of-j-k/story-owtKNwOyiRuS5fnYqQnpeN.html
12-11-2020||India||‘BJP uses everything to win elections’: Akhilesh Yadav alleges irregularities in Bihar polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday alleged irregularities in the Bihar Assembly polls and claimed that the opposition Grand Alliance was poised to win the election but “could not do so at the last moment”.“We wanted to talk about the irregularities done with us (in Uttar Pradesh), but a more serious one has happened in Bihar. Tejashwi Yadav was poised to make his government but could not do so at the last moment. All those who have faith in democratic values are unhappy today and asking if this is how elections will be fought,” he told reporters here.Yadav claimed that with only 14,000 more votes, the opposition alliance would have emerged as victorious in Bihar. “The Bihar election was more nail-biting than the US (presidential) polls. I do not know which trick the BJP used. This is the speciality of the BJP,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.He said elections today have become mathematics.“The BJP uses everything to win elections. I can give an example and also play a video to prove as to how all the officials, from the DM to police, were involved (in Uttar Pradesh). At some places, even during the checking of the body temperature while the voters were going in to cast their votes, they were threatened that such a temperature would be shown which would directly shift them to a hospital and ambulances were also deployed,” Yadav said.He asserted that the SP would not leave the path of development come what may and claimed that the party’s schemes were being repackaged by the current BJP-led government.“I can say it on record that we had given farmers and women pension. Maximum bank accounts and bank branches were opened during the SP regime and online transfer of money had also started, but this government only indulges in publicity and we will also do the same now,” Yadav said.He also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for its claims of giving 50 lakh jobs, asking it to name the departments where these jobs were provided. He also asked what happened to the claims of investments worth over Rs four lakh crore in the state, as claimed by the government.“When the time comes, we will bring a scheme and spell out the details of where we will be giving jobs to youngsters,” the SP president said.At least three farmers of Ayodhya also spoke at the press conference and recounted their problems at the hands of officials over land acquisition in their villages for the Sri Ram Airport and development of Ayodhya.They alleged that the officials were harassing them for signing the agreement under which their land is being acquired at very low rates. They also said they met Chief Minister Adityanath over the issue, after which the atrocities of the officials went up.Assuring all possible help from his party to the farmers of Dharampur, Ganja and Kutia gram sabhas who recounted their problems, Yadav said the government is taking land for a pious work and needs to show a big heart and revise the circle rate as there is never any dearth of money for it to serve people.He said the compensation amount for the farmers of these villages should be six times more than what they are being offered.Citing the example of the Agra-Lucknow expressway, the SP leader said the land for it was acquired after giving compensation to the satisfaction of the farmers. PTI SAB SMI RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-uses-everything-to-win-elections-akhilesh-yadav-alleges-irregularities-in-bihar-polls/story-cdFVjElw71pW8svPwaZ3mO.html
12-11-2020||India||Rajasthan: Gurjar stir over reservation called off||A major Gurjar organisation on Thursday called off its 11-day agitation over reservation in jobs and education after reaching a consensus with the Rajasthan government, a community leader said.The protesters had been squatting on a rail track in Bharatpur’s Bayana affecting traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai rail route.They had also blocked the Hindaun-Bayana road.The Gurjars vacated the railway track early Thursday morning after the agreement with the state government was read out to them by their leaders, police said. Gurjar leader Vijay Bainsla said the fish plates uprooted by the protesters had been put back in place. A fish plate is a metal bar bolted to the ends of two rails to join them together in a track. “We came to an agreement with the state government... Community has agreed to the settlement. We are vacating the track. Trains will resume soon,”.The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti has agreed to the government’s proposal of giving Rs. 5 lakh compensation and a government job to a family member of those who died in police action in the different agitations over the years, granting regular pay scale to 1,252 candidates who have completed a two-year probation in government jobs, and withdrawal of police cases against protesters.  The government has also agreed to implement the agreement reached between the two sides in February 2020 apart from constituting a committee for pending recruitment, and approving more beds in girls hostel in Jaipur.Meanwhile, mobile internet services, which were suspended in parts of the state due to the agitation, were restored following the announcement to call off the stir. After a marathon meeting with a ministerial group on Wednesday, the Gurjar delegation, including Col Kirori Singh Bainsla, met Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.However, the delegation had said on Wednesday night that they would take a decision on calling off the agitation at the protest site in Bayana. “A consensus has been reached over the demands with the state government. We have trust that the government will work on the agreement. However, we will take a decision on the calling off of the agitation at the protest site,” Vijay Bainsla had said after the meeting.On October 31, a delegation of the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti held discussions with a Cabinet sub-committee in Jaipur, in which a consensus had emerged on 14 points but it was not accepted by Kirori Singh Bainsla and his supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-gurjar-stir-over-reservation-called-off/story-rxnxEZrglRceWxXROXXhJP.html
12-11-2020||India||Court allows video medical check-up for jailed activist Varavara Rao||A division bench of the Bombay High Court has directed the government of Maharashtra and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to arrange for a video medical consultation by doctors of Nanavati Hospital for 81-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, in jail since 2018 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. The court directed that the consultation should take place on Thursday or on early Friday morning, and that the report should be submitted to the court on November 16. The court also directed doctors from Nanavati hospital and the state that if they were unable to ascertain Rao’s medical condition then they should visit Taloja jail or arrange for some doctor to check up on the activist. The bench, comprising justices AK Menon and SP Tavade, was also hearing a writ petition filed by P Hemlatha, Rao’s wife. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for Rao, informed the court that there was an urgency to hear the petition because a co-inmate of Rao from Taloja prison had talked to Hemlata on Wednesday and informed her that Rao’s health was deteriorating fast. The NIA, in its affidavit, confirmed that the health of Rao was not good but the doctors at Taloja jail were regularly checking his condition and providing all necessary treatment. In light of these facts, Jaising sought Rao to be transferred back to Nanavati Hospital from Taloja prison. “There is a legitimate apprehension that Rao will lose his life if he continues to be kept in Taloja jail. The court was not informed about Rao being shifted out of Nanavati Hospital to Taloja jail. No medical report has been submitted after July 30,” argued Jaising. “Condition of detention cannot be cruel, inhuman and degrading. But it is in the case of Rao. It is violating his rights under article 21 and 32 of the constitution. If he dies in jail it will be a case of custodial death,” said Jaisingh. The lawyer then sought an interim order to get Rao back in Nanavati Hospital and also to constitute an independent board of doctors to assess the condition of Rao and submit its report in the court. To a question by the bench on “why not have a board before shifting to Nanavati Hospital”, Jaising responded “Taloja prison does not have the wherewithal”. Jaising went on to criticise the affidavit filed by NIA and said, “It does not mention his current health condition but only talks about his crime and UAPA. The NIA has not done its homework while preparing the affidavit. It seems the affidavit is intended to prejudice the court.” Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the NIA, and chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare however refuted the allegations of Jaising and said that the doctors at Taloja jail were regularly keeping a check on Rao’s condition. Thakare also submitted a medical report of November 12 wherein it was stated that all checks had been conducted in consultation with Nanavati hospital doctors. Singh further added that the agency was concerned about the health of Rao and hence had him shifted him to Nanavati hospital based on the request of the family of Rao. He added that the family had been given video calling access to Rao as and when they had requested it, hence the allegations by Jaising were not valid. Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family had alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. “He was not normal at the time of discharge. While Sodium normal range was 134-145, he attained only 133 and potassium normal range was 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital record. But, later on June 2 it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of conspiracy by the police. June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in the NIA Special Sessions Court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” the family had then issued a statement Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after voices were raised from various quarters, Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. Later he was shifted to St George’s Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also intervened and issued notices to the Maharashtra government asking it to ensure Rao is taken care of and adequate medical facilities are arranged. It had also asked for a report on Rao’s health. The commission had observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty bound to provide the same to a prisoner as well. Maharashtra state has been directed to constitute a medical board to examine Rao’s health, provide him the best possible treatment and bear the cost for the same. Rao was then moved to Nanavati hospital for treatment. He was shifted back to Taloja jail on August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-allows-video-medical-check-up-for-jailed-activist-varavara-rao/story-y8nLq58AfLwWZuEMWomPvK.html
12-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Philippines to sign deal on BrahMos missile during summit next year and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, Philippines to sign deal on BrahMos missile during summit next yearIndia and the Philippines are looking to sign an agreement on the BrahMos cruise missile during a planned summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Rodrigo Duterte next year, making the Southeast Asian country the first customer for the weapons system developed jointly by New Delhi and Moscow. Read more‘Public is with us, it’s win for Grand Alliance’: Tejashwi Yadav in first comments after Bihar poll resultsRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, whose party emerged as the single-largest in the Bihar Assembly elections, told reporters on Thursday that even if someone else sits on the chief minister’s chair, the people’s mandate was clearly in his favour. Read moreFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announces ‘Atmanirbhar 3.0’, new employment scheme among is the highlightFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a set of measures for the economy in the wake of the coronavirus disease pandemic. This is yet another stimulus package ahead of Diwali on Saturday. Read moreLooking forward to play my role as administrator as India prepare to host T20 World Cup next year: BCCI President Sourav GangulyIndia are set to host the T20 World Cup next year and the BCCI President Sourav Ganguly believes that hosting the prestigious global event is a matter of great honour for the board. Read moreAlia Bhatt aces comfy winter fashion in Rs 97k Gucci sweater with Bambi-like fawn as she heads for Brahmastra dubbingAlia Bhatt and Ranbir Kapoor are busy dubbing for their latest and also first film together, Brahmastra, which also stars Amitabh Bachchan, Nagarjuna Akkineni, Dimple Kapadia and Mouni Roy.  Read moreLudo movie review: Abhishek Bachchan, Rajkummar Rao, Pankaj Tripathi roll the dice in an absurd, whimsical worldAnurag Basu brings to life an absurd world in his dark comedy, on Netflix. With Abhishek Bachchan, Rajkummar Rao, Pankaj Tripathi, Fatima Sana Shaikh, Sanya Malhotra and Aditya Roy Kapur in the cast, it delivers on its premise. Read more2021 Suzuki V-Strom 650 XT breaks coverWhile India is yet to receive the BS 6-compliant Suzuki V-Strom 650 which was showcased at the Auto Expo earlier this year, the company has now revealed the new 2021 V-Strom 650 XT for the Australian market. Read moreIndonesian YouTubers recreate Tina’s entry scene from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. WatchRemember the Indonesian YouTubers who recreated Bole Chudiyan from Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham and Zara Sa Jhoom Loon Main from Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge. Read moreWatch: Fifth Scorpene class submarine ‘Vagir’ launched at Mazagaon DockIn a big boost to the Indian Navy, the fifth Scorpene-class submarine was ‘Vagir’ was launched at the Mazagaon Dock in Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-philippines-to-sign-deal-on-brahmos-missile-during-summit-next-year-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ces5zvirxHR0LzxEyeN5GP.html
12-11-2020||India||Celine Gounder, member of Biden’s Covid-19 taskforce runs trust for kids in dad’s TN village||US President elect Joe Biden’s victory has set off a frenzy to trace his roots as well as that of his team members to different parts of India. The latest to celebrate the connection is Perumapalayam village in Erode district of Tamil Nadu which is proud of Celine Gounder, an infectious diseases expert, internist and epidemiologist who has been appointed to the American President-elect’s 12-member Covid-19 transition advisory board.Gounder’s father, Raj Gounder was born into a poor farming family in this village and later migrated to the US in the 1960s. According to his family members, Raj Gounder studied under street lights and is the first graduate of the village. After his death in 2014, the family set up the Raj Gounder Foundation in his hometown to support education for children. Celine Gounder, 43 had come to the village last in 2018. Accompanied by her husband Grant Wahl, a sports journalist, she inaugurated a smart classroom facility at her father’s alma mater- Modakurichi Government Boys School.On Tuesday night, Gounder spoke to her second cousin Devaraj Nallasivam on a video call about how the team hasn’t officially spoken to the American press but she was swamped with interview requests from Tamil news outlets. “Celine wishes her father could see that she has been given such an important responsibility,” said Nallasivam who is also secretary of the Foundation. “At least one family member visits us every year to maintain close ties. The entire village gathers at our home and Celine speaks a few Tamil words.” Besides supporting her father’s school, the trust also provides daily meals to an adjacent special school that includes children with autism and other developmental disabilities. “Since schools are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have been delivering groceries to their homes,” said Nallasivam.Gounder is currently a faculty at the school of medicine in New York University. In 2015, she volunteered as an Ebola aid worker in Guinea and is an expert commentator on Ebola, Zika and opioid abuse epidemics for American news outlets.American politician and New York City public advocate, Jumaane William tweeted that he received guidance from Gounder to develop the Covid-19 police responses and now, “the nation can benefit”. She studied TB and HIV in South Africa, Ethiopia and Brazil between 1998 and 2012. “She is service oriented,” says Nallasivam. “She also conducts research on genetic diseases in our village during her visits.” Gounder’s aim is to work for underserved populations through the public health system.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami congratulated Gounder and another Indian-origin American Vivek Murthy for being part of the virus taskforce. With good wishes pouring in from Tamil Nadu and also questions about her last name-- a caste name (a politically influential community in the AIADMK), Gounder said her father had changed his name from Natarajan to Gounder as Americans had difficulty pronouncing it. My name is part of my history and identity, “even if some of that history is painful,” tweeted Gounder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celine-gounder-member-of-biden-s-covid-19-taskforce-runs-trust-for-kids-in-dad-s-tn-village/story-CKaR3kVqW2potIflYAcNgP.html
12-11-2020||India||Russia to consider India’s request for speedy delivery of S-400 air defence systems||Russia will attempt to comply with any Indian request to expedite the delivery of five S-400 air defence systems, with the first batch scheduled to be handed over to New Delhi by the end of 2021, a Russian diplomat said on Thursday. The two countries are also close to finalising a deal for Ka-226 multi-purpose helicopters that will ensure the highest possible amount of localisation of components in line with the Make in India and AatmaNirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiatives, Russia’s deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin said. The $5.4-billion deal for the S-400 air defence systems is being implemented according to schedule and the first batch will reach India by the end of next year. “If there is a request from the Indian side to expedite [the] S-400 [delivery], we will be ready to do our best to satisfy this requirement,” Babushkin said. Also Read: Escalation of India-China tensions will hit regional stability; need to negotiate settlement: RussiaThe India-China border standoff has spurred calls from some quarters for seeking the expedited delivery of the air defence systems despite the possibility of US sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). India made the first payment of $850 million for the S-400s last year and New Delhi and Moscow have worked out a comprehensive system to insulate payments from US sanctions. Babushkin said India and Russia are very close to finalising the deal for supplying 200 Kamov Ka-226 helicopters, 140 of which will be produced in India with “maximum possible level of localisation”. The $2-billion deal is “at the final stages of consideration”, he added. The two sides are also negotiating the contract for the production of more than 700,000 Kalashnikov AK-203 assault rifles by a joint venture and advanced cooperation on the Su-30MKI jets, T-90 main battle tanks, frigates, submarines and missiles. Russia will have a large presence at the Aero India 2021 expo in Bengaluru and is also working towards the early implementation of an agreement on joint production of spare parts for Russian-origin military harware. Besides partnering India to supply military systems such as the BrahMos cruise missile to third countries, Russia is working on a mutual logistics support agreement and on strengthening maritime cooperation, including in the Indian Ocean, Babushkin said. Referring to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad that includes India, Australia, Japan and the US and the Malabar naval exercise by these four countries, Babushkin said Moscow has no doubts about New Delhi’s approach for promoting “inclusive maritime, connectivity, disaster management, blue economy and humanitarian cooperation in the Indian and Pacific Oceans”. However, the understanding of the Indo-Pacific strategy among member states of the Quad is different, and a “comprehensive, all-inclusive, open-minded and forward-looking dialogue” is required on the issue, he said. Russia is also opposed to “restricted security blocs and imposing forced changes in supply chains for geopolitical reasons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-to-consider-india-s-request-for-speedy-delivery-of-s-400-air-defence-systems/story-GfTHsRVMB4JOEivinm9gZL.html
12-11-2020||India||Diwali: Telangana high court orders ban on sale, bursting of firecrackers||Two days before Diwali, the Telangana high court on Thursday ordered a complete ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers for the rest of the year citing the Covid-19 pandemic.A division bench comprising chief justice Raghavendra Chowhan and justice B Vijayasen Reddy issued the order on lawyer Puligilla Indra Prakash petition. It directed the government to close firecracker shops and penalise those who violate the ban.The court asked the government to give wide publicity to content on ill-effects of bursting firecrackers during the pandemic via electronic and print media.Also read | Delhi’s air quality improves, may deteriorate again over Diwali weekend“The court agreed with the contentions that the pollution from the crackers would escalate the spread of Covid-19 and that was precisely why many other states have banner firecrackers,” said Prakash.The court backed the argument that since people were frequently using alcohol-based sanitisers, bursting of crackers during Diwali would pose an additional threat.“Moreover, physical distancing is not possible during the celebrations. Children and senior citizens are more vulnerable since it is not possible to identify people who are already affected by the virus,” Prakash said.Advocate general B S Prasad told the court the government had not so far taken any decision on banning firecrackers. He added necessary steps would be taken as per the National Green Tribunal’s guidelines.The court posted the case for the next hearing on November 19 when the government has been asked to file a report on the measures taken to implement the ban and the penalties awarded to the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-telangana-high-court-orders-ban-on-sale-bursting-of-firecrackers/story-WLhP1BoF5U1HlsznCSbIRM.html
12-11-2020||India||We couldn’t take our family photo like every year, says PM Modi at 17th ASEAN-India Summit||The strategic partnership of India and ASEAN is based on our shared historical, geographical and cultural heritage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, addressing the 17th ASEAN-India summit. “ASEAN has always been the core of our Act East Policy. There are many similarities between India’s Indo Pacific Oceans Initiative’ & ASEAN’s ‘Outlook on Indo Pacific’” the PM said.Prime Minister Modi talked about the Covid-19 pandemic and said that unlike other years, there will be no ‘family photo’ of the meet.“We want to increase connectivity between India and ASEAN in every sector,” the PM said. Though the meeting is virtual, the effort is to bridge the gap among us, PM Modi said.The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is one of the most significant groups in the region. Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia are its members. India, the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners.Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc co-chaired the meet.“The leaders will discuss ways to further strengthen ASEAN-India engagement and in this context will note the adoption of ASEAN-India Plan of Action (2021-2025). Covid-19, post-pandemic economic recovery and important regional and international developments will also be discussed at the summit,” the MEA had said in a statement.“ASEAN-India strategic partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilisational ties. India’s Act East Policy, underlining ASEAN centrality, reflects the importance, India attaches to engagement with ASEAN,” the MEA stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-couldn-t-take-our-family-photo-like-every-year-pm-modi-at-17th-asean-india-summit/story-Cy8Ku3lTg5HE4vhMdemnOL.html
12-11-2020||India||Stones thrown at state BJP chief’s convoy in north Bengal; black flags shown||Three cars in West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Dilip Ghosh’s convoy were damaged after stones were thrown on them at Jaigaon in Alipurduar district on Thursday morning. Nobody was injured in the attack even as the windows of one car were completely smashed. The attackers also waved black flags and raised “go back” slogans.Ghosh, who was on a three-day tour to North Bengal, blamed the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers for the attack even as it insisted it was staged.“Such attacks are not new to me. Several of my cars were vandalised in the past. The TMC is scared of our growth. It knows that its days are numbered. These attacks cannot stop the BJP,” Ghosh said.Tourism minister Gautam Deb denied TMC’s involvement in the incident. “The attack was staged because the BJP wants to stay in the limelight. Our party does not believe in violence.”Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar condemned the incident. “No political leader should face such attacks. This is deplorable,” Dhankhar said.BJP’s state youth wing president Saumitra Khan said they will stage demonstrations in all towns against the attack.Minister Firhad Hakim said whoever is involved in the incident will face action. “I condemn the attack but our party is not involved in this.”Kuntal Banerjee, additional superintendent of police, Alipurduar, refused to comment on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-thrown-at-state-bjp-chief-s-convoy-in-north-bengal-black-flags-shown/story-sEw1WV6wAh7kuLUMtZunFK.html
12-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh set to get 18 new air quality monitoring stations||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has begun the process of setting up 18 new Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) in eight cities of the state.Five such air quality monitoring stations will come up in Agra, one each in Mathura and Firozabad, two each in Lucknow and Kanpur besides three each in Varanasi and Prayagraj. One station will also be set up in Gorakhpur, said UPPCB regional officer (Prayagraj) Pradeep Kumar Vishwakarma.The move comes when air pollution in different cities of the country and the state are at an all-time high.At present, the state has 25 Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations in 13 cities, including four each in Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Noida, three in Meerut, two in Greater Noida, besides one each in Agra, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Kanpur, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar and Varanasi, he added.All 18 new air quality monitoring stations would be set up on land provided by UPPCB. Five of them would come up with funds provided by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and 10 from funds provided by the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). The one in Gorakhpur would be set up through UPPCB’s own resources, officials said.The UPPCB member-secretary, on behalf of the board, has already invited international bids for these high-end 24x7 monitoring stations, which would be connected to a data centre to come up at the UPPCB headquarters in Lucknow and provide real-time data regarding the Air Quality Index (AQI) at any given moment, Vishwakarma added.UPPCB officials said the plan was to award a single bidder the responsibility of “supply, installation and commissioning” of all 18 air quality monitoring stations in these eight cities where in they would have to depute one technician at each site to manage it besides a project officer and a data processor. The responsibility of managing these stations would be awarded to the bidder for a period of five years, they added. As part of the initiative, one daylight and night visible data display system will also be installed near the station to display air quality readings. AQI is a tool for effective communication of air quality status to people in terms which are easy to understand. It transforms complex air quality data of various pollutants into a single number (index value), nomenclature and colour. There are six AQI categories, namely good, satisfactory, moderately polluted, poor, very poor and severe. Each of these categories is decided based on ambient concentration values of air pollutants and their likely health impacts, known as health breakpoints.Air quality sub-index and health breakpoints are evolved for eight pollutants — PM10, PM2.5, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO), ozone (O3), ammonia (NH3) and lead (Pb) — for which short-term (up to 24 hours) National Ambient Air Quality Standards are prescribed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-set-to-get-18-new-air-quality-monitoring-stations/story-8HMCBzVXJYluBLbqmccDsO.html
12-11-2020||India||Mumbai court gives bail to Rana Kapoor’s daughter Roshni in Yes Bank case||Amagistrate court here on Thursday granted bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoors daughter Roshni Kapoor, an accused in the Yes Bank fraud case linked to DHFL, after she appeared before the court in response to summons issued to her.Roshni Kapoor was summoned by the court last month in connection with the case. She is one of the eight accused named in the charge sheet filed in the case by the CBI.Roshini Kapoor was granted bail by a magistrate’s court, her lawyer Subash Jadhav said.In June this year, the CBI filed the charge sheet against Rana Kapoor and others under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act and Indian Penal Code.However, the charges of corruption were dropped by the special CBI court as the prosecution did not obtain the sanction needed to prosecute under the PC Act.Thus, the case was shifted to the magistrate court for trial.The magistrate court last month accepted the charge sheet filed by the CBI and issued summons to all the accused who are not arrested in the case, including Roshni Kapoor and four other companies DHFL, Belief Realtors Pvt Ltd, RKW Project PVT Ltd, DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.Responding to the summons, Roshni Kapoor appeared before the magistrate court and sought bail.As per the central agency, in return for investment in Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) debentures by Yes Bank, companies controlled by Rana Kapoor and his family members allegedly got undue benefits.The scam started between April and June 2018, when the Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL, the CBI has alleged.In return, DHFL promoters (Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan) allegedly “paid kickback of Rs 600 crore” in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a firm controlled by Kapoor’s wife and daughters, it has claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-court-gives-bail-to-rana-kapoor-s-daughter-roshni-in-yes-bank-case/story-2Mka0DfEPOHUeV8fM3jJNM.html
12-11-2020||India||Four Iranians held by Kerala police on suspected charges of robbery||The Kerala Police on Wednesday arrested four Iranian nationals suspected to be part of an international burglars’ gang from a hotel in the state capital. Police said they were rounded up when they were planning to rob a money exchange outlet in Thiruvananthapuram.After initial questioning the police said they were part of a 24-member gang involved in many robberies in financial institutions and ATMs. Soon after their photos were uploaded on the official website of Kerala police many complaints came to light.Two days back they allegedly duped a trader in Cherthala in Alappuzha district of Rs 50,000. Police suspect that they might have got some local support in carrying out their activities. Later they were handed over to the police in Alappuzha district.According to the police, all four were holding Iranian passports and they were in the country for more than eight months and two of them had stayed on after the expiry of their visa period. Their visa markings show they visited Nepal and Thailand. A senior official said Delhi and Mumbai police contacted them seeking more details. He said investigation to net other gang members was progressing with the help of other states and central agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-iranians-held-by-kerala-police-on-suspected-charges-of-robbery/story-Ka0V4g8ZvThuVv1ZXopXuM.html
12-11-2020||India||Top ULFA militant’s surrender marks end of insurgency in Meghalaya: DGP||Meghalaya Director General of Police R Chandranathan on Thursday said the insurgency in the state has come to an end with the surrender of banned ULFA (Independent) outfit’s second-in-command Dhrishti Rajkhowa.Rajkhowa, a close confidant of ULFA (I)’s self- proclaimed ‘commander-in-chief’ Paresh Baruah, along with four other militants surrendered before the Army near the India- Bangladesh border in South Garo Hills district on Wednesday.He was active in the Garo Hills region and had aided several other insurgent outfits.“Rajkhowa’s surrender marks the end of two-decade-long armed conflict in the restive Garo Hills region in particular and Meghalaya in general,” the DGP told PTI.“He was under tremendous pressure. It was just a matter of time before he surrendered. He was left with no other option but to give up arms,” the top police officer said.Chandranathan said the militant had earlier narrowly escaped twice this year in encounters with the state police.Also Read: Four days on, hope fades for families of those trapped in Assam’s Kopili hydel project“We had missed him twice this year. In the latest encounter, one of his bodyguards was injured but he had escaped unhurt,” the police chief said.There are five-six pending cases against Rajkhowa and the Meghalaya Police will pursue legally to get him for trial in the state, he said.“We are bringing him here for the heinous crimes he had committed, including murder and extortion,” Chandranathan said.Rajkhowa had contacted his wife in Assam and directed her to get the Army involved for his “safe” surrender as he did not trust the Meghalaya Police, a source told PTI.While the Army was discreetly transporting Rajkhowa and his four other aides to Assam in civilian vehicles after their surrender, the Meghalaya Police stopped them in East Garo Hills district around 6 pm on Wednesday evening, he said.“It is then that Rajkhowa reportedly told a senior police officer that he had earlier thought of surrendering but decided against it because every time he came across the police in Garo Hills, an exchange of fire would ensue,” the source said.He admitted to having been present during the Bolbokgre encounter in Rongara area of South Garo Hills district two weeks ago and said Bangladesh was no longer a safe haven for him, the source said.Born Manoj Rabha in Assam’s Goalpara district, 50- year-old Dhrishti Rajkhowa alias Bura Dada is believed to have personally trained several top insurgents in the Garo Hills region in jungle warfare, besides providing several militant outfits with arms and ammunition in exchange for money.The Meghalaya government had formed a 10 company- strong counter-insurgency force, Special Force (SF) 10, in 2014 to fight the militants. Since then, it has neutralised several top insurgents in the region, including Garo National Liberation Army (GNLA)’s self-proclaimed ‘commander-in-chief’ Sohan D Shira in February, 2018.Rajkhowa had narrowly escaped death during Shira’s encounter as he had gone to a stream for a bath, the ULFA (I) militant told the Meghalaya Police on Wednesday evening, as per the source.He, along with four other ULFA (I) militants, surrendered before an Army team from Assam at Dilsengre village near the India-Bangladesh border and laid down an AK- 81 assault rifle, two 9 mm pistols and 107 cartridges.Of late, militancy in Meghalaya was largely concentrated in the Garo Hills region. However, many GNLA insurgents have laid down arms following the deployment of SF-10 commandos in the region.Other militant outfits like ANVC, ANVC-B and the UALA have signed a peace agreement with the Meghalaya government, while Khasi Hills-based group HNLC, with a cadre strength of less than 20, is considered largely inactive and has not been involved in subversive activities for many years, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-ulfa-militant-s-surrender-marks-end-of-insurgency-in-meghalaya-dgp/story-G6zsMqKOvaimvkwfPuXPDK.html
12-11-2020||India||Will try to fulfil public expectations, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan on by-poll win||Recognising the resounding victory achieved in the by-elections, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that his government was bound to try and fulfil the public’s expectations without wasting any time.“After attaining the historic mandate in by-elections, we are bound to try to fulfil the public’s expectations without wasting any time. To provide roads, electricity and water is the main focus of this roadmap. It’s our attempt in pursuing the Atmanirbhar Bharat vision of the Prime Minister,” Chouhan said.The Chief Minister said this after the virtual launch of ‘Roadmap to Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh, 2023’ in Bhopal, today. The event was attended by the Chief Executive Officer of the NITI Aayog, Amitabh Kant.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered a crucial victory in the fiercely contested Madhya Pradesh by-polls winning on 19 seats and trouncing the Congress that managed to secure just 9 seats.Also Read | BJP regains lost bastion in Gwalior-Chambal belt in MP bypollsAccording to the Election Commission of India, BJP secured a vote share of 49.5 per cent where Congress got 40.5 per cent votes.Polling was held on November 3 on 28 seats. By-elections were necessitated on 28 seats following the resignation of 25 MLAs and the death of three legislators earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-try-to-fulfil-public-expectations-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-on-by-poll-win/story-wXF5Dq4vpAbch5EKh4YhgN.html
12-11-2020||India||‘If you want to blow your money up’: What Adar Poonawalla’s father told him before he took Covid-19 vaccine ‘gamble’||Stakes are high on Adar Poonawalla’s Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, as it has already made 40 million doses of Astrazeneca’s potential Covid-19 vaccine and is starting production of a few others. So far, there has been no adverse impact reported during the trials in India. SII has announced the completion of the enrolment of participants in phase 3, which is also the final phase of trial. But this is not the end. The Pune-based pharma company will soon move to produce other vaccine shots.In an interview to Washington Post, Adar Poonawalla has revealed that he has put $250 million of his family’s fortune. In the interview, Adar has said his father Cyrus Poonawalla, who is known as the vaccine king of India, was one of the early critics who doubted where putting so much money won’t be much of a gamble. “He said: ‘Look, it’s your money. If you want to blow it up, fine.’” Adar Poonawalla recounted his father’s first reaction. In the interview, Adar has also busted two vaccine myths: one, there will be one successful vaccine candidate which will ensure immunity for a definite period of time, two, the world will be immunized two, three years. He said it won’t be done until 2024, and there will be no one vaccine. The immunity period that a vaccine could assure is still darkness, Adar has said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Adar decided to go all out. According to his plan, after Covishield (the Oxford vaccine), there will be at least one vaccine every quarter. The Poonawallas have floated a new company as well — Serum Institute of Life Sciences which will focus on research and development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-want-to-blow-your-money-up-what-adar-poonawalla-s-father-told-him-before-he-took-covid-19-vaccine-gamble/story-WmtmhJ1hbNwFnT2A3ehkkO.html
12-11-2020||India||‘No impediment in correcting DOB in records of birth,’ says Bombay High Court||Observing that there is no legal impediment in correcting the date of birth, recorded in the Register of Births and Deaths, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has directed the Registrar of Births and Deaths at Nagpur to correct the date of birth and maiden surname of a Dombivli resident.“After going through the rule (Rule 11(1) of the Maharashtra Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 2000), we find that a clerical or formal error made in the register can be corrected by the competent authority upon the satisfaction that such error has genuinely occurred,” said the bench of Justice RK Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, while allowing the belated claim of Dombivli resident Archana Tamhane.The 67-year-old had approached the Registrar of Births and Deaths at Nagpur for correction in her date of birth and maiden surname, as the US administration had denied her a green card due to discrepancies in her maiden surname and the date of birth, as recorded in her birth certificate and in her school and employment records.She had applied to the Registrar on February 6, 2020 complaining that her maiden surname was wrongly recorded as “Kotawat” in her birth certificate, instead of “Kotwal” and her date of birth was recorded as January 23, 1954, instead of January 24, 1954.The Registrar rejected her application on March 24, 2020, stating that her claim for change in the date of birth cannot be entertained; this compelled her to approach the high court.Tamhane’s counsel, advocate AD Mohgaonkar, submitted that there was no legal prohibition on correcting date of birth in the register. He pointed out the provision contained in Rule 11(1) of the Maharashtra Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 2000 allows corrections in date of birth.Responding to the petition, the Registrar agreed to correct the maiden surname of the petitioner. He, however, strenuously opposed the prayer; taking a stand that relevancy is attached to public record under Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act. Besides, the Registrar also relied on the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on June 30, 2015 and instructions issued by the Maharashtra health department on November 17, 2015, to the effect that date of birth recorded in the register cannot be corrected.HC refused to accept this stand, especially in view of the Rule 11(1), and held that the rule allows corrections in date of birth as well. The bench said the petitioner was born in the early hours on January 24, 1954, and therefore it is obvious that her date of birth is wrongly recorded in the register as January 23, 1954, and directed the Registrar to make the corrections in her birth record and issue her corrected birth certificate.As regards the delay on the part of the petitioner in approaching the Registrar, the bench said no time limit was prescribed under the Rules for making the corrections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-impediment-in-correcting-dob-in-records-of-birth-says-bombay-high-court/story-GCD2y21sBRGKVSaW5qt9LM.html
12-11-2020||India||Zydus Cadila completes phase 2 clinical trial in Covid-19 patients with Hepatitis C biological therapy PegiHep||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial In Covid-19 patients with its biological therapy, ‘PegiHep’, and it will now begin phase 3 clinical trial.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 In a regulatory filing, Zydus Cadila said “it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial in Covid-19 patients with its biological therapy, Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, ‘PegiHep’... Based upon the results from its Phase 2 study, Zydus Cadila now plans to conduct a phase 3 clinical trial in India”. Zydus Cadila, which is a part of the Cadila Healthcare group, said Pegylated Interferon alpha – 2b significantly increased viral reduction and reduced the need for supplemental oxygen in moderate Covid-19 patients. “We continue to look at possible treatment options that are safe and efficacious in the treatment and management of Covid-19. Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b has shown the potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease and we will like to explore this biological option further. We are hopeful of reinforcing our treatment options to fight Covid-19,” Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare Ltd said. Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b is not a new therapy. The product was first approved internationally in 2001 and is also included in WHO’s Essential Medicines List. Zydus Cadila said its Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, PegiHep, was originally approved for Hepatitis C and was launched in the Indian market in 2011.Also Read | India’s Serum says produced 40 mln doses of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Since then safe and efficacious drug use for this product has been demonstrated in thousands of patients, the company added. Zydus Cadila said it had conducted this study on the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to investigate the role of Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b for Covid- 19. The company is also conducting a similar phase 2 trial in Mexico. The company is also working with the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to open an Investigational New Drug (IND) application for Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b in order to initiate appropriate clinical trials in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-completes-phase-2-clinical-trial-in-covid-19-patients-with-hepatitis-c-biological-therapy-pegihep/story-SAZNpxaf3QdVkTzCWcxcTN.html
12-11-2020||India||India, Philippines to sign deal on BrahMos missile during summit next year||India and the Philippines are looking to sign an agreement on the BrahMos cruise missile during a planned summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Rodrigo Duterte next year, making the Southeast Asian country the first customer for the weapons system developed jointly by New Delhi and Moscow. A team from BrahMos Aerospace, the New Delhi-based India-Russia joint venture that produces the weapons system, is expected to visit Manila by December to sort out a few remaining issues for the deal to supply the missiles to the Philippines Army’s first Land Based Missile System Battery, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Thursday. “The BrahMos team is expected to iron out a few kinks and address some small issues so that the deal can be signed during the upcoming summit. Everything else has been worked out,” one of the people cited above said. Though dates for the summit between Modi and Duterte are yet to be finalised, the meeting is expected to be held in February. Several other agreements, including on cooperation between India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and its Philippines counterpart, ICT, and air rights, are also expected to be signed during the meeting, the people said. India and the Philippines were initially expected to sign a defence cooperation and procurement agreement, which would have covered the BrahMos deal, during the virtual meeting of the joint commission on bilateral cooperation co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Teodoro Locsin Jr on November 6. However, the signing couldn’t go ahead as planned because of a formality, the people said. “One of the signing authorities wasn’t available and it was only a formality,” said the person cited above. Hindustan Times had first reported in December last year that the Philippines was set to become the first country to buy the BrahMos cruise missile system. Though both sides were keen on finalising a deal earlier this year, the matter was hit by developments related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia’s deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin also said on Thursday that India and Russia plan to gradually increase the range of the BrahMos and begin exporting the missile to “third countries, starting with the Philippines”. The Philippines Army zeroed in on the BrahMos after extensive trials and much of the negotiations had revolved around the cost of the system and financing for the deal. The supersonic cruise missile with a range of about 500 km will equip the Philippines Army’s first Land Based Missile System Battery, which was raised and activated in October last year. The Philippines Army expects this battery to be fully ready and for all the equipment to be acquired by 2024. According to the plans, the battery will be fully capable of defending the Philippines against external threats by 2028. However, some of the recent discussions have focused on the $100-million line of credit offered by India to the Philippines for defence purchases, particularly because of Manila’s perception that the amount should be increased, the people said. The Philippines side has also noted that India has offered larger lines of credit for defence equipment to other Southeast Asian countries, the people added. India has been in talks with several countries, including Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam, over the past few years to sell them land and sea-based versions of the BrahMos. A BrahMos team visited a state-run shipyard in Surabaya in 2018 to assess the fitting of the missile on Indonesian warships. In recent years, the Philippines has concluded several deals with India for personal protective items or bulletproof gear and armour plating for military vehicles. During Modi’s visit to the Philippines in 2017, the two sides signed an MoU on defence industry and logistics cooperation to provide a framework for the development, production and procurement of defence hardware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-philippines-to-sign-deal-on-brahmos-missile-during-summit-next-year/story-4a2IiARMr9EFEU2d8FKqDK.html
12-11-2020||India||Highlights: Nirmala Sitharaman announces measures under Atmanirbhar 3.0 to revive economy||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced the third tranche of Atmanirbhar scheme with a view to revive the Indian economy which is affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. During a press briefing this afternoon , she started by saying that the Indian economy has been witnessing a strong recovery adding that a stronger growth is expected in the third quarter. She went on to expanded the scope of some of the existing schemes under Atmanirbhar 1.0 and Atmanirbhar 2.0. Thereafter, a total of 12 announcements were made under Atmanirbhar 3.0 related to employment generation, manufacturing, housing, research and development for a Covid-19 vaccine and many others which amounted to 2.65 lakh crores. Her address comes a day after the Centre approved a Rs 2 lakh crore production-linked incentive (PLI) package to boost demand in India. Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that the purpose of the PLI scheme is to make the country a global manufacturing hub. Follow highlights of the finance minister’s press briefing here: - Size of stimulus provided by Centre as part of announcements under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 amounts to Rs 2.65 lakh crores: Sitharaman With ending her briefing, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the size of the stimulus being provided by the government, as part of the 12 announcements made under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0, amounts to Rs 2.65 lakh crores. She added 15% of national GDP as stimulus takeaway. - Rs 900 crore given for Covid-19 vaccine research and development, says FMWhile talking about the vaccine to combat the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), Union finance minister Nirmala Sithraman said that a total amount of 900 crores has been provided for COVID Suraksha Mission for research and development of the Indian COVID vaccine to the Department of Biotechnology. -Rs 3,000 crores will be released to EXIM Bank for promotion of project exports: Sitharaman“Rs 3,000 crores will be released to EXIM Bank for promotion of project exports through Lines of Credit under IDEAS Scheme. Supported projects cover Railways, power, transmission, road and transport, auto and auto components, sugar projects etc,” Nirmala Sitharaman said. -Additional outlay of Rs 10,000 cr to be given under PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana to boost rural employment: FMApart from incentivising job creation during Covid-19 recovery phase through the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana’, the finance minister also said that an additional outlay of Rs 10,000 crore would be given under the PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana to boost rural employment. -Providing Rs 6000 Crores of Equity to Debt Platform of NIIF: SitharamanThe Union finance minister said Rs 6,000 of equity is being given to the debt platform of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) where private equity participation will also come in. NIIF itself has invested Rs 2,000 Crores, she added.  So, by 2025 they will have to fund projects to the extent of Rs 1,10,000 Crores. We are creating this avenue for them to do it even through Debt Market: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman https://t.co/PKolD7WiTT-Nirmala Sitharaman announces income tax relief for developers and home buyersSitharaman announced an income tax relief for developers and home buyers in order to reduce hardships faced by both home buyers and developers for clearing unsold inventory.  For primary residential real estate sales, relief on the difference between circle rate & agreement value up to 20% vs 10% earlier. We expect clearance of inventories through this step: FM Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/PSJSlGMtVM- Rs 18,000 cr to be provided over and above the budget estimate under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana for urban areas: SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said a total amount of Rs 18,000 Crores will be provided over and above the budget estimate mentioned in the Budget 2020-21 under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. particularly for the urban areas. -10 new champion sectors to be covered under Production Linked Incentives Scheme: FMWith a view to boost competitiveness of domestic manufacturing, 10 new Champion sectors will now be covered under the Production Linked Incentives Scheme, Sithraman said. A total amount of Rs 1.46 lakh crore would be given for the same, she added. 10 new Champion sectors will now be covered under the Production Linked Incentives Scheme to boost the competitiveness of domestic manufacturing. It is expected to give a significant boost to economic growth and domestic employment: FM Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/C50xj3ZOhv-FM launches credit guarantee support scheme for healthcare, 26 sectorsSitharman launched a credit guarantee support scheme for healthcare and 26 sectors that are stressed due Covid-19 crisis . Entities will get an additional credit up to 20% of outstanding credit and repayment can be done in five years’ time (1 year moratorium + 4 years repayment), she added. -Existing Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme extended till 31st March 2021: SitharamanThe Union finance minister said that existing Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme which is a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat has been extended till 31st March, 2021 adding that the loan is fully guaranteed and collateral free. -‘Scheme being launched to incentivise job creation during virus recovery phase’: SitharmanNirmala Sitharaman during her press briefing said that a new scheme named ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana’ is being launched to incentivise creation of new employment opportunities during the coronavirus (Covid-19) recovery phase.  If new employees of requisite number are recruited from October 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021, the establishments will be covered for the next two years: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman https://t.co/fmmeP8PqiF pic.twitter.com/gSTaGQumLJThis scheme will be applicable for those joining employment in EPFO registered establishments on monthly wages less which than Rs 15,000 per month, she added. - Rs 1.32 L-cr given to 39.7 lakh taxpayers as Income Tax refunds, says FMFinance minister Nirmala Sitharman added that Rs 1,32,800 crores has gone as income-tax refunds to 39.7 lakh taxpayers. -Sitharaman gives details about progress of key items under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan 2.0The finance minister started discussing the progress of key items under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan 2.0. Sitharman said a festival advance has been launched under which SBI Utsav cards are being distributed. A total amount of Rs 25,000 crores has been provided as additional capital expenditure to the ministry of road transport and the ministry of defence, she added11 states have been sanctioned Rs 3,621 crores as an interest-free loan towards capital expenditure, Sitharaman said. -‘Rs 7,227 crores disbursed to NBFCs/HFC’: Finance ministerNirmala Sitharaman while giving details of the progress of key items under Rs 7,227 crores said a total amount of Rs 7,227 crores has been disbursed to Non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and Housing finance companies (HFCs). She added that under the Emergency Credit Liquidity Guarantee Scheme, a total amount of Rs 2.05 lakh crores has been sanctioned to 61 lakh borrowers, out of which Rs 1.52 lakh crores has been disbursed. - Credit boost has been given to 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan Credit Cards, ₹ 1.4 lakh crore has been distributed to farmers: SitharamanWhile speaking about Kisan Credit Cards, the finance minister aid that a credit boost has been given to 2.5 crore farmers through these cards and Rs 1.4 lakh crores has been distributed to farmers. - Work has commenced to start a portal for migrant workers, says Nirmala Sitharaman Sitharaman said the labour ministry along with the finance ministry and other concerned ministries are working together closely with the States, and the work has commenced on creating a portal for migrant workers. - Sitharaman gives details about progress of key items under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan 1.0The finance minister through a presentation gave details of progress of some key items under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan 1.0. She said under One Nation-One Ration Card- a total of 68.6 crore beneficiaries are covered who have an option to lift their food grains from any FPS of any choice in the 28 states and union territories (UTs) brought under the national portability of ration cards from September 1, 2020. While giving details about the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) , she said around 14 lakh loans have been sanctioned under the scheme for street vendors. - Strong growth expected in third quarter: SitharamanThe Union finance minister said that a stronger growth is expected in the third quarter. - The economy is seeing a strong recovery, says Nirmala SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman during her press briefing said that the Indian recovery is in a state of strong recovery. The energy consumption trended higher in October at 12 per cent YoY, she said. Sitharaman also added that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for October grossed at 1.05 lakh crore- 10 per cent YoY. -Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman begins addressing the press briefingUnion finance minister Niramala Sitharaman started addressing a press briefing this afternoon which comes a day after the Centre approved a Rs 2 lakh crore production-linked incentive (PLI) package to boost demand in India. ( With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-union-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-addresses-press-briefing/story-eEkTDq0bK1EoLbu1YF5cBM.html
12-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: RJD’s Manoj Jha taunts Nitish Kumar over retaining CM post and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘You dream of becoming CM after getting 40 seats’: RJD’s Manoj Jha taunts Nitish KumarRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha on Thursday took a swipe at Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar saying the Janata dal (United) president “dreams” of retaining the chief ministerial post despite winning “only 40” seats in Bihar assembly elections held in late October and early November. Read more‘Turned strength into weakness’: Rahul Gandhi aims at PM Modi over economyCongress leader Rahul Gandhi once again targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, claiming India has entered into a recession because of decisions taken by the PM. “India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr Modi’s actions have turned India’s strength into its weakness,” Gandhi tweeted on Thursday. Read moreSerum Institute completes phase 3 trial recruitment for Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccineSerum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex body for biomedical research, on Thursday announced the completion of the enrolment of participants for phase 3 clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, Covishield, in India. Read moreUP bypoll results: Its vote share improves, but Congress fails to grab even 1 of 6 seats contestedCongress candidates finished second on two seats and failed to make much of an impression on four others for which assembly bypolls were held in Uttar Pradesh. The party could not contest the Tundla seat because of the rejection of the nomination papers of its candidate. Read moreSpecial editions of Maruti Suzuki Alto, Celerio and WagonR launchedMaruti Suzuki on Thursday announced the launch of special edition models of its Alto, Celerio and WagonR cars to attract more footfall this festive season. Read moreWoman sends angry email to company after wedding dress looks nothing like the one she ordered. Their reply has everyone laughingHave you ever meticulously picked and ordered an outfit online and then felt disappointed to find it looking nothing like the one you ordered? If you’re lucky enough to have never faced such an issue, chances are you’ve read such stories on social media. Read moreKangana Ranaut channels inner Frida Kahlo for brother Aksht’s Udaipur wedding. SEE PICSThalaivi actor, Kangana Ranaut is attending the most coronavirus lockdown weddings, and her wedding wardrobe is the perfect inspiration for everyone who wants to looks regal without going overboard. Read more‘He would never take chances against me’: R Ashwin reveals how he once ‘set up’ Virat KohliR Ashwin is believed to have one of the sharpest cricketing brains in world cricket. The off-spinner, who represented Delhi Capitals in IPL 2020 has revealed how he has always loved bowling against two of Indian cricket’s finest batsmen, Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni. Read more IPL 2020: ‘Mind-blowing to think he hasn’t represented his country,’ Tom Moody names his favourite uncapped Indian cricketerThe Indian Premier League 2020 saw many uncapped Indian cricketers rise to the occasion. Youngsters such as Devdutt Padikkal, Rahul Tewatia, Ruturaj Gaikwad and T Natarajan not only emerged as finds of this season but with their performances, also proved that they can be potential Indian contenders in time to come. Read more‘I challenge Uddhav Thackeray to debate with me’: Arnab GoswamiRepublic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami lashed out at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after being granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. Goswami walked out of Taloja Central prison on November 11 evening. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rjd-s-manoj-jha-taunts-nitish-kumar-over-retaining-cm-post-dreams-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CKQamOgGDCP7gCliq8z4MM.html
12-11-2020||India||How ULFA-I top commander surrendered after a 9-year-long effort by army officer||The untiring efforts of an officer of the Indian Army’s military intelligence (MI) wing for the past nine years came good following the surrender of outlawed United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent’s (ULFA-I) deputy commander-in-chief (C-in-C) Drishti Rajkhowa in neighbouring Meghalaya on Wednesday. Rajkhowa alias Manoj Rabha, an expert in rocket propelled grenade (RPG), was ranked next to ULFA-I C-in-C Paresh Baruah. His surrender, along with four other cadres, and laying down their arms and ammunition is likely to be a rude jolt to the separatist outfit, which has been fighting for Assam’s sovereignty since 1979. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had banned the insurgent group in 1990 citing it as a terrorist organisation.“Rajkhowa has been a loyal functionary of the organisation for many years. His surrender was the outcome of circumstances and was done with permission from the outfit. The health condition of his wife was also an important factor that led to the surrender,” Baruah told local TV channels in Guwahati over the phone from an undisclosed location abroad. MI sources said one of its Lieutenant (Lt) Colonel (Col) had managed to establish contact with Rajkhowa and his wife in 2011, when the officer was posted as a Captain in Shillong. Rajkhowa was promoted as deputy C-in-C by Baruah in November 2011 soon after a split in the outfit, when ULFA chairman Arabinda Rajkhowa and several other senior cadres decided to give up arms and engage in talks with the government. “He (the officer) maintained contact (with Rajkhowa) during his posting in the north-east and gradually developed a rapport with him over the last nine years at his own personal risk and safety,” MI sources said. The officer kept persuading Rajkhowa over the years to give up arms and join the mainstream in a bid to help his native state and its people. The officer managed to make the breakthrough because of the rapport he had developed with Rajkhowa’s immediate family members. Rajkhowa relented and agreed to surrender also largely because of his wife’s worsening health condition. An elaborate plan was put in place for the surrender exercise. The inputs were shared with the Assam-based 21st Mountain Division of Indian Army through director-general of MI (DGMI) on Tuesday (November 10)Rajkhowa contacted the officer and reiterated his decision to surrender along with four of his bodyguards. He requested for safe passage in an MI vehicle and under Indian Army’s protection from his hideout -- near the India-Bangladesh at Baghmara in Meghalaya’s South Garo Hills district -- till Guwahati. “The input was shared with DGMI and further communicated to the Indian Army’s Eastern Command headquarters in Kolkata. The officer coordinated the operation, which was launched at 2 am on Wednesday (November 11), to take Rajkhowa into military custody and pave the way for his surrender,” MI sources informed. The operation lasted for around 12 hours. ULFA-1 cadres turned over an Avtomat Kalashnikova (AK)-81 assault rifle, two magazines and two pistols to the security forces. “This operation is a game-changer as far as the north-east insurgency is concerned. The officer deserves kudos for his relentless pursuit. He managed to persuade Rajkhowa to surrender at great personal risk. He is worthy of special mention and recognition,” the MI sources added. Rajkhowa, who was based in neighbouring Bangladesh, was responsible for carrying out several operations in the past years and was also the main conduit of providing arms to several active militant groups in the volatile north-east region. His surrender is expected to further weaken Baruah, who is believed to be based in China’s Yunnan province, and frequently travels to several nations in south-east Asia.Rajkhowa’s exit from the outfit could prompt others to follow suit, as the insurgent group is believed to be left with only around 200 hardened cadres. Indian Army officials followed the protocol and handed over Rajkhowa to Meghalaya Police authorities, who turned him to Assam Police on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-ulfa-i-top-commander-surrendered-after-a-9-year-long-effort-by-army-officer/story-CDulPcJFY6mWiCkofyE4YM.html
12-11-2020||India||Man steals rickshaw puller’s SIM card, later uses it to dupe bike seller||A 29-year-old man stole a SIM card from a rickshaw puller’s mobile phone on the pretext of using his mobile and later used the SIM to make calls to dupe a doctor who wanted to sell his motorbike in Kolkata. The phone, which the accused used to call the bike-seller, was also a stolen one, the police said. The accused has been arrested from North 24 Parganas district, around 30 km north of Kolkata. A senior officer of the Kolkata Police’s detective department said that Chandradeep Singh, 34, a doctor with a state-run hospital, wanted to sell his motorbike. He gave an advertisement for it on an online selling platform. Thereafter, he received a call from the accused Gouranga Kirtania who showed interest in purchasing the motorbike. On October 2, the duo met at Jadavpur in south suburban Kolkata. Kirtania wanted a test drive to which Singh readily agreed. “But the accused, on the pretext of taking a test drive, fled with the motorbike. When Singh realised that he has been duped, he lodged a complaint with the Kolkata Police,” said the officer. Investigation revealed that the SIM card from which Kirtania called the doctor belongs to a rickshaw puller, who stays in Dum Dum in the northern fringes of the city. Interrogating the rickshaw puller, police learnt that Kirtania had hired his rickshaw a few days ago. “He took the rickshaw puller’s mobile phone on the pretext of making a call and stole the SIM card. The rickshaw puller realized it much later,” said a senior police officer. The mobile number was put under surveillance and it was found that Kirtania was using it from another mobile. Police tracked Kirtania and he was arrested earlier this week. “Interrogation further revealed that the phone from which he made calls was also stolen. The bike was also recovered,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-steals-rickshaw-puller-s-sim-card-later-uses-it-to-dupe-bike-seller/story-AjfxfNjKrL6rsbfwZGrCEL.html
12-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Schools in Tamil Nadu to remain shut, govt puts reopening plan on hold||Days after seeking the views of parents, Tamil Nadu government on Thursday reversed its move to reopen schools from November 16 for classes 9-12 and said they shall continue to remain closed.While colleges were also earlier scheduled to function from November 16 , the government said colleges and varsities shall reopen from December 2 only for research scholars and final year postgraduate students of science and technology streams.“The opening of colleges for all other courses will be announced later,” the government said in an official release adding hostels would be opened only for those students who shall resume studies from next month. Disclosing the outcome of state-wide consultations held with parents of private, government and aided schools on November 9 on starting classes for the 2020-21 academic year for higher standards, the government said the opinion was divided.Parents of some schools wanted the institutions to reopen, but others were against such a move in view of the coronavirus pandemic and the school education department analysed the opnions holistically, the release said.“The order on reopening schools from November 16 for classes 9-12 is cancelled. An announcement on reopening schools will be made later based on the situation,” the government said based on the feedback received from parents.After chief minister K Palaniswami said on October 31 that schools and colleges would be allowed to reopen from November 16, DMK president M K Stalin hit out at the government for its “hasty” announcement.The leader of the opposition had said that a decision on reopening schools should be taken only in January 2021 after analysing the pandemic scenario. A section of parents also expressed apprehension over starting classes for 9-12 since the pandemic had not faded yet and extent to which students could adhere to measures against the spread of virus in schools. As on November 11, a total of 7,50,409 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu out of which 7,20,339 recovered. While 18,655 was the number of active cases, the death toll stood at 11,415.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-tamil-nadu-to-remain-shut-govt-puts-reopening-plan-on-hold/story-CCUqqL5LHFhA9eQLolMYMI.html
12-11-2020||India||India’s Serum says produced 40 million doses of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer, said on Thursday it has made 40 million doses of AstraZeneca’s potential Covid-19 vaccine, and would soon begin making Novavax’s rival shot, as they both seek regulatory approval.Serum said it has enrolled 1,600 participants in India for late-stage trials of AstraZeneca’s candidate, and also plans to seek regulatory approval to run late-stage trials for the Novavax vaccine.Read more | Serum Institute completes phase 3 trial recruitment for Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccineThe AstraZeneca vaccine, co-developed by Oxford University, is the most advanced in human testing in India, Serum said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-serum-says-produced-40-mln-doses-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine/story-Rqo40J7QulT0SSNHhhx4BI.html
12-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh extends last date for paddy procurement registration||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday extended the last date for paddy procurement registration from November 10 to November 17 on the instructions of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, an official said. The procurement will start on December 1.“...instructions have been sent to all the divisional commissioners, collectors, registrars, cooperative societies,” the official said.Agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey blamed a shortage of jute sacks in the market because of Covid-19 for the delay in the procurement.In November 2019, the Congress government announced it will procure paddy at Rs1,835 per quintal, the rate fixed by the Centre. The government said it will find a way so that farmers get Rs2,500 per quintal. It launched Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna to pay the remaining amount in four instalments.Also read | ‘No cash with farmers’: BJP after Chhattisgarh delays paddy procurementThe opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the farmers will suffer losses due to delayed procurement as the harvesting has started 15 days ago. “The intention of the Congress government is to buy less paddy from the farmers of the state and hence they are making excuses that there is a dearth of paddy sacks. If the state government will not take cognisance, soon the farmers will join us,” said BJP leader Gauri Shankar Srivas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-extends-last-date-for-paddy-procurement-registration/story-3bbyy4L11Yrs7YHdrMY5gL.html
12-11-2020||India||UP bypoll results: Its vote share improves, but Congress fails to grab even 1 of 6 seats contested||Congress candidates finished second on two seats and failed to make much of an impression on four others for which assembly bypolls were held in Uttar Pradesh. The party could not contest the Tundla seat because of the rejection of the nomination papers of its candidate.The party’s overall vote share went up marginally from 6.25% in the 2017 assembly elections to 7.53% even as it has revamped its state unit ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. A weak organisation and the failure to put up winnable candidates have been blamed for the Congress’s continuing poor electoral performances in the state. The party did not even manage to get a double-digit vote share in Bulandshahr, Naugawan Sadat, Deoria, and Malhani.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said they have been able to improve their overall performance. “Our vote share has also improved. We are discussing what went wrong with our party leaders. We will continue to work on our drawbacks and take corrective measures to further strengthen the party.”Also read | BJP rigged UP assembly bypolls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after resultsCongress’s Arti Bajpai and Kripa Shankar finished second in Bangermau and Ghatampur with vote share of 22.09% and 23.23%. Sushil Chaudhary, the party’s candidate in Bulandshahr, finished fourth with 5.1% of votes. Even Muhammad Yameen of the newly-formed Aazad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram) got more votes and finished third with 13,530 votes. Chaudhary got just 10,319 votes.The Congress managed just 2.18% votes in Naugawan Sadat, 2.17% in Deoria, and 1.39% in Malhani.A Congress functionary blamed the choice of candidates for the poor show in these seats. “A senior office-bearer of the All India Congress Committee camped in Deoria for weeks to shortlist the party’s candidates there. A similar exercise was carried out at other places. Yet, there was a protest against the party’s choice in Deoria. The revamped party organisation failed to make any impact. The rejection of the Congress candidate’s nomination papers in Tundla shows how the party failed to make appropriate preparations despite having a battery of lawyers.”A second functionary said Lallu has been leading agitations and the party has been able to keep itself in focus in the past few months. “But the party organisation has failed to perform in the first political test.”Lallu said by-elections generally go in the favour of the ruling party. “The Bharatiya Janata Party [which won six of the seven seats] is known for misusing the election machinery and it did so in the by-elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bypoll-results-its-vote-share-improves-but-congress-fails-to-grab-even-1-of-6-seats-contested/story-NUS4zxmYIdaw4OuP0T7H5K.html
12-11-2020||India||‘Turned strength into weakness’: Rahul Gandhi aims at PM Modi over economy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, claiming India has entered into a recession because of decisions taken by the PM.“India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr Modi’s actions have turned India’s strength into its weakness,” Gandhi tweeted on Thursday. He attached a news report along with the tweet which talked about the state of India’s economy.In an article in Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monthly bulletin released on Wednesday, an official said that India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is likely to contract by 8.6 per cent for the July-September period, which means India will enter into a recession for the first time in history in the first half of this fiscal with two successive quarters of negative growth due to the Covid-19 pandemic. India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr Modi’s actions have turned India’s strength into its weakness. pic.twitter.com/Y10gzUCzMOThe researchers have used the ‘nowcasting’ method to arrive at the estimates ahead of the official release of data. However, their findings do not constitute the central bank’s views.The pandemic-induced lockdowns had led to a steep contraction of 23.9 per cent in the GDP for the April-June quarter as compared to the same period a year ago. The RBI has estimated that the economy will contract by 9.5 per cent for the full fiscal year.Gandhi has been targeting the Centre over the handling of the coronavirus crisis, accusing it of not doing enough for the people of the country. He also criticised the lockdown imposed by the Modi government.He had said on Wednesday that the central government needs to have a vaccine distribution strategy after US pharmaceutical major Pfizer announced promising results of its coronavirus vaccine.Also Read: On Pfizer’s Covid vaccine announcement, Rahul Gandhi asks govt key questionsMeanwhile, the Centre on Wednesday approved a Rs 2 lakh crore production-linked incentive (PLI) package with a view to boost demand across India.According to news agency Reuters, apart from the PLI package, government officials stated it is being planned to announce a fresh round of stimulus totalling about $20 billion this week to help pull the economy out of its historic contraction which will be finalised by PM Modi, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharman and other senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-fresh-attack-on-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-claims-india-has-entered-into-recession/story-a24o3AREMZBJfwuXeXYRmM.html
12-11-2020||India||Covishield could be realistic solution to pandemic: SII on finishing phase 3 trial enrolment||The world’s largest vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII), which is working in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to find a vaccine for Covid-19, on Wednesday announced that it has completed the enrolment of phase 3 clinical trials for its candidate Covishield.SII and ICMR are currently conducting phase 2/3 clinical trials of Covishield at 15 different centres across the country, the Pune-based drugmaker said in a statement. As many as 1600 participants were enrolled on October 31, it added.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The strategic alliance between SII and the ICMR will advance India’s role in the global race to develop Covid-19 vaccines,” the drug manufacturer said in a statement.The SII said that the trials of the Oxford vaccine have shown promising results, which “so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the deadly pandemic”.Among the vaccines being developed in India, Covishield is in the most advanced stage of human testing. Based on the phase 2/3 trial results, SII with the help of ICMR will pursue the early availability of this product for India, the company said, adding that it has already manufactured 40 million doses under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license from DCGI.Apart from Covishield, developed at the Pune laboratory with a master seed from Oxford University/AstraZeneca, ICMR and SII have also collaborated for clinical development of Covovax developed by US-based Novavax.Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India said the pandemic has presented a chance to foster structural reforms in building robust public healthcare infrastructure and added, “ICMR has played a huge role in coming forward and strengthening India’s fight against Covid-19. The collaboration will further aid us in putting India at the forefront of developing an immunogenic and efficacious vaccine.”ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava pointed towards the role India plays in vaccine development and manufacturing globally. “Buoyed by the latest technology and well-equipped facilities, SII has continually proven its research and manufacturing prowess. The partnership is our contribution to lending our expertise and support to bolster our fight against the global pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-could-be-realistic-solution-to-pandemic-sii-on-finishing-phase-3-trial-enrolment/story-HLV3b2D0tVKrSBp0c1oFdL.html
12-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand MLA Surendra Singh Jeena dies in Delhi hospital||BJP MLA from Salt constituency in Almora district of Uttarakhand, Surendra Singh Jeena, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 , died early on Thursday at a Delhi hospital, said party officials in Dehradun. Jeena was shifted to Delhi’s Sir Gangaram Hospital a few days ago when his condition deteriorated. Offering condolences to his family, BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat termed him a ‘very energetic and young’ party member and MLA of the party. “He was always active in organisation activities. Due to his dynamic personality, he was popular among all sections of the society. His passing away has left a void...Our prayers are with his family members,” said Bhagat. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also offered his condolences to Jeena’s family through social media. He said, “A few weeks ago, I had visited him when his wife passed away. He was one of the few active MLAs in the assembly and always worked for the development of his constituency.Our prayers are with his family and we all stand with them at this moment of grief.”Following his demise, BJP has cancelled its Diwali celebrations in the state. Jeena’s wife had died only recently following a heart attack. Earlier, state party chief Bhagat and three Cabinet ministers -- Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat and Madan Kaushik -- were infected with Covid-19 but they all recovered. Till Wednesday, Uttarakhand had reported 66,788 cases of Covid-19 of which 60,900 had recovered while 1,086 people had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-mla-surendra-singh-jeena-dies-in-delhi-hospital/story-O9Can0KAw3EYKEniTSAaDK.html
12-11-2020||India||Parliamentary committee to prepare report on atrocities and crimes against women||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs will discuss atrocities and crimes against women on November 18 and call Union home ministry officials to discuss the matter before preparing a report on the subject. The panel is taking up the matter in the backdrop of a 19-year-old Dalit woman’s alleged rape and murder in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras that provoked outrage. The woman’s family alleged the state police forced her cremation, triggering protests. Also Read: Hathras case: CBI likely to question former SP, SDMThe 19-year-old woman from Hathras died in a Delhi hospital after the assault. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against the prime accused, Sandip Singh. He along and three others, all from the upper castes, are in jail. They were named by the victim before she died on September 29. The committee, according to officials, will meet a number of women groups and legal experts before finalising its report. The panel may ask for stricter measures to tackle this menace. A few months ago, the committee also discussed the issue of “Rising Crime in Delhi and NCR”, with a sharp focus on crime against women and incidents of burglary in the national capital. The rape and murder of a 23-year-old physiotherapy student in 2012 in New Delhi led to the passage of a tougher law against sexual violence that provides for the death penalty for rape as well. But that did not stop crimes against women. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 88 rape cases were reported on an average daily in 2019. Many experts believe that these figures might not portray the actual ground situation as many cases of violence against women are not reported due to social stigma attached to rape. The home ministry panel, led by Congress leader Anand Sharma, will also take up national security, intelligence coordination and counter terrorism, police training, modernisation and reforms, prison conditions and its infrastructure and reforms, development activities in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and the management of Covid-19 pandemic and related issues at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-to-prepare-report-on-atrocities-and-crimes-against-women/story-sWvm9PiqdMRp9lqX5dJXlL.html
12-11-2020||India||Jharkhand assembly passes resolution on Sarna Code||The Jharkhand assembly has unanimously passed a resolution seeking the inclusion of Sarna as a separate religion in census, 2021. Chief minister Hemant Soren said the resolution, passed during a special one-day assembly session on Wednesday, will now be sent to the centre for approval.The opposition parties gave a proposal demanding a discussion on the resolution, which speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato accepted. BJP legislators proposed an amendment to the resolution seeking removal of the oblique from ‘tribal/Sarna’ word in it.Soren said his government is sensitive to people’s sentiments and accepted the amendment, after which all the parties supported the resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-assembly-passes-resolution-on-sarna-code/story-uc6OdgDfUpC1bYw9MTVlRN.html
12-11-2020||India||Magh Mela: Covid-negative certificate must for devotees||Magh Mela this year will be held as per schedule, in January, but several precautions have been lined up in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. For instance, all saints or devotees entering the area would be required to carry a Covid-negative certificate, officials said. Moreover, the kalpwasis (people who lead an austere life for a month on the banks of the confluence of the rivers) would also be requested to minimise the number of visitors in their camps. No one without facemask would be allowed in the mela area, officials said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with the district administration on Tuesday where he was apprised with the preparations for Magh Mela 2021. In the meeting, it was decided that kalpwasis would need to go through the reserve transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test three days before entering the mela area. They will also be subjected to rapid antigen tests twice during their month-long stay.The CM has called upon the diabetic patients to use their own discretion before deciding on the month-long stay at the banks of river Ganga, officials said.Officials have been directed to conduct extensive sanitisation and ensure that the norms of social distancing are followed throughout the mela. “It will be mandatory for all devotees to wear facemasks in the mela area as we are committed to have a corona-free Magh Mela next year”, said the mela Adhikari, Vivek Tripathi.According to local officials, the budget of the fair is expected to be around Rs 68 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-covid-negative-certificate-must-for-devotees/story-7HuVeRjJNLjZ7YMvOi9KNN.html
12-11-2020||India||Nearly 48,000 new Covid-19 cases, 550 deaths push India’s tally to 86.8 lakh; active cases below 5 lakh||India on Thursday recorded 47,905 news cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed up the overall tally to 86,83,916, according to Union health ministry update.The number of new fatalities recorded were 550 after which the death toll reached 1,28,121.There are 4,89,294 active cases, while 80,66,501 patients have been cured or discharged from hospital, the health ministry data showed.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan interacted with chief ministers, state health ministers, principal secretaries and additional chief secretaries of seven states where districts have higher Covid-19 positivity rate. These state are Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura Meghalaya and Goa.Vardhan asked the state authorities to focus on effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases to reduce deaths in the first 24, 48 or 72 hours.Highlighting the state specific areas of concern that would require focussed attention, he noted that although the active cases have come down in Maharashtra, it continues to have a large active Covid-19 caseload with a high fatality rate of 2.6 per cent, which increases to 3.5 per cent in and around Mumbai.Forty per cent of the total deaths were recorded in just the last one month in Goa, which is a cause of concern, he underlined.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said that a total of 12,19,62,509 samples have been tested across the country for Covid-19 till November 11. “Of these 11,93,358 samples were tested on Wednesday,” it added.India’s Covid-19 caseload went past 86 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 80.13 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.79 per cent.On Wednesday, the number of daily Covid-19 cases stood at 44,281.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-48-000-new-covid-19-cases-550-deaths-push-india-s-tally-to-86-8-lakh-active-cases-below-5-lakh/story-8x9w5LFVTpbHqnWnVISlkL.html
12-11-2020||India||In Assam, ruling BPF’s working president quits party; likely to join BJP||Rajya Sabha member and working president of ruling Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) Biswajit Daimary quit the party on Wednesday. The 49-year-old is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which heads the coalition government in the state. Daimary’s resignation came ahead of elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). On Monday, senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had told journalists that the Rajya Sabha MP would be joining BJP soon. Addressing journalists on Wednesday, Daimary accused BPF of being an obstacle in implementing the Bodo peace deal signed by the Centre earlier this year with four factions of the rebel outfit National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) and other Bodo groups in order to bring lasting peace and development in the four districts under the Bodo Territorial Region (BTR). “BPF is not keen on implementing the accord, which it also signed. I don’t want to become a part of that. I am officially resigning from the BPF and will take a decision on joining a national party soon,” he said. Elections to BTC, which was ruled by BPF was scheduled in April this year, but the entire BTAD was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The BPF leadership has been unhappy with BJP for placing BTC under Governor’s rule and differences between both ruling partners have sharpened in recent months. BPF has 12 MLAs in the state assembly. Election to BTC is expected to be held next month and if Daimary joins BJP, it will be a big boost to the party. BPF is yet to make any statement on Daimary’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-ruling-bpf-s-working-president-quits-party-likely-to-join-bjp/story-yITuq18R4XM342SMXKCamJ.html
12-11-2020||India||No-confidence motion against Conrad Sangma govt in Meghalaya defeated||The no-confidence motion moved by the Congress party against chief minister Conrad Sangma-led Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government was defeated by a voice vote in the state assembly on Wednesday. The leader of the opposition Dr Mukul Sangma put the motion to vote after the opposition collectively announced that the present government was not willing to come clean on various allegations like corruption and illegal mining. All 40 ruling MLAs voted against the no-confidence motion except Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement (KHNAM) legislator Adelbert Nongrum, who decided to neither support the government nor the opposition.Replying to the no-confidence motion, chief minister Conrad Sangma said that the opposition should accept that Meghalaya is moving towards development and stop levelling false allegations against the ruling party.“If we’ve failed, as alleged by the opposition, how come there is no abduction of civilians--from 210 cases during their time to zero today? How did we manage to lift the ban on coal mining, which they could not do during their time? How come the Covid numbers are the lowest today in our state? How are these 40 MLAs supporting us today? Why did the Public Index of 2020 rank us as the second best governance (governed) state in the country today?” the CM asked.Later, Sangma took to Twitter and announced the resounding victory against the opposition’s motion on Wednesday night.“The members of the Opposition had moved a no-confidence motion against the present government in the autumn session that was put to vote in the House. The resounding vote of confidence, with all partners of the MDA voting against the motion, shows their support and belief in this government,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confidence-motion-against-conrad-sangma-govt-in-meghalaya-defeated/story-87qOoqwDiUEXFaZJF3Do7H.html
12-11-2020||India||Team from Odisha selected for NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge 2021||The Navonmesh Prasar Student Astronomy Team (NaPSAT), comprising 10 school students, has been selected to participate in the NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge 2021 scheduled in April. NaPSAT, an initiative of Bhubaneswar-based Navonmesh Prasar Foundation, is an interdisciplinary team of space enthusiasts who are engaged in projects ranging from the design of space systems, rovers, rockets, satellites and astronomy to participate in various international events.Anil Pradhan, founder, Navonmesh Prasar Foundation said that it is happening for the first time that a school team from India has been selected for this challenge.“It is happening for the first time that a school team from India has been selected to participate in the NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge. We created a team during Covid time and identified 10 students from Odisha. We provided them training and later applied for NASA Rover Challenge. The interdisciplinary team has school students as well as ITI students. They are making a rover which can move on the surface of Mars and it would a human-powered rover,” Pradhan told ANI.Read more | Odisha to introduce fish in nutrition programme of children and pregnant women“We got the invitation from NASA and the event will take place in April 2021. We are preparing a rover and will send it to NASA. We will go there and compete with other teams. We are also raising funds,” he said.Tanvi Mallick, Class 9 student, who is part of the team said: “I knew about NaPSAT. I decided to try out for this and was selected as well. We have been selected for the NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge 2021. We are the first team from Odisha to get selected and the first high school student team from India. We are going to Alabama in April 2021 and will represent India in this competition.”Speaking about the technicalities, another team member Ankan Mondal said that their rover can handle the weight of two people while moving on terrains of Mars and moon.“We will be making human-powered rover for Mars and moon. We have to ensure that rover can handle the weight of two people. 100 teams are participating in the event,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-from-odisha-selected-for-nasa-human-exploration-rover-challenge-2021/story-4L93iu0sZrGqvNxxFMJ0gJ.html
12-11-2020||India||Lucknow, other UP cities ban firecrackers this Diwali, traders stare at losses||Uttar Pradesh government’s ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers in Lucknow and 12 other cities has come as a huge blow to the traders. While the state government is only complying with the orders of the National Green Tribunal, and has imposed the ban only in cities where the air quality index was either poor, very poor or severe last Diwali, losses to the firecracker business are hard to be missed. In the state capital alone, firecracker traders are staring at losses to the tune of Rs 20 crore. “As per the state government’s order, we have cancelled all firecracker and related licences in the city,” said Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash. Varanasi administration has also gone ahead with a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers from midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 30. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has cancelled all licences to sell firecrackers with immediate effect.Also read | Confusion over firecracker ban in Assam during DiwaliThe traders call the decision “unjust”.“We are not opposing the ban. But why couldn’t this have been done earlier? The ban has come just ahead of Diwali when traders are ready with their stock. Who will be responsible for their losses?” asked Akhilesh Gupta, a dealer and convener of firecracker traders’ association. This year, Gupta said, traders were anyway selling only green crackers — the ones made as per the directions of the Supreme Court. “Not all firecracker traders are well off. There are many who have taken loan from the market. The (ban) order will certain push many traders to the verge of bankruptcy,” he added. Mahesh Gupta, general secretary, Lucknow Cracker Traders’ Association, said, “Either we should be allowed to sell crackers or we must be compensated by the state government.” “Our officer-bearers will meet the CM and divisional commissioner to present our case,” said Satish Mishra, another office-bearer of cracker traders’ association. He said, “I don’t know why only firecrackers are being targeted while major pollutants such as construction sites, thermal power plants, cement industries and vehicles plying on road are not banned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bans-firecrackers-this-diwali-traders-stare-at-huge-losses/story-lSNnOJxjGrttlmPFTTOqdM.html
12-11-2020||India||Only 0.45% of India’s Covid-19 patients on ventilator: Govt data||A majority of active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, with only 0.45% of them currently on ventilator support, shows government data.Also, 4.09% of the total cases are on oxygen support, and 2.73% are undergoing treatment in the intensive care units. This means around 6-7% of the total active Covid-19 cases are serious enough to be put on oxygen therapy.The Centre has been advising states to remain vigilant in the winter and the long festive season as they could threaten the gains made in the fight against the disease over the last 10 months.Also Read: New sero survey shows 1 in 4 exposed to Covid-19 in DelhiUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan has called Covid-appropriate behaviour the most potent social vaccine. “…focus on higher testing especially in districts with higher positivity; mandatory testing of symptomatic negatives by rapid antigen test; focus on high-risk groups and vulnerable populations for severe acute respiratory infection, Influenza like illness surveillance which can give indication of infection; increase the contact tracing of close contacts of positive cases; proper follow up and monitoring of those under home isolation, especially the vulnerable groups.”Vardhan, who has been reviewing Covid-19 situation in the country, has been emphasising upon the importance of widespread awareness campaigns so that people under home isolation could reach hospitals in time for effective clinical management. He has said that efforts should be made to reduce deaths in the first 24, 48 and 72 hours that were still high in many districts even as the case fatality rate (CFR), which is the proportion of deaths as compared to the number of people testing positive for the disease, in India currently is 1.48%.India’s Covd-19 CFR is among the lowest in the world. The current global fatality rate is around 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-0-45-of-india-s-covid-19-patients-on-ventilator-govt-data/story-x4LqywZktqbClf5XVX5JvM.html
12-11-2020||India||BPRD guidelines for police: No arrests unless necessary, no calling senior citizens for questioning||The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a think-tank under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has asked police departments across the country not to make arrests as a regular act or for the sake of routine issues. The bureau has suggested that a person should be first served a notice of appearance and when he/she fails to comply with it, then police should go ahead with the arrest. The think-tank has issued elaborate “guidelines or draft Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for safeguarding persons to be arrested or detained by police authorities against custodial violence” to all police departments in the country.The guidelines, which were issued last week, have strictly advised police authorities to follow the procedure while making arrests, or while dealing with people in their custody. Also Read: In TV studio after release from jail, Arnab Goswami dares Uddhav ThackerayIt has said that the guidelines are aimed at restoring “a sense of security among the public and regaining the diminishing faith and confidence of the public in police”. Police officials have been advised against torturing a person in custody or compelling a person to give testimony or evidence that may incriminate him or her or testify against any person. “Do not subject any person in custody to torture, beating or cruel treatment. Ensure not to detain anyone for a prolonged period in the name of interrogation as this may amount to wrongful confinement and illegal detention,” the guidelines, reviewed by HT, have said. The advisories assume significance in the wake of torture of a father and his son -- P Jayaraj (51) and J Bennicks (31) -- in police custoday in Tamil Nadu (TN) in June. The incident had occurred under the jurisdiction of Sathankulam police station in TN’s Thoothukudi district. Jayaraj had died on June 22 and Bennicks the following day.The guidelines have directed police personnel to ensure that when they are going to make any arrest, they must wear visible name tags and their names should also be recorded in a police diary. An arrest memo of the arrestee must be prepared, mentioning date, time and place of arrest. The memo must be signed by at least one reputed local witness and countersigned by the arrestee. The guidelines have advised the authorities that, according to the provisions in the law, they cannot summon any male below 15 years of age or above 65 years of age or a woman to a police station for the purpose of questioning. “They shall be questioned at their place of residence,” they have added. For women, the guidelines have stated that police cannot arrest any woman after the sunset and before the sunrise unless under exceptional circumstances. The directives have asserted that abuse of powers of arrest has a chilling effect on society. The bureau has said it also erodes the credibility of the law-and-order mechanism and creates a chasm between the police and the society. The think-tank has pointed out that once a person is arrested, “the onus of safety, security and health of a person lies entirely on the police” and it should take utmost care to ensure that human rights of persons in police custody are not violated. “The arrestee should be interrogated in an appropriate manner with the aid of scientific methods of interrogation and investigation and without the use of violence,” it has said. “The Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), 1973, contains provisions granting power to police to arrest or detain an individual in the process of investigation of crime and/or maintenance of order. The provisions enumerate the conditions in which arrest/detention can be made, along with the procedure for arrest or detention. These powers, when used indiscriminately, lead not only to abuse of the procedure, but also result in the violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens as enshrined in the Constitution of India. Indiscriminate arrest by the police and custodial violence, while the individual is in police custody, are serious issues that need to be dealt with utmost sensitivity at the highest levels of the police leadership with a view to put a complete stop to such repugnant practices,” the guidelines have said. “No police agency, without the constructive support of the society, can ever successfully achieve its objectives of crime control, maintenance of order,” it has added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bprd-guidelines-for-police-no-arrests-unless-necessary-no-calling-senior-citizens-for-questioning/story-PXTO0qcTCikvLyKTr7V58M.html
12-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New sero survey conducted in Delhi shows 1 in 4 exposed to coronavirus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New sero survey shows 1 in 4 exposed to Covid-19 in DelhiAround one in four of the 15,000 people tested in the latest serological survey in the capital showed prevalence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the government informed the Delhi high court on Wednesday, indicating that the proportion of people with antibodies has remained largely unchanged from the previous round of the exercise. Read morePM Modi to unveil life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda on JNU campus on ThursdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday unveil a statue of Swami Vivekananda on the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi. The unveiling of the life-size statue will happen via video-conferencing, according to JNU Vice Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar. Read moreDelhi’s air quality improves, may deteriorate again over Diwali weekendShowing an improvement from the previous day, Delhi’s air quality dropped to the higher end of the “poor” category on Thursday morning. According to the Central Pollution Control Board data, the air quality index (AQI) reading at 6am stood at 299. Read morePresident-elect Joe Biden names Ron Klain as White House chief of staffUS President-elect Joe Biden on Wednesday announced the appointment of Ron Klain, his longtime aide, as White House chief of staff. In this capacity, Klain will oversee the executive office of the President and serve as a senior advisor. Read moreOver 8.5 lakh bank employees to get 15% pay hikeOver 8.5 lakh employees, majorly from public sector banks (PSBs), will get a 15 per cent hike in pay, with the conclusion of the 11th Bipartite Wage Negotiations on Wednesday. After three years of intense negotiations, the UFBU, which represents four bank officer associations and five workman unions, and the IBA on July 22 entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for an annual wage hike of 15 per cent. Read more‘He would never take chances against me’: R Ashwin reveals how he once ‘set up’ Virat KohliR Ashwin is believed to have one of the sharpest cricketing brains in world cricket. The off-spinner, who represented Delhi Capitals in IPL 2020 has revealed how he has always loved bowling against two of Indian cricket’s finest batsmen, Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana has the most sister-like wish for Aryan Khan’s birthday. See picActor Shah Rukh Khan’s glamorous daughter Suhana Khan wished her older brother Aryan Khan on his birthday on Thursday. She took to Instagram stories to post a picture of them together and wished him. Read moreWhatsApp starts rolling out disappearing messages to beta usersWhatsApp last week announced the launch of disappearing messages. The new feature will be available to all users on Android and iOS within this month. WhatsApp has now started rolling out disappearing messages to beta testers on Android. Read moreKerala man makes world biggest marker pen, Guinness World Records posts videoDo you know who holds the record for making the world’s largest marker pen? Well, it was created by Kerala resident Muhammed Dileef. Guinness World Records recently shared a video on their Facebook page to show the huge pen being made and how it is used to write. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-sero-survey-conducted-in-delhi-shows-1-in-4-exposed-to-coronavirus-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IdaLG4EoGnrzUeOavKt0BL.html
12-11-2020||India||Rain, snow likely in north-western India this weekend||A western disturbance is likely to bring rain and snow to the upper reaches of north-western India over the weekend. Light rain is also likely over the region and adjoining Central India while widespread rain and snowfall are expected in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, India Meteorological Department said.The minimum temperatures are likely to fall further in both northern plains and the hill states after the western disturbance passes.Also Read: J&K to receive season’s first heavy snowfall over next 2 days: WeathermanAccording to Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, this will be the first active western disturbance of the season, which is likely to bring widespread snowfall in the hills and set-in winter across north India.After the western disturbance passes, minimum temperatures are likely to fall significantly as north-westerly winds will bring cold air from the western Himalayas to the plains, scientists said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-snow-likely-in-north-western-india-this-weekend/story-VuRiBoszGYVVaLUTdtpuDM.html
12-11-2020||India||‘Best way to spend birthday’, says Justice Chandrachud who heard Arnab Goswami’s bail plea||Justice D Y Chandrachud, one of the judges of the Supreme Court bench which heard the bail application of Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday, said judging cases is “my life” and “I love it”.He made the remarks while responding to the statement of senior advocate and Goswami’s lawyer Harish Salve who said it was the “worst way” to spend the birthday.“No, no! This is actually the best way to spend it. I am in court judging and it is my life, I love it,” Justice Chandrachud said. Also Watch | ‘I challenge Uddhav Thackeray to debate with me’: Arnab GoswamiThe judge turned 61 on Wednesday. He thanked all the lawyers who wished him.Justice Chandrachud would become the Chief Justice of India on November 9, 2022 and remain in office till November 10, 2024.Goswami, meanwhile, was granted bail by the Supreme Court which laid emphasis on protecting personal liberty. The top court said, “If the State targets individuals, they must realise that the apex court is there to protect them.” It also asked the high courts to not fall short of exercising constitutional duties in protecting “personal liberty”. “We must send a message across to the high court today that please, exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty,” said the vacation bench of the Supreme Court.The hearing on Goswami’s plea went on for entire day.After the Supreme Court order, Goswami was released from the Taloja jail near Mumbai at 8.30 pm. He then drove to the Lower Parel studio of Republic TV and hit out at Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for arresting him in a “fake” case.“Uddhav Thackeray, listen to me. You lost. You have been defeated,” said Goswami (47), while being surrounded by visibly relieved colleagues from his television channel.Goswami also singled out Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his “illegal” arrest on November 4 in a 2018 suicide abetment case.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-way-to-spend-birthday-says-justice-chandrachud-who-heard-arnab-goswami-s-bail-plea/story-a4dkkGiNPXE3QlxCAXe7QO.html
12-11-2020||India||Abetment to suicide case: Assam CM reaches out to Thackeray, seeks better security for Arnab||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has requested his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray to provide adequate security to journalist Arnab Goswami. The request came after the family of Goswami, who hails from Assam, met Sonowal over alleged inadequate security cover for the journalist. “Talked to Maharashtra CM Udhav Thackeray ji and requested him for adequate security arrangements for renowned journalist Arnab Goswami,” Sonowal tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. “I talked to him as Mr Goswami’s family members approached me and intimated that there is not enough security provided to him,” he added. The editor-in-chief of Republic TV, who was in judicial custody in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai for a week in connection with an abetment to suicide case, was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Sonowal had earlier condemned Goswami’s arrest and had demanded his immediate release. “A black day for India democracy. I strongly condemn the assault on senior journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai police. Vendetta politics should be stopped and freedom of press should be maintained in Maharashtra by releasing Mr Goswami immediately,” the CM had tweeted on November 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-reaches-out-to-thackeray-seeks-better-security-for-arnab/story-FeDNvLgZq0Wav0mIQE3HgJ.html
12-11-2020||India||Local train services resume in Bengal after 7 months, social distancing norms flouted||Local suburban train services resumed in West Bengal from Wednesday after a gap of more than seven months, even as social distancing norms to keep the Covid-19 infection at bay took a back seat, prompting authorities and railway passengers to demand more trains in the coming days. Railway authorities said that in all 696 trains were operated on the first day with nearly 85% of the trains running during peak hours in the morning and in the evening to cater to the rush. The resumption of train services came as a relief for lakhs of passengers living in towns and villages in the adjoining districts as they need to travel to Howrah and Kolkata every day for a living. Hawkers, however, have been barred from boarding the trains for the time being. “It is indeed a big relief for people like us who need to go to Kolkata for a living. I am going to Kolkata after more than seven months. I had lost my job during the pandemic. Now I can again look for a job once I go to Kolkata,” said Sarala Das, a resident of Lakshmikantapur in South 24 Parganas district who used to work as a maid. While separate entry and exit gates were demarcated for passengers moving in and out of the stations, police and railway security personnel ensured that none entered the station without wearing masks and without a thermal screening test. Queues were maintained at ticket counters and at the platforms too. But as the day progressed and the crowd swelled social distancing took a back seat on most platforms. Swarms of people could be seen jostling for space in various stations. Trains also got over crowded. Passengers could be seen occupying even those seats, which were supposed to be kept vacant to maintain distance among the passengers. “None of the seats were vacant and people were standing too. Hardly anyone maintained the social distancing norms inside the compartments even though nearly all passengers were wearing facemasks. It would be helpful if the railways can increase the number of trains,” said Pinanki Debnath, who boarded a train from Barasat to reach Kolkata. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the railway authorities to run more trains to cater to the rush. More trains would help to disperse the crowd and reduce the chances of the Covid-19 infection, she said. The Calcutta HC on Tuesday had directed the state to explore whether local trains could be suspended over the coming weekend as it coincides with Kali Puja and Diwali. The court pointed out that the crowd during the Durga Puja this year was much less compared to previous years with one of the reasons being absence of local trains. “The state should consider whether it may be fit in the best of interest of all to suspend the operation of local trains on November 14 and 15 and on the day of Jagadhatri Puja or to manage the number of trains in such a manner that people do not find it convenient to come to Kolkata or travel to other places. The state is left free to make appropriate arrangements with the railway authorities in such regard,” the HC said in its order. With the resumption of local trains and lakhs of people coming to the city, the Kolkata Metro also increased the number of its trains by around 25% from Wednesday to cater to the rush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-train-services-resume-in-bengal-after-7-months-social-distancing-norms-flouted/story-sLs1Yt93ujAwaubRVadZQP.html
12-11-2020||India||PM Modi to unveil life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda on JNU campus on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday unveil a statue of Swami Vivekananda on the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi. The unveiling of the life-size statue will happen via video-conferencing, according to JNU Vice Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar. The ceremony will take place at 6:30 pm, the university said in a statement on Sunday. The unveiling of the statue will be preceded by a programme on Swami Vivekananda.“Swami Vivekananda is one of the most beloved intellectuals and spiritual leaders India has been fortunate to produce. He enthused the youth with his message of freedom, development, harmony and peace in India. He inspired citizens to take pride in Indian civilisation, culture and its industrious spirit,” the JNU Vice Chancellor said in a statement.The prime minister is also scheduled to inaugurate two future-ready Ayurveda institutions in Gujarat and Rajasthan on Friday.He will inaugurate the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA) at Jamnagar in Gujarat and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) at Jaipur in Rajasthan on November 13 via video conferencing, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Wednesday.The potential role of Ayurveda in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic will be the focus of this year’s ‘Ayurveda Day’ observation, the PMO said in a statement.The Ayurveda Day is being observed every year from 2016, on the day of Dhanwantri Jayanti. This year it falls on November 13.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-life-size-statue-of-swami-vivekananda-on-jnu-campus-on-thursday/story-SiGpOO3jDr77Fi1WniB5kK.html
12-11-2020||India||Govt to regulate OTT, online news platforms||The Union government brought streaming video services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and Hotstar, and news websites under the ambit of the Information & Broadcasting ministry for regulation, issuing a notification that will now allow the latter to draft rules that could have a far-reaching impact on popular channels of digital content. In the case of streaming services, this creates a level playing field between linear TV and so-called over the top (OTT) services, and should prevent a rash of objectionable content that some smaller and newer companies in the space have been distributing, but it also raises the spectre of censorship. In the case of digital news, this means companies in the space will be treated akin to print and electronic media companies. To be sure, in both cases, much will depend on the rules drafted. The change was made through the amendment of Allocation of Business Rules and announced through a gazette notification dated November 9 by the Cabinet secretariat. The amendment brought “film and audio visual programmes by online content providers” and “news and current affairs content on online platforms” under the ministry of information and broadcasting’s domain for regulation.According to officials and experts, this is a precursor to the government approving future rules – either through legislation or endorsement of self-regulatory mechanisms. “There is no road map yet on what these regulations will be,” said an official in the ministry said, while asking not to be named.This official, however, pointed to previous remarks by the minister Prakash Javadekar, who has advocated for rules for problems such as fake news.At present, there are no laws or autonomous bodies that have a say on the sort of content on streaming services or news websites – complaints regarding these had largely been dealt by the communications and IT ministry with laws such as the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code being invoked. Traditional media such as films, entertainment and news television channels and newspapers are covered under mechanisms such as government’s Central Board of Film Certification, the independent Broadcasting Content Complaints Council, the cable and television act, and Press and Registration of Books (PRB) Act.“It is unclear what sort of regulations might be announced because there are core distinctions between how production and distribution is carried out. For instance, in cinema you require a censor board certificate before release. In the case of television channels, you don’t need that – a channel just has to be licensed. There is a post-broadcast censorship with a three-strike rule under the cable and television act,” said Apar Gupta, executive director at the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF).According to Gupta, one of the directions at least the regulation of online news media could take has been hinted in a pending legislation: the PRB amendment bill, 2019. “This will broadly bring them at par with print periodicals such as newspapers. Today’s move seems to be an early hint. There was previously an internal division on the matter of jurisdiction within the government but now clear authority has been provided to the information and broadcasting ministry,” he said.Hints about such a move were also evident in the government’s submissions to the Supreme Court during a hearing in September to challenge the broadcast of a purportedly communal TV segment by Sudarshan TV. In an affidavit by a Union I&B ministry official, the government said if the court sought to regulate the media, then it should first do so for digital media, and not electronic media, since the former have a faster and wider reach. The ministry will now need legislative backing to exercise the authority it gained by Monday’s notification. “There will need to be laws which will come in the future. The only clear indication today is that the information ministry will be the nodal ministry for these laws, and exact regulations will need to be seen,” Gupta added.The PRB amendment bill, if cleared, could require news websites to follow a similar process with registration of their periodicals as newspapers are presently required to with the Registrar of Newspapers of India. The bill also prohibits the appointment of a foreign national as an editor and replaces the provision of a jail term with a fine for publishers involved in printing of unlawful content.Separately, the Union government in August, 2019 amended foreign direct investment (FDI) rules to set a 26% limit for digital news websites in India, the same as for newspapers. On streaming services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney Hotstar, the government has previously pushed for a self-regulatory mechanism, the official quoted in the first instance said. These companies formulated a self regulation code that the information and broadcasting ministry rejected due to what it saw as conflict in interest in the advisory panel, news reports said in September.The code proposed by the OTTs prohibited content, including that which deliberately and maliciously disrespected the national emblem or national flag, any visual or story line that promotes child pornography, any content that maliciously intends to outrage religious sentiments, content that deliberately and maliciously promotes or encourages terrorism, among other measures.Spokespersons of Amazon Prime, Netflix and the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) did not respond to requests for a comment on the latest gazette notification. Some producers who have released titles on such OTT platforms said the move could put them at a disadvantage. ”This desperation for control of free speech and expression does not augur well. I am currently very disappointed,” filmmaker Hansal Mehta told PTI.Former information and broadcasting secretary Uday Kumar Varma said the step was long overdue. “Some people thought because the content was coming on internet, it should become part of IT ministry. I suppose they have taken the decision based on content. News and entertainment content are both part of I&B’s mandate. So irrespective of platform or medium, for instance, even today, the news if it comes on radio, TV or DTH, it is part of I&B’s mandate. It is an extension of that and to that extent logical,” he said. In the Sudarshan TV case, the ministry told the top court that there is a need to first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in media.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-regulate-ott-online-news-platforms/story-JGd9C2zEKHZ9Rgiug3d9XM.html
12-11-2020||India||In TV studio after release from jail, Arnab Goswami dares Uddhav Thackeray||Back in the familiar environs of the TV newsroom after a week in judicial custody, journalist Arnab Goswami on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for arresting him in a ‘fake’ case.“Uddhav Thackeray, listen to me. You lost. You have been defeated,” said Goswami (47), while being surrounded by visibly relieved colleagues from his Republic TV channel.Soon after his release from Taloja jail near Mumbai around 8.30 pm, Goswami drove to the Lower Parel studio of the channel, of which he is the Editor-in-Chief. Also Watch | ‘I challenge Uddhav Thackeray to debate with me’: Arnab GoswamiGoswami also singled out Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his ‘illegal’ arrest on November 4 in a 2018 suicide abetment case.Goswami said that while in Taloja jail since November 8, he was subjected to three rounds of police interrogation.“Uddhav Thackeray, you arrested me in an old, fake case and did not even apologise to me,” said Goswami, who was seen sporting a stubble.“The game has just begun,” he said and announced that he will launch Republic TV channel in every language and also have a presence in international media.Saying he apprehended being arrested again, Goswami said, “I will launch (the channels) even from inside the jail and you (Thackeray) won’t be able to do anything.” Thanking the Supreme Court for granting him interim bail, Goswami spoke a few words in Marathi, rounding off with the ‘Jai Maharashtra’ slogan.Goswami was released on Wednesday night, hours after the Supreme Court granted interim bail observing it will be a “travesty of justice” if personal liberty is curtailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tv-studio-after-release-from-jail-arnab-dares-thackeray/story-SNJM4G70pSy7E1he1uP4DK.html
12-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There isn’t much information available on India’s Covid-19 vaccine game plan. We do know — HT’s Saubhadra Chatterji broke that story — that there is a vaccine committee. We also know that this committee is speaking to several vaccine developers. And we know that states have been asked to prepare a list of people who should be prioritised for a vaccine shot. There are several unanswered questions, though.Infosys chairman and former Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) head Nandan M Nilekani wrote a two-part article detailing how he thinks India should go about it, but, again, it isn’t known whether the government is thinking along those lines, or whether the people in charge have even read Nilekani’s article. I am not sure (and this is based on my own interactions) that these people are as informed of the pandemic as they should be. A long career in India’s sprawling and bureaucratic health system, or a medical degree of some vintage, don’t matter as much as an open mind, the ability to read and understand current literature on Covid, and then synthesise what that means in the Indian context. The US has Dr Anthony Fauci; we have a man who thinks the influenza and Covid viruses are from the same family. It’s the reason I recommended — Dispatch 108, titled A Million and a Manifesto, on July 18, shortly after India crossed the million-case mark — that the country appoint a Covid Commissioner. But I digress.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThere are four aspects involved in vaccinating a population.The first involves identifying and procuring a vaccine. Sure, if you are a country such as the US, you can launch a program like Warp Speed, funneling billions of dollars into companies developing vaccines; but even otherwise, it makes sense to secure supplies by striking deals, private bilateral business agreements, with companies developing the vaccines. The UK and the EU have such agreements. As have many other countries. India doesn’t, and is largely dependent for vaccines on a WHO initiative, Covax, but not all vaccine developers are part of this equitable access platform; Pfizer, for instance, isn’t (and its vaccine will likely be the first one available). India should aggressively pursue bilateral agreements, and use as a hedge, like many other countries plan to, the vaccine doses it will be eligible for under Covax. The next few years are going to be about vaccine stockpiles — most of the initial vaccines may be two-shot ones; people may need annual vaccination — and India should get serious about building its own.Covid update: Sputnik-V 92% effective; Pfizer challenge; Delhi HC on surgeThe second involves funding. India needs to figure out who is eligible for a free vaccine, and who pays. The easier, but more expensive option, is to underwrite the costs of vaccination for the entire population — something that could cost tens of billions of dollars. And at least for the first few years (I’m not sure anyone has thought about this), till a one-shot-lifetime-protection vaccine is developed, this staggering amount of money may have to be spent annually. The government could also consider providing the vaccine free only to people who need it (say, those covered by the Public Distribution System), and make others pay for it.The third involves distribution. Here the government should do the smart thing and tap the expertise of those who do this best — companies in the consumer products business such as ITC, Hindustan Unilever Ltd, Parle, the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation, and others. These companies are in the business of ensuring their products are available in remote corners of the country. Some even deal in perishables, and some others in products that require refrigeration.The last involves administration. This is perhaps the most complex part of the exercise, but also the one where India has a very good template — the general elections, down to the neighborhood election booths. Just like government employees, usually school teachers, are drafted to man the polling booths, health care workers from government and private hospitals should be asked to staff the vaccination booths. The national elections, conducted in phases, in just the span of a month-and-a-half, provide the perfect template for a national vaccination drive. People know which their booths are; go there, present some ID (even a phone number will do, or a name and thumbprint in the extreme case of someone who has no ID at all), be vaccinated, get a receipt to that effect, and perhaps one of those indelible-ink marks on a finger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-466vokbAwyi4EUsmRy7ZLI.html
12-11-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan asks 7 states to focus on effective management of Covid-19 cases to reduce deaths||Union minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday advised seven states, including Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, to focus on enhanced testing, especially in districts with higher Covid-19 positivity and places of large gatherings like markets and workplaces.Vardhan, who interacted with chief ministers, state health ministers, principal secretaries and additional chief secretaries of Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura Meghalaya and Goa through video conferencing and urged them to focus on effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases to reduce deaths in the first 24, 48 or 72 hours.Highlighting the state specific areas of concern that would require focussed attention, he noted that although the active cases have come down in Maharashtra, it continues to have a large active Covid-19 caseload with a high fatality rate of 2.6 per cent, which increases to 3.5 per cent in and around Mumbai, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.The case fatality rate in Uttarakhand is higher than the national average at 1.64 per cent.Also, active cases are on the rise in the recent days in Manipur. Higher positivity in the state is indicative of hidden transmission, Vardhan said.Forty per cent of the total deaths were recorded in just the last one month in Goa, which is a cause of concern, he underlined.With 70 per cent of cases concentrated in Aizawl, Mizoram is seeing a further rise in active cases; Tripura and Meghalaya are witnessing higher deaths in the active age groups of 45-60 years, which are preventable, the Union health minister highlighted.Vardhan appreciated the relentless services of several Covid warriors and the frontline workers who have handled the situation on the ground with grit and determination without showing signs of fatigue.  He further stated that as on date, there were only 4.09 per cent of active cases on oxygen support, 2.73 per cent of the active cases in ICU and a minute 0.45 per cent on ventilator support, the ministry said in the statement.He, however, stressed on the need to be vigilant in the coming winter and the long festive season, which could threaten the gains made against Covid-19.To stop the chain of transmission, he stressed on the importance of ‘Jan Andolan’ initiated by the prime minister.Elaborating on the steps taken by the government to promote ‘Jan Andolan’ among the masses, he added that “Covid appropriate behaviour is the most potent social vaccine”.Vardhan advised the states to focus on higher testing, especially in districts with higher positivity, mandatory testing of symptomatic negatives by rapid antigen test, focus on high risk groups and vulnerable populations for SARI/ILI surveillance, which can give an indication of infection, proper follow-up and monitoring of those in home isolation, especially the vulnerable group.He also highlighted the importance of widespread IEC campaigns so that people in home isolation can reach hospitals in time for effective clinical management, and efforts to be made to reduce deaths in the first 24, 48 or 72 hours, which was high in many states and districts, the statement stated.Vardhan also indicated towards the need for higher testing in areas like marketplaces, workplaces, places of gatherings.       The chief ministers and state health ministers shared a brief snapshot of the actions taken for containment, surveillance and treatment of Covid-19 cases along with the best practices of their states.  Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat stated that they have mounted a comprehensive multimedia IEC campaign for encouraging Covid appropriate behaviour.Challans have been given to 1.4 lakh for faulting on social distancing, and 4.5 lakh on mask negligence. In the later case, the defaulters were given four masks each to promote mask wearing behaviour.  Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope informed about the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign in the state where house-to-house surveys and monitoring of home isolation cases and SARI/ILI patients were undertaken. Of the 5.7 lakh surveyed, 51,000 Covid-19 positive cases were identified.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised the states to focus on three areas that include the need to suppress and break the chain of transmission; keeping mortality less than 1 per cent and the need for prolonged behaviour change.  To ensure these, he advised for quick and aggressive testing, targeted testing at marketplaces, workplaces, religious congregations which have the potential to become super-spreader events, followed by quick tracing; all close contacts to be traced in the first 72 hours; at least 10 persons to be traced for every positive person.He also advised to increase the proportion of tests through RT-PCR against RAT and to mandatorily test symptomatic negatives from RAT tests by RT-PCR.  For ensuring the second point, he advised quick hospitalisation, ensuring adequate infrastructure in hospitals, focus on avoidable deaths in the first 24, 48 or 72 hours; focus on vulnerable population groups; and review hospital wide fatality figures, the statement said.To ensure adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour, he advised strong campaigns involving MPs, MLAs and local influencers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-asks-7-states-to-focus-on-effective-management-of-covid-19-cases-to-reduce-deaths/story-HxxcCaeSu7PTe07xJDRocM.html
12-11-2020||India||Conrad Sangma’s govt defeats Congress’ no-confidence motion in Meghalaya||The no-confidence motion moved by the opposition Congress against the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government led by Conrad K Sangma was defeated by a voice vote on Wednesday amid an uproar.Making the announcement to wrap up the day’s proceedings, Meghalaya assembly Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh said, “The Nos have it and the no-confidence motion is lost.”The motion was put to vote after the Leader of Opposition Dr Mukul Sangma announced that the opposition has taken a collective decision not to withdraw the no-trust motion because the government seems to be not willing to come clear on the various allegations.All 40 ruling MLAs voted against the no-confidence motion except the lone Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement (KHNAM) legislator, Adelbert Nongrum, who decided to neither support the government nor the opposition.During the debate on the no-confidence motion, the opposition Congress launched a scathing attack against the MDA government for its alleged failure to protect the interest of the state with specific reference to illegal mining and transportation of coal, corruption in the power department, law and order, among others.“To sum up, the government has failed to protect the interest of the state. How much time do we want to give this government which is robbing the state?” Dr Sangma asked.In response, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said that the opposition should be magnanimous enough to accept that development is taking place and realise the need to support the present state government for its endeavours.“If we have failed, as alleged by the opposition, how come there is no abduction of civilians - from 210 cases during their time to zero today? How come we managed to lift the ban on coal mining, which they could not do during their time? How come the Covid numbers are the lowest today in our state? How are these 40 MLAs supporting us today? Why did the Public Index of 2020 rank us as the second best governance (governed) state in the country today?” Conrad asked.On the alleged illegal mining and transportation of coal, the CM categorically maintained that there is no illegal movement of coal and that all transportation is taking place legally with proper documents. “In fact the revenue that is coming in has been manifold (from the seized coal),” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conrad-sangma-s-govt-defeats-congress-no-confidence-motion-in-meghalaya/story-jhaWbFHT3BtasG3YSqLQBK.html
12-11-2020||India||Development only basis for politics now; women BJP’s silent voters: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Wednesday that results of the Bihar assembly polls and bypolls across states have proved that “development” will be the only basis for politics in the 21st century and credited women for powering the The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) political fortunes as its “silent voters”.Addressing BJP workers at a thanksgiving programme in Delhi following the electoral victory, Modi also attributed the National Democratic Alliance’s(NDA)win in Bihar to its mantra of “sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas” and also launched a veiled attack on the West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress, saying those who cannot challenge the saffron party democratically have resorted to “murdering” its workers to realise their goals.Assembly polls are due in the first half of 2021 in West Bengal, a politically crucial state where BJP hopes to come to power for the first time by ending Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year old rule.Modi also said that the NDA will serve Bihar under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and every BJP member will leave no stone unturned to help it realise its resolve of development in the state.In his address, the Prime Minister launched a stinging attack on “family parties and family-oriented parties”, saying their “web” could be seen from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and that they are the “biggest threat” to Indian democracy.In a clear attack on the Congress, he said a national party has also fallen into the grip of a family and asked youngsters to associate themselves with the BJP to serve the country.The Prime Minister chose the celebratory atmosphere at the BJP headquarters to underscore the party’s growing strength across the country, a day after its stupendous show helped the NDA pip a resurgent RJD-led alliance to the post, even as it notched up impressive wins in bypolls across states like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh among others.Referring to the poll results, he said they have broadened the verdict delivered by the people in the Lok Sabha polls in favour of BJP for its development work.Modi further said his government has undertaken several reforms and launched development as well as welfare initiatives for the people during the Covid-19 pandemic, when many big countries had also got bogged down by the virus spread.The BJP is the only national party in which the poor, dalits, and other deprived sections of society see their representation, he said, adding that it is the only national party that represents and caters to aspirations of every section and region of the nation. Modi said the party’s rise from “two rooms and two seats” to its dominance in national politics, and has clearly shown that people will give only those a chance to serve the country who work honestly for the nation’s development.Those who do not understand it are losing their deposits in polls, he said, an apparent reference to the Congress’ poor show in these polls.The BJP’s model of “good governance” was visible during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, asserting that people’s vote for the party have shown their support to the measures taken by his government to deal with the pandemic. Everyone must be wondering when he will speak on the Bihar poll results, Modi said smilingly in the middle of his speech before adding that the only mystery formula behind the NDA’s win in the state, where exit polls had mostly predicted a loss for it, was its mantra of “sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas”.Development work, trust, and aspirations and pride of Bihar have won in the state, he said. Terming the Bihar polls results as “most special”, he noted that the BJP is the only party which has seen its tally increase despite being in power in the state for three terms and added that it has performed spectacularly in states like Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat despite ruling them for long.  With pollsters crediting woman voters’ preference for the BJP-JD(U) alliance for its win in the hard-fought battle, Modi said India’s “nari shakti” (women power) are the BJP’s “silent voters” being discussed by experts. From rural to urban regions, they have played a key role in the BJP’s good show in polls everywhere, he added.Turning his attention to West Bengal, he raised the issue of alleged political murders targeting saffron party members.“People in some parts of the country think that they will realise their goals by murdering BJP workers. I will appeal to them to see reason... I need not warn them as people will do this. Polls come and go, win and loss happen but this killing game cannot work in a democracy. This ‘maut ka khel’ cannot get you votes. They should see the writing on the wall,” Modi said, without naming any party.The BJP has been accusing the TMC of resorting to killing its workers to terrorise its members, a charge the state’s ruling party has rejected.The Prime Minister asked people to take due care while celebrating Diwali and follow the mantra of “vocal for local”, a push for local products.He also hailed the Election Commission, security forces and local administration for the successful conduct of elections, saying India’s polling process is a pride of every Indian.Amid a festival-like atmosphere with the crowd chanting ‘Modi hai to mumkin hai (Modi can make it possible), BJP president J P Nadda earlier said at the event that people of Bihar have put their stamp of approval on Modi’s work to deal with Covid-19 and help poor during the pandemic.He also said Bihar has chosen ‘vikas raaj’ over ‘goonda raaj’, ‘DBT raaj’ over ‘loot raaj’ and LED over lantern. With the party’s Bihar poll wins being first under Nadda, who had taken over the helm in January this year, Modi lauded his leadership and asked the large number of party workers present at the headquarters to join him in raising slogans in his support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/development-only-basis-for-politics-now-women-bjp-s-silent-voters-pm-modi/story-SdrkdYS7gwhGEVBV9BI4FP.html
12-11-2020||India||Major hope for rescues as White House’s first rescue pup-to be reinstills faith in forever homes||President-elect Joe Biden’s arrival at the White House also brings with it pawsitive news for animal lovers and rescuers. His German Shepherd, Major, is going to be the first rescue dog in the White House. Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi has been making strong points for the adoption of indie puppies. And now, many celebrities including cricketer Shikhar Dhawan and actors Randeep Hooda and Raveena Tandon have adopted strays and rescue dogs, more so since the pandemic broke.   No ruff days on the trail when I have some Major motivation.A post shared by  Joe Biden (@joebiden) on Oct 5, 2020 at 3:22pm PDTHenri A Fanthome, owner of an architecture firm, adopted a female rescue Lila in 2014, who now has puppies of her own. “She took to me very naturally. I was warned that she might show separation anxiety or depression, but none of that happened. When I was bringing her home, she kept licking my head, and does so to this day. She adapted to me and my house instantly, and made friends with other dogs in the park where we go for walks,” he shares, adding that Lila helped him discover some things about his own personality, too. “Earlier, I would always put others first, giving them so much leeway as to walk all over me. But when Lila came along, I drew the line. She made me visible, made me notice these things,” he reveals. Adopting rescue pups also brings a sense of gratification, of giving back to nature. Shubha Sinha, homemaker, who adopted Pyaari around three years ago, says, “We were told she is two years old by the volunteer working with the shelter. She mostly looks like a breeders’ reject who was dumped after she was done serving her purpose. It took her a lot of time to trust people. Except for the three of us, she wouldn’t go near anyone. She isn’t the fittest or the healthiest girl and a lot of physical work goes into taking care of her but I guess there is a sense of happiness that comes with it. We feel that at least we could give back to the society in some way and our life isn’t just about us.”Corporate communications specialist Ankita Dasgupta, who adopted Sikander in 2018, says both her family and the pet have come a long way in adapting to each other. “Initially, my parents were very distressed because he used to pee everywhere including on the beds and used to constantly want to eat. He did not give cuddles and was a bit of a recluse. We have all come around changes now. He gives morning cuddles and seeks out our company and has colony friends,” she says.There are volunteers who work tirelessly to help find abandoned pets and strays forever homes. Seeing a trend, Ruchi Gupta, who volunteers at two animal NGOs, shares that the abandonment rate of pedigree dogs has increased post the pandemic. “This has also impacted the adoption of indie dogs. People want young pedigree puppies below the age of three years,” she says, adding that people look at what breeds are in trend before adopting. “Earlier it was Pugs and Labradors. Now people want Shih Tzus and Huskies. More German Shepherds are being abandoned now. Vidhi Malla, a communications consultant has four rescues at her home and has facilitated the adoption of many “children” as she calls them. She has dealt with cases where the pups have been adopted and abandoned multiple times. “My youngest, five-year old Toto got adopted but was returned after six months. It was an extremely difficult time. It has been three years, but she is still scared of strangers or walking on the street,” shares Malla and lists out certain challenges in getting dogs adopted. “A lot of people prefer breeds; the adoption of desi dogs is very difficult. People have very specific demands in mind – a certain age and kind of puppy,” she adds.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-hope-for-rescues-as-white-house-s-first-rescue-pup-to-be-reinstills-faith-in-forever-homes/story-zFyPpLzDN0VDTuifeUWFrO.html
