13-11-2020||India||Ladakh border disengagement plan ready, claims Chinese media. Then another spin||Indian and Chinese military are about to implement a border disengagement plan under reciprocal principle, China’s state media claimed in a news report on Friday. The report, published by Global Times, a tabloid of the Chinese Communist Party, also claimed that the disengagement plan requires India to first withdraw its soldiers from the friction points in eastern Ladakh. Quoting anonymous sources, the tabloid said China will consider disengaging its army from the northern side of the Pangong Tso once the Indian army withdraws.“India should first withdraw staff who illegally crossed the line on the southern side of the Pangong Tso Lake, and China will then consider disengaging on the northern side of the lake,” sources told the tabloid published by the People’s Daily, the ruling Communist Party of China’s official newspaper.The Chinese foreign ministry did not respond to requests from the Hindustan Times to comment on the report in Global Times.There has been no formal response from New Delhi to the claim reported by Chinese state media. But India had made it clear right after the initial rounds of diplomatic and military talks that since China’s People’s Liberation Army troops were the first to provoke, Indian troops could not be expected to be the first to take a step back. Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi told reporters in July that the army would continue all efforts to restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the Line of Actual Control.Also Read: Indian Army, PLA consider scaling up disengagement at Ladakh borderThe Global Times report published on Friday was an updated version of a report published a day earlier in the same tabloid, which denied Indian media reports on “detailed arrangements for a disengagement plan of the two militaries”, as “not accurate”.The two nuclear powers have been locked in a border dispute for more than five months, with several rounds of diplomatic and military talks failing to produce a breakthrough.Indian officials have, after the last round of talks, confirmed that the two sides were considering a proposal for phased withdrawal of troops and military equipment in the sensitive Pangong Tso sector as part of a broader disengagement plan to reduce tensions in the Ladakh theatre. If this proposal goes through, it will be the first significant movement in negotiations in more than four months — disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July but it did not progress in other areas.The proposal was first discussed on November 6 during the eighth round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies in the Chushul sector.The Chinese foreign and defence ministries have not commented on the details that were said to have been discussed during the November 6 military talks, the eighth round of negotiations between the armed forces.In a statement to the Hindustan Times dated November 10, the Chinese foreign ministry said “…there was a frank, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on the issue of disengagement in the western section of the Sino-Indian border,” during the November 6 talks.“The two sides agreed to conscientiously implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure that the front-line forces exercise restraint and avoid misunderstandings and misjudgements,” the statement said.To a specific question on whether People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops deployed at the border with India were facing problems because of the harsh winter, the foreign ministry statement had said it was “not a problem” for the Chinese military.A five-point roadmap agreed on by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart and state councillor Wang Yi on September 10 had laid out the road ahead to defuse the ongoing tension at the border: Dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management, continuing dialogue through the Special Representatives mechanism and the WMCC, and working on new confidence-building measures once the situation eases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-border-disengagement-plan-ready-claims-chinese-media-then-another-spin/story-CEJcguqJRP6mKhUc4tO9xK.html
13-11-2020||India||Congress attends Gupkar alliance meeting, pledges united front to stop the BJP||As the campaigning for the district development board elections started after nomination forms were submitted for the phase 1 of the polls, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) leadership decided to keep campaigning for these polls a low key affair. The PAGD held another round of meeting on Friday, also attended by Congress leaders, to discuss candidates for the subsequent phases of polls.On Thursday, the PAGD released the first list of 27 candidates for DDC polls. Among the candidates who filed their nominations, 21 are from the National Conference, four are from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and two are from the People’s Conference.A senior leader of PAGD said that the alliance leadership decided to participate in the polls as they didn’t want BJP to go unchallenged.“The top leadership of the PAGD has decided to keep these polls a low key affair and campaigning will also be short,” he said adding that the PAGD grassroots workers will try to grab the maximum number of seats.He admitted that there were some differences on a few seats but said the top leaders of all parties were ready for any “sacrifice”. “The top leadership wants to make this alliance one of the strongest forces, which will fight for the restoration of Article 370 and statehood,” he said wishing not to be named.Also Read: 2 commandos among 8 Pak soldiers killed as India lights up Pak posts in retaliationMeanwhile on Friday, another meeting of PAGD was held at the residence of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, which was also attended by two senior Congress leaders besides other members of the alliance. Sources said the leaders discussed names of candidates for the following phases of poll for the DDC. Meanwhile, Congress vice president Ghulam Nabi Monga, who participated on behalf of the Congress, said his party is part of the alliance and it will fight BJP on all fronts. “We will contest this election to defeat the divisive forces.”Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples Conference, the CPI (M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. The People’s Conference however participated in the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attends-gupkar-alliance-meeting-pledges-united-front-to-stop-the-bjp/story-Ip0jzXoLPtdKJxkOgTWaDP.html
13-11-2020||India||10 killed, 25 injured as truck overturns in Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri||Ten people including four women and a child were killed and 25 others were injured Friday evening when a pick-up truck in which they were travelling overturned in Shivpuri district, 312 kilometres north of Bhopal, police said. The injured were rushed to the district hospital in Shivpuri where condition of some of the injured was stated to be serious. The victims were related to each other.The deceased were identified as Bharat Singh Gurjar, 40, and Narottam Gurjar, 45, residents of Dondari Khurd village in Sheopur district, Jagmohan Gurjar, 50, s/o Kunwarpal Gurjar, Jagmohan Gurjar, 60, son of Maharaj Singh Gurjar, Gasbar Singh, 45, Durgabai, 28, her daughter Pratigya, 4, Kamala Bai, 50, Munni Gurjar, 50, and Harvilas Gurjar, 50, all residents of Dondari Kalan village in Sheopur district, according to the police. Shivpuri’s additional superintendent of police Praveen Kumar Bhuria said, “The deceased and injured were returning to their villages near Vijaypur town in Sheopur district from Morawan village in the same district where they had gone following the death of a relative. They were travelling in a pick-up truck via Shivpuri district when the vehicle overturned near Pohari at about 7.15 pm.” “Six of the victims died on the spot. Two succumbed to their injuries on the way to the hospital while two others died during treatment in the district hospital. Among the 25 injured, the condition of three is serious and they have been referred to a hospital in Gwalior,” the officer said.Bhuria said the police are trying to find out how the mishap took place. (With input from Ranjeet Gupta in Shivpuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-25-injured-as-truck-overturns-in-madhya-pradesh-s-shivpuri/story-ntiL0UKdtRLGY4kUrfnqjL.html
13-11-2020||India||41 trains cancelled, 11 short-terminated over farmers’ protest in Punjab||The Northern Railway on Friday said that as many as 41 trains were cancelled and eleven were short-terminated in view of farmers’ agitation in Punjab.Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held talks with a delegation of representatives of farmers from Punjab, who are protesting a set of laws passed recently to liberalise the farm sector, at the national capital’s Vigyan Bhawan.This is the second attempt by the government to negotiate with the farmers and break an impasse following a cultivators’ agitation in some states, particularly Punjab, against the Centre’s move to open up agricultural markets in the nation.Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal had met a farmers’ delegation earlier on October 14, after inviting them for talks, to convince them to end their protest, but the meeting had ended in a deadlock.The farmers in Punjab have launched protests, blockading rail tracks and road transport, since the government enacted three farm-sector laws in September.The three laws, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce by easing restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.The protesting farmers say the reforms could make them vulnerable to exploitation, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice.The farmer organisations are likely to press for the MSP system to be written into law, which is high on their agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-trains-cancelled-11-short-terminated-over-farmers-protest-in-punjab/story-9mHoPU9EXHsuasArsBpDmK.html
13-11-2020||India||Elephant calf falls into well in Ramgarh, reunited with herd after rescue||A six-month-old elephant calf was rescued and reunited with its mother and herd after it fell into a well in a paddy field in Lipiya village of Ramgarh district on Friday, a forest official said.Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Ramgarh, Ved Prakash Kamboj said the elephant calf fell into a low deep well in paddy farmland in a remote village under Gola block of the district but was rescued safely by a forest department team with the help of local villagers and the calf was later happily reunited with its mother and herd.A herd of tuskers with the calf rushed to paddy farmland in search of food and the calf slipped and fell into a well early on Friday, said an official.He said the forest department team rushed to the village and started rescue operation with help of locals, rescued the calf safely and reunited him with his herd, who was waiting for the calf in the nearby paddy field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-calf-falls-into-well-in-ramgarh-reunited-with-herd-after-rescue/story-BMV8WYTBHC8K0z0ObtBaAK.html
13-11-2020||India||Lt Gen Harinder Singh takes over as 50th Commandant of IMA||Lt General Harinder Singh took over as 50th Commandant of the prestigious Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Friday, the Academy said.Lt Gen Singh who was the commander of 14 Corps at Leh, replaced Lt Gen Jaiveer Singh Negi who retired on September 30. As 14 Corps commander, General Singh oversaw operations, along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, and led the Indian delegation during talks with the Chinese to end the ongoing stand-off between the two armies.After taking charge as Commandant of the Academy, Lt Gen Singh paid tributes to the martyrs at the war memorial in the Academy. An alumnus of National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, the officer joined the army and was commissioned into 9 Maratha Light Infantry. During his career, he also commanded a Rashtriya Rifles battalion in Jammu & Kashmir. Lt Gen Singh had also served in the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping force while commanding a UN multi-national brigade deployed in eastern Congo. He had also served as a Staff Officer at the UN Mission in Angola. He had also been an instructor at IMA and in Infantry School in Mhow, Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-gen-harinder-singh-takes-over-as-50th-commandant-of-ima/story-7fwguD8yMZmnNP43r27BoO.html
13-11-2020||India||Cloth masks highly preventive against Covid-19, says new CDC study||A cloth mask is effective in reducing the risk of contracting and spreading of the coronavirus (Covid-19) for the wearer and those around them, a new study in the US Centres for Disease Control (CDC) said.In the study, CDC recommended people to use masks, specifically the ones made of non-valved multi-layer cloth, to prevent the transmission of Covid-19 virus.“Multi-layer cloth masks block release of exhaled respiratory particles into the environment,along with the microorganisms these particles carry,” the study stated.According to CDC’s recent health release, materials used in cloth masks can reduce wearers’ vulnerability to infectious droplets through filtration, including filtration of fine aerosols smaller than 10 microns.“Cloth masks not only effectively block most large droplets (i.e., 20-30 microns and larger) but they can also block the exhalation of fine droplets and particles (also often referred to as aerosols) smaller than 10 microns ; which increase in number with the volume of speech and specific types of phonation.Multi-layer cloth masks can both block up to 50-70% of these fine droplets and particles and limit the forward spread of those that are not captured. Upwards of 80% blockage has been achieved in human experiments that have measured blocking of all respiratory droplets,with cloth masks in some studies performing on par with surgical masks as barriers for source control,” it noted.The SARS-CoV-2, that causes Covid-19, can transmit through direct or indirect or close contact with an infected person through respiratory droplet transmission via coughing, sneezing or talking.“An investigation of a high-exposure event, in which 2 symptomatically ill hair stylists interacted for an average of 15 minutes with each of 139 clients during an 8-day period, found that none of the 67 clients who subsequently consented to an interview and testing developed infection. The stylists and all clients universally wore masks in the salon as required by local ordinance and company policy at the time,” the US health body noted further in its study.The CDC, citing several studies, advocated universal use of masking policies, saying that it can help avoid lockdowns in the future, especially if clubbed with other policies such as social distancing, hand hygiene and adequate ventilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-cloth-masks-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-says-new-cds-study/story-HTRbHKz84w1X1VwQDIlbdL.html
13-11-2020||India||Second Covid-19 wave likely to hit Maharashtra in January, 4,132 cases recorded on Friday||In last one month, Maharashtra has seen rapid improvement in its Covid-19 situation with more recoveries and fewer daily infections. But the government is anticipating a second wave in January, February and thereby has asked the authorities to not lower their guards on testing. A circular from the government’s health services directorate dated November 11 said a second wave of the pandemic is likely in January-February. It also said that the estimation is based on what is happening in Europe. Delhi at present is reporting the third wave of the infection the first took place in June and the second in September. Kerala, too, saw a dip in the number of cases until September. The Covid-19 curve is different at every state. Since the breakout in March, cases in Mahrashtra were alway on the rise. Only in October, there have been some signs of decline. The circular said there should be no complacency in coronavirus testing and all labs will remain functional as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. The circular said the need of the hour is to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali keeping in mind health interest of COVID-19 patients and those with breathing problems.On Friday, Maharashtra recorded 4,132 new coronavirus cases, which took the case tally to 17,40,461.As far as unlocking is concerned, Maharashtra chose to be behind other states. Gyms were reopened after Dussehra and religious places will reopen after Diwali. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-19-wave-likely-to-hit-maharashtra-in-january-4-132-cases-recorded-on-friday/story-o4tKYlc37uOQslt1dQAFPJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Odisha cop caught kicking tribal on video got clean chit. Rights panel nails her||A woman police officer seen thrashing a tribal young man in a widely-circulated video eight months ago should not be given a field posting for the next two years, the Odisha Human Rights Commission has said.The Odisha police had given inspector Sandhyarani Jena a clean chit.The commission chairperson Justice Bimal Das and member Asim Amitav Das, however, rejected the police officer’s claims of innocence and after watching the video, observed that the inspector had clearly used force on the tribal young man which amounted to custodial violence.On March 25, Chiita Ranjan Mahanta of Talasarua village in Keonjhar district had gone to Patna police station in connection with an FIR regarding a land dispute where he was named as an accused. At the police station, inspector Jena thrashed and kicked her. She was placed under suspension after the video of the incident emerged in May and provoked nationwide outrage.This is the second case in two days where the commission has come down harshly on police officers facing charges of violating the human rights of citizens. On Thursday, the commission ordered a police inspector to pay Rs 5 lakh in a penalty for arresting two men on a trumped-up murder charge. The two men spent eight months in jail before being released.The commission had ordered inspector Sandhyarani Jena to pay an interim compensation of Rs 10,000 to the tribal man she was accused of beating and kicking. But she went to the high court against this direction, arguing that the commission hadn’t heard her out before ordering compensation. The high court agreed with her and told the commission to hear her version first.The inspector denied assault and said the video was made in what she described as a melodramatic fashion. She also cited the clean chit handed to her by her superior officer, the area sub-divisional police officer who had conducted an inquiry. The report had said it was unintentional and without any malice.The commission did not agree and called her action an affront to the positive initiative of the state government to make the force more transparent and people-friendly.“The state police is a disciplined force and for any acts of commission and omission, the department should not be defamed. The inspector should be sent for training as to how to deal with the accused persons and in the typical situations,” the commission ruled.The human rights commission also noted that CCTV was not working in the police station when the incident happened. “This leads to the presumption that the inspector took the opportunity for beating and kicking an accused inside the police station. It’s the responsibility of the inspector to keep it functional,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-caught-kicking-tribal-on-video-got-clean-chit-rights-panel-nails-her/story-a0H2qqOZmUA4WmKzklc5yM.html
13-11-2020||India||RJD considers legal challenge to Bihar poll results, EC says election was transparent||Top leaders of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday held a meeting with around 30 candidates of the party who lost by narrow margins and assured them the party would mount a legal challenge against poll results in various assembly constituencies. The meeting lasted over four hours during which the RJD nominees shared their experience at the counting centres with some alleging they lost because of manipulation by election officials. Shakti Singh Yadav, RJD’s former MLA from Hilsa in Nalanda, said he would file a writ petition in the Patna High Court challenging the poll results of his defeat to JD(U)’s Prem Mukhiya, who won by a margin of 12 votes. “I will take legal recourse and file a writ petition. I was leading and then the trends reversed after postal ballots were counted. It is all very suspicious and looks like there was a conspiracy to defeat me,” he said. He further claimed that a large number of postal ballots including votes cast by teachers in his constituency engaged in polls were rejected on the plea that many of these ballots did not have covering letters of verification of voters. “It was not my work to ensure that the postal ballot carried necessary papers verifying the identity as a voter. This is again a grey area,” he said. But Bihar’s Chief Electoral Officer, H R Srinivasa insisted that all norms were followed at the counting centres. In context of Hilsa constituency, Srinivasa said all the postal ballots including the rejected ones were recounted on the request of the RJD nominee. “As per EC directives, if the margin of win is less than the postal ballots, then re-verification is done of invalid postal ballots. In Hilsa, the Returning Officer went a step ahead and carried out recounting of all postal ballots including invalid votes in the presence of the candidates. The results were the same,” he said. Srinivasa said that he had already issued the list of 11 constituencies where the margin of win was less than 1,000 votes in postal ballots on Thursday. Of the 11 constituencies, JD(U) won four seats, RJD has won three seats, LJP one seat, BJP one seat , CPI one seat and one seat was won by an independent candidate. “In these 11 constituencies, different parties have won including one independent. The election was conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner,” he said. The 11 seats include Hilsa, Barbigha, Ramgarh, Matihani, Bhorey, Dehri, Bachhwara, Chakai, Kurhani , Bakhri and Parbattta. Besides, the CEO said the norms laid down for classifying postal ballots as valid and invalid were followed strictly during the counting process. On the RJD’s demand of seeking CDs of video recordings of counting centres, Srinivasa said the CDs of videography done inside the counting centres would be provided to whoever asks for it. “We will provide the CDs as against the deposition of the required fee. Everything is there,” he said. The Election Commission too has clarified that the counting process was slow because of the increase in polling stations due to Covid-19 safety guidelines. Meanwhile, RJD’s state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said the party was looking into legal options to challenge the polls results in several constituencies where the margin of victory was abysmally low. “Consultations are going with various allies of the grand alliance and legal experts are also being approached for taking a view on the options of moving court,” he said. On Thursday, Tejashwi had alleged that the irregularities in the counting process had led to the Grand Alliance losing 20 seats that stopped it from reaching the majority figure of 122. The Grand Alliance ended up with 110 seats against the NDA’s 125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-considers-legal-challenge-to-bihar-poll-results-ec-says-election-was-transparent/story-Nw8S7q2iPT7AkCHjmI9r3H.html
13-11-2020||India||2 commandos among 8 Pak soldiers killed as India lights up Pak posts in retaliation||At least eight Pakistani soldiers were killed on Friday and 12 injured after Indian Army targeted Pakistani positions across the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir with artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles in response to heavy shelling by the neighbouring army in which nine Indians --- including five security personnel --- lost their lives, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. Pakistani ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and terror launch pads were among the targets destroyed by the Indian Army, they said. The heavy exchange of fire --- triggered by ceasefire violations by the Pakistani army in multiple sectors on the eve of Diwali --- has turned the spotlight on the LoC at a time when Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a border dispute along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive Ladakh sector where a disengagement plan is under discussion but has made no progress so far. Four Indian soldiers, a Border Security Force sub-inspector and four civilians, including a woman and a seven-year-old boy, were killed in Pakistani shelling in Uri, Naugam, Keran and Gurez sectors in north Kashmir, the officials said, asking not to be identified. Three Indian soldiers were injured. The Pakistani casualties include at least two Special Service Group commandos, they said. The Indian Army blamed Pakistan for unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC spread across multiple sectors including Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam. Pakistan used mortars and other weapons,” said Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia. He said that the neighbouring army deliberately targeted civilian areas. “Our troops retaliated strongly causing casualties and substantial damage to Pakistan army’s infrastructure across the LoC. Several ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and multiple terrorist launch pads have been damaged,” Kalia said. The Pakistani army began shelling Indian positions after the Indian Army foiled a major infiltration attempt in the Keran sector, the officials said. There has been a significant increase in ceasefire violations by Pakistan this year. While the neighbour violated the ceasefire 3,233 times last year, the figure this year stands at 4,052 so far, according to army data. Pakistan carried out 394 violations in October as against 128 till now in November.The Indian Army released several images, including unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) footage, showing multiple Pakistani bunkers and other positions going up in flames in the retaliatory Indian action. One of the videos released by the army showed a Pakistani soldier running for cover before his post was hit by an anti-tank guided missile. “Pakistani casualties may be higher. What we have right now is an initial estimate,” the officials said. Watch how Indian forces blew away Pakistan bunker during LoC escalationThe Pakistanis have got it back “right and proper,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations, commenting on the Indian Army’s retaliatory action.“Pakistan is seeking to create trouble along the LoC as it is aware of our focus on the LAC and the commitment there. The Pakistan army is making desperate attempts to push in infiltrators before harsh winters set in. The ceasefire violations are carried out to help the infiltrators. Also, the Valley has been quiet and the neighbour wants to up the ante there to trigger violence and bloodshed,” Bhatia added. In Naugam sector, a BSF officer posted at Atma Complex was killed in the shelling. He was identified as sub inspector Rakesh Dobal. Baramulla resident Abdul Qayoom said that shelling is still going in some areas of Uri. “Four civilians were killed in Uri and another four were injured,” he said. The ceasefire violation was reported from all the important sectors stretching from Uri to Gurez. All these sectors have witnessed multiple ceasefire violations this year and soldiers have been on high alert. Locals in Uri said the Indian and Pakistani soldiers were targeting each other’s pickets at Haji Peer and Kamalkote sectors since morning. The locals said small arms and mortars have been used during the shelling which triggered panic among the villagers near the LoC. “This was one of the deadliest shelling fires in many years in the Uri sector. Some shells hit residential houses,” said Iqbal Ahmad, a resident of Uri. “The people are very scared as we could see shells landing in the villages,” another civilian Mukthair Ahmad Khawaja said. The situation in Uri town was tense even as ambulances sped towards villages near the LoC to ferry injured civilians to hospitals. In the Keran and Gurez sectors, mortar shells landed close to residential areas in Izmerg, Baktore and Tarabal localities which are just a few kilometers from the LoC. Two girls were injured in Baktore and both were referred to Srinagar for treatment. “We were attending an election meeting when shelling began around 11 am. The intensity of shelling was heavy and people ran for cover. The markets were shut and many people took refuge in underground bunkers. Now the shelling has stopped but people are still in underground bunkers, said Zaheer Ahmad, a government official posted in Gurez. The infiltration attempt in the Keran sector on Friday was the second infiltration bid this week, Kalia said. “Three terrorists were killed in the earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid in the Machil sector on November 7-8,” he added. Three soldiers, including a captain, were killed in action in Machil that day. At a time when military tensions between India and China in eastern Ladakh, the military is also keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-commandos-among-8-pak-soldiers-killed-as-india-lights-up-pak-posts-in-retaliation/story-AvxzPgYO2gT5RxeVWgqndJ.html
13-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 5,84,572 diyas lit in Ayodhya, makes Guinness world record for ‘largest display of oil lamps’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5,84,572 diyas lit in Ayodhya, makes Guinness world record for ‘largest display of oil lamps’Deepotsav celebrations began on Friday in Ayodhya in the presence of Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The Diwali event also saw the lighting of a record 5.84 lakh earthen lamps on the banks of the River Saryu in Ayodhya, thus making it to Guinness world records. Read More‘Disgusting plans of Pakistan...’ Rahul Gandhi salutes Indian soldiersCongress leader Rahul Gandhi saluted every soldier of the army on the eve of Diwali after four soldiers were killed along the Line of Control in a massive escalation between the Indian and the Pakistani side on Friday.Slamming Pakistan’s nefarious plans, Gandhi wrote, “Whenever Pakistan violates the ceasefire, its fears and weaknesses become even more clear.” Read MoreIndian Army smashes terror launch pads across LoC after 8 killed in Pak firingEight people including three soldiers, a Border Security Force (BSF) officer and four civilians were killed when Pakistan violated ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) at Uri, Nowgam, Keran and Gurez sectors in north Kashmir.Among the four dead civilians included a woman and a seven-year-old boy. All civilians were killed in Uri. Two civilians were killed in Kamalkote village and one each in Balkote and Gokhan villages of Uri where shells and mortars landed in the villages close to the Line of Control. Read MorePM Modi likely to spend Diwali with soldiers at Western borderContinuing the tradition of spending Diwali with soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday may visit Jaisalmer to spend this Diwali with the soldiers of the Western border, reports said. From 2014, after he became the Prime Minister for the first time, he has been spending the day with soldiers. Read MoreApple may use a new battery tech for AirPods 3, iPhone 13 series and mini LED iPadWhile we have started witnessing some rumours and speculations for the next-gen iPhone, tipped as iPhone 13, one of the major claims is now coming from analyst Ming Chi-Kuo. Kuo, as per Apple Insider, says that Apple is expected to use something called as soft board battery technology in its “iPhone 13” and “iPhone 13 mini” smartphones that will be coming next year. He adds that these will be the first to use such a technology on battery circuitry. Read More‘Dhoni may not be the captain next year’: Former India batting coach predicts future skipper of CSKIt seemed like Indian Premier League 2020 could be the last time we see Mahendra Singh Dhoni in action. He had already announced his retirement from international before the tournament and fans expected that Dhoni could do the same after the 13th season of the IPL. Even though expectations were high, Dhoni did not look in supreme form in the tournament as he could only manage 172 runs at an average of 25. Read MoreAamir Khan’s daughter Ira reveals advice doctors, parents, ‘Kiran aunty’ gave her when she told them about her depressionActor Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira Khan, has shared the first part of her planned video series in which she will discuss depression. She recently revealed that she is clinically depressed, and expressed her desire to speak about her experience in a series of videos. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-5-84-572-diyas-lit-in-ayodhya-makes-guinness-world-record-for-largest-display-of-oil-lamps-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LxBCyIuHBzqdomxrRlQHaI.html
13-11-2020||India||Amid blame game, Congress MLAs in Bihar authorise high command to nominate CLP leader||Amid an ongoing blame game for the party’s humiliating performance in the Bihar assembly election, newly elected Congress legislators on Friday passed a resolution authorising the party high command to select the legislature party leader. The MLAs met for the first time in the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) headquarter—Sadaquat Ashram—in presence of chairman of the screening committee for selection of candidates for Bihar elections Avinash Pande and Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. “It is a formality to hold the meeting of newly elected leaders and seek their views about the election of their leader in the assembly in presence of the central leaders. As AICC in-charge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil is sick, Pande has been authorised to hold the meeting. Baghel has been appointed as the AICC observer,” said a senior functionary of the BPCC. BPCC spokesman Harkhu Jha said that all the leaders unanimously passed a resolution, authorising the high command to elect the legislature party leader in the assembly. “Later, Pandey and Baghel held one-to-one discussion with the newly elected leaders and sought to know their idea to bolster the party’s image in the assembly as well as in the state,” Jha said.The central leaders’ visit to Patna acquires considerable significance, as internal dissension over the party’s abysmal electoral performance, which saw only 19 out of 70 candidates winning, has spilled over into the Grand Alliance. Leaders of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which emerged as the single largest party but stopped sort of returning to power for want of majority, also blamed the Congress for the Grand Alliance’s debacle. Former chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi’s appeal to the Congress support the incumbent chief minister Nitish Kumar also led to the speculations of a crack among the newly elected legislators. HAM-S fought the elections under the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) banner and won four seats. The Congress spokesman dismissed any apprehension of a crack in the legislature party.”Manjhi has lost his credibility and trust as he has switched his loyalty many times after deserting the Congress,” he said. Internal squabbling in the Congress also came to the fore on Friday as supporters of senior leader Vijay Shankar Dubey and Siddharth (both MLAs) resorted to pushing and shoving over their choice of a legislature party leader. The situation was, however, brought under control with the intervention of senior leaders. As many as 17 out of 19 newly elected leaders were present in the meeting. Maharajganj MLA Vijay Shankar Dubey, Rajesh Ram and Shakeel Khan are said to be in the race for the post of the CLP leader. Meanwhile, the clamour for fixing accountability for crushing defeat of the party got louder with a section of party leaders gunning for BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha and BPCC campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Prasad Singh. Singh, however, blamed the Central leaders, alleging that they had hijacked the campaign and refrained from involving the local leaders in the electioneering. The other sections, however, accused Singh of indulging in managing tickets to the leaders, who were unfamiliar with the party cadres of the area they contested, with leaders of the AICC involved in the process. “Leaders like Prem Chandra Mishra, who is one of the prominent faces of the party, was not allowed to campaign anywhere during the election. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar and former Union Minister Subodh Kant Sahai were roped in the electioneering on a few seats, while Akhilesh Prasad Singh along with AICC secretaries Ajay Kapoor and Virendra Rathore conducted a whirlwind tour across the state,” said a leader, wishing anonymity. AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha alleged that Madan Mohan Jha turned helpless as Singh along with AICC leaders prevailed over him in all crucial decisions, from selection of seats and candidates to the campaigning. “They chose candidates who had little connection with ground reality. Tickets were distributed on the basis of favouritism and other considerations, while bona fide candidates were completely marginalised. There was no logic behind contesting the seats that are considered pocket boroughs of the NDA, especially when the party failed to rebuild the organisation at the grassroots level over the last four years,” said the AICC member.He also said that relying on the team which had utterly failed in the last Lok Sabha election was another fault that brought embarrassment to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-blame-game-congress-mlas-in-bihar-authorise-high-command-to-nominate-clp-leader/story-J2gizW8kAvrRjzsJvtFcBJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Yogi credits PM Modi for Ram Mandir, reveals vision for transformed Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday gave credit for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said the PM was the one implementing the ideology of Ram Rajya. “It is due to PM Modi’s planning and strategy that Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya after a long wait of five decades,” said Yogi while addressing a gathering at Ram Katha Park in Ayodhya. Yogi said it was Modi’s dream to develop Ayodhya as the “Vedic Ramayana City” and it should be the most beautiful city.“Our generation is not only fortunate to see the start of the construction of Ram temple here but we also attended the historic event. In the struggle of 500 years, many saints passed away with a dream to see the start of construction. I thank PM Modi, who is the one who implemented the ideology of Ram Rajya,” he said.Yogi, UP governor Anandiben Patel and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were in Ayodhya along with several UP ministers for the fourth Deepotsav celebrations. This is the first Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya after the bhumi pujan of Ram temple on August 5 in which Modi was the chief guest. But participation of locals was restricted in all the events due to Covid-19 and entry of outsiders into Ayodhya was banned. “We all wanted to see Ram temple. This task has been accomplished by PM Modi,” said Yogi. “Whenever I used to come to Ayodhya and talk about development, saints used to ask me about Ram temple,” the chief minister said. “PM Modi came to Ayodhya even in Covid-19 by following all protocols for bhumi pujan of Ram temple,” said the CM. Yogi said Ayodhya’s branding is now through the Deepotsav event. Yogi and Patel later launched a website -- https://virtualdeepotsav.com -- for people to take part in the Deepotsav virtually. The CM also launched a cover on Deepotsav prepared by Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Faizabad. Without naming anyone, the CM attacked the previous state government. Also Read: PM Modi’s dream to make Ayodhya ‘Vedic Ramayana City’: Adityanath“This government is developing panchi kosi, chaudah kosi and chaurasi kosi parikrama routes in Ayodhya. But previous governments used to ban them,” he said. “This Deepotsav, a record of lighting 5.51 lakh diyas will be created. Next year this figure will be 7.51 lakh,” he asserted. The CM pointed out that due to Covid-19 pandemic, celebrations in this Deepotsav have been curtailed. “Otherwise, celebrations would have been organized on a grand scale,” he said.Yogi said soon an international airport in Ayodhya will connect the temple town directly with Korea (South Korea) and other countries. He also announced that soon a road route from Ayodhya to Janakpur (in Nepal) and Ayodhya to Chitrakoot will be made operational. Earlier, replicating the return journey of Lord Ram to Ayodhya, along with his younger brother Lakshman and wife Sita by a Pushpak Viman, artistes descended at Ram Katha Park in Ayodhya by a helicopter. Yogi and Patel received them and took them to the main venue in the park.Also Read: Ayodhya gears up for another Guinness record on Deepotsav Like Bharat welcomed Lord Ram on his return to Ayodhya after his 14-year exile and killing of demon king Ravan, Yogi and others carried out a ceremony symbolising ‘Raj Tilak’ or coronation of Lord Ram and Goddess Sita.The Deepotsav celebrations began in Ayodhya with a tableaux procession from Saket College to Ram Katha Park depicting Ram’s return to Ayodhya from exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-credits-pm-modi-for-ram-mandir-reveals-vision-for-transformed-ayodhya/story-CyQeblqNQVsbIeltYK28eN.html
13-11-2020||India||5,84,572 diyas lit in Ayodhya, making Guinness world record for ‘largest display of oil lamps’||Deepotsav celebrations began on Friday in Ayodhya in the presence of Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The Diwali event also saw the lighting of a record 5.84 lakh earthen lamps on the banks of the River Saryu in Ayodhya, thus making it to Guinness world records. 'Deepotsav' celebrations in Ayodhya has made it to the Guinness World records for 'the largest display of oil lamps' after 5,84,572 earthen lamps were lit on the banks of river Saryu today. pic.twitter.com/WTcLDEXE5I Several new development projects were launched to mark the occasion. “Our generation is not only fortunate to see the start of the construction of a Ram temple here but we also attended the historic event. In the struggle of 500 years, many saints passed away with a dream to see the start of construction. I thank PM Modi who is the one who implemented the ideology of Ram Rajya,” Yogi Adityanath said while addressing the ‘Deepotsav’ event, according to news agency PTI.“We have celebrated Deepotsav following all Covid-19 guidelines, we must follow the same during the construction of Ram Mandir. Let us pledge to observe ‘do gaj ki doori, mask hai zaroori’ during this Diwali,” he added, according to news agency ANI. Earthen lamps lit on the bank of River Saryu in Ayodhya as part of 'Deepotsava'. pic.twitter.com/q5UNbYtpWt Prime Minister Narendra Modi had performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 this year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh started Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya after Yogi Adityanath became the chief minister in March 2017. The celebrations began from Friday afternoon itself when a grand coronation procession of Lord Ram started from Saket College in Ayodhya to reach the riverbank after covering a stretch of about five kilometres. The procession has 11 tableaux, built on the Ramayana themes, participating in it. The themes include Gurukul Shiksha, Ram-Sita Vivah, Kewat Prasang, Ram Darbaar, Shabri-Ram Milaap and Lanka Dahan among others. Besides the Saryu bank, the Ram Janmabhoomi, the site of upcoming Ram temple, was lit up by 11,000 earthen lamps in the evening, when a grand Aarti was held at the Saryu river after the sunset.In her speech, the Governor said Ram and Ramrajya were “inseparable parts of the Indian culture” and spoke at length about the ideals of the Maryada Purushottam. She advised the people not to lower their guards in their fight against the Covid-19 pandemic till it was finished. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and a number of saints and ministers were also present on the occasion.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-84-572-diyas-lit-in-ayodhya-makes-guinness-world-record-for-largest-display-of-oil-lamps/story-h6OpAxMEzzmN67HNH5qN7L.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Measly compared to other major economies’: CPI(M) slams new stimulus package||The CPI(M) on Friday said the latest stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman did not amount to any significant hike in the government’s expenditure and was merely a gimmick for “headline management”.The finance minister had on Thursday announced tax relief on select home sale deals, enhanced credit guarantee programme for small businesses and provided incentives for new job creation as the Centre widened stimulus measures to boost the economy.The measures, which also include additional fertiliser subsidy and already announced production-linked incentive scheme for manufacturing units, totalled Rs 2.65 lakh crore, taking the cumulative stimulus package announced since the lockdown to almost Rs 30 lakh crore or 15% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).“Yet another ‘stimulus’ package has been announced by the central government without any significant hikes in government expenditures or direct cash transfers to the people.“The central government boasts of a total of 15% GDP constituting the stimulus, combined with the earlier three announcements. The reality is that the sum total of direct extra governmental expenditures is, by liberal estimates, Rs 3,72,295 crore or a mere 1.9% of the GDP,” the CPI(M) said in a party statement.“This is a measly stimulus compared to other major economies in the world which have provided 10% to 15% of their GDP,” it said.CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet that the latest announcement was a gimmick.“Yet another gimmick...This latest announcement is designed more for ‘Headlines management’ in the face of RBI’s severe indictment that Indian economy is in deep recession,” he said.The Left party also claimed that the announcements of increases in governmental expenditures were in fact allocations.“They can be offset by reductions under other heads of the budget, thereby reducing even this liberal estimate of 1.9% of GDP. The Finance Minister must tell the country what is the amount being spent by the government over and above the budgetary estimates of expenditures, only then the real picture will emerge.“Coming a day after the RBI’s severe indictment that the Indian economy is in deep recession for the first time in history, this announcement fails to constitute a blueprint for economic revival,” the statement said.Yechury said the recently announced package along with the previous three, is for credit facilitation “hoping that this will increase investments, generate jobs and revive the economy.” “But this can never happen as what is produced by such investments needs to be sold and the Indian market is shrinking as people have less and less purchasing power,” it said.The CPI(M) also said that the economy can only be revived through a massive hike in public investments to build much-needed infrastructure, generate jobs and boost domestic demand.“The government’s stimulus packages meet the needs of foreign and domestic capital to maximise profits but cannot revive the economy. People’s miseries will continue to mount further with escalating unemployment, hunger and price rise leading to growing poverty and deprivation.“The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) reiterates that direct cash transfers and distribution of free food is immediately required both on humanitarian grounds and to give purchasing power to the people. This is the only way demand in the economy can rise leading to the beginning of any economic revival,” the party added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/measly-compared-to-other-major-economies-cpi-m-slams-new-stimulus-package/story-MBndYIujA7VPGv8S4dlWHM.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Disgusting plans of Pakistan...’ Rahul Gandhi salutes Indian soldiers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saluted every soldier of the army on the eve of Diwali after four soldiers were killed along the Line of Control in a massive escalation between the Indian and the Pakistani side on Friday.Slamming Pakistan’s nefarious plans, Gandhi wrote, “Whenever Pakistan violates the ceasefire, its fears and weaknesses become even more clear.”“Even during festivals our jawans are posted far away from their homes defending our borders and destroying the disgusting plans of Pakistan,” Rahul added.Also Read: Major escalation along LoC, 4 soldiers, 4 civilians killed in Pak shelling; several injuredOn Friday, four security personnel, including a BSF sub-inspector, were killed in multiple ceasefire violations reported from Gurez to Uri sectors of Jammu and Kashmir. Six civilians were also killed in Pakistani shelling. The exchange started since morning and almost all BSF units along the LoC faced heavy firing. The infiltration bid — the second in a week — was successfully foiled, and the army managed successful damage to Pakistan Army’s infrastructure across the LoC. The earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid took place in Machil sector during the intervening night of November 7- 8 and three terrorists were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disgusting-plans-of-pakistan-rahul-gandhi-salutes-indian-soldiers/story-aphqKFzx6fsZwLoolw0JfN.html
13-11-2020||India||AIIMS-Patna to begin trial of another Covid vaccine from Nov 16||The first phase of the human clinical trials of another vaccine against Covid-19 of Biological E, a biopharmaceutical company based in Hyderabad, will begin at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, from November 16, the principal investigator of the trial at the facility said Friday.Healthy individuals between 18 and 55 years of age can enroll for the trial voluntarily by calling up the registration section of the community and family medicine department (9471408832), said Dr CM Singh, professor and head of community and family medicine and also the principal investigator of the trial at AIIMS-Patna. The first dose of the vaccine will be administered after running some routine tests on a volunteer. The second dose will be administered 28 days later, he added. “The follow-up sampling to check the level of immunogenicity (amount of antibody titer produced in a healthy body to fight against the SARS CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19) has to be done on day 14, 28, 42, 104 and 194,” said Dr Singh. The institute will reimburse the cost on travel incurred by a volunteer during the trial period. It is the fifth vaccine candidate to move into human trials. Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, co-developed by AstraZeneca plc and University of Oxford is the furthest in phase 3, while Bharat Biotech International Ltd will take its Covaxin into the last stage next month. Zydus Cadila is currently in phase 2, while Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd will soon initiate its phase 2 and 3 trials, for which it received approval last month. The Subject Expert Committee that advises the Drug Controller General of India on applications seeking permission for new drugs, clinical trials, vaccine for Covid-19, gave its approval to initiate phase 1 and 2 human trials for the Biological E vaccine in India on October 26. At least three other institutes, including AIIMS-Delhi and Safdarjung hospital, have been shortlisted for this trial. The AIIMS-Patna has been given a sample size of 12-18 individuals in the first phase of trial. The AIIMS-Patna has completed two phases of human trials of an earlier Covaxin (BBV152 Covid vaccine), the country’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine of the Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), Hyderabad. It is awaiting approval to initiate phase 3 trial, likely to begin in December, said officials. The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), an independent panel of experts constituted by the Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), had tried the vaccine on 375 people across the country in the first phase. It had set a sample size of 750 healthy volunteers for the second phase trial, said officials. AIIMS-Patna had administered the vaccine to 44 volunteers in the first phase and 46 in the second, all of whom were responding well, said officials. The first phase trial is to check the safety of the vaccine. The second phase tests its safety as well as the level of immunogenicity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-patna-to-begin-trial-of-another-covid-vaccine-from-nov-16/story-RgLkuKIHmUegDfXJGoSW3O.html
13-11-2020||India||Covid-19 negative report mandatory for teachers and students ahead of opening of colleges in Karnataka||A Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report will be mandatory for all the teachers, students and non-teaching staff with the Karnataka Government deciding to reopen the degree, medical and engineering colleges. After eight months of Covid-19 induced lockdown, the Karnataka government has decided to start the degree, engineering and diploma colleges from November 17 and Medical, nursing, AYUSH and paramedical colleges from December 1. In view of the reopening of colleges, the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Pankaj Kumar Pandey passed the order making RT-PCR test report mandatory. “As per SoP issued from Government of Karnataka, all teachers, students and non-teaching staff members of colleges and hostels shall produce a Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report, which is done within 72 hours before the day of joining,” the order said. Pandey instructed the health staff to collect the samples from teachers, students and non- teaching staff of both colleges and hostels, without any delays and facilitate quick testing. He directed all the labs to carry out testing of these samples through pooled (1:5) testing process and upload the results on 1CMR portal immediately. Deputy Commissioners of all districts and the Special Commissioner (Health) of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike have been asked to monitor and ensure the testing is carried out in a smooth manner. Pandey said the test results will be sent by SMS to registered mobile numbers in ICMR portal. It can also be accessed by visiting www.covidwar.karnataka.goV.in/servicel, for lab reports, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-negative-report-mandatory-for-teachers-and-students-ahead-of-opening-of-colleges-in-karnataka/story-5WI8ZRJz2mExXlExY1n0dL.html
13-11-2020||India||PM Modi likely to spend Diwali with soldiers at Western border||Continuing the tradition of spending Diwali with soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday may visit Jaisalmer to spend this Diwali with the soldiers of the Western border, reports said. From 2014, after he became the Prime Minister for the first time, he has been spending the day with soldiers. On Friday, a day before Diwali, the Prime Minister also urged the countrymen to light a diya as a salute to soldiers who “fearlessly protect our nation”. “Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders,” PM said. This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders. pic.twitter.com/UAKqPLvKR8In 2019, Modi visited the “Hall of Fame” in Rajouri and also the Pathankot Airbase.So far, PM Modi visited Jammu and Kashnir on the occasion of Diwali thrice. In 2018, he visited Kedarnathand inspected a military post on he India-China border. In 2017, he visited Gurez sector of north Kashmir. PM Modi had spent his Diwali with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police in Himachal Pradesh in 2016 and in 2015, he had visited the Punjab border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-2020-how-prime-minister-narendra-modi-celebrates-diwali-2014-to-2020/story-iHwJZT2hVKj9NTxqqUOehP.html
13-11-2020||India||Indian Army smashes terror launch pads across LoC after 9 killed in Pak firing||Nine people including four soldiers, a Border Security Force (BSF) officer and four civilians were killed when Pakistan violated ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) at Uri, Nowgam, Keran and Gurez sectors in north Kashmir.Among the four dead civilians included a woman and a seven-year-old boy. All civilians were killed in Uri. Two civilians were killed in Kamalkote village and one each in Balkote and Gokhan villages of Uri where shells and mortars landed in the villages close to the Line of Control.The Army blamed Pakistan for the ceasefire violation and said four soldiers were killed in the unprovoked violation. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC, spread across multiple sectors to include Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam. Pakistan used mortars and other weapons,” said Defense spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia. He said that Pakistan deliberately targeted the civilian areas.“Our own troops retaliated strongly causing substantial damage to Pakistan Army’s infrastructure and casualties across the LoC. Several ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and multiple terrorists’ launch pads have been damaged.”In Nowgam sector, a BSF officer posted at Atma complex was killed in the shelling. He was identified as sub inspector Rakesh Dobal.Also Read: Major escalation along LoC, 4 soldiers, 4 civilians killed in Pak shelling; several injuredSSP Baramulla Abdul Qayoom said that shelling is still going in some areas of Uri. “Four civilians were killed in Uri and another four were injured.”The ceasefire violation was reported from all the important sectors starting from Uri to Gurez. All these sectors have this year witnessed multiple ceasefire violations and soldiers were on high alert.Locals in Uri said the Indian and Pakistani soldiers are targeting each others’ pickets at Haji Peer and Kamalkote sectors on the LoC since the morning. The locals said small arms and mortars have been used during the shelling which has spread panic among the villagers near the LoC.“This was one of the deadliest shelling in many years in the Uri sector when four civilians were killed in a day. Some shells hit the residential houses,” said Iqbal Ahmad, a resident of Uri. “The people are very scared as we could see the mortars and shells landing in the villages,” another civilian Mukthair Ahmad Khawaja said.Also Read: 8 Pakistani soldiers killed as Indian Army retaliates against LoC ceasefire violation in Jammu and KashmirThe situation in the main town Uri was tense as ambulances were sent towards the villages on LoC to ferry injured civilians.Uri has witnessed over a dozen ceasefire violations in the past six months.The shelling has also been reported from north Kashmir’s Keran and Gurez sector since morning where the mortars have landed close to civilian populations near Izmerg, Baktore and Tarabal localities which are just a few kilometers away from the LoC.From the past one year, the Gurez sector has also witnessed an increase in ceasefire violations. Two girls were injured in Baktore and both of them were referred to Srinagar for treatment. “We were attending an election meeting when shelling began around 11 am. The intensity of shelling was heavy and people ran for cover. The markets also got closed and many people took refuge in underground bunkers. Now the shelling has stopped but people who have underground bunkers, have taken shelter in them,” said Zaheer Ahmad, a government official posted in Gurez.Three civilians were also injured in Tangdhar sector, which was also pounded by the shelling.Defense spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said that suspicious movement was observed by troops at the forward posts along the line of control (LoC) in Keran sector today.“The suspected infiltration bid was foiled by alert troops. This was accompanied by initiation of an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) by Pakistan along the LoC in Keran Sector by firing mortars and other weapons. Befitting response is being given,” he said, and added that ceasefire violations spread to larger areas from Keran to Uri Sectors. “This was the second infiltration attempt within a week. The earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid in Machhal Sector on 7/ 8 November, was foiled, in which three terrorists were eliminated,” he said, adding that the Indian Army is well poised to defeat all attempts by Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists into J&K.On November 7 and 8, three infiltrators, three soldiers, including a captain and a BSF jawan were killed in Machil near the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-smashes-terror-launch-pads-across-loc-after-8-killed-in-pak-firing/story-ai6o0CslX8YB8Lf3EzRsWN.html
13-11-2020||India||CAQM directs CPCB,states to ensure proper implementation of NGT guidelines on air quality||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure that there is no lapse in implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s directions in view of the prevailing air quality scenario.The commission said state pollution control boards, committees and other field-level functionaries have also been asked to ensure that there is no lapse in implementation of the NGT’s directions. “In pursuance of the NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, concerned state governments and authorities for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation,” it said.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.Also Read | Delhi’s air quality expected to go worse on Diwali: IMDA bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in ‘poor’ and above categories.“There will be total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from midnight of November 9-10, 2020, to the midnight of November 30-December 1, 2020, to be reviewed thereafter,” the NGT had said.“The cities/towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers be sold, and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals like Diwali, Chhath, New Year/Christmas Eve etc, as may be specified by the state concerned.“At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caqm-directs-cpcb-states-to-ensure-proper-implementation-of-ngt-guidelines-on-air-quality/story-krkUOVBjXdMqjhVTE4pa7N.html
13-11-2020||India||PM Modi’s dream to make Ayodhya ‘Vedic Ramayana City’: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream to development Ayodhaya as “Vedic Ramayana City” and it should be the most beautiful city. “Our generation is not only fortunate to see the start of the construction of a Ram temple here but we also attended the historic event. In the struggle of 500 years, many saints passed away with a dream to see the start of construction. I thank PM Modi who is the one who implemented the ideology of Ram Rajya,” Adityanath said while addressing the fourth ‘Deepotsav’, an event to mark Diwali here. The prime minister had performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 this year, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. The chief minister said when he used to come here for development work, those who met him only used to say, “Yogiji Ram mandir nirman karwaiye (Yogiji get the construction of Ram temple done).” “I used to only ask them to trust Modiji,” he added. “It is the dream of PM Modi to develop Ayodhya as Vedic Ramayana City and it should be the most beautiful. We are here to seek support of you all as to how it can be developed that it has glimpse of a Vedic city,” the chief minister said. “He (PM) himself came for starting that work of construction of Ram temple following Covid-19 protocol and gave strength to the concept of Ram Rajya, in which there is no discrimination on the bases of caste, creed, religion, language, region area etc. There is honour and security for all. He gave schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, free cylinders, power connection, toilets for the poor and showed the way for development,” Adityanath added. The chief minister said there would have been a grand ‘Deepotsav’ event “through which all Indians worldwide are connected” had there be no Covid-19. “Countries like Korea, Thailand, Nepal, Japan, Fiji had connections to Ayodhya earlier as well but the event showed a modern way to them to relate with the city,” he said. Hailing the prime minister for India’s fight against the coronavirus, the chief minister said, “We are fighting strongly under his (PM’s) leadership and we will defeat the virus.” Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and a number of saints and ministers were present on the occasion. In her speech, the Governor said Ram and Ramrajya were “inseparable parts of the Indian culture” and spoke at length about the ideals of the Maryada Purushottam. She advised the people not to lower their guards in their fight against the pandemic till it was finished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-dream-to-make-ayodhya-vedic-ramayana-city-adityanath/story-pysvOVxE9QcmNihWh4sbcL.html
13-11-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir reports 626 fresh Covid-19 cases, 8 casualties||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 taly rose to 1,01,594 on Friday with 625 new cases while eight people died to take the death toll to 1,574, officials said.The officials said 429 people tested positive in Kashmir region and 197 in Jammu region. Four persons succumbed to the disease each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Of the 101,594 cases 94,375 have so far recovered from the disease in the Union Territory while the number of active cases stands at 5,645. The recovery rate has reached 92.89 per cent.A total of 1,043 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 531 in Jammu.So far 96 people have lost their lives to the infection this month.As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 people died of Covid-19 in October. The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, the 1,000-mark on September 20 and 1,500-mark on November 3.Jammu and Kashmir has recorded an average 523 new cases of Covid-19 so far in November, down from an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average 7 deaths a day have been reported in November so far against a daily average of 10 in October and 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the Union Territory now stands at 26.03 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases on Friday was in Baramulla where 158 people tested positive, followed by Srinagar with 157.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 95, followed by 20 in Kishtwar.Srinagar tops the case tally with 21,154 cases and 389 deaths followed by Jammu district with 18,844 cases and 276 deaths.Till date, 7.04 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 17,063 in home quarantine, 5,645 in isolation, and 41,773 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.38 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-626-fresh-covid-19-cases-8-casualties/story-Ri2jJzFHpznupMYsxgLl0H.html
13-11-2020||India||List of states which have banned firecrackers in Diwali||Many states and Union Territories have imposed a ban on firecrackers and its sale in the event of increased air pollution and coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The National Green Tribunal (NGT) earlier on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers from November 9 midnight to November 30.While some states have announced a total ban, others have only prohibited the use of imported firecrackers during Diwali.Here’s a list of states that have imposed a ban on sale and use of firecrackers:1. Delhi-  Amid a massive surge in fresh daily Covid-19 infections in recent days and an increase in air pollution, including record highs, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 5 announced a ban on the use of all firecrackers till November 30.2. West Bengal- The Supreme Court has refused to reverse a ban on sale or use of firecrackers in West Bengal during the festive month of November, saying that preservation of life should be the top priority in a country faced with a pandemic.3. Chandigarh- The Chandigarh administration has decided that ban on firecrackers will continue without any relaxation.4. Haryana- The Haryana district administration has issued fresh directions banning sale and bursting of crackers in all districts where air quality was categorised ‘poor’ or worse in November last year. As many as 21 districts of the state fit the bill.5. Guwahati- The Pollution Control Board, Assam (PCBA) has ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in Guwahati till the end of this month, including on Diwali, to curb pollution amid the Covid- 19 pandemic.6. Uttar Pradesh- Using laser lights and green crackers, the Uttar Pradesh government has directed the police and district administrations to celebrate Diwali this way in places like Lucknow, Varanasi and others where the air quality index is poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-states-which-have-banned-firecrackers-in-diwali/story-F8MqP9lWfSshfwyUwx8jsJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Telangana allows sale and use of green crackers for hours on Diwali||People of Hyderabad and other districts of Telangana can burst “green crackers” for two hours on Diwali, following interim orders by the Supreme Court on Friday modifying the state high court’s orders of Thursday for a complete ban on sale and use of firecrackers. A vacation bench of Supreme Court comprising Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice Sanjiv Khanna issued notice on the petition and stated that the NGT’s guidelines applied to Telangana and that it shall comply with the directions in letter and spirit. Earlier in the day, the Telangana government issued an order enforcing complete ban on sale and use of firecrackers as per the Thursday’s orders from the state high court. “In the wake of the Supreme Court direction, fresh orders would be issued, allowing sale and use of non-polluting crackers only for two hours from 8 pm to 10 pm,” said a senior official of Telangana government who did not wish to be named The high court on Thursday had directed the government to give wide publicity to the ban. Despite being informed that the NGT guidelines were being followed by the State, the Court observed that the use of firecrackers might contribute to the spread of Covid-19. The order was challenged in the Supreme Court by the Telangana Fireworks Dealers Association through a special leave petition. The NGT categorised the cities into four groups - moderate, below moderate, poor and below poor - based on the pollution levels. Bursting crackers is banned in poor and below poor category cities. According to senior advocate Jaya Krishna, who represented the firecracker dealers’ association, Hyderabad falls under the moderate category hence crackers can be burst. “In fact, people of entire Telangana can burst crackers for two hours on Diwali day. It is safe, green and happy Diwali “, Jaya Krishna said. The dealers argued that the government had given them licences some 15 days ago and they had procured huge quantities of the crackers for sale. The last-minute order of the high court banning the sale and purchase of the fireworks would leave them in huge losses. Although shops selling firecrackers remained open on Friday, sales were low because of less number of shoppers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-allows-sale-and-use-of-green-crackers-for-hours-on-diwali/story-NexjcQxQF5Qu6vfoxJsU8H.html
13-11-2020||India||2 BSF porters, 3 children among 7 injured in Pak shelling in Jammu||On the eve of Diwali, two porters and three children were among the seven civilians injured in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sawjian sector of Poonch district, prompting India to hit back in equal measure. “Around 12.10 PM on Friday, Pakistan opened heavy fire in the Sawjian sector that left seven people injured. The injured included two porters working with the BSF and two children,” said Poonch district police chief SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral. All of them have been admitted to a hospital. Injured have been identified as Tousif Ahmad, 7 and Mohammad Rashid, 5, sons of Mehraj Din, Hajeera Begum, 55, wife of Abdul Salam, Mohammad Ibrahim, 48, son of Behreem Din, Kalsoom Akhter, 15, daughter of Bashir Ahmad, Afraz Ahmad, 35, son of Mohammad Zaman, Zareena Begum 35, wife of Gulzar, all residents of Chaprian and Gagrian in Sawjian. Also Read: 8 Pakistani soldiers killed as Indian Army retaliates against LoC ceasefire violation in Jammu and KashmirAfraz Ahmad, 35 and Mohammad Ibrahim, 48, were porters working with the BSF’s 183 Battalion in the forward sector. All the seven injuries were reported from Sawjian bus stand as Pakistani shells exploded there. Watch: Soldiers, civilians killed in Pak shelling along LoC, several injuredDefence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Pakistan started heavy fire around 1.45 pm in Sawjian sector and the Indian Army retaliated befittingly”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-indian-army-porters-3-children-among-7-injured-in-pak-shelling-in-jammu/story-CsDrao2eghIMPYPV14o7cN.html
13-11-2020||India||India wraps up 1st round of tests for missile that can shoot plane 30 km away||India on Friday successfully test-fired the all-weather Quick Reaction Surface-to-Air Missiles that has a range of 30 km, wrapping up the developmental trials that had been continuing for the last few years. In the next phase, the short-range missile will be tested by the army and the air force before going into production and induction by the military.The sophisticated missile was test-fired at about 3.40 pm from a mobile launcher at the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur near here. It successfully destroyed the target, people familiar with the matter said.The missile, which can strike an aerial target cruising at a height of 15 km, is launched from a mobile two-vehicle system; one carries the missile and the second, the radar that helps acquire the targets. Because it is mobile, it can stay on the move and evade counter-attacks by the enemy.The radar can simultaneously track 100 targets and engage 6 targets.The first trial of the QRSAM was conducted on 4 June 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wraps-up-1st-round-of-tests-for-missile-that-can-shoot-plane-30-km-away/story-oVEWGcCJNcOLZLj3yh3HNP.html
13-11-2020||India||President Ram Nath Kovind addresses valedictory ceremony of 60th course of NDC||The President of India, Ram Nath Kovind on Friday addressed the valedictory ceremony of the 60th course of National Defence college where he praised the NDC for completing the course in the midst of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic without letting it impact outcomes.“This year has been particularly hard for all walks of life as coping with Covid-19 has become the new normal. I have been apprised that the NDC was among the first few institutions to speedily switch from a contact programme to an online mode of imparting training. I must congratulate you on successful completion of the course with no impact on its aims and outcomes,” the president said.On Wednesday, the president had approved the establishment of ‘Chair of Excellence’ on national security at the NDC. ‘Chairs of Excellence’ and other similar positions are bestowed upon professors to spur intellectual and academic calibre in colleges and universities across the globe. “A few days ago, it was my pleasure to institute ‘The President’s Chair of Excellence on National Security’ at the NDC. It was a befitting gesture to mark the diamond jubilee of the great institution. I hope the Chair will enrich the intellectual and academic standards at India’s apex institution of strategic learning,” President Kovind added. NDC is dedicated to intellectual development and strategic training of select senior officers of Civil Services and Armed Forces of India and other countries.“The NDC has imparted skills and knowledge to senior officers not only from our Armed Forces and Civil Services, but also those from Friendly Foreign Countries, to help them make informed policy decisions related to their respective national objectives and aims. The wide range of curriculum that this course offers for all participants is clearly designed to impart training and knowledge to aspire for a safer world,” the president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-addresses-valedictory-ceremony-of-the-60th-national-defence-colleg/story-FM61rLARgp7jXNj3QsMxAO.html
13-11-2020||India||Take all necessary steps to prevent spread of Covid-19: Yogi Adityanath to officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed the state officials to ensure compliance of all necessary precautions during the festival season in view of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).He also asked the officials to continue with special awareness drives for checking the spread of the pandemic.Adityanath asked the senior officials to take all necessary steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the festival season from Diwali to Chhath when people in large numbers meet each other, an official release stated.He called for further strengthening treatment facilities in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Varanasi and Meerut to improve the Covid-19 recovery rate, adding that testing activities should continue along with effective surveillance.Adityanath instructed the medical and health departments to remain alert during the festive season and activate emergency services in medical colleges, district hospitals, primary health centres and community health centres.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-all-necessary-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-yogi-adityanath-to-officials/story-VoWIiif7CEy9iTiHs3qFzN.html
13-11-2020||India||Let’s resolve to become a lamp of hope for poor, needy: President’s message on Diwali||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday greeted the nation on the eve of Diwali and called it a unifying instance of the Indian society.“On the auspicious occasion of Diwali, I extend my heartiest greetings and best wishes to all the fellow citizens living in India and abroad,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement.President Kovind said the festival, celebrated by people of various religions and sects, strengthens the sense of unity, goodwill and fraternity among the people of the country. “The festival inspires us to work for the service of humanity. Let us, on this occasion, resolve to become a lamp of hope and prosperity for the poor, destitute and needy people of the society by sharing our happiness just as a lamp lightens many lamps by sharing its light,” he added.The President said that Diwali is also a festival of cleanliness, adding that one should honour mother nature by celebrating pollution-free, environment friendly and clean Diwali.“May this grand festival of happiness and light bring delight, peace and prosperity to each and every house of our country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-resolve-to-become-a-lamp-of-hope-for-poor-needy-president-s-message-on-diwali/story-VmB64m349cP1haHeG8niJK.html
13-11-2020||India||Bihar govt formation: Nitish Kumar tenders resignation to Governor ahead of NDA meet on Sunday||Two days before the NDA officially choses Nitish Kumar as its leader in Bihar, Kumar on Friday tendered his resignation from the post to Governor Phagu Chauhan, initiating the process of the formation of the new government. The tenure of the current Bihar legislative assembly is scheduled to end on Novermber 29. On Sunday, the NDA allies will meet and after a consensus on the chief minister post, it will stake claim to form the government. On Friday, in an informal meeting the four NDA constituents in Bihar — JD(U), BJP, HM and Vikassheel Insaan Party — decided that a joint meeting of the NDA legislature party will be held on Sunday where Nitish Kumar will be elected as the leader. These are formalities that are required to be completed before the formation of the new government. Despite winning 74 seats, 31 more than the JD(U), the BJP top leadership will keep Nitish Kumar at the helm. He was declared the alliance’s chief ministerial face before the election.Speculation is rife that the BJP might push for an EBC or a Dalit as a Deputy CM. It is, however, not clear whether Sushil Kumar Modi will be replaced or there will be another deputy CM.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-formation-nitish-kumar-tenders-resignation-to-govornor-ahead-of-nda-meet-on-sunday/story-gGmWQy7X3I2e1fBvqIhS1I.html
13-11-2020||India||MP govt’s Deendayal committees ploy to build BJP network for 2023 polls: Cong||The Congress has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Madhya Pradesh of trying to misuse the administrative machinery to build a network of the party cadre across the state in the name of Deendayal committees to use the same in 2023 assembly elections.Congress spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh, Bhupendra Gupta said, “The announcement is nothing but a ploy of the BJP government to build a network of the BJP and Sangh workers at the cost of public exchequer to use the same network in the next assembly election. This is also an attempt to assuage the feelings of BJP workers who believe the BJP government gave ministerial berths to 14 ex-Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March this year in an act of betrayal to the people and then gave them tickets to contest the bypolls by dumping the committed party workers.” The Congress’ reaction came after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the formation of such committees while releasing the Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh Roadmap-2023 during a programme in Bhopal on Thursday.“A new structure will be created for public participation in development and monitoring system. Deendayal committees will be constituted at village, Janpad and district levels to ensure public participation and monitoring,” Chouhan had said.Earlier, in a party meeting in Bhopal in April this year Chouhan had talked of the government’s plan to constitute the committees. Though the state government is yet to spell out in details on functioning of the committees named after Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, founder of the Jana Sangh, the forerunner to the BJP, similar committees had been formed three years back too. The committees were then called Antyoday samiti named after the antyoday (welfare of underprivileged people) ideology of Deendayal Upadhyay, BJP leaders said. The state government had then issued instructions to all the collectors and commissioners of municipal bodies regarding formation of the committees at village, block, district, nagar nigam, nagar palika, nagar panchayat and state level. More than 1.25 lakh BJP workers were supposed to be accommodated in the committees. These committees were supposed to give feedback to the government on the status of implementation of development projects and quality of the work. BJP leaders claimed that the committees were dissolved after the Congress formed the government in December 2018.While Congress has criticized the CM’s announcement on the committees, a section of the BJP leaders and workers too were not enthused over the announcement. Former member of state level Antyoday committee ex-MLA Shivprasad Rathore said, “The committees didn’t have any authority. At best they could have reviewed the government schemes. The district level committees were supposed to apprise the collectors of their feedback and it’s up to the collectors how to look into the suggestions or complaints.”A BJP leader who did not want to be named said, “What is use of such committees without any authority? These committees will meet the same fate as that of Antyoday committees which were nothing but ornamental for party workers. Question is if a government authority would like any interference in his work and who will listen to the committees’ voice when corruption in the system is order of the day.” Another leader was associated with an Antyoday samiti said, “MPs and MLAs of our party hardly welcomed Antyoday samitis, not to say of government officials. They don’t want emergence of any new power centre within the party in their constituencies.” But BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal insisted that the decision will ensure quality of the development works at the grassroots level.” “The CM’s announcement is a welcome step. The committees will work as a bridge between the state government and people and will ensure quality of the development works being implemented at the grassroots level,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-s-deendayal-committees-ploy-to-build-bjp-network-for-2023-polls-cong/story-LTQhEhQcliC4GnZrg2rMEI.html
13-11-2020||India||8 Pakistani soldiers killed as Indian Army retaliates against LoC ceasefire violation in Jammu and Kashmir||At least eight Pakistan Army soldiers were killed in retaliatory firing on Saturday by the Indian Army in response to ceasefire violations from across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir.“The list of Pakistan Army soldiers killed includes 2-3 Pakistan Army Special Service Group (SSG) commandoes,” Indian Army sources said, reported news agency ANI. “10-12 Pakistan Army soldiers injured in the Indian Army firing in which a large number of Pakistan Army bunkers, fuel dumps, and launch pads have also been destroyed,” ANI reported, quoting sources. Also read: 4 soldiers, 4 civilians killed in Pak shelling along Line of Control; several injuredAt least four security forces personnel, including a BSF sub-inspector, were killed on Friday in multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the LoC. Four civilians have also been killed in the multiple ceasefire violations reported from Gurez sector to Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Many others have been injured. Indian Army sources said around 10 to 12 Pakistan Army soldiers have been injured in the Indian Army firing. A large number of Pakistan Army bunkers, fuel dumps and launch pads have been destroyed, Indian Army sources have claimed.The escalation in tensions came only five days after three Indian troops and three terrorists were killed in an exchange along the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-pakistani-soldiers-killed-as-indian-army-retaliates-against-loc-ceasefire-violation-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-JUbkzZFFstPPJg6ULWgscM.html
13-11-2020||India||Herbal drug based adjuvant therapy effective in treating diabetic Covid-19 patients: Researchers||Anti-oxidative herbal medicines with evidence-based useful impacts in the treatment of diabetes can be used as an adjuvant therapy to the conventional treatment of diabetic Covid-19 patients, according to researchers in Tehran.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The researchers, however, noted that better designed experimental and clinical studies are urgently required to confirm their beneficial effects.In a review published in the National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), they said “anti-oxidative herbal medicines can be used as adjuvant to currently prescribed drugs to treat coronavirus in patients with diabetes and also can be considered as a suitable source to identify novel therapeutic agents for Covid-19”.“Certain herbs work as antioxidants and check free radicals apart from maintaining normal blood glucose levels,” A K S Rawat, former senior scientist with CSIR- National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), said.He also referred to anti-diabetic herbal formulation, BGR-34, developed using extracts of herbs like Giloy, Vijaysar, Daruharidra, Gudmar, Methika and Majeeth.The formulation has been scientifically developed by NBRI in collaboration with the Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic Plant (CIMAP), both Lucknow-based CSIR labs.Also Read | ‘Demand for Ayurvedic products went up globally during Covid-19’: PM ModiBGR-34, commercially manufactured by Aimil Pharmaceuticals, has shown therapeutic efficacy for treating newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, as found in independent clinical trials conducted at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi last year. As the world observes November 14 as Diabetes Day, Rawat also said that herbal ingredients like Giloy used in BGR-34 also corrects immunity, while compounds in Dharuharida help in insulin release in type 2 diabetic patients.Based on the 2019 International Diabetes Federation (IDF) report, the world prevalence of diabetes was 463 million, and is expected to reach 578 million in 2030, and 700 million in 2045.According to doctors, patients with co-morbidities like diabetes are more vulnerable to coronavirus because of their compromised immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/herbal-drug-based-adjuvant-therapy-effective-in-treating-diabetic-covid-19-patients-researchers/story-w1AtkDqvZAlUlP6FYi1nCN.html
13-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Air quality in Delhi expected to turn worse on Diwali, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality expected to go worse on Diwali: IMDThe Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said that the air quality in Delhi is currently very poor and it is expected to go worse to severe on Diwali, i.e. November 14. Read moreBihar assembly polls: EC asks for CCTV footage, report from Gopalganj DMThe Election Commission has directed Gopalganj district magistrate Arshad Aziz to make available the CCTV footage of the Bhore assembly constituency counting centre that corresponded to the counting day. Read more‘I look grown up, no?’ Asks Suhana Khan as she flaunts perfect pout, fox eyeliner in latest selfie. Get the lookShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana Khan isn’t one to post often on her social media, and though the star kid hasn’t even debuted in Bollywood, she has quite the fan following who are always eagerly waiting for a glimpse of her pretty face. Read moreNissan Magnite bookings open at select dealerships, launch set for late NovemberNissan Magnite is the next big-ticket launch in the Indian automotive industry as the Japanese car maker looks to have the final say this calendar year in the lucrative sub-compact SUV segment. Reports suggest that several Nissan dealerships have started accepting pre-launch bookings for the Magnite although the company has not announced this officially. Read moreWill Steve Smith return as Australia captain again in future? CA official Trevor Hohns weighs inThere was a time when Steve Smith was regarded as one of the best captains in the modern-day cricket. Virat Kohli, Joe Root, Kane Williamson and Steve Smith were recognised as the big four of cricket not only because of the magic they did with the bat, but also for their stunning leadership skills that won their teams the matches. Read more‘That’s a crocosaurus’: Huge alligator spotted on Florida golf course. WatchBy now you’ve probably seen several videos on social media that show alligators casually strolling across golf courses like it’s no big deal. However, a recent one has left people rather shocked and netizens have been sharing their reactions on Facebook. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-air-quality-in-delhi-expected-to-turn-worse-on-diwali-says-imd-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3vtWw1424fagIAmwpjro4N.html
13-11-2020||India||Will ensure BJP remains in Opposition for 25 years, says Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena on Friday said allegations of land deals between the families of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the late Anvay Naik were attempts to change the direction of probe into the suicide of the Alibaug-based interior designer.The ruling party’s chief spokesperson, Sanjay Raut, hit out at the BJP and singled out for criticism its former MP Kirit Somaiya, who made claims of land deals between the two families on Wednesday and sought a probe.Further lashing out at the main opposition party, Raut said, “We will ensure that the BJP remains out of power for 25 years in Maharashtra.” Talking to reporters, Raut lost his cool and referred to the BJP as “shethji’s party” and called Somaiya a “vyapari” (traders).“Spokespersons of the shethji party/traders are not ready to speak about a Marathi woman being widowed (referring to interior designer Anvay Naik’s wife).“She and her daughter are crying for justice and when we are trying to ensure that they get justice, these people are making allegations to divert direction of the probe into the suicide. This is a serious matter,” said Raut, hitting out at the Sena’s former ally.A land deal between the two families was done legally in 2014, the Rajya Sabha MP claimed.“Is he (Somaiya) having a problem that a Marathi person did the deal,” he said, adding no matter what the Sena-led MVA government will last its full term (till 2024).“We will ensure that the BJP sits out of power for 25 years in Maharashtra. Our stand is to give justice to the family of Anvay Naik and punish those legally who forced him to take the extreme step of ending his life,” Raut said.“Shethji’s party wants to protect the accused,” the Sena leader said in an apparent reference to TV journalist Arnab Goswami, who along with two others, has been charged with abetting the suicide of Anvay Naik and his mother over non-payment of dues by their companies.“What 21 deals is he (Somaiya) talking about? Show me even five. There was one transaction which was absolutely legal,” Raut aid.Asked about the demand for a probe by the Enforcement Directorate into the alleged land deals, Raut shot back, “Why only ED...let there be a probe by the CBI. Go to Interpol, FBI, KGB, Interpol and the United Nations.Somaiya has alleged there were multiple land deals between Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi and Anvay Naik who allegedly committed suicide on May 5, 2018.“How are you linked to the accused. Don’t you have any concern for the mother-son duo who ended their lives?” Raut asked, targeting the former BJP Member of Parliament.Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, was arrested by the Alibaug police in adjoining Raigad district on November 4 and released from jail on November 11 after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-bjp-remains-in-opposition-for-25-years-says-sanjay-raut/story-XhYB7VSSsDR2lrZsNrMteP.html
13-11-2020||India||Major escalation along LoC, 5 soldiers, 4 civilians killed in Pak shelling; several injured||In a major escalation along the Line of Control, five security forces personnel, including a BSF sub-inspector, were killed on Friday in multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops. Four civilians have also been killed in the multiple ceasefire violations reported from Gurez sector to Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said adding that many others have been injured. Indian Army sources said befitting reply was given to the Pakistani side. Around 10 to 12 Pakistan Army soldiers have been injured in the Indian Army firing. A large number of Pakistan Army bunkers, fuel dumps and launch pads have been destroyed.Army officials have said that the troops have foiled the infiltration attempt by the Pakistani side — the second attempt within a week. Watch: Soldiers, civilians killed in Pak shelling along LoC, several injured  #WATCH | Jammu and Kashmir: Pakistan violated ceasefire along the Line of Control in the Uri sector, earlier today.Three civilians killed & several injured in the ceasefire violation. pic.twitter.com/G8axU8gHVTAmong the five security personnel, three Army soldiers were killed in the Pakistani firing in Uri, and the BSF sub-inspector was also killed in Haji Peer sector. SI Rakesh Doval (39), deployed at the force’s artillery battery at the LoC in Baramulla, sustained severe head injuries to which he later succumbed. One died of his injuries late on Friday night.Apart from various places in Uri, the ceasefire violations were reported from Izmarg in Gurez sector of Bandipora district and Keran sector of Kupwara district.A defence spokesman said these ceasefire violations were part of an infiltration bid, which the Army managed to foil. “Suspicious movement was observed by our troops at the forward posts along the LoC in Keran sector (in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district) today. The suspected infiltration bid was foiled by alert troops,” Srinagar-based defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. “They fired mortars and other weapons. Befitting response is being given,” he said.A resident of Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, Rakesh Doval joined the border force in 2004. He is survived by his father, wife and nine-year-old daughter.The earlier unsuccessful bid in Machil sector during the intervening night of November 7- 8 was foiled in which three militants were killed.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multiple-ceasefire-violations-by-pak-along-loc-3-security-forces-personnel-among-6-killed/story-3ZQDHTK0WBeg9yr6XXHtGO.html
13-11-2020||India||Bihar assembly polls: EC asks for CCTV footage, report from Gopalganj DM||The Election Commission has directed Gopalganj district magistrate Arshad Aziz to make available the CCTV footage of the Bhore assembly constituency counting centre that corresponded to the counting day.The direction came following CPI-ML’s serious allegations that Gopalganj MP Alok Kumar Suman had entered the counting centres on the day of counting. The CPI-ML also made a written complaint on November 10 to the office of the chief electoral office (CEO), Bihar.“JD-U MP Alok Kumar Suman entered the counting hall in violation of clause 16.9 of the candidates’ handbook which specifies who is allowed to enter the hall. This violation is also ground for a recount of total votes in the constituency,” said the CPI-ML representation. Though Suman refuted the allegations, the EC took cognizance of the complaint and asked for clippings of the CCTV footage of the counting day along with a detailed report from the DM by Thursday.“Kindly make available a detailed report along with a video clipping, as directed,” said the letter from additional CEO Balamurugan to the DM. Aziz said that he had not submitted the report so far. “But we will do it soon. Whatever decision the EC takes will be followed,” he added.In a closely fought assembly election between the NDA and the GA, which gave the former a razor thin majority, allegations have been flying high since the counting day, with the RJD, Congress as well as the CPI-ML alleging foul play in counting on seats where the margin of victory has been very small. “The mandate favored Mahagathbandhan, but the Election Commission’s result was in NDA’s favour. This hasn’t happened for the first time. In 2015, when Mahagathbandhan was formed, votes were in our favour but BJP made a back-door entry to gain power,” Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said, adding that the established rules of counting postal ballots first before Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) can be counted was also not followed and not all postal ballots could be counted. In the election for the Bhore seat, JD (U) candidate Sunil Kumar won, defeating CPI (ML) candidate Jitendra Paswan. The victory margin was a mere 462 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-polls-ec-asks-for-cctv-footage-report-from-gopalganj-dm/story-ItqB3qHun2OkrCfjHP2nwL.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Matter of pride’: PM Modi on WHO’s move to set up centre for traditional medicine in India||The World Health Organisation announced on Friday that it will set up a Global Centre for Traditional Medicine in India, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing confidence that just like the country has emerged as the ‘pharmacy of the world’, the WHO institution will become the centre for global wellness.WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus made the announcement in a video message at an event in which Prime Minister Modi dedicated two future-ready Ayurveda institutions in Jaipur and Jamnagar to the nation via video conferencing on the occasion of the 5th Ayurveda Day.The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar (Gujarat) and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur (Rajasthan) are both premier institutions of Ayurveda in the country.The Jamnagar institute has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an act of Parliament and the one at Jaipur has been designated an Institution Deemed to be University (De novo Category) by the University Grants Commission (UGC), according to the AYUSH ministry.In his video message, Ghebreyesus said, “I am pleased to announce that we have agreed to open a WHO Global Centre of Traditional Medicine in India to strengthen the evidence, research, training and awareness of traditional and complementary medicine.” “This new centre will support WHO’s efforts to implement the WHO traditional medicine strategy 2014-2023 which aims to support countries in developing policies and action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine as part of their journey to universal health coverage and a healthier, fairer and safer world,” he said.Traditional systems of medicine such as Ayurveda can play an important role in integrated people-centric health services and healthcare, but they have not received enough attention, the WHO DG said.Ghebreyesus also lauded Prime Minister Modi for his commitment to the universal coverage under Ayushman Bharat and evidence-based promotion of traditional medicines to achieve health related objectives.Modi said Ayurveda is India’s heritage whose expansion entails the welfare of humanity and all Indians will be happy to see that the country’s traditional knowledge is enriching other countries.“It is a matter of pride for all Indians that the WHO has chosen India for establishing its Global Centre for Traditional Medicine. Now work will be done in this direction from India,” Modi said.“I would like to thank the WHO and particularly its Director General Tedros for giving this responsibility to India. I am confident that just like India has emerged as the pharmacy of the world, in the same manner this centre for traditional medicine will become the centre for global wellness,” he said.Stressing on bringing ayurveda knowledge out of books, scriptures and home remedies and developing this ancient knowledge as per modern needs, Modi said new research is being done in the country by combining information received from modern science of the 21st century with India’s ancient medical knowledge.Noting that three years ago, the All India Ayurvedic Institute was established here, he said Ayurveda is not just an alternative today but one of the key basis of the country’s health policy.Modi informed that work is on to develop the National Sowa-Rigpa Institute for research and other studies related to Sowa-Rigpa in Leh. The two institutions in Gujarat and Rajasthan which have been upgraded are also an extension of this development, he added.Congratulating the two institutes for their upgradation, the prime minister pointed out that they have more responsibility now and hoped that they will prepare syllabus for Ayurveda which meets international standards.He also called upon the Education Ministry and UGC to find new avenues in disciplines like Ayurveda Physics and Ayurveda Chemistry.Modi also urged startups and the private sector to study global trends and demands and ensure their participation in the sector.Pointing out that during the coronavirus period the demand for Ayurvedic products increased rapidly all over the world, he said exports of Ayurvedic products increased by about 45 per cent in September this year compared to the previous year.He said the significant increase in export of spices like turmeric, ginger, considered as immunity boosters, shows the sudden boost in confidence in Ayurvedic solutions and Indian spices in the world.In many countries, drinks related to turmeric are also increasing and the world’s prestigious medical journals are also seeing new hope in Ayurveda, he noted.Modi said that during the coronavirus period, the focus was not only limited to the use of Ayurveda alone but also on research related to AYUSH in the country and the world.“On one hand, India is testing vaccines, on the other, it is also increasing international cooperation on Ayurvedic research to fight COVID,” he said.Modi pointed out that research is going on in more than a hundred places including at the All India Institute of Ayurveda in Delhi which has conducted research related to immunity on 80,000 Delhi Police personnel.It may be the world’s largest group study and there are encouraging results, he said.A few more international trials are to be started, he added.He also highlighted that prices of Ayurvedic herbs like Ashwagandha, Giloy, Tulsi have increased amid the pandemic.The price of Ashwagandha has more than doubled compared to last year and its direct benefit is reaching farmers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-pride-pm-modi-on-who-s-move-to-set-up-centre-for-traditional-medicine-in-india/story-d0c1y10GJ8Ta58iu84fAwO.html
13-11-2020||India||India urges developed countries not to undermine environmental conventions citing Covid-19 pandemic||Coronavirus pandemic cannot be used as an excuse to not fulfill the commitments of the developed countries or to undermine environmental conventions, said TS Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations.Addressing the 75th Session of UNGA 44th Annual Meeting of the G-77 Foreign Ministers through video conferencing, Tirumurti urged the developed countries to undertake activities to strengthen “Convention-Plus” actions and not do “Convention-Minus”.“2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement and Financing for Development framework should lay the foundations for our efforts. We need to impress on our developed country partners to do more and show the necessary urgency,” he said.He further said, “Covid pandemic cannot be used as an excuse to not fulfill their commitments or to undermine environmental conventions. We call on them to undertake activities to strengthen “Convention-Plus” actions and not do “Convention-Minus”.The International Solar Alliance spearheaded by Prime Minister Modi where India has pledged USD 1.7 billion for solar energy projects, and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, are all “Convention-Plus” activities.“Covid-19 threatens to set back decades of progress by developing countries and push millions into poverty. We need to raise our voice for recovery, resilience and reform to ensure that we go back to path of development,” he said.Urging the need for affordable health systems and resilient supply chains, Tirumurti said that India is assisting in urgent health and medical supplies to over 150 countries.“We have pledged USD 15 million for GAVI and operationalized the Covid-19 Emergency Fund for our neighbours with an initial contribution of USD 10 million. Prime Minister Modi has pledged that India, as the largest vaccine producing country, will make its production and delivery capacity available to the entire humanity,” he said.He further said that India’s involvement in the digital revolution will be a “model for the developing world in the global response to covid”.Speaking on the South-South cooperation, he said, “We have never let geography limit our approach to assist the developing world. India-CARICOM Leaders Meeting, India-Pacific Islands Summit, India-ASEAN Summits, India-Africa Forum Summits and other Summits have further strengthened the special bonding between India and fellow developing countries.”On India’s development cooperation, the Ambassador said, “We will be guided by our partners’ development priorities. Our assistance does not create indebtedness and is without conditionalities. Our concessional Lines of Credit of over USD 30 billion, our grants-in-aid projects, and our flagship training and capacity building project under Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) have made a huge contribution to fellow developing countries.”“The USD 150 million India-UN Development Partnership Fund continues to support transformational sustainable development projects with a focus on LDCs, LLDCs and SIDS,” he said.While reiterating India’s commitment to work with its partners from the Global South in the G-77 amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Tirumurti said, “In the spirit of “World Is One Family”, India’s approach will be human-centric, based on principles of mutual respect and national ownership with a commitment to sustainable development for all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-urges-developed-countries-not-to-undermine-environmental-conventions-citing-covid-19-pandemic/story-krwkfX5AfjY8ctF66zuVOM.html
13-11-2020||India||Australian national arrested in Bollywood drug abuse case, has Rampal link||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested an Australian national Paul Bartel in connection with the alleged drug abuse case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case.Bartel was questioned for around six hours on Thursday by NCB after it was found that he was in touch with arrested accused and drug supplier Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national and brother of actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella. Bartel’s arrest takes the total number of arrested accused to 26 in the case.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed that Bartel was arrested in the drug case in which actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik were arrested earlier.“Bartel was questioned on Thursday and was called to the NCB office on Friday morning and arrested under the charges of consumption and conspiracy of NDPS act,” said Wankhede.Also Read: Bollywood drugs case: NCB questions actor Arjun RampalBartel lives in Bandra (West) and is an architect by profession. He is in contact with several businessmen who are in construction work. After questioning Agisilaos, the agency learnt that Bartel used to buy drugs from him. It is now probing if he was involved in supplying drugs to others or not, said a NCB official. NCB officials searched Paul’s residence without making any recovery. NCB sources have said that they have found electronic evidence against Arjun and Gabriella after the arrest of Agisilaos and a second case was registered against Agisilaos.Also Read: Arjun Rampal arrives at NCB office in Mumbai for questioning in drugs-caseOn October 28, NCB had arrested businessman Nikhil Saldanha, 30, from Bandra in an SSR case. In the last week of October, NCB had questioned actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and also conducted a search at Prakash’s residence in Versova and found 1.7 grams of Hashish and three bottles of CBD (cannabis) oil. During the probe, Nikhil was found to be in touch with Agisilaos. Nikhil used to buy drugs from Demetriades and was arrested for consumption of weed and Marijuana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-national-arrested-in-bollywood-drug-abuse-case-has-rampal-link/story-IvBywBhneg4PHlIrIzGmmK.html
13-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh government gives Rs 7.33 crore to 16,796 investors duped by chit fund companies||The Chhattisgarh government transferred around Rs 7.33 crore to 16,796 investors on Thursday. These investors had been duped earlier by a chit fund company. According to a senior official of the public relations department, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel transferred around Rs 7.33 crore online to the bank accounts of these investors during a programme held at his official residence. “On receipt of complaints against Yalco Real Estate and Agro Farming Limited, the chit fund company of Rajnandgaon, the Rajnandgaon Collector had collected relevant information about the properties, holdings and assets, in which a total of 292.36 acres of immovable property owned by the directors were found. The final order for attachment of this land was passed by the Special Court. After this, the attached properties were auctioned by the concerned departmental officers. So far, Rs 8.15 crore has been received from this auction, which has been transferred to the investors who were duped,” the official said. The official said that there were a total of 16,796 investors, including 197 in Orissa, 2,971 in Maharashtra, 42 in Madhya Pradesh and the remaining 13,586 belonging to different districts of Chhattisgarh who invested and were benefitted by the government. On the occasion Baghel said, “With the efforts of the district administration and officials concerned, thirty percent of the money of the investors who were duped by the chit fund company is being returned.” “Though we are happy with the move, we will be fully satisfied once the investors get their entire money back. Efforts in this direction is underway”, Baghel said cautioning people to be careful from investing in such unscrupulous financial firms. In the last 2 years, on receiving complaints of fraud against 34 unregulated chit fund companies, 63 FIRs were registered and 43 such directors were arrested. In around 43 cases lodged before 2018 end, 80 accused were arrested from other states in the last two years, an official said. Besides, the cases registered against agents, mostly local young men of these companies who were bearing the brunt after the owner of the companies cheated their investors, were also withdrawn during this period, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-government-gives-rs-7-33-crore-to-16-796-investors-duped-by-chit-fund-companies/story-KCw37C8PLRIXWQsmbvXGjI.html
13-11-2020||India||Businessman steps outside car to urinate, gets robbed in Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan||A 39-year-old businessman was allegedly robbed of his valuables and cash when he got out of his car to urinate in southeast Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan area, police said on Friday. The victim, Amit Arora, owns a transport business and stays with his family in Rohini, they said. The incident took place on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, when Arora along with his wife and friends were returning home after attending a party at Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, police said. In his police complaint, Arora stated that at about 1.15 am, when he reached IP Park in Sarai Kale Khan area, he stopped his car to attend the call of nature. In the meanwhile, another car stopped in front of his. Three people came out of the car and threatened Arora. One of them placed a gun to his belly, while another kept a knife pointed at Arora. The businessman was forced to hand over his gold bracelet, gold chain, two gold rings, a watch, and Rs 40,000 cash to them, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said the complainant had noted the last four digits of the number plate of the suspects’ car as ‘7805’ and on the basis of the statement, a case under Indian Penal Code sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) has been registered at Sunlight Colony police station. The CCTV footage of the area are being scanned while the details of the car are being obtained. Police said witnesses are being examined and the crime scene is being recreated. Criminals having similar modus operandi are being checked, the DCP said. Efforts are being made to trace the accused, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/businessman-steps-outside-car-to-urinate-gets-robbed-in-delhi-s-sarai-kale-khan/story-jjwgS4kH4njBkU1o2j9KvM.html
13-11-2020||India||IIT Roorkee scientists predict FDA-approved commercial drugs through AI to tackle Covid-19||Amid the rapid transmission of cases of Covid-19, a group of scientists from IIT Roorkee has leveraged Artificial Intelligence (AI) to predict 10 FDA (Food and Drug Administration) approved commercial drugs available for the treatment of the disease.The Machine Learning (ML) model based on the naive Bayes algorithm was used to predict the drugs that could be used for the treatment of Covid-19, according to IIT Roorkee statement.The study, led by Prof Soumitra Satapathi shows that around ten FDA approved commercial drugs can be used for repurposing.Among all, it has also been found that the antiretroviral drug Amprenavir would probably be the most effective drug based on the selected criterions.The study has been published in the prestigious journal PLOS One. The other co-authors of the study include Sovesh Mohapatra, Prathul Nath, Manisha Chatterjee, Neeladrisingha Das, Deepjyoti Kalita and Partha Roy.According to IIT Roorkee statement, the complexity in drug design and protocols regarding clinical trials often inhibit the process of developing various new drug combinations for the disease.“Our study predicts around ten FDA approved commercial drugs that can be used for the treatment,” says Prof. Satapathi, Principal Investigator and an Associate Professor of Physics in IIT RoorkeeMany of the predicted drugs are already in use for the treatment of Covid-19, and some are in trials, IIT Roorkee said. “Given the need of the present time, the present approach will save a lot of resources and time for synthesizing novel drugs and thus will be useful for a vast majority of the medical research community,” Prof. Satapathi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-roorkee-scientists-predict-fda-approved-commercial-drugs-through-ai-to-tackle-covid-19/story-6UXk9hKS6wgRnO8iIzo0cI.html
13-11-2020||India||What are green firecrackers? All you need to know||In the past few years, air quality and pollution, aggravated by stubble burning, during November- December has become a cause of concern in the National Capital Region (NCR). The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered a ban on the sale and use of crackers in the region until November 30.Many state governments this year including Rajasthan and Odisha have banned bursting firecrackers, keeping in mind environmental impact as well as Covid-19 pandemic, while those like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have allowed green firecrackers.Developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), green crackers emit pollutants at a 30% lesser rate than their conventional counterparts.Here’s all you need to know about green crackers:1. Green crackers are made using less polluting raw materials. Their chemical formulation ensures reduced particle emission into the atmosphere by suppressing the dust produced.2. While regular crackers emit about 160 decibels of sound, green crackers’ emission rate is limited to 110-125 decibels3. Manufacturers need to sign a deal with the CSIR in order to make fireworks using the green cracker formulation. 4. There are three types of green crackers available in India - SWAS, STAR and SAFAL.5. Green crackers too, in many cases, use polluting chemicals like aluminium, barium, potassium nitrate and carbon, But the quantity is reduced which in turn lowers the emission by about 30 per cent. In some green crackers, these chemicals are not at all used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-green-firecrackers-all-you-need-to-know/story-dk4fuHpeZPp8nAOZWR6VOI.html
13-11-2020||India||Contempt petition filed against comedian Kunal Kamra in Supreme Court||Two law students and three lawyers jointly filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court (SC) on Friday against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra over his derogatory tweets against the SC for granting bail to journalist Arnab Goswami. The interim bail to Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case of architect Anvay Naik was granted on Wednesday by a bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud. The petition comes a day after the consent for filing contempt petition under Rule 3(c) of Rules Regulating Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, 1975 was granted by attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal.The petitioners are Shrirang Katneshwarkar, Nitika Duhan (both law students) and three lawyers, Amey Abhay Sirsikar, Abhishek Sharad Raskar and Satyendra Vinayak Muley.Also Read: ‘Won’t apologise’: Kunal Kamra tweets to Supreme Court judges on contempt complaintOn Thursday, AG KK Venugopal had granted consent for initiating contempt proceedings against Kamra.Referring to his tweets describing the SC as most supreme joke of this country, the AG stated, “The tweets...are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court.”AG Venugopal said this was a “gross insinuation” against the Supreme Court that the court and its judges are not independent or impartial but exist for the BJP’s benefit.The petitioners wrote to AG Venugopal on Wednesday seeking his consent to prosecute Kamra for contempt. The AG held that these tweets were contemptuous as he said, “Under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972.”The petition filed under the Contempt of Courts Act and Article 129 by advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar stated, “Petitioners have filed the present criminal contempt petition against the alleged contemnor for scandaliaing this court and further lowering the authority of this court by publishing tweets on twitter.com.”Kamra subsequently issued a tweet refusing to apologise or delete his tweets. He has close to 1.7 million followers, many of whom had even retweeted these objectionable tweets, the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-petition-filed-against-comedian-kunal-kamra-in-supreme-court/story-OLV0NMFzVnhkdoM543b0HJ.html
13-11-2020||India||NDA legislature party meeting on Sunday to pick Bihar’s CM, says Nitish Kumar||National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders gathered at Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s residence on Friday, the first such event after the election results, and decided to hold a meeting of newly elected legislators of the four partners in the coalition on Sunday (November 15).Briefing mediapersons after the meeting, Kumar said that Friday’s meet was an informal interaction. “We sat together and decided to convene a meeting of elected legislators of all the four partners on November 15 at 12.30pm. All decisions will be taken in that meeting. After the meeting and election of the NDA leader, we will stake claim to form the government,” said Kumar.The outgoing state Cabinet will be meeting for the last time on Friday and recommend dissolution of the assembly. “There will be a Cabinet meeting today,” said Kumar.Also read | Poor selection, parachuting leaders spelled Cong debacleAn NDA leader said that the election of Nitish Kumar as the leader of the alliance in Bihar was a mere formality. “Even PM Modi had endorsed his name on Wednesday,” he said.The NDA, which consists of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular and the Vikassheel Insaan Party, has won 125 seats in the 243-member assembly with the BJP alone winning 74 seats. The JD (U), which had 71 MLAs in 2015, had to settle for 43 seats while the HAM-S and the VIP won four seats each.In the wake of the outcome, there has been intense speculation over the BJP’s share in the new cabinet and over Kumar’s role in the government. However, the BJP has reaffirmed that it will stick to the coalition dharma and that Kumar will remain as the CM.BJP functionaries, meanwhile, said its legislature party meeting is likely to be held on November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-legislature-party-meeting-on-sunday-to-pick-bihar-s-cm-says-nitish-kumar/story-QOIfYzfUE5DF3BmeWFjzqJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Farmer trampled to death by a wild tusker in Andhra’s Vizianagaram district||A 50-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in his own field in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram district on Friday morning, the police said. The incident happened at Parasuramapuram village of Komarada block at around 7.30 am, when the victim, Raghumandala Lakshmi Naidu, went to his fields to inspect the crop. “A group of five elephants had been moving in the area for the last few days, destroying banana plantations and other horticulture crops. One of them, supposed to be a female pregnant elephant, went berserk and rushed towards Naidu, lifted him with her trunk and banged him on the soil, before trampling him,” Komarada sub-inspector of police V Gnana Prasad told Hindustan Times. Naidu was killed on the spot, while a few other farmers ran for safety. The police with the help of local forest officials drove the herd of elephants away into the adjacent forest areas. “We have shifted the body to the local hospital for post mortem. A case was booked under Section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code for unnatural death,” the police official said. This is the second incident of a farmer being killed by elephants in the same area in the last two weeks. On October 29, a 25-year-old farmer Yerra Narayana was also trampled to death in a similar manner near Gumpa under Komarada block. According to V Ramesh, district information officer, attacks by pachyderms have been happening in villages of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram district bordering Odisha very frequently. “A group of elephants from Odisha crossed over the Nagavali River and entered these areas last year and since then, they have been creating havoc in the bordering villages by destroying standing crops and razing huts,” he said. In 2019, there have been at least four instances of elephants attacking people and killing them in Vizanagaram district. “It was only on Thursday that top forest department officials had a meeting to discuss strategies to curb the elephant menace. Within hours, this latest killing took place,” Ramesh said. There is a proposal to fence the forest area where these elephants are moving, so as to prevent them from entering human habitations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-trampled-to-death-by-a-wild-tusker-in-andhra-s-vizianagaram-district/story-es6S45y78znfAgxzRP6GkO.html
13-11-2020||India||Bru migrants demand permanent resident certificates as part of resettlement in Tripura||Almost ten months since the Centre’s approval to permanent resettlement of Bru migrants in Tripura, the latter have demanded permanent resident and Scheduled Tribe certificates from the state government. In a letter to chief secretary Manoj Kumar on November 10, Mizoram Bru Displaced Peoples’ Forum (MBDPF) general secretary Bruno Msha has demanded issuance of both the certificates as part of their resettlement. “ ..I , therefore request you and to instruct the concerned authority ( DM, North Tripura District and SDM Kanchanpur Sub-Division & Panisagar Sub-Division, North Tripura District) with immediate effect to issue us the Scheduled Tribe (ST) Certificate and Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate ( PRTC) during the ongoing process of resettlement,” Msha wrote. No government official reaction is available on the issue. Also read | Tripura issues Diwali guidelines, bans bursting of firecrackersOver 32,000 Bru migrants have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions in North District for over two decades after escaping an ethnic clash in Mizoram in 1997. In January this year, the Centre signed an agreement with governments of Tripura and Mizoram and the Bru migrants for their permanent settlement in Tripura. The Centre also announced a Rs600 crore package for their resettlement. The letter came after a series of protests by some local organisations against the resettlement. Bru migrants have also written to Union home minister Amit Shah about the protests against their resettlement in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bru-migrants-demand-permanent-resident-certificates-as-part-of-resettlement-in-tripura/story-owPp0MmzUXtaeWxZBQfEqO.html
13-11-2020||India||Earn Rs 1,000 for exposing illegal sex determination tests in Odisha district||With its sex ratio still lower than state’s sex ratio, the coastal Odisha district of Ganjam, on Thursday, announced reward for those who will inform authorities about illegal conduct of sex determination practices in the district.During a meeting on the pre-conception and pre-natal diagnostic techniques held by the district advisory committee, Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange declared Rs 1,000 reward under the child development scheme to the persons who provide information about illegal sex determination practice in the district. The name of the whistleblowers will be kept secret.The meeting also decided to form special teams to inquire if allowances and benefits given by the state are reaching the pregnant women in the district. The Ganjam Collector directed the advisory committee to ensure that the steps taken to stop female foeticide are implemented.In 2017, the child sex (0-6 years) ratio in Ganjam rose to 869 females for every 1000 males from 790 females in 2014.Also Read: Odisha rights commission asks cop to pay Rs 5 lakh for filing false caseThough, the figure has improved in the district in 2017 when compared to 2014, it is still lower than the state’s average of 921 females against 1000 males. The rise in the sex ratio has been attributed to state government’s schemes like ‘Biju Kanya Ratna’ and ‘Mo Gelha Jhia’. The latter scheme was launched in January last year.Under the ‘Mo Gelha Jhia’ programme, the district administration celebrates the birthday of every girl born in the district. The celebration is held each fortnight of a month after the dates are fixed by the panchayat officer. Gaon Kalyan Samiti, Asha and Anganwadi workers collect details of all female births. Also Read: Bhubaneswar organisation encourages people gift plants this DiwaliOn a fixed date, the authorities along with girl students visit the house of the newborn to distribute sweets and handover a citation from the administration. The newborn girl and her parents are felicitated with a baby kit, flower bouquet, sweets and certificate. Besides, a bank account is opened in the name of the newborn under Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earn-rs-1-000-for-exposing-illegal-sex-determination-tests-in-odisha-district/story-2E0Ew7IE9T4ZrDD8D9EwMJ.html
13-11-2020||India||NDA meet on Sunday to choose its leader in Bihar, says Nitish Kumar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the NDA will meet on Sunday to formally choose its leader in Bihar. The meeting will be held at 12.30pm, Kumar, who is likely to take oath for the fourth successive term in Bihar, has said. Following JD(U)’s poor performance in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly Election 2020, where Rashtriya Janata Dal emerged as the single-largest party and the BJP as the dominating ally in the NDA alliance with more seats than the JD(U), speculations were rife whether Nitish Kumar will remain the chief minister. Several top BJP leaders have, however, confirmed that it had been agreed before that Nitish Kumar would be at the helm and BJP would go by its pre-poll promise.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also mentioned Nitish Kumar and his contribution to the thumping victory of the NDA in Bihar.Also Read: ‘We were with Nitish Kumar, will remain with him’: Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMWith BJP intent on keeping Nitish Kumar at the helm, the oath-taking is likely to take place in the coming week. It might take place Monday, on the auspicious occasion of ‘Bhai Dooj’ as well. But speaking to media on Thursday for the first time after the results were announced, Nitish Kumar dismissed these speculations. In this case, the Sunday’s meet will be a formality to choose Nitish Kumar once again. Apart from that, other crucial decisions regarding the alliance will be taken at Sunday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-meet-on-sunday-to-choose-its-leader-in-bihar-says-nitish-kumar/story-StluIliwHSkWJxSm8GK9PI.html
13-11-2020||India||Karnataka govt allows sale of green firecrackers during Diwali||The Karnataka government on Thursday issued modified guidelines for Diwali and permitted sale of only green firecrackers by licensed shops in the state. Green firecrackers do not contain harmful chemicals, thereby reducing air pollution due to firecrackers considerably. They are less harmful in comparison to conventional firecrackers. They are available as sparklers, flowerpots and maroons in the market, an official statement said here.The Karnataka government noted that the green firecrackers are manufactured as per the formulation developed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research - National Environment and Engineering Research Institute lab and product approval for the new formation is given by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation.The government advised the citizens to only buy green firecrackers in the view of environmental safety and health concerns amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-allows-sale-of-green-firecrackers-during-diwali/story-z9VYfwaOrBeANGQl3vOsCN.html
13-11-2020||India||Mumbai airport sees surge in traffic to Dubai from June to October||Despite international air travel remaining suspended, the Mumbai airport recorded a significant number of flights between Mumbai and Dubai from June to October. Since the commencement of India’s air bubble agreement with the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has seen higher movement of passengers on the Mumbai-Dubai route followed by Sharjah and Abu Dhabi. According to data accessed by HT, Mumbai airport saw over 1,22,960 passengers between CSMIA and UAE in the first phase of the air bubble agreement (the period from June to October).As many as 1,08,250 passengers travelled on the Mumbai-Dubai route with 751 flights, followed by Sharjah with around 8,715 passengers with 91 flights and Abu Dhabi with over 5,990 passengers with 130 flights from the city airport. Sources also revealed that Etihad Airways, Emirates and Air Arabia carried majority passengers to Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah.CSMIA spokesperson said, “We have observed a surge in travel to Dubai during the first phase of the Air Bubble agreement with UAE. Since the commencement of India’s air bubble agreement opened up pathways between UAE and India, CSMIA has witnessed an increase in travel for Dubai amongst other destinations in the regions across 972 flights between CSMIA and UAE in the period from June to October 2020.”CSMIA saw an increase in the frequency of flight operations, as October saw a rise of around 345 flights as compared to August and September with over 180 and 280 flights respectively. The airport catered to the region with a total of six domestic carriers such as Air India, Air India Express, GoAir, Indigo, SpiceJet, and Vistara. Four international airlines that included Emirates, flydubai, Etihad Airways and Air Arabia also participated in flying to and from Mumbai to UAE. Of these, Etihad Airways, Emirates and Air Arabia airlines transported the highest number of passengers to Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah respectively.The spokesperson added, “Despite facing several challenges and working with a minimal workforce, CSMIA continues to provide smooth and efficient operations at the airport. Moreover, as part of airport’s safety measures, standard operating procedures have been implemented throughout the airport as well as preventive measures laid down by the government are being followed to safeguard the passengers overall wellbeing and curb the spread of the virus. The airport continues to make all efforts to provide an assortment of world-class services and offer a hassle-free transit to passengers at the airport.”Due to restrictions imposed by the state government Mumbai airport is currently operating 300 daily flights (150 departures and 150 arrivals). Moreover international borders continue to remain closed except the flights operating under the air bubble agreement. Domestic flights had resumed their operations in a calibrated manner on May 25, after complete shutdown for two months. The cap on the Indian airlines however was increased from 60% to 70% of their pre-COVID levels on Wednesday, November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-airport-sees-surge-in-traffic-to-dubai-from-june-to-october/story-8NJr7zOlEOJRMj0Fbuqf8J.html
13-11-2020||India||J&K: India, Pakistan exchange heavy shelling in Uri, along LoC||Indian and Pakistani soldiers exchanged heavy shelling at Haji Peer in Uri and Gurez along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir on Friday.Residents said the shelling was intermittent and both sides used small arms and mortars, triggering panic in the region. Over a dozen ceasefire violations have been reported in Uri over the last six months.In Gurez, residents said mortars have landed close to the civilian populations in Izmerg and Tarabal localities, which are a few kilometers from the LoC. An army officer blamed Pakistan for initiating the ceasefire violations. “It always that they start from the other side of the LoC. Our soldiers give them a befitting response.”There were no immediate reports of any casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-india-pakistan-exchange-heavy-shelling-in-uri-along-loc/story-E8elqIyLPQn4HCRvpHOSKI.html
13-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi not the only Indian leader mentioned by Barack Obama in his memoir. Check whom else he talked about||Former US president Barack Obama’s upcoming memoir has created a buzz on social media, in which he has likened Congress leader Rahul Gandhi with a “student eager to impress the teacher.” According to the publishers, the book, titled ‘A Promised Land’, provides insights into the dynamics of US partisan politics and international diplomacy. The New York Times has reviewed Obama’s memoir, highlighting the political leaders from around the world he has talked about. Obama says Gandhi has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject,” according to The New York Times review.Also Read | What Barack Obama said about Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh in his memoirHowever, the Member of Parliament from Wayanad is not only Indian leader Obama has mentioned in his much-awaited book. The former US president has also mentioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi, apparently talking about the “beauty” of women leaders. The NYT review noted, “we are told of the handsomeness of men like Charlie Crist and Rahm Emanuel, but not the beauty of women, except for one or two instances, as in the case of Sonia Gandhi.” Former Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh also reportedly finds mention in Obama’s memoir as he recalls Singh as “having a kind of impassive integrity.” “Former US Secretary of Defence Bob Gates and former Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh both come across as having a kind of impassive integrity,” NYT review quoted Obama from the memoir. The 768-page memoir, the first of a two-part memoir, is likely to hit the stands on November 17, after which more details about his view on Indian leaders are expected to emerge.“Obama takes readers on a compelling journey from his earliest political aspirations to the pivotal Iowa caucus victory that demonstrated the power of grassroots activism to the watershed night of November 4, 2008, when he was elected 44th president of the United States,” the Crown Publishing Group wrote on its website, describing the book.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-not-the-only-indian-leader-mentioned-by-barack-obama-in-his-memoir-check-whom-else-he-talked-about/story-eanvTGovYl164gV5LWaz5L.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Won’t apologise’: Kunal Kamra tweets to Supreme Court judges on contempt complaint||A day after Attorney general KK Venugopal granted consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra, the stand-up comedian on Friday tweeted an open letter to Supreme Court judges and the Centre’s top law officer and declared that he did not intend to retract or apologise for his remarks.Kamra said the tweets, which have been found to be in bad taste by the attorney general, reflected his view on the Supreme Court’s ruling on Arnab Goswami’s bail request.“My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” Kamra said in the post titled “No lawyers, No apology, No fine, No waste of space”.He also suggested that the court’s time could be better utilised hearing cases relating to “demonetisation, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention”. No lawyers, No apology, No fine, No waste of space 🙏🙏🙏 pic.twitter.com/B1U7dkVB1WTo be sure, the Supreme Court hasn’t yet taken up the requests to initiate contempt of court proceedings against Kunal Kamra.Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975 requires a petition that seeks initiation of contempt proceedings to first get the consent of the attorney general. In his communication granting his consent, KK Venugopal said it was time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly will attract punishment. “People believe that they can ‘boldly and brazenly condemn’ the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising their freedom of speech, but under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt,” Venugopal had said on Thursday as he gave his consent.“This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a Court of the ruling party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, existing for the BJP’s benefit,” the A-G had observed on Kamra’s tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-apologise-kunal-kamra-tweets-to-supreme-court-judges-on-contempt-complaint/story-v7L9syj4aLwdY4uMaXSccM.html
13-11-2020||India||Will Owaisi’s AIMIM be an X factor in Bengal? Trinamool says it won’t be easy||Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM)’s announcement that it will contest the 2021 West Bengal polls has put a spotlight on the crucial Muslim vote in the state. Owaisi’s critics say AIMIM will end up splitting the voters and thus help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which seeks to replace Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) in power.Owaisi’s announcement about contesting West Bengal polls on Tuesday came on the day his party registered its best electoral performance outside its stronghold of Hyderabad by winning five seats in Bihar. Owaisi has alleged that the Muslims faced neglect in the poll-bound state.Also read | The rise of Asaduddin OwaisiMuslims accounted for West Bengal’s 27.01% population as per the 2011 census and the community plays a decisive role in 120 out of 294 assembly seats in the state, according to surveys by the BJP and election strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac. Banerjee roped in Kishore for the 2021 poll preparations after the BJP made major inroads into the state by winning 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019.Muslims are concentrated in Murshidabad (66.28%), Malda (51.27%), North Dinajpur (49.92%), South 24 Parganas (35.57%), and Birbhum (37.06%) districts in West Bengal. In Darjeeling, Purulia, and Bankura, where the BJP won Lok Sabha seats last year, Muslims account for less than 10% of the population.A central AIMIM functionary said they were conducting a survey and will accordingly take a final decision on the number of seats they will contest in Bengal. “We are collecting data for a ground-level research,” said the functionary who also campaigned in Bihar and did not wish to be named.TMC leader Saugata Roy said the AIMIM is known as a party that splits Muslim votes to ultimately help the BJP. “Owaisi is a good Parliamentarian who raises Islamic issues but he will not be able to do anything in Bengal.” He called AIMIM a Hyderabad-based party of Urdu-speaking Muslims. “Muslims in Bengal do not speak Urdu. It took Owaisi three attempts to win five seats in Bihar. Do not expect him to win seats in Bengal.”The AIMIM functionary reacted to Roy’s comments, asking if Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Congress leader Rahul Gandhi speaks Bengali. “And yet the BJP and the Congress have won seats in Bengal. Our leaders on the ground will campaign and contest the polls in Bengal. They speak Bengali.”BJP’s state minority front president, Ali Hossain, dismissed suggestions that his party needs AIMIM to make a dent in the TMC’s Muslim vote bank. “It is a wrong perception that the TMC gets all the Muslim votes while the BJP is supported only by Hindus. The 2019 Lok Sabha poll results clearly established this.”He said in Malda South constituency, where 64% of people are Muslims, their Hindu candidate Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury got 40% votes and lost to the Congress by a margin of only 8,000 votes. “Similarly, in the Jangipur constituency, where Muslims account for 82% of the population, the BJP’s first Muslim woman candidate Mafuza Khatun got 3,17,000 votes but lost to the TMC. Neither of these could have been possible had Muslims not voted for the BJP. Where was AIMIM in 2019?” asked Hossain.Hossain said the BJP will get 5-10 % Muslim votes in 2021 even if the AIMIM contests. “Our slogan is that a BJP government is required in the interest of Muslims. Yesterday, 350 Muslim families joined our party at Ghatal in West Midnapore. Today, we will organise the BJP’s biggest Muslim rally in Howrah,” said Hossain.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Md Salim said Owaisi cannot be a factor in Bengal politics unless he is promoted by the media and the BJP. “Hundreds of movements are taking place in Bengal but the focus is on Owaisi. This is how Gorkha leader Subash Ghising rose in the Darjeeling hills in the 1980s and the movement for a separate state started,” said Salim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-owaisi-s-aimim-be-an-x-factor-in-bengal-trinamool-says-it-won-t-be-easy/story-McGUtf3vrbimQWHWbZ9oLK.html
13-11-2020||India||WHO to set up Global Centre on Traditional Medicine in India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the World Health Organisation is establishing the WHO Global Centre on Traditional Medicine in India.Prime Minister Modi was speaking after inaugurating the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar (Gujarat) and National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur (Rajasthan), via video conferencing.“World Health Organisation is establishing the WHO Global Centre on Traditional Medicine in India, to strengthen the research on traditional medicines,” the Prime Minister said.The Prime Minister also said that this time Ayurveda Diwas is special for Gujarat and Rajasthan and also for youth.“In Jamnagar today, Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar gets national importance. While in Jaipur, National Institute of Ayurveda, is dedicated as a Deemed University,” PM Modi said.The institutes inaugurated today are premier institutions of Ayurveda in the country. The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of the Parliament, and the National Institute of Ayurveda Jaipur that of an Institution Deemed to be University by the University Grants Commission, said an official statement.Speaking on Ayurveda, the Prime Minister said that it is a legacy of India. “Ayurveda is a legacy of India whose expansion leads to the welfare of humanity. Every Indian will be happy that our ancient knowledge is also making other countries prosper. Ayurveda is included in Brazil’s national policy,” he said. Speaking regarding the WHO Global Centre on Traditional Medicine that will be established in India, PM Modi said, “I have confidence the way India has come up as pharmacy of the world in the same way, this centre of traditional medicine will emerge as a centre of global wellness. This centre will take into great heights the development of medicines and research related to it.”Since 2016, the Ministry of AYUSH has been observing Ayurveda Day every year on the occasion of Dhanwantari Jayanti (Dhanteras).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-set-up-global-centre-on-traditional-medicine-in-india-pm-modi/story-JmIYI9iCfHs56rVP7gtcbL.html
13-11-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire in three sectors along LoC||Pakistani troops opened fire in three sectors along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, officials said.The first ceasefire violation was reported from Izmarg in Gurez sector of Bandipora district around noon and it was followed by another round of firing in Keran sector of Kupwara district a few minutes later, they said.  The Pakistan Army also fired towards Indian positions in Uri sector of Baramulla district, they said. Also Read | Pak updates terror list, India says it omits key 26/11 Mumbai attackers No casualties have been reported in the incidents, the officials said, adding that the Indian Army was retaliating in all the three sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-three-sectors-along-loc/story-OeZXuJnggfDc79mpSeopeK.html
13-11-2020||India||TMC’s sway over minorities likely to unsettle with Owaisi party entry into Bengal||With Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM announcing that it would contest Bengal polls, having bagged five seats in neighbouring Bihar, political arithmetic, in all likelihood, is set to witness a major change as TMC’s sway over minority votes seems to be up for a stiff challenge.The Mamata Banerjee-led party, which had been the sole beneficiary of minority votes since the defeat of the Left Front in 2011, however, tried to put up a brave face, arguing that Owaisi’s influence on Muslims is limited to Hindi- and Urdu-speaking communities that make for just six per cent of Muslim electorate in the state.Muslims comprise 30 per cent of West Bengal’s voters. The state has the highest number of Muslim electorate in the country after Kashmir.A deciding factor in nearly 100-110 seats in the 294- member Assembly, minorities especially the Muslims, till 2019, have acted as a bulwark of the TMC against its rivals, with most of them voting in favour of the party, considering it to be a “credible” force that can resist saffron surge.With the entry of the AIMIM, equations are likely to change, prominent Muslim leaders said.Buoyed by the results of Bihar polls, Owaisi had announced that the AIMIM would contest elections in West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and other states.Talking about the Telangana-based party’s detailed plan for Mission West Bengal, its national spokesperson Asim Waqar told PTI on Wednesday that the outfit has already set up units in 22 out of the 23 districts of the state.“We will fight assembly polls in Bengal. We are preparing our strategy. We have registered our presence in 22 out of the 23 districts of the state. We think, as a political party, we can make deep inroads into the state,” Waqar said.Also Read | Bihar poll boost: AIMIM plans to contest in UP, West BengalThe AIMIM’s plan to enter Bengal was frowned upon by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at an anti-NRC rally in north Bengal in November last year, when she, without taking a name, launched a frontal assault on the party by asking Muslims to be wary of “minority extremists” from Hyderabad.Owaisi -- who is fast emerging as the leading Muslim voice in the country -- was quick to hit back, stating that West Bengals minorities have one of the worst human development indicators.According to the AIMIM, Owaisi has found Bengal to be a fertile ground for his expansion plans. The party has built a “good support base” in minority-dominated districts of Malda, Murshidabad, South Dinajpur, North Dinajpur, South 24 Parganas.All five districts comprise more than sixty assembly seats. Incidentally, barring South 24 Parganas, the remaining four districts border Bihar, where the party won five seats, eating into the Muslim vote share of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan.According to AIMIM state leadership, the party first evinced interest in Bengal after the 2019 parliamentary polls.A rally was duly organised in Kolkata, which witnessed a huge attendance of Muslim youths.“We sensed that Muslims are looking for an alternative and decided to build our base in the state. When we visited the districts, we received a favourable response. Now we have a strong base in several places,” a state AIMIM leader said.According to AIMIM sources, the war of words between Banerjee and Owaisi provided the party a much-needed propellant to make a foray into the state’s political scene.That followed by violent agitation over Citizenship Amendment Act gave the party a perfect opportunity to expand its footprint in the state.“Also, the recent migrant labour crisis has helped us, as a large section of Muslims realised who is its true friend,” the AIMIM leader said.Mohammed Kamruzzaman, the general secretary of All Bengal Minority Youth Federation, told PTI that Muslims who had voted for the TMC are not happy with the way the party has fared on many fronts.Several developments such as TMC leaders joining the BJP have propped up “questions about the credibility of the the Mamata Banerjee party in its fight against the BJP”.“The Muslims, for the last ten years, have voted for the TMC, and they have hopes and aspirations from the party.Although some of them have been fulfilled, there are a many grievances, too. A section of Muslims feels that the leaders they have voted for are either joining hands with the BJP or jumping the ship. So they are wary...” Kamruzzaman said.He refuted claims that Owaisi’s influence is limited to just Hindi- and Urdu-speaking voters.“Owaisi is held in high regard among Bengali Muslims too. And his anti-BJP credentials are impeccable. He has never compromised with the BJP,” Kamruzzaman, who during 2019 had appealed to the Muslim community to vote for the TMC, said.The Imams of the city, who also exert a major influence on the Muslim population in the state, however, has maintained a stoic silence over the matter so far.The TMC, which is yet to fully recover from the 2019 Lok Sabha poll setback, when the BJP’s tally soared from two to 18, is apprehensive that the AIMIM may act as “spoiler” in several assembly segments.“In minority-dominated pockets, where we are still the most-preferred party, the AIMIM may not win the seats but will hamper our prospects. Although West Bengal has 24 per cent Bengali-speaking Muslims and six per cent Hindi-speaking Muslims, we need to ensure that entire minority vote share remains intact, as the BJP is making all efforts to polarise the majority population,” a TMC leader said.Also Read | The rise of Asaduddin OwaisiThe TMC further termed the Owaisi-led party as a “communal force deputed by BJP” to act as “vote cutter”.“Just like the BJP, the AIMIM is also a communal force. Both the political parties survive on divisive politics. The AIMIM is planning to fight elections in Bengal to help the BJP in the state,” senior TMC leader and state minister Firhad Hakim said.His cabinet colleague and state Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Siddiqullah Chowdhury exuded confidence that Muslims won’t go with the AIMIM in the assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May next year.“The Muslims in Bengal are politically conscious; they won’t support a party which is an outsider in state politics and a B-team of the BJP. The Muslims would vote for the TMC to stop the saffron party from coming to power,” he said.The BJP, for which the division of Muslims votes is vital to winning the elections, however, denied the claim that the AIMIM might prove to be its B-team.“We don’t need a B-team or a C-team to win Bengal elections. We will win the state assembly polls on our strength and merit, bagging more than 200 seats,” BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-s-sway-over-minorities-likely-to-unsettle-with-owaisi-party-entry-into-bengal/story-mASIhU1TvYYOTCqQbpfNiL.html
13-11-2020||India||Well known Kannada journalist Ravi Belagere passes away||Ravi Belagere, editor of Kannada tabloid ‘Hai Bangalore’ who is also an author of nearly 50 books, actor and an anchor died due to a heart attack in the early hours of Friday. He was 62 years old. Belagere also ran a popular school in south Bangalore called ‘Prarthana.’ He is survived by two wives and four children.A native of Bellary district, Belagere was also a controversial figure and was arrested by the Central Crime Branch in 2017 for allegedly hiring contract killers to finish off a colleague Sunil Heggaravalli whom he suspected of having an affair with his second wife. The police had raided his house and seized some firearms. Later, Belagere was granted bail in the case.Belagere achieved immense popularity for his crime-based TV shows in Kannada. His eldest daughter is married to a well known Kannada actor Srinagara Kitty. A number of political leaders, including KPCC president D K Shivakumar, primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar as well as other leading dignitaries from arts, culture, journalism and the film world have condoled his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-known-kannada-journalist-ravi-belagere-passes-away/story-wxEIqwOlRTgndRyTwAW9KN.html
13-11-2020||India||2 succumb to Scurb typhus in Bundelkhand as disease spreads in 12 districts||Scrub typhus, a disease caused by a bacterium Orientia tsutsugamushi with rodents like rats and mice being the main vectors has claimed two lives in Panna district in Bundelkhand region setting off alarm bells ringing in the government amid the Covid situation. A team of doctors sent from Bhopal to Panna collected blood samples from some rodents from the affected areas on Thursday, as per health department officials. As per officials, patients suffering from the disease were found in more than 12 districts in the state and prevalence of the disease came to be known in October when some patients from Panna were referred to Jabalpur and the pathology test of blood samples of patients in a virology laboratory over there confirmed presence of the bacterium in their body. Two of the patients died. The districts where patients have been reported from so far include Panna, Jabalpur, Dindori, Satna, Mandala,Narsinghpur, Katni, Neemuch, Damoh, Umariya, Seoni, Shahdol, said chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Panna district Dr LK Tiwari. Dr Tiwari said a team of doctors from Bhopal reached the district on Thursday and collected blood samples from rats and mice from four villages in three blocks where patients of the disease were found. “With pathological examination of the blood samples we will try to find out if the disease was spread by the rodents in the same area or people were affected by the disease outside the local areas. However, it’s possible that the blood samples taken from the rodents might have been taken from those rodents which are not vectors of the bacterium”, said Dr Tiwari. One of the Bhopal team members Dr Gunjan Singh said, “The situation is not scary. Two of four patients in Panna have died. The disease can be cured in 5 days if diagnosed and treated timely. The vectors of the disease are rats, mice, squirrels and rabbits. Symptoms of the disease are high fever, headache, body ache, rash etc.” She said, “We are trying to find out scale of the spread of the disease. Alertness is the key to protecting oneself from the disease. People should immediately consult doctors in case of high fever and take all preventive measures like covering hands and feet while working in agriculture fields, maintaining heigine in homes and outside etc.” Additional director, Health services Dr Veena Sinha said, “We have come to know about the disease reported from certain districts. The situation is not alarming as yet. We are taking all preventive measures including creating awareness among people to check spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-succumb-to-scurb-typhus-in-bundelkhand-as-disease-spreads-in-12-districts/story-CuAnRWFUU46oVyPBYD3CZP.html
13-11-2020||India||To break ice, Union ministers hold key talks with farmers protesting central laws||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal have begun talks with a delegation of representatives of farmers from Punjab, who are protesting a set of laws passed recently to liberalise the farm sector, at the national capital’s Vigyan Bhawan on Friday. At least 40 leaders of various farmers’ bodies, including constituents of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella platform spearheading the protests, are participating in the talks, the first meeting that agitating farmers are holding with Cabinet ministers. This is the second attempt by the government to negotiate with the farmers and break an impasse following a cultivators’ agitation in some states, particularly Punjab, against the Centre’s move to open up agricultural markets in the country. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal had met a farmers’ delegation on October 14, after inviting them for talks, to convince them to end their protest, but the meeting had ended in a deadlock. Also Read: Protests against farm laws: Haryana farmers to march to Delhi on November 18The ongoing talks appear to be an attempt by the government to be accommodative of a pre-condition set by farm leaders during their meeting with the agriculture secretary on October 14 that any talks must happen in the presence of Union ministers and not just at the bureaucratic level. Farmers in Punjab have launched protests, blockading rail tracks and road transport, since the government enacted three farm-sector laws in September, creating a key political challenge for the Narendra Modi government.The three laws, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce by easing restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers protesting these changes say the reforms could make them vulnerable to exploitation, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The Modi government has said the reforms were unrelated to the MSP system, which, it assured, would continue to exist. Farmers, however, aren’t convinced. “The talks are on and they are on complex issues. We will be in a position to comment only when they conclude,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which is participating in the meeting. Farmer organisations are likely to press for the MSP system to be written into law, which is high on their agenda. On October 30, food and consumers affairs minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, interacting with reporters, said that the “Centre’s door was open for talks with the farmers”. They had said the new reforms would allow farmers greater access to markets and spur investment in the sector. The government is likely to issue a statement once the talks conclude, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-hold-crucial-talks-with-farmers-protesting-central-laws/story-cidQ7Kj8OG6CD1WhaKdUVI.html
13-11-2020||India||In Telangana, bleak future ahead of Congress after Dubbak by-poll debacle||A bleak future lies ahead of the Congress in Telangana following the humiliating defeat in the latest by-elections to the Dubbak assembly seat in Siddipet district, which clearly exposed the chinks the party’s armour. The Congress ended up in the poor third position in Dubbak by-polls, despite pulling out all stops to win the seat and regain lost glory. Party candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, whose father represented the constituency twice in the past, got just 22,000-odd votes and failed to retain his deposit. This is despite a massive campaign taken up by several stalwarts including All India Congress Committee in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore, PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, working presidents J Kusuma Kumar, Ponnam Prabhakar and A Revanth Reddy and a host of other senior leaders. The grand old party, which has credited itself with granting statehood to Telangana state in 2014, has never recovered after it conceded ground to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. What is worse, majority of the Congress MLAs defected to the ruling party after its debacles in 2014 and 2018 elections. In 2014, the Congress had won 21 out of 119 assembly seats in the state, but nine of them defected to the TRS. In December 2018 elections, the Congress strength came down to 19 seats, but 13 of its MLAs jumped into the TRS en masse, thereby stripping the party of leader of opposition status. And in the last six years, the Congress has only been on the losing side in all the by-elections. In November 2019, too, PCC chief’s wife N Padmavathi lost the by-elections to Huzurnagar assembly seat in Nalgonda to Telangana Rashtra Samithi candidate S Saidi Reddy with a huge margin of 43,000 votes. With the Congress party’s attempts to salvage some prestige by winning Dubbak by-polls backfiring, the party leaders as usual started the blame game, instead of making an introspection of what had gone wrong with the party. “It was a mistake to choose Srinivas Reddy, a last-minute defector from the TRS, as our party candidate in Dubbak. The party ticket should have been given to a candidate from weaker sections,” argued veteran Congress leader and former MP V Hanumantha Rao. “The BJP’s campaign that Reddy, too, would return to the TRS fold after winning the seat, like other Congress MLAs in the past, had also damaged the Congress prospects,” he said. PCC election coordination committee convenor G Niranjan said the TRS had strategically played down the Congress candidate by projecting BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao as a potential threat by indulging in police searches on him and his associates. “The TRS sought to impress upon the people that the Congress is nowhere in the field and the fight was between the TRS and BJP only,” Niranjan said. The defeat in Dubbak once again triggered the demand for resignation of Uttam Kumar Reddy as the PCC chief. Within a couple of hours of the by-poll result, agitated Congress workers at Madikonda in Warangal district burnt the PCC chief’s effigy and demanded that the party reins be handed over to younger leader like A Revanth Reddy, who defected from TDP to the Congress two years ago. On Thursday, too, when the party leaders held a rally in Khammam in support of farmers, there were demands that Revanth be made the PCC chief. However, Hanumanth Rao demanded that the PCC post should be given to weaker sections who had been loyal to the party for decades and not for defectors from other parties. The debacle at Dubbak is expected to witness exodus of more leaders from the Congress into either the TRS or the BJP, as there are hardly any signs of any improvement in the party’s prospects. Popular actor and former MP M Vijayashanti already hinted at quitting the party and she is expected to fly to New Delhi to formally join the BJP next week. “Unless the party high command stems the rot, it doesn’t take much time for the party to disappear as has happened in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” a senior party leader, who did not wish to be quoted, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-bleak-future-ahead-of-congress-after-dubbak-by-poll-debacle/story-CWMVGmWjhoyH1OOZmcPk2L.html
13-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: What is ‘Dominion’ system under fire from Trump and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US Election 2020: What is ‘Dominion’ Trump is blaming for ‘electoral fraud’?US President Donald Trump has continued his rant against the election results which has projected Joe Biden, a Democrat, as 46th President of the United States. Trump has targeted Dominion Voting Systems for his unproven claims of electoral fraud. Read more‘Demand for Ayurvedic products went up globally during Covid-19’: PM Modi on Ayurveda DayOn the occasion of Ayurveda Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated two ayurveda institutes - Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar, and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur via video conferencing on Friday. Read moreCentre approves Rs4,381 crore additional aid to 6 states hit by cyclones, floodsA high-level committee, under the chairmanship of Union home minister Amit Shah, on Friday announced additional assistance of Rs 4,381.88 crore to six states that were affected by cyclone, floods, and landslides this year. Read more‘The best player I’ve seen in my life’: Australia coach Justin Langer in awe of star India batsmanCalling India captain Virat Kohli ‘the best he’s ever seen,’ Australia coach Justin Langer pointed out it’s tough not to be happy knowing that Kohli will miss three Tests. “I’ve said this before, he is probably the best player I’ve ever seen in my life for so many reasons,” Langer told reporters in a video call. Read moreMahindra Thar continues surge, 1,000 units ready for delivery in Diwali periodMahindra Thar 2020 has emerged as one of the most successful launches of the year and despite the challenges facing the Indian automotive industry at large, has done swift business in the short time since being launched on October 2. Read moreKatrina Kaif returns to Mumbai in all-pink baggy sweats after high fashion, mermaid like shoot for Falguni and Shane Peacock during Maldives’ workcationKatrina Kaif recently returned to Mumbai from her dreamy Maldives workcation where she has been shooting for designer duo Falguni and Shane Peacock’s The Peacock Magazine. The Zero actor was seen getting out of the airport in an all-pink baggy sweatshirt and joggers combo with a pair of sneakers. Read more‘Taking a break from Rewind this year’: YouTube’s post prompts mixed reactionsEvery year, so many people look forward to YouTube’s Rewind video that celebrates the year’s viral videos, memorable moments and best content creators. This year, however, YouTube has decided to ‘take a break’ from Rewind. Read more‘We are in a very, very problematic situation’: Dr. Fauci on US Covid crisisInfectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci has said that the US is in a very, very problematic situation in its battle against Covid-19. ‘We are in a very, very difficult situation. It’s quite problematic. I have said that publicly many times not to scare people, but to bring a reality check to where we are,’ said Dr. Fauci. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-what-is-dominion-system-under-fire-from-trump-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JwXhiFGihUq18NiNBjwucI.html
13-11-2020||India||General M M Naravane conducts aerial survey of border outposts in Uttarakhand, likely to visit Pithoragarh||Amid continuing tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, Army Chief Gen M M Narvane on Thursday undertook an aerial survey of India’s border outposts along the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The Army chief conducted an aerial recce of Rimkhim, Niti and Laptal border outposts (BOPs) in Chamoli district on Thursday, official sources said. Gen Naravane, who began his Uttarakhand tour on Wednesday with a visit to Mana, the last Indian village on the Indo-China border, is understood to have arrived here to review the operational preparedness of the Army.  After a visit to Mana, the Army chief reached the brigade headquarters at Joshimath where he interacted with officials and stayed at night.  He began his aerial survey of the border outspots on Thursday morning before leaving for Nainital where he will stay for the night, the sources said.  Read | India, China agree on 3-step disengagement plan in Pangong lake area: ReportGen Naravane is likely to visit Pithoragarh on Friday before going to Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Though officials were tight-lipped about the Army chief’s visit, he is understood to have come for a first-hand assessment of the situation on the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand and for boosting the morale of the defence personnel.The 3,488 km-long India-China border stretches through Jammu and Kashmir (1,597 km), Himachal Pradesh (200 km), Uttarakhand (345 km), Sikkim (220 km) and Arunachal Pradesh (1,126 km). China has allegedly made several incursions into India at Barahoti in Chamoli districts of Uttarakahnd a few years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-m-m-naravane-conducts-aerial-survey-of-border-outposts-in-uttarakhand-likely-to-visit-pithoragarh/story-qWAu7usDZrkBaxd5fVkhsL.html
13-11-2020||India||Serum Institute’s head says India to get 100 Million Astra shots next month||The world’s largest vaccine maker is ramping up production of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 shot, aiming to have 100 million doses ready by December for an inoculation drive that could begin across India that same month.If final-stage trial data show AstraZeneca’s candidate gives effective protection from the virus, the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- which is partnered to produce at least one billion doses -- may get emergency authorization from New Delhi by December, said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the family-owned firm based in the western city of Pune.That initial amount will go to India, Poonawalla said in an interview on Thursday. Full approval early next year will allow distribution on a 50-50 basis with the South Asian nation and Covax, the World Health Organization-backed body that’s purchasing shots for poor nations. Serum, which has tied up with five developers, has so far made 40 million doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine in the past two months and aims to start manufacturing Novavax Inc.’s contender soon.“We were a bit concerned it was a big risk,” said 39-year-old Poonawalla. But both AstraZeneca and Novavax’s shots “are looking pretty good.”Also Read: Click here for everything you need to know about CoronavirusWorld’s Best Hope for Enough Covid-19 Vaccine Comes from IndiaThe haste underlines Poonawalla’s confidence in one of the main vaccine front-runners. AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot has said he is preparing for the possibility of large-scale vaccinations as early as December and once the U.K. grants its own emergency license, Serum will submit that same data to Indian counterparts.Drugmakers are just now getting data that will show how well their vaccine candidates work, but there are plenty of hurdles remaining as the global race to find an effective shot against the pathogen reaches its final stages. Astra and co-developer University of Oxford still need to see testing results. And even if their vaccine proves effective and gets a nod from regulators, there are questions over how easily and quickly the shot can be distributed.Poonawalla reiterated that it will take until 2024 to vaccinate the entire world and two years to see a real reduction in infections, due to affordability and manufacturing hurdles.After talks with the government, Poonawalla said he is confident in their plans to get initial vaccines to the vulnerable and frontline workers. The challenge, will be in getting it to India’s 1.3 billion population, especially in the vast countryside where past inoculation drives have struggled due to patchy health networks.He said AstraZeneca has a significant edge over a rival candidate from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, which this week grabbed headlines after indicating it was more than 90% effective in stopping Covid-19 infections. Expensive cold-chain infrastructure is needed to transport and store that vaccine at -70 degrees Celsius. Poonawalla said it was “just impossible” for most of the world to use at scale, compared to those his company will produce that can be stored at fridge temperatures.Deep-Freeze Hurdle Makes Pfizer’s Vaccine One for the Rich“I don’t think even 90% of the countries will be able to take it, because you just don’t have deep freezers everywhere,” he said of the Pfizer shot. “In a pandemic, always remember that simplicity is the key.”For India, which has struggled to contain the world’s second-largest Covid outbreak, negotiations with the Serum Institute on vaccine pricing will be pivotal for the country’s efforts to emerge from the pandemic.India Said to Keep $7 Billion Ready for Vaccine at $2 a ShotNew Delhi has set aside about 500 billion rupees ($6.7 billion) for vaccines, people with knowledge of the matter said last month. However, in September, Poonawalla argued that India would need 800 billion rupees. Poonawalla declined to comment further.Poonawalla is taking a big financial gamble. Operating in the low margin, mass volume world of vaccines, the Serum Institute -- founded in 1966 by Poonawalla’s billionaire father Cyrus -- supplies 170 nations with over a billion shots a year for diseases such as measles and mumps.Close to $300 million of the company’s money has been invested in early production, said Poonawalla. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Gavi, the vaccine alliance, have also contributing $300 million this year, earmarking 200 million doses for the Covax effort. That leaves about $200 million left to bridge for Serum’s planned expenditure.“I don’t need all of it right now, the capital we’ve deployed already is enough,” Poonawalla said, adding that advance orders recently signed with countries such as Bangladesh should fill the gap. Serum is also in discussions with India for an advanced commitment. “I think in the next one or two months I’ll be fully capitalized.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-s-head-says-india-to-get-100-million-astra-shots-next-month/story-K2y1arK3kktvkcjURPzv8M.html
13-11-2020||India||Centre approves Rs4,381 cr additional aid to 6 states hit by cyclones, floods||A high-level committee, under the chairmanship of Union home minister Amit Shah, on Friday announced additional assistance of Rs 4,381.88 crore to six states that were affected by cyclone, floods, and landslides this year.The states of West Bengal and Odisha that were hit by Cyclone Amphan in May will receive Rs 2,707.77 crore and Rs.128.23 as additional aid under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The cyclone wreaked havoc and left a trail of destruction and damage in West Bengal killing nearly 100 people. Before the onset of Amphan, 658,000 people -- 500,000 in West Bengal and 158,000 in Odisha -- were evacuated to safer spots. The storm had made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on May 20 afternoon, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kilometres per hour, cut off road links, snapped telecommunications and left parts of West Bengal without electricity. A day after his visit to the Amphan-hit states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on May 23 announced assistance of Rs 1,000 crore to West Bengal and Rs 500 crore to Odisha which was released for immediate relief activities, the Centre said in a statement. The Prime Minister had also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 for the injured, which was over and above the ex-gratia provided through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and the NDRF, it added.The Centre has approved additional relief of Rs 268.59 crore to Maharashtra that was struck by Cyclone Nisarga in June. The cyclone made landfall on June 3 near the coastal town of Alibaug, around 100 kilometres south of Mumbai. The weather bureau had sounded red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra and the state government had evacuated around 60,000 people from the state’s coastal region of Konkan.Also, for floods and landslides during the south-west monsoon, Rs.577.84 crore has been approved for Karnataka, Rs 611.61 crore for Madhya Pradesh, and Rs 87.84 crore for Sikkim, the statement said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-rs-4-381-additional-aid-to-6-states-hit-by-cyclone-floods-this-year/story-kcePxsAq21StdPEyilDhMP.html
13-11-2020||India||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee undergoes first plasmapheresis; has fever but stable||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee underwent his first plasmapheresis procedure on Thursday. Doctors treating the 85-year-old actor at a private hospital in south Kolkata said late in the night that he was running fever but was stable. Plasmapheresis is a process in which the plasma is separated from the blood cells for two purposes. The plasma is either replaced or treated and injected back into the body. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner was admitted on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Chatterjee tested negative on October 14 but his neurological system was affected by Covid encephalopathy. As a result, Chatterjee’s condition drastically deteriorated over the past two weeks. The noted actor is in a drowsy state. Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors treating Chatterjee, said, “The first plasmapheresis went off well. There was no external bleeding. But in the afternoon we had some issues and did a CT scan. There were no abnormalities. As of now he is again stable. His heart beat rate went up a little. He has fever which was the reason for the deterioration in his condition. The fever could be due to the multiple transfusions which are required for plasmapheresis.” “The actor’s lung, liver and other functions are stable. Plasmapheresis and standard dialysis will be repeated on alternate days. We will reanalyze his neurological condition,” Dr Kar added. Earlier this week, the actor’s kidney functions took a toll on his health. He was put on alternated dialysis to improve the renal function. The doctors subsequently decided to go for plasmapheresis and tracheotomy. Tracheotomy is a medical procedure that involves creating an opening in the neck to place a tube inside a patient’s windpipe to ease breathing. Chatterjee’s neurological function, which is the main concern of the doctors, has not improved. On November 2, the doctors conducted a vascular surgery and successfully stopped an internal bleeding which was leading to loss of hemoglobin. Millions of people in Bengal and beyond have been praying for Chatterjee’s recovery ever since he was admitted in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-soumitra-chatterjee-undergoes-first-plasmapheresis-has-fever-but-stable/story-ioN5iT0RwfMjRHVpABYK3M.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Demand for Ayurvedic products went up globally during Covid-19’: PM Modi||On the occasion of Ayurveda Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated two ayurveda institutes - Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar, and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur via video conferencing on Friday.“Everything is being integrated in today’s era and this approach has made Ayurveda play an important role in the medical world. Allopathic and Ayurvedic practices will now go hand in hand. For the first time, the science of our ancient India is being integrated with the science of the 21st century,” PM Modi said.“Now that you all are a part of the nation’s topmost Ayurvedic centre, your responsibility has increased. You have to come up with a syllabus that is of the international level,” PM Modi said after inaugurating the two institutes. The demand for immunity boosters from India such as turmeric and Ayurvedic products has grown globally, the PM said. “Despite our nation being very populous, the Covid-19 situation is under control because every household is consuming immunity boosters like turmeric milk, the ashwagandha herb, kaadha etc. The demand for these products has increased during the pandemic,” he said.Chief minister of Rajasthan Ashok Gehlot and Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani were also present at the event.While ITRA has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of Parliament, NIA has been deemed to be a university by the University Grants Commission (UGC).Earlier in the day, the PM had wished the nation on the occasion of Ayurveda Day. “Greetings on Ayurveda Day. On this special day, will be inaugurating two Ayurveda institutes, located in Rajasthan and Gujarat. The programme begins at 10:30 AM. Do watch!” he tweeted.The Ministry of Ayush (ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, sidda and homoeopathy) has been observing Ayurveda Day since 2016 on the occasion of Dhanwantari Jayanti (Dhanteras).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allopathic-and-ayurvedic-practices-will-now-go-hand-in-hand-pm-modi-on-ayurveda-day/story-HzFVFFsDvsfLOrSyKqtarI.html
13-11-2020||India||Arjun Rampal arrives at NCB office in Mumbai for questioning in drugs-case||Actor Arjun Rampal arrived at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning in a drug-related case on Friday morning. He was summoned by the NCB on Wednesday after the agency conducted raids at his premises on November 9.Gabriella Demetriades, Rampal’s girlfriend, was also summoned by the NCB to appear before it on November 11. Gabriella’s brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the agency based on reports that said he was a part of a drug syndicate linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The NCB had carried out searches at Rampal’s residence a day after arresting film producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed. The NCB officials had allegedly recovered 10 gm ganja at Nadiadwala’s residence in suburban Juhu. Shabana Saeed was granted bail on November 10.The NCB launched an investigation into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Rajput’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arjun-rampal-arrives-at-ncb-office-in-mumbai-for-questioning-in-drugs-case/story-33HhOS5fWN5nRUPcgVwRLL.html
13-11-2020||India||Bypolls over, surveillance teams to identify cases in Manipur constituencies||Now that bypolls are over, Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh has said surveillance teams would be sent to assembly constituencies where voting was held to identify those showing symptoms of Covid-19 so that testing can be done.Singh said the step is being taken to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19 especially in the five assembly constituencies of Wangoi in Imphal West district, Lilong,Wangjing-Tentha in Thoubal district,Saitu in Kangpokpi district and Singhat in Churachandpur district.Speaking to media at the Chief Minister’s bungalow in Imphal on Thursday, Singh appealed to the public to comply with the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the government to contain the spread of the virus.The media briefing was also attended by advisor (health) to chief minister Dr Sapam Ranjan and principal secretary (health and family welfare) V Vumlunmang.The state reported five more deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 207 on Thursday.As many as 228 persons from the general public and 26 personnel from the Central armed police force were confirmed as new cases. Meanwhile, a total of 191 persons were discharged after recovery. The cumulative number of positive cases is 21,211 while the numbers of active and recovered cases are 3,115 and 17,889 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-over-surveillance-teams-to-identify-cases-in-manipur-constituencies/story-CX4fE8fZweYMUKzsiCys0L.html
13-11-2020||India||India’s records less than 50,000 daily Covid-19 cases for 6th day in a row, active cases below 4.9 lakh||India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained below 50,000 for the sixth consecutive day on Friday with the 44,879 cases and 547 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. According to latest figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the nation’s infection tally has reached 8,728,795, the active caseload however, remained below 4.9 lakh.The declining active cases and the steady rise in the number of recoveries from the disease continue to bind hopes of the citizens. As many as 8,115,580 people have recovered from the viral infection either in Covid-19 designated hospitals or in home isolation. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Earlier in the day, the health ministry credited the high levels of testing across states to the drop in coronavirus cases. “Comprehensive & high TESTING is pivotal in the strategy to curb the chain of transmission,” the ministry wrote on Twitter. It added that from very few tests conducted in January, India has now scaled a high of more than 12 crore total tests in November. According to a graph shared alongside the tweet, on an average 11,03,398 tests for the coronavirus disease were conducted daily in the country in the past six weeks. “With daily capacity of 15L tests, more than 11L tests were done on an average every day in the past 6 weeks,” the Union ministry tweeted, adding that such comprehensive testing leads to early identification, quick isolation, timely hospitalisation and effective treatment of Covid-19 patients. These eventually result in decreased positivity rate and low fatality rate, it said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs several vaccines are under different levels of trials in the country, Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Thursday announced that it has completed the enrolment of phase 3 clinical trials for its candidate Covishield and added that the trials of the Oxford vaccine have shown promising results, which “so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the deadly pandemic”.Meanwhile, the confirmed cases of Covid-19 have climbed to 52,678,681 while 1,292,228 have died of the disease. The United States continues to report the maximum number of cases at 10,543,486, according to Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-records-less-that-50-000-daily-covid-19-cases-for-6th-day-in-a-row-active-cases-below-4-9-lakh/story-MajjrSjH3v0p1ub0MaV68J.html
13-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Former global hotspots in grip of the virus again||Cities across the globe that once emerged as coronavirus (Covid-19) disease hotspots have begun to fall back into the clutches of the virus.New York, London and Turin are among cities that have been put under strict lockdown ahead of an imminent second wave as experts believe that the second wave may turn out to be as deadly as the first.Over 53.85 million people have been infected with the disease globally and 1.29 million have lost their lives, according to real-time statistics provider Worldometer.Here is a list of hotspots that have registered a spike in Covid-19 cases again:New Delhi: The Indian capital registered its highest-ever Covid-19 death toll on Thursday, with 104 people losing their lives due to the virus. During the last week, the daily tally once crossed the 8,500-mark in the Capital city and over 7,000 cases were registered everyday. As the city grapples with the third wave of the virus, experts believe that air pollution after the festival of Diwali may contribute to making the situation worse.  New York: Over 18,000 people lost their lives during the first wave of Covid-19 in New York. In the last 24 hours, the city has recorded 4,821 fresh infections. Mayor Bill de Blasio has announced that schools will remain closed in the city and restaurants and cafes will be allowed to stay open till 10pm. The USA is the worst coronavirus-affected country, followed by India.Turin: Due to the spike in coronavirus cases in Turin, the government has passed an order to shut down bars and restaurants at 6pm. This decision has resulted in a widespread protest and agitation across the country. London: One of the worst-affected cities of Britain, London recorded 3,554 cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The country has been under lockdown for over a month, but cases have not gone down. Britain accounts for most number of deaths due to coronavirus in Europe. Over 50,000 people have died of the disease in the country.  Sao Paulo: The city with the highest population density in Brazil and one of the most populous cities of the world, Sao Paulo, has been a hotspot since May. Over 1.11 million cases and  39,311 deaths have been registered here. Brazil is the third-worst affected country in the world.Moscow: The capital of Russia is recording over 20,000 cases of coronavirus on a daily basis. The first wave of Covid-19 ended here on May 11, after which the number of infections had started going down. As many as  7,361 deaths have been recorded here. Russia is the fifth-most affected by coronavirus in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-former-global-coronavirus-hotspots-in-grip-of-the-virus-again/story-fte217PT4TlJjJnXpZk0uL.html
13-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: Activists flag 10-acre patch devoid of foliage, Mangrove Cell orders probe||Mangrove trees across 10 acres in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs have lost leaves and died because of tidal water blockage, environmentalists have said and prompted the Maharashtra’s Mangrove Cell to order an investigation.The state mangrove cell on Friday afternoon conducted the first round of investigation at the site. “Our team of beat officers could not identify any sources of high tide water that had been blocked at the wetland. However, the entire mudflats and mangrove patch continue to be dry. We will inspect the site on Monday again and also speak to locals in the area if they can help identify the causes for this issue,” said Suresh Warak, range forest officer (Mangrove Cell). NGOs Vanashakti and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP) filed complaints with the cell and the Mumbai suburban collector on Wednesday attaching images of the site.From September onwards, several mangrove patches in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region wore a dry, skeletal look due to certain defoliating pests that feed mainly on leaves and sometimes mangrove tree barks. New leaves and greener foliage have grown on most of the mangroves except in the Mahul-Wadala area. “We initially thought it was due to the pest attack but the reason seems to be different. There is a deliberate blockage of tidewater to this patch which needs to be investigated. The wetland has dried up and has become hard,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Based on orders passed by the Bombay high court in 2005 and reiterated in 2018 and recently brought to the notice of various state departments by environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, mangrove forests under the jurisdiction of state bodies need to be handed over to the forest department. The administrative jurisdiction of the mangrove area at Mahul-Wadala is with the Mumbai suburban district collector.“The land has not been notified and handed over to the forest department. The state continues to drag its feet on this issue and is allowing the decimation of mangroves,” added Stalin, who is also the member of the state-appointed Wetland and Mangrove Grievance Redressal Committee.Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP, said, “The incidents at Mahul are most unusual. This kind of condition of a salt-tolerant eco-sensitive mangrove patch has not been witnessed in the past. Using geo-tagged photographs, we have requested authorities to restore the water supply and ensure the patch is reinstated. Also, culprits need to face the law.”Virendra Tiwari, an additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell), said, “We are clueless at the moment on what could have caused this. We have asked our officers to investigate in detail and action will be taken based on the report.”An official from the suburban collector’s office said they have received the complaint. “The matter has been shared with the forest department. We will provide any support required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-activists-flag-10-acre-patch-devoid-of-foliage-mangrove-cell-orders-probe/story-kWtgx6miGKjzSzaq8N4vFO.html
13-11-2020||India||‘Inadvertent error’: Twitter responds over removal of Amit Shah’s profile picture||Twitter has attributed to an “inadvertent error,” the removal of Union home minister Amit Shah’s profile picture from his account on the microblogging site. A Twitter spokesperson said that due to the error, the social media giant had to temporarily lock Shah’s account under its global copyright policies.Also Read | Twitter removes Amit Shah’s photo citing copyright violation, restored later“Due to an inadvertent error, we temporarily locked this account under our global copyright policies. The decision was reversed immediately and the account is fully functional,” the spokesperson said. Due to an inadvertent error, we temporarily locked this account under our global copyright policies. This decision was reversed immediately and the account is fully functional: Twitter Spokesperson on Home Minister Amit Shah's account being temporarily locked yesterday evening https://t.co/KVPkyo2LicOn Thursday, Shah’s display picture was removed from his official Twitter account, which has 23.6 million followers, in response to a “report from the copyright holder.” Clicking on Shah’s profile picture on his Twitter handle showed a blank page with the message: ““Media not displayed. This image has been removed in response to a report from the copyright holder.”While the image was restored later, Twitter had not shared other details. Its copyright policy states: “In general, the photographer and NOT the subject of a photograph is the actual rights holder of the resulting photograph.”Twitter’s “inadvertent” blocking of Shah’s profile picture came on a day it came to light the Union ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued a notice to it, seeking an explanation in five days as to why no legal action should be taken against it for showing Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir, and not Ladakh.Also Read | ‘Deliberate’: Centre puts Twitter on notice for showing Leh as part of J&KWhile Twitter has said it has responded to the government’s letter, it is yet to correct the map to show Leh as part of the Union territory of Ladakh, and not Jammu and Kashmir.Earlier, the social media giant had shown Leh as part of China after which the ministry had written to Twitter CEO Dorsey, raising an objection. This error, however, was rectified.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inadvertent-error-twitter-responds-over-removal-of-amit-shah-s-profile-picture/story-zFDb0dvECOpSfBdsQ5bbCJ.html
13-11-2020||India||This Diwali, NGO reaches out to women Maoists in Chhattisgarh with feminine hygiene products||The New Peace Process, an NGO working in Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Bastar region, is trying to reach out to women Maoists in the region with “Diwali gifts” of menstrual cups and reusable sanitary pads. It started fundraising for the campaign on Wednesday hoping the region’s people will support them in sending a message to initiate peace talks.The New Peace Process convenor Shubhranshu Choudhary said when he met the women Maoists, they told him they were suffering in the jungles. He added that is why they decided to help them. “...women Maoists...walk long distances in the jungles... hence we decided to help them because it is an issue of women’s health.Choudhary said they are trying to help these women so that they can start talking. “We regularly go to Maoist areas of Bastar, where we are stopped by lower-rung cadres of Maoists. We will drop these gifts and request them to send them to woman cadres. We do not agree with their politics but this Diwali, we want to send them a message that we care for them and will be keen to talk and encourage them that they also talk to the government to resolve the differences.”Chaudhary said they have informed police about the humanitarian initiative aimed at peace-building. “On October 2, at Bastar Dialogue, where experts were called to speak about the problem of Maoist conflict, the suggestion about this Gift campaign was made.”Inspector general (Bastar) Sunderaj P said police and security forces deployed in Bastar always encourage the reintegration of local Maoist cadres into the mainstream. “Our surrender and rehabilitation policy is one of the best in the country. We appreciate each and every effort being carried out in the direction of establishing peace and order in Bastar. We wish the local Naxal cadres, particularly the female cadres identify the real and ugly face of top Maoist cadres and reunite with their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-diwali-ngo-reaches-out-to-women-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-with-feminine-hygiene-products/story-G65T60cOr3GQuxyOWghvZJ.html
13-11-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, tiger found dead at Bhoramdev Wildlife Sanctuary||A tiger was found dead in the Chilfi Range of the Bhoramdev Wildlife Sanctuary in Kabirdham district during a routine foot patrolling by the forest department, an official said on Thursday. The forest official has sent the body for post-mortem and further investigation is going on. “A male tiger was found dead near the Toraiyabehera area in Chilfi Range of the Bhoramdev Wildlife Sanctuary when forest officials were on routine foot patrolling. The area where the tiger was found is around 200 meters from the border of the Kanha National Park,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, state Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) talking to HT. The PCCF further said that it seemed infighting for territory between two tigers took place due to which one died. “There is evidence that another tiger was also present at the spot,” Chaturvedi said. The officials said that other senior officials were in the jungle and the post-mortem of the body of the tiger will be conducted on Friday. “More details are awaited,” Chaturvedi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-tiger-found-dead-at-bhoramdev-wildlife-sanctuary/story-cokipLM8NOvy8cRs2jsuUK.html
13-11-2020||India||New genus of tree frog discovered in Andaman Islands and Northeast India||A team of Indian, Chinese, Indonesian and Thai researchers have found a new genus of frogs in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and India’s northeast, according to November 12 issue of Zootaxa, an international animal taxonomy journal. The genus has been named Rohanixalus after Sri Lankan taxonomist Rohan Pethiyagoda.A genus is a category of classification of animals, plants above a species and below a family. It can include one or many similar species.Rohanixalus is the 20th recognised genus of the Rhacophoridae family and comprises eight out of the 422 known Old World Tree Frog species in Asia and Africa.The researchers studied aspects such as external morphology, calls, breeding biology, etc of tree frog species distributed across South, Southeast, and East Asia and confirmed that they represent a new genus.Frogs from the genus are characterised by a small and slender body (about 2 cm to 3 cm long), a pair of contrastingly coloured lateral lines on either side of the body, and other distinct behavioural traits, the researchers said in a note on Thursday.Based on DNA studies, the new genus is believed to be of a distinct evolutionary lineage compared to previously known tree frog genera. During the breeding season, these reddish-brown frogs can be found in large numbers on bushes and shrubs surrounding water bodies.Scientists believe many more unnamed Rohanixalus species are likely to be present and there is a need to understand the diversity of the new genus.This is the first time a tree frog species has been found in the Andaman Islands.“Our discovery of a tree frog member from the Andaman Islands is unexpected and once again highlights the importance of dedicated surveys and explorations for proper documentation of biodiversity in a mega-diverse country like India,” said SD Biju, a Delhi University professor, who led the study.The researchers noticed maternal parental care among the new genus. The mother frog attends the egg clutches until hatching and assists in the release of the tadpoles.“During the first three days after egg-laying, the mother sits on the eggs and produces a gelatinous secretion with which she glazes the eggs through the clockwise movement of her legs. This provides necessary moisture to the eggs laid on exposed leaf surfaces and protects them from insects,” said the note.The scientists found that multiple clutches of eggs laid on a single leaf or plant are attended by multiple females in a behaviour pattern described as community egg attendance.The distinct light green coloured eggs of the new genus are laid in an intermediate form of bubble nests, whereas tree frogs of other genera possess creamy white eggs and their nesting behaviour varies from direct development to foam nests or gel nests.“Members of the new genus are reported to display territorial behaviour and frequent combats between males involving pushing, kicking and dislodging, in order to successfully mate with a female,” the note said. “The gravid [pregnant] females in species of the new genus such as ‘Rohanixalus vittatus’ possesses translucent skin making their internal organs, including mature eggs, visible on their see-through bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-genus-of-tree-frog-discovered-in-andaman-nicobar-islands/story-SaSD5fpGEYLdSNRUF6xX3J.html
13-11-2020||India||UP begins groundwork for storage of Covid-19 vaccine||As people across the globe await a Covid-19 vaccine, the Uttar Pradesh government has begun the groundwork to stockpile it. The state government has announced that all citizens in the state will be administered the vaccine free of cost, but the first phase of the inoculation drive would cover the health force — doctors, nurses, paramedics and non-medics in hospitals. All divisions have prepared lists of people who will be inoculated first.“Construction of depots is on in 22 districts,while in 27 others, repair work is in progress,” said Dr AP Chaturvedi, state immunisation officer. He said, “We do not know how many vaccine vials will be coming, but the infrastructure will be ready.” Two vaccine depots are coming up in the capital city of Lucknow – a district depot at the urban health post in Aishbagh and a divisional/state depot near the family welfare directorate in Chowk. Both these facilities are being ramped up. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today“The focus is on the maintenance of cold chain and work in this regard is in progress at vaccine depots. The target is to have them ready by December 15,” said Dr Rakesh Dubey, director general, family welfare. In Prayagraj, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr GS Bajpai said, “We have identified a meeting hall of Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital as the main vaccine storage centre in the district and its renovation process has begun to ready it as a Covid-19 vaccine storage facility.” “The district has around 1,365 private hospitals and clinics as well as 130 government hospitals and facilities registered with the CMO office and staff of these would be vaccinated first,” he added. District immunisation officer Dr Amit Srivastava said a sum of Rs11.20 lakh was sanctioned by the state government for getting the Covid-19 vaccine storage site ready. “Around 50 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR) capable of highly safe vaccine storage with proper power backup will be installed at this site. We hope to have the facility ready by December,” he added. In Agra, the vaccine would be stored in the compound of the new CMO office at Halwai Ki Bagichi. “That is where other vaccines already in use are being stored but we will make separate arrangements for Covid-19 vaccine,” said district immunisation officer Dr Sanjeev Werman. “A separate 500 square foot hall is being prepared for storing Covid vaccine. Renovation work would begin in a day or two and we will get a deep freezer from Lucknow to maintain the cold chain required,” he added. In Meerut division, which comprises six districts of Meerut, Ghaziabad, Noida, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Baghpat, health officials have made adequate arrangements for storing Covid-19 vaccine at the storage centre of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College. Divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan said the medical college can store vaccines for three months at the required temperature. Varanasi’s community health centre (CHC) at Chauka Ghat has been chosen for storing Covid-19 vaccine, said a senior official of health department. The CHC was upgraded further as per the need and its storage capacity was also being increased, the official added. CMO Dr VB Singh said, “From the last week of March till date, a total of 17,653 cases have been reported in Varanasi district. Of them, 16,627 recovered, 282 died and 744 are active cases.” (Inputs from Gaurav Saigal, K Sandeep Kumar, Hemendra Chaturvedi, S Raju and Sudhir Kumar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-begins-groundwork-for-storage-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-qkhzv0pIeODf0OUJxm2O4M.html
13-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate further and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate later todayA day before Diwali, Delhi woke up to “very poor” air quality on Friday morning – showing a marginal increase from the previous day’s 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI). On Friday morning the AQI is 328 while on Thursday the AQI was 314. Read more Contest to design Central Vista iconThe Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced a design competition to construct an “iconic structure” on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project to commemorate 75 years of independence. Read more ‘No evidence’ of lost or changed votes: US election officialsSenior US federal and state election officials said Thursday that there was “no evidence” that votes were lost or changed, or voting systems corrupted, in the presidential election. Read more Protests against farm laws: Haryana farmers to march to Delhi on November 18Thousands of farmers from the state will march to Delhi on foot in response to national farmer unions’ call and reach the Capital on November 26, said Bharitya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday. Read more ‘He is the Indian AB de Villiers’: Harbhajan Singh’s massive remark for uncapped IPL 2020 starVeteran India spinner Harbhajan Singh took to Twitter to question Suryakumar’s omission from the limited-overs squads. Recently, Harbhajan spoke to Star Sports about the Mumbai batsman, describing him as India’s AB de Villiers. Read more Here’s how to check how when your Google Photos storage will run outGoogle has announced that it is going to stop giving out unlimited photo storage for free on Google Photos. Of course, for most of us saving thousands of photos on Google Photos, this is horrible news and we need to figure out an alternate solution. Read more Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima remembers him on Diwali, posts pic from last year’s celebrations: ‘Miss you papa’Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni took to Instagram to share a picture from last year’s Diwali celebrations. That was the last Diwali the actor spent with his family before he died in April this year. Read more From Maruti to Tata and Mahindra, how safe are ‘Made-in-India’ carsSafety has come a long way in climbing the list of priorities for the Indian car buyer over the past several decades. And while it may still not be as significant as affordability and exterior styling - unfortunate as that is, it has prompted almost every car maker here to highlight and underline protection to occupants that are on offer in their respective products. Read more Anand Mahindra’s tweet on happiness has a big messageBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra, who is known for sharing inspiring and entertaining posts on his Twitter handle, shared a tweet with a picture. Not only does the image have a big message, but the caption Mahindra shared along with it is equally wonderful to read. Read more Bihar CM Nitish Kumar says ‘NDA to decide’ if he will be chief ministerBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that NDA will decide on the state’s next chief minister. Kumar’s JDU won 43 seats while BJP won 74 in recently concluded Bihar polls. “It is people’s mandate, NDA got majority with people’s support. Nothing has been finalised as of now, ECI must have submitted the list,” he said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-wakes-up-to-very-poor-quality-air-likely-to-deteriorate-further-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2TJvebWAnEp5y8rO6pldIO.html
13-11-2020||India||Ayurveda Day: PM Narendra Modi to dedicate 2 ayurveda institutes to nation||On the occasion of the fifth Ayurveda Day on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to dedicate two ayurveda institutes to the nation—Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar, and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur. Both the institutes are the country’s premier institutions of ayurveda. The former has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of Parliament, and the latter has been deemed to be a university by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The Ministry of Ayush (ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, sidda and homoeopathy) has been observing Ayurveda Day since 2016 on the occasion of Dhanwantari Jayanti (Dhanteras). This year, it is on November 13. In the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the event will be observed largely on virtual platforms from 10.30am. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine access to low, middle income nations crucial for economic recovery: WHOITRA has 12 departments, three clinical laboratories and three research laboratories. It is also a leader in research work in traditional medicine, and presently, it is conducting 33 research projects. ITRA has been formed by conglomerating the cluster of four ayurveda institutes at Gujarat Ayurveda University campus, Jamnagar. It is the first institute in the Ayush sector with the INI tag. With the upgraded status, ITRA will have autonomy to upgrade the standard of Ayurveda education by offering courses as per modern, international standards. Further, it will forge inter-disciplinary collaborations to give a contemporary thrust to ayurveda. NIA got a shot in the arm with deemed-to-be-university (de novo category) status. NIA’s contribution to preserving, promoting and advancing authentic ayurveda in the last few decades has been significant. Presently, NIA has 14 different departments. It runs numerous courses in Ayurveda from certificate to doctoral level and is a pioneer in research activities. At present, it conducts 54 different research projects. With the conferring of the deemed-to-be-university tag, the national institute aims to become a state-of-the-art tertiary health care, education and research institute in ayurveda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurveda-day-pm-narendra-modi-to-dedicate-ayurveda-institutes-to-the-nation/story-cbamyEqbxxXBSAoMzfRENL.html
13-11-2020||India||Ayurveda Day: PM Modi extends greetings to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended greetings to the nation on the occasion of Ayurveda Day. He also urged people to tune in to the virtual inauguration of two Ayurveda institutes in Rajasthan and Gujarat at 10.30am.“Greetings on Ayurveda Day. On this special day, will be inaugurating two Ayurveda institutes, located in Rajasthan and Gujarat. The programme begins at 10:30 AM. Do watch!”, he tweeted.The PM will inaugurate the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA) at Jamnagar in Gujarat and National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) at Jaipur in Rajasthan via video conferencing, a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office on Thursday said.These institutions are expected to play “global leadership roles” in the growth and development of Ayurveda in the 21st century, the statement added.This year’s celebration will focus on the potential role of Ayurveda in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic.The nation has been celebrating Ayurveda Day on November 13 since 2016 to commemorate Dhanwantri, revered as a god of the traditional Indian medicine.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-nation-on-ayurveda-day/story-86XfRsDJhrlWr7rzVyMWVJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Rain, snowfall likely to bring down temperature in N India||The season’s first active western disturbance is likely to bring widespread rain and light snowfall to the upper reaches of north-west India on November 14 and 15, and once it passes, wintry winds from the Western Himalayas are likely to bring down the temperature in the northern plains, including Delhi, which has already witnessed an unusually cold October and early November.According to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Thursday bulletin, scattered to fairly widespread rain is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh; light rainfall over Uttarakhand is likely over on November 15 and 16, and over the plains of north-west India and adjoining central India on November 15. Parts of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad are likely to record heavy rain on November 14 and 15.There may be a gradual rise in minimum temperature, by two to three degrees Celsius over north-west India, and by two to fours degrees Celsius over Central India in the next two-three days. But after the western disturbance passes, minimum temperature is likely to fall by around 3 degrees Celsius, and winter chill may set in.“We expect heavy rains to be limited to the Jammu & Kashmir region. There will be light snow also but not heavy snow fall because that is expected only when the temperature reaches zero degrees. There is likely to be light and scattered rains in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the period. There will be a fall in temperature over the plains but after November 16 gradually. Minimum temperatures are likely to be well below normal during that period,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.“This will be the first moderate WD to affect the northern region this season. Before and during the WD, minimum temperatures will rise before falling appreciably after it passes. There may be a two-three degree fall in temperature from November 16 and 17. Winter chill is normally felt when the minimum goes below 10 degrees Celsius and maximum falls to around 22-23 degrees Celsius. We can expect that after November 17,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature in Delhi on Thursday was 11.6 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal on Thursday. Easterly winds were blowing over the north-west region at the moment, but the wind direction may shift on Diwali day. “We are also expecting wind speed to be low on November 14 because of the transition in wind direction,” added Shrivastava. Easterly winds lower pollutants in the National Capital Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-snowfall-likely-to-bring-down-temperature-in-n-india/story-E7wOuoAsQmRNHumqlpEYmI.html
13-11-2020||India||Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate later today||A day before Diwali, Delhi woke up to “very poor” air quality on Friday morning – showing a marginal increase from the previous day’s 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI). On Friday morning the AQI is 328 while on Thursday the AQI was 314.The Capital’s AQI was ‘severe’ for six days, starting November 6. Due to a change in wind speeds, Delhi’s air quality had marginally improved on Wednesday and Thursday but scientists have warned that respite from severe pollution will be short-lived. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said winds blowing over Delhi will start slowing down from Friday, and their direction will switch to north-westerly, increasing the contribution of stubble-burning smoke from Punjab and Haryana.Smoke from farm fires contributed to just 3% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Wednesday, the lowest since October 14.ALSO READ | Delhi air severely polluted for sixth consecutive day“Even though we have forecast that this Diwali is likely to be better compared to the last few years, the weather is expected to be unfavourable. If people in the city burst crackers, then the pollution level could slip to ‘severe’ on Diwali day and a day after,” Soni said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from Diwali afternoon the wind speed will dip to nearly 6 kmph. “From Diwali evening the air quality is likely to start deteriorating. However, from Sunday night the wind direction is expected to change again to easterly and there is also a possibility of light rain,” Srivastava said. The IMD forecast said that wind speeds are likely to improve from Monday.ALSO READ | Delhi’s air quality improves, may deteriorate again over Diwali weekendThe System of Air Quality and weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, also released a similar forecast for Delhi’s air quality for the Diwali weekend. “The stubble burning induced impact in AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” the SAFAR forecast read.The forecast added that even if residents do not burn any crackers, the PM 2.5 level is still expected to be on the higher-end of ‘very poor’ or the lower-end of ‘severe’ category. However, despite unfavourable weather conditions, the forecast said the AQI is expected to be better this year, as compared to Diwali day and the days after the festival for the past four years.Meanwhile, IMD has predicted a foggy Friday morning and the minimum temperature is likely to be at around 12 degree Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to be around 30 degree Celsius. On Thursday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 11.6 degree Celsius – two notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 29.2 degree Celsius – one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-very-poor-quality-air-likely-to-deteriorate-later-today/story-6PUeMUge4LedUFrj7A0PfK.html
13-11-2020||India||What Barack Obama said about Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh in his memoir||Former US president Barack Obama says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has a “nervous, unformed quality” about him like a student eager to impress the teacher but lacking aptitude and passion to “master the subject.” The New York Times reviewed Obama’s memoir ‘A Promised Land’, in which among other issues, the first Black American President has talked about political leaders from around the world.On Gandhi, Obama says he has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject,” according to The New York Times review.Gandhi’s mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi also appears to find mention in the memoir.The NYT review said in the memoir “we are told of the handsomeness of men like Charlie Crist and Rahm Emanuel, but not the beauty of women, except for one or two instances, as in the case of Sonia Gandhi.” Former US Secretary of Defence Bob Gates and former Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh both come across as having a kind of impassive integrity, the review states.It added that Russian President Vladimir Putin reminds Obama of the tough, street-smart ward bosses who used to run the Chicago machine. “Physically, he was unremarkable,” Obama writes of Putin. The 768-page memoir, expected to hit the stands on November 17, chronicles Obama’s childhood and political rise, before diving deeply into his historic 2008 campaign and first four years in office. Obama was the first African-American president of the United States. He visited India twice as the US President - in 2010 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-barack-obama-said-about-sonia-gandhi-manmohan-singh-in-his-memoir/story-Aackgts5SQBpmNRnoXr3FJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Centre has no plans to revive economy, says Chidambaram||The central government is indulging in headline management and has no plans to revive the economy that is in the grip of a historic recession, the Congress said on Thursday. Addressing a virtual news conference, senior Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh said the third stimulus package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday was yet another move to deflect the attention of the people from the bad state of the economy. “The economy continues to be in dire straits and the government does not have a plan to revive the economy. On the other hand, it is busy deflecting the attention of the people from the economy and managing the headlines about the economy,” Chidambaram, the former finance minister in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, said. “I don’t think this government has a considered plan to revive the economy and therefore 2020-21 will be a wasted year and we will end up with the size of the economy lower than the previous year,” he added. Ramesh said the government was only indulging in headlines management to bury the fact that the Indian economy in recession. “At least this year, its [stimulus] effect will not be seen,” he said.However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda rejected the Opposition’s charge. “With today’s announcements total stimulus have gone up to Rs 29.87 lakh crore, which is 15% of the GDP. Hon PM @narendramodi ji govt’s timely decisions & effective last mile delivery is leaving no stone unturned to make India Self-reliant,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-no-plans-to-revive-economy-says-chidambaram/story-W6XoaryFKF4GGLzOQNl6gL.html
13-11-2020||India||Twitter removes Amit Shah’s photo citing copyright violation, restored later||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s Twitter display picture was on Thursday removed by the microblogging site, in response to a “report from the copyright holder.”Clicking on Shah’s Display Picture on his verified handle showed a blank page with the message: “Media not displayed. This image has been removed in response to a report from the copyright holder.”The image was restored after a while. There were no other details available from Twitter.Twitter’s copyright policy states:”In general, the photographer and NOT the subject of a photograph is the actual rights holder of the resulting photograph.”Twitter had recently also removed the display picture on the official Twitter handle of BCCI, also citing copyright violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-removes-amit-shah-s-display-photo-citing-copyright-violation-restored-later/story-qrwJBxM5WZBD6MXJ3LZZjK.html
13-11-2020||India||No bail, but doctors to examine Varavara Rao||Ailing Telugu poet and activist P Varavara Rao, arrested in August 2018 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case and consistently denied bail, may get better medical case with a division bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday directing Maharashtra and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to arrange for an immediate video medical consultation for him with doctors at Nanavati Hospital. If the doctors believe a visit is necessary, they should visit Taloja jail, where Rao is housed, the court ordered, asking that a report be submitted by November 16. The bench, comprising justices AK Menon and SP Tavade, also acceded to the request for a hearing after the report was submitted and posted the hearing of the petition of Rao’s wife P Hemlatha on November 17 at 3pm. The bench was hearing a writ petition seeking bail for Rao on health grounds. The HC proceedings on Thursday came a day after the Supreme Court asked high courts to “exercise their jurisdiction” and ensure that people’s liberty is protected. Justice DY Chandrachud said this while hearing a plea filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, seeking interim bail. The bench granted him bail and he was released from Taloja jail the same day. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for Rao, informed the court there is an urgency to hear the petition because a fellow inmate talked to Hemlatha on Wednesday and informed her that Rao’s health was deteriorating. NIA admitted in its affidavit that Rao’s health is not good but added that doctors at Taloja jail were regularly checking his condition and providing necessary treatment. “There is a legitimate apprehension that Rao will lose his life if he continues to be kept in Taloja jail. The court was not informed about Rao being shifted out of Nanavati Hospital to Taloja jail. No medical report has been submitted after July 30,” argued Jaising. “Condition of detention cannot be cruel, inhuman and degrading. But it is in the case of Rao. It is violating his rights under Article 21 and 32 of the Constitution. If he dies in jail it will be a case of custodial death.” Jaising then sought an interim order to have Rao sent to Nanavati Hospital and to also constitute an independent board of doctors to assess his condition. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for NIA, and chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare claimed doctors at Taloja jail were regularly checking Rao’s health. Thakare also submitted a medical report of November 12, claiming a check-up was conducted in consultation with doctors from Nanavati hospital. He added that when Rao’s condition worsened he was moved to Nanavati, and that his family was allowed to have video calls with him. Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. “June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in the NIA Special Sessions Court and police argued against his bail showing a normal report from the hospital,” his family had said. His bail was denied by an NIA court on June 26. Rao continued to show signs of delirium, though, and after voices were raised from various quarters, Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. Later he was shifted to St George’s Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also intervened and issued notice on July 13 to the Maharashtra government, asking it to ensure Rao was taken care of. It also sought a report on Rao’s health. Maharashtra chief secretary responded on July 22, saying adequate care was provided. The commission observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty bound to provide the same to a prisoner as well. Rao was then moved to Nanavati hospital for treatment. He was shifted back to Taloja jail on August 28.In October, Hemlatha moved the Supreme Court seeking bail but a three-judge bench that heard the case on October 29, while pointing out that the Bombay HC had not heard the case since September 17, declined to act on it. The bench asked the Bombay court to hear his plea at the earliest. Rao is accused of participating and making an inflammatory speech at the Elgar Parishad conference in Pune on December 31, 2017. The police have claimed that activists including Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferriera, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde planned the Elgar Parishad conclave, which was intended to incite violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. Many of them have been arrested, and most charged under the draconian UAPA law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bail-but-doctors-to-examine-varavara-rao/story-khlXqHlbl38jrgUE3lpFhK.html
13-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The fourth round of antibody tests in New Delhi, results of which were made public on Wednesday in the course of a court hearing, presents some interesting questions.It found that 25.5% of the approximately 15,000 people tested possessed Covid-19 antibodies. The tests were carried out in the third week of October. The results are near-identical to those of the third round, covering around 17,000 people, conducted in the first week of September, which showed that antibodies were present in 25.1% of the people surveyed. The second round (around 15,000 were tested in August) showed that 29.1% of the people surveyed had antibodies. And the first round, in late June and early July, found them in 22.6% of the 21,000 people surveyed.This is not how the results of sero surveys are meant to progress. Sero surveys, such as the ones being carried out in Delhi, are a measure of prevalence of an infection (in this case, of Covid-19), and, therefore, of immunity. Ideally, their results should show increasing prevalence, or immunity, till the herd immunity level is reached. This is the level at which much of the population is safe because the virus can’t find enough people to infect. But there are complications in making such assumptions: for one, Covid-19 antibodies do not seem to last; for another, the presence of antibodies isn’t always necessary for immunity, just as their absence isn’t a sign of lack of protection. Indeed, the October round of the sero survey in Delhi found that 43.5% of people previously diagnosed with Covid-19 did not possess antibodies any longer.This isn’t entirely unexpected.In late October, results of a study led by Imperial College London, of 365,000 people across England, conducted in three rounds between June and September, showed that the number of people with Covid-19 antibodies declined over time. The UK study actually saw a decline in the infection’s prevalence across all parts of the country, with a clear fall between the first and the third rounds. The study was conducted ahead of the second wave of infections in the UK. This may well be what the Delhi study is finding too.There is some debate about the behaviour of antibodies, though. According to a paper published in Science Immunology in early October by researchers in the US, including some in Massachusetts General Hospital, and based on a study of 343 Covid-19 patients, antibodies of the immunoglobulin G (IgG) variety, ones that typically provide long-lasting immunity, were found in patients for up to four months (the study ended then). Others, of the IgA and IgM variety, were detected 12 days after infection but did not last beyond two months.A second paper, also published in the same journal around the same time, but based on a study in Canada by researchers at the University of Toronto, came to a similar conclusion – levels of antibodies of the IgG variety reached a high between two weeks to a month after the infection, and then remained stable for at least three months. This study covered 439 people (not all had been tested, but all did have symptoms of Covid-19).Interestingly, as Dispatch 112 on July 23 pointed out (citing a late June paper on a preprint server), research at Sweden’s Karolinska Institute and Karolinska University Hospital showed that many infected people who were either asymptomatic or showed only mild symptoms did not test positive for antibodies although they had what the researchers called a strong T-cell response. The research was subsequently published in Cell. T-cells are the immune system’s combat specialists (even better, they remember viruses), recognising and fighting infected cells. The research (of around 200 people) showed that twice the number of people with Covid-19 antibodies had T-cell immunity. This could well mean that people who are asymptomatic or contract a mild infection either do not generate these antibodies or see their number wane soon after the infection passes, although (according to the Swedish study) they remain immune. Is that what Delhi’s result is showing? And what does that mean in terms of the infection’s prevalence and immunity?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ICaEzkII7kqqt4Mi06OmDO.html
13-11-2020||India||Russia backs India’s stance at SCO summit||Russia on Thursday backed India’s assertion that Pakistan shouldn’t raise bilateral matters at platforms such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), saying these groupings are focused on multilateral cooperation to tackle regional challenges. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took an indirect swipe at Pakistan at SCO’s virtual summit on Tuesday, saying it is unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to violate the grouping’s charter by raising bilateral issues. Asked about this matter during an online news briefing on Thursday, Russia’s deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin said SCO’s charter does not allow the inclusion of bilateral issues. Russia, the current chair of SCO, made it clear to all member states that such issues should be avoided. The main objective of SCO is dealing with regional challenges and threats and promoting economic, financial and humanitarian partnership among member states in order to maintain the momentum of ongoing collaboration, he said. “We should not [divert] our attention to bilateral disputes, we don’t interfere in these bilateral disputes,” Babushkin said, adding that Russia’s position on India-Pakistan disputes remains “consistent and unchanged”. India has reacted sharply to Pakistan’s repeated efforts, often with support from its traditional ally China, to raise the Kashmir issue at multilateral bodies such as SCO and the UN Security Council , efforts that intensified after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was scrapped in August last year. In September, India walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. Russia, which chaired that meeting, subsequently informed India that the Pakistani representative went ahead with the action despite being asked not to do so. Babushkin said all member states of SCO are “doing their best to avoid bringing tensions into the agenda of this organisation”. He added, “The value of this organisation is that it provides a proper platform for expanded cooperation and it provides common ground for issues for practical cooperation.” Russia on Thursday said any further escalation of tensions between India and China at Line of Actual Control could impact regional stability across Eurasia and reiterated the need to find a negotiated settlement. “It is feared that amid common turbulence and unpredictability, escalation between India and China would further affect regional instability in our common home Eurasia, while escalation as we are witnessing can be misused by other players in their geopolitical purposes,” Babushkin told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-backs-india-s-stance-at-sco-summit/story-aUzOnIFhcTDVZeLw2dKjDN.html
13-11-2020||India||High-tension wires along elephant corridors in Bengal to be insulated||With nearly four dozen elephants dying because of electrocution in the last five years in West Bengal, the state government is now planning to insulate the low-tension wires that crisscross the elephant corridors.The forest and power departments are also planning to install energized electrical fences at some locations along elephant corridors. The fences will have low voltage pulsating current which would ensure that the animals don’t cross them. The initiative came after the Calcutta High Court in September took suo moto cognizance of reports of elephant electrocution in the state. In October, the division bench of the HC passed orders to stop elephant deaths by electrocution. According to forest department data, at least 47 elephants have been electrocuted in West Bengal till date since 2015. While 22 were killed in south Bengal, another 25 were killed in north Bengal. “Often villagers set up electrical fences by illegally tapping electricity. When the elephants touch the fences, they are killed. We are also coming up with multi-departmental anti-electrocution cells which would also comprise local authorities which would work on the ground to prevent such things,” said a senior state forest department official.Forest officials said that apart from the illegal fencing which kills animals often it has been seen that elephants tend to lean against electrical poles of high-tension wires. If the poles get charged somehow because of leakage during monsoon the elephant gets killed. “We will cover the poles with barbed wires to prevent elephants from leaning against them. This will help to save their lives,” said an official. The WBSEDCL will check why the circuit breakers for the high-tension feeder lines did not trip after elephants came in contact with them in the past, another official said.The tea garden managements may not be encouraging the setting up of illegal electric fences but there are several such fences near labour colonies that cause electrocution of the elephants, he said.The forest department will identify tea gardens adjacent to elephant corridors and the cells will ensure that the management of the estates erect only low-voltage fences, the official said.While north Bengal has around 550 elephants, there are around 200 elephants in south Bengal. Man-elephant conflict is common in West Bengal and villagers sometimes kill elephants to save their crops and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-tension-wires-along-elephant-corridors-in-bengal-to-be-insulated/story-8tltX09ka9r3U56RAN9tpI.html
13-11-2020||India||Telangana launches hunt for man-eating tiger that killed tribal||The Telangana forest department authorities sounded a high alert in the villages and hamlets surrounding Kawal tiger sanctuary in Asifabad-Kumaram Bheem district, a day after a tiger mauled a 21-year-old tribal to death on Wednesday. Sidam Vignesh, who went to the forest area with two others to graze the cattle, was attacked by a tiger at Digida hamlet of Dahegaon block. The tiger caught the youth by his neck and ran deep into the forest. Vignesh’s mauled body was found by his friends, Bolishetty Naveen and Sidam Srikanth, and other villagers later in the evening. Forest department authorities say it is the rarest of rare incidents in the Telangana forests. “At least, I have not come across any tiger injuring human beings, leave alone killing them in my 25 years of service. I am surprised how it happened,” A Shankaran, officer on special duty (wild life) in the forest department, told Hindustan Times. Apparently, the tiger had eaten some flesh of Vignesh’s body, before abandoning it. “There are no man-eaters in our forests. So, it is shocking for us. May be, the tiger was too hungry and might have not found its prey for a long time,” he said. He said there was also a possibility of the tiger mistaking Vignesh as an animal, as he was in a bent position behind the bushes. “There are at least four tigers in the forests moving between Kawal tiger reserve and Tadoba tiger reserve in Maharashtra. “They travel for 10-12 kilometres in a span of 10 hours. There have been incidents of tigers preying upon cattle in the tribal villages adjacent to the forests, but killing a man has never happened before,” Shankaran said. The killing of Vighnesh sent panic waves among the tribal people in the area, who immediately alerted the local forest officials and the police, who launched a hunt for the tiger. “We have laid two trap-cages along with bait to catch the wild cat. We shall put up two more on Friday and are confident of catching the tiger,” the forest official said. Once the tiger is caught, the forest officials will take a call on what to do after consulting the National Tiger Reserve authorities. “We shall decide whether we should leave the animal deep in the forests or hand over to any zoo authorities,” Shankaran said. The forest department announced an amount of Rs 5 lakh as ex gratia to the family of Vighnesh. “We shall hand over the amount after completing the formalities by the local revenue staff,” Shankaran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-launches-hunt-for-man-eating-tiger-that-killed-tribal/story-S4t55pC4b43Wt9oMkXlzkJ.html
13-11-2020||India||78 per cent of new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours from 10 states, UTs: Govt||Of the new 47,905 coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours on Thursday, 78% are from 10 states and union territories with Delhi continuing to register the highest single-day cases at 8,593 followed by Kerala and Maharashtra, according to the Union health ministry.For the successive fifth day, new Covid-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours did not cross the 50,000 mark, while the trend of daily new recoveries outnumbering daily new infections continued for the 40th day. As many as 52,718 new recoveries were registered in a day as against 47,905 infections during the same period.Ten states and union territories reported 78% of the new cases registered in a span of 24 hours. This trend has continued to compress the active Covid-19 caseload which is currently 4.98 lakh and comprises only 5.63% of India’s total coronavirus cases.The recovery rate has also been boosted with the trend of recoveries exceeding new cases and currently stands at 92.89% with 80,66,501 people having recuperated from the disease so far. “The gap between recovered cases and active cases has steadily widened to 75,77,207,” the ministry underlined.The ministry said that 78% of the new recovered cases are concentrated in 10 states and union territories. Maharashtra reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 9,164 newly-recovered cases. At least 7,264 people recovered in Delhi followed closely by Kerala which reported 7,252 new recoveries.Also Read: Covid-19: Tripura’s sero survey reveals 33.98% people have antibodiesDelhi observed another spike and reported the highest daily new cases, also its highest tally so far with 8,593 new cases followed by Kerala with 7,007 cases and Maharashtra with 4,907 cases, the ministry said.As many as 550 case fatalities have been reported in a day of which 10 states and union territories account for 80%. Maharashtra accounted for 22.7% share with 125 fatalities. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 85 and 49 new deaths, respectively.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to  86,83,916 with 47,905 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,28,121 with 550 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-per-cent-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-from-10-states-uts-govt/story-8NfuhGtVjXZhJUif6mukNO.html
13-11-2020||India||Congress back to Square One in Gujarat||From having come within striking distance of ousting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Gujarat in the 2017 assembly polls to losing a clutch of legislators, and finally getting wiped out in the recent bypolls, the Congress party’s fortunes in the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi continue to slide. In December 2017, the party restricted the BJP to 99 seats, its lowest tally in the state in 22 years and also registered its best performance in two decades, winning 77. The party won praise from election watchers for putting up a strong fight and even restricting the BJP from reaching the psychologically important three-figure mark in the 182-member assembly.But over the past three years, the Congress has lost 12 of its legislators to the BJP, which has reduced its strength to 65. On the other hand, the BJP has increased its tally to 111. Chief minister Vijay Rupani described the victory in the recent assembly bypolls – where the BJP won all eight seats, which were all previously held by the Congress – as a “trailer” of the 2022 assembly elections. Gujarat Congress functionaries primarily blame the central leadership, especially in-charge Rajeev Satav, for the slide from 2017 onwards, and say the state unit is too weak to take on the BJP. Across India, in bypolls to 58 seats across 11 states, the Congress won just 12 ,while the BJP won 40, comfortably retaining power in Madhya Pradesh and getting a majority on its own in Manipur. The Congress held 44 of these 58 seats earlier. This was the third by-election in Gujarat since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls necessitated due to the switching of Congress legislators to the BJP.In bypolls in May last year, the ruling BJP won all four seats in Gujarat. This was followed by another by-election in October last year on six seats, also caused by the defection of Congress legislators, including firebrand backward caste leader Alpesh Thakor, to the BJP. While the BJP and the Congress won three seats each, the grand old party managed to defeat Thakor. This reverse happened just when the Congress party looked to be making an impressive run -- starting with the election of senior leader Ahmed Patel in August 2017 to the Rajya Sabha. Patel prevailed in a tense fight with the BJP nominee Balwant Singh in an election that spilled past midnight and saw the Congress sequester its lawmakers in a resort to prevent any attempts of poaching.In December that year, the party fought the assembly elections with senior leader and current Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot as the general secretary in-charge of Gujarat and Bharatsinh Solanki as the state unit chief. Though the BJP eventually won the elections in what is known as its pocket borough but the Congress managed to restore some pride. “All of that has been lost in last three years. We are back to square one,” said a functionary. Satav, a former Youth Congress president and considered close to former party president Rahul Gandhi, was appointed Gujarat in-charge in March 2018, a few months after Gehlot took over as Rajasthan chief minister. “It’s been over a year now that we don’t have any state committee, right from booth level. The state leadership is also moving in the hands of one family,” said a second Gujarat Congress leader who refused to be named. “Satav has hardly toured the state after assuming the charge and even could not bring the warring factions together,” he added. But Satav said the criticism was unjustified. “No doubt, we have lost by-elections on all seats and we will do in-depth introspection and take the required corrective measures after evaluating the reasons. But the BJP misused all the state machinery to ensure its victory. We have seen ruling parties winning all by-elections barring Telangana and Haryana,” he said. Ahmedabad-based political analyst Prakash Shah blamed the weak leadership for the Congress party’s debacle in the by-elections. “The Congress leadership has failed to keep its flock together and the BJP is also readily accommodating them. This shows that the Congress leadership is weak and its legislators are political pliable,” he said. Gujarat was not the only disappointment for the Congress in this round of assembly bypolls. It also failed to win any seat in the bypolls in UP, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-back-to-square-one-in-gujarat/story-gzFUhIGsxKhL34ER2Fw1UM.html
13-11-2020||India||Contest to design Central Vista icon||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced a design competition to construct an “iconic structure” on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project to commemorate 75 years of independence. The structure would be part of the New India Gardens or the Nav Bharat Udyan that is proposed to come up on 20.22 acres on the western bank of Yamuna. It is expected to be unveiled to the public by August 15, 2022.A CPWD proposal dated November 12 said the structure so built must “realise the grand vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, symbolising emerging New India with equitable growth opportunities, rooted in values of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwaas and representing the aspiration of clean India, free from poverty, corruption, terrorism, communalism and casteism”.“The structure will be part of a complex that will also have facilities for entertainment and to showcase “India’s rich historical and cultural heritage,” the proposal stated. To be sure, the master plan submitted by Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd — the architecture firm that has been tasked with developing the Central Vista — included the construction of the New India Gardens near the Yamuna river, though the firm will not be involved in its construction. HCP has been tasked with redeveloping the Central Vista avenue, which includes building a new Parliament complex, also by August 15, 2022. According to the CPWD proposal, the new structure must come up on the central axis, which extends from the Rashtrapati Bhawan, through the North and South Blocks, over Rajpath and to India Gate, thereby extending the axis from 2.9km to 6.3km.The Nav Bharat Udyan will also have facilities such as the “Sphere of Unity”, “Milestones Walkway”, “Journey of India”, “Tech Dome”, “Amphitheatre” all of which are meant to showcase India’s heritage and scientific advancement and “to symbolise unity in diversity and aspirations of the New India”. The CPWD proposal mandated that only such material and technology should be used to build the structure that would endure like “Ashoka’s edicts, Iron Pillar in Qutub Minar complex etc.” As per the rules of the design competition, any Indian citizen or organisation is allowed to participate. It will include architects, architectural firms, students, student groups, architectural or planning schools / colleges and other institutions across India, or any combination of the above. All submissions have to be made by December 11 while the winners will be announced in the last week of December 2020.“The structure should be iconic in design and represent the national capital. For example, at present India Gate erected by the British in the Central Vista in the early 20th century prominently signifies Delhi. The proposed iconic structure being built in the independent India should now become a new symbol of the national capital,” CPWD’s proposal said. The structure can be a tower or a sculpture or any other form besides a building that can be occupied, according to the rules. The maximum permissible height at the proposed site as per colour coded zonal map prepared by Airports Authority of India is 134 metres from the present ground level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contest-to-design-central-vista-icon-on-yamuna-banks/story-j78Ae4Z37xRcOTnPrMC0uO.html
13-11-2020||India||Govt allocates additional Rs 10k cr for migrants scheme||The Narendra Modi government’s third stimulus package pumped an additional Rs 10,000 crore into the special job scheme for migrant workers, an indication that a large section of daily wage workers are still dependent on the Centre’s welfare programme even though almost all sectors of the economy have reopened for business. The Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana is in progress in 116 districts and has spent Rs 39,292 crores so far out of the initial outlay of Rs 50,000 crore. The additional allocation of Rs 10,000 crore—a 20% increase —will be used primarily for MGNREGS-related work such as construction of rural houses or water conservation and harvesting. “Our current estimate shows that we would require funds for 320 crore persondays in MGNREGS. Since a larger number of MGNREGS works come under this special job scheme, this additional outlay is provided,” a top rural development ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The Garib Kalyan Rozgar scheme was launched in June, front-loading 25 existing schemes to offer jobs to migrant workers who returned home during the pandemic. Most of them are from six states. This is the first additional allocation for the programme. HT had reported on September 27 that the construction of houses in rural India has driven this effort with 3.77 lakh projects, , followed by 1.21 lakh water conservation and water harvesting works, and 92,158 projects involving the laying of fiber optic cables under Bharat Net. The flagship rural job scheme, MGNREGA, has a record allocation of Rs 1.01 lakh crore for FY20-21. The demand for jobs under MGNREGS has slowed over the past three months but officials believe that it will rise agsin in winter months after the agricultural season is over. The government announced that Rs 73,504 crore has been released under MGNREGA and 251 crore person-days of employment have been generated. Experts say that the additional Rs 10,000 crore will be spent on some specific schemes from the basket of 25 programmes that were front-loaded to roll out the migrant jobs scheme. “It looks like additional funds are required for these schemes and that’s the reason the government pumped in Rs 10,000 crore,” said former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allocates-additional-10k-cr-for-migrants-scheme/story-KcDEASoEHsxsRd82xQycwK.html
13-11-2020||India||Retail inflation at a six-year high of 7.61%||Retail inflation jumped to a six-year high of 7.61% in October from a year ago, compared to an increase of 7.27% in September, a reading that is well above the Reserve Bank of India’s acceptable limit of 4% (+/-2) for the seventh straight month, data released on Thursday by the ministry of statistics showed. The country’s consumer-price index - a measure of what households pay for everyday items, including fuel, clothing and electricity - is now at its highest level since May 2014, fuelled by persistent high food prices. Combined (rural and urban) food price inflation rose 11.07% in October on the back of costlier onions, potatoes and other vegetables, up from 9.73% in September, the data showed. High food costs affect poorer households more than affluent ones. The poor tend to spend a higher proportion of their monthly budgets on food because according to the well-known Engel’s Law, as household income rises, the percentage of income spent on food declines, relative to other expenditure. Vegetable prices surged 22.51% in October after increasing 20.73% in September, the data showed. Prices of meat and fish increased 18.7% in October against a 17.6% rise in the previous month, while pulses rose 18.34% in October against a 14.67% rise in September. The upsurge in vegetable prices was driven by damage to stored and freshly harvested onion stocks due to heavy rains last month in states, such as Maharashtra and Karnataka. Higher onion exports this year, of over 2 million tonne till August, also exacerbated domestic shortage. To curb prices, the government had on Sept 14 banned export of onions. To help quicken imports, the government on October 21 relaxed fumigation norms for imported onions. “The directorate general of foreign trade is facilitating private traders to speed up imports by clearing licences and prices have stabilised. At an all-India level, average retail prices of onions have stabilised at around Rs 65 a kg,” food minister Piyush Goyal had told HT on October 30. Among major categories that make up the consumer price index, fuel and light inflation jumped 2.28%, compared to a 2.87% rise in September, while health costs climbed 5.22%, against a 4.9% surge in the previous month. Household goods and services prices recorded a 2.83% growth, marginally down from September’s 2.9%. Elevated retail prices not just affect consumers but also shrink the Reserve Bank’s room to lower interest rates further to boost growth at a time when the pandemic has battered key sectors. On Wednesday, the Reserve Bank of India, in its first ever ‘nowcast’ note, had said the country had “entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history”. Growth in the first quarter fell 23.9%, according to official data. The government on Thursday announced a third round of stimulus worth Rs 2.65 lakh crore to steer the economy out of a deep slump. “People’s preference for a safe transport option for commute has resulted in transport and communication inflation to increase consistently from March, when it rose 4.3%, to climb 11.16% in October,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist of India Ratings & Research, a ratings firm. According to Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities-trading firm, October’s retail inflation should “make it clear to policymakers that food inflation has persisted and supply-side constraints are to blame”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retail-inflation-at-a-six-year-high-of-7-61/story-sbOIJszIsgk9LXo8Q2WRAJ.html
13-11-2020||India||Our ideologies should not go against national interest: PM Modi to JNU students||Sharing his experience of Emergency with the students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said one doesn’t need to sacrifice his or her own ideology to fight for a common, greater cause. “When people joined Mahatma Gandhi, they didn’t leave their ideologies. I have seen Emergency days. There were so many people from various political beliefs — from Congress, from RSS. But we were all united by a common cause of national interest,” PM Modi said, unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at the university campus via video-conferencing.“Placing individual ideologies before national good is wrong,” the Prime Minister said in his speech where he also gave some tips to JNU students. “Don’t accept status quo. Swami Vivekananda never accepted status quo. Do’t forget to laugh. I often see young people so serious as if the burden of the entire world is on them,” PM Modi said.Watch | ‘Keep national interest above ideologies’: PM Modi tells JNU students His speech also dwelled on politics, reforms and reforms brought by the BJP government. Talking about reforms and politics, Modi said there was a time when good reforms were considered to be bad politics. Urging JNU students to debate on this, the PM asked, “How did good reforms become good politics? You at JNU must deliberate on this.”As Prime Minister Narendra Modi elaborated on the reforms taken by his government, he said the new National Education Policy is based on the policy of inclusion, which will make sure students can get admission to universities like JNU. “All our reforms are aimed at development. For years, farmers remained a topic of political discussion. But we gave them security and then started reforms,” PM Modi said. Slamming the previous governments for dissociating the poor from the system, the Prime Minister said, “Now they have house, toilet, electricity, paid internet connection like others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-good-reforms-become-good-politics-pm-modi-asks-at-jnu/story-6h9wd6Z8rjogY5wbpdukUK.html
13-11-2020||India||Kunal Kamra to face contempt case. Attorney General says he crossed the line||Attorney General KK Venugopal on Thursday gave his nod to initiate contempt of court proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for his ‘highly objectionable’ tweets against the Supreme Court.The Attorney General has said that the tweets by Kamra are ‘not only in bad taste but also clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the Court’. Kamra on Wednesday had shared a series of tweets concerning the top court in his reaction to interim bail granted to Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami by the SC in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. The tweets by Kamra termed to be constituting criminal contempt of court by the AG include, “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back and “The Supreme Court of this Country is the most Supreme joke of this country”.  Also Watch | Kunal Kamra faces contempt charge for tweets on Supreme Court over Arnab’s bail Also read | Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by Supreme Court in 2018 suicide caseIn his letter, the AG has also slammed Kamra’s tweet depicting the SC building in saffron colour and said that the tweet amounts to gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court, undermining its independence. “This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a Court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit,” the letter by AG Venugopal read. Censuring Kamra’s tweets, the AG said, “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech.”Also read | Arnab Goswami bail plea: ‘Power to re-investigate wrongly used’, Supreme Court toldThe nod from Attorney General comes in response to a letter sent by a law student and two lawyers who accused Kamra of scandalising the apex court in a series of tweets, lowering the authority of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/initiate-criminal-contempt-against-kunal-kamra-for-derogatory-tweets-against-top-court-judge-says-supreme-court-s-attorney-general/story-eYibg7X90hxDM4Vqklx16N.html
