14-11-2020||India||Mumbai restaurant fire brought under control, no casualty||A level-I fire broke out at a restaurant in Byculla area of Mumbai on Saturday evening.Four fire tenders were present at the spot.The fire was brought under control and no casualties were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-restaurant-fire-fighting-operations-underway/story-AJCl5vdDtnfcEWVwVvEYIP.html
14-11-2020||India||Covid-19 spike in Delhi: Kejriwal likely to meet Amit Shah next week||Amid a sudden spike of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah next week requesting additional beds for Covid-19 patients in the Centre-run hospitals in Delhi. Apart from more beds, Kejriwal may ask for further assistance, including ensuring cooperation from other states in controlling pollution which is leading to rise in coronavirus cases during the festive season, sources said to PTI.During the first wave of Covid-19 in Delhi in June-July, Union home minister Amit Shah had intervened and a centre-state combined approach was credited for mitigating the situation.Since the last week of October, Delhi has been seeing a sudden jump in the number of daily infections. Death toll in a day has also breached 100-mark on November 13. After Diwali, the daily infections may rise to 15,000, as it has been projected. In view of the projected number, the AAP-led Delhi government had earlier requested Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to augment the bed capacity in those hospitals. In a letter to Vardhan last week, Kejriwal had cited a shortfall of around 4,900 beds in hospitals and sought his direction to the hospitals run by the central government in Delhi to provide at least 1,092 additional beds, including 300 ICU beds, with the required medical staff.Kejriwal on Friday said the COVID-19 situation in the national capital should come under control in seven to 10 days.“Covid-19 cases have been increasing for the last few days. I am also concerned about it. We have been taking all appropriate measures to control it. We are considering taking more steps next week. I think the situation should come under control in seven to 10 days and the cases should start decreasing,” he had said.The Delhi high court has recently rapped the AAP government for relaxing the restrictions. Noting that the government is doing everything under the Sun to “unlock things”, the high court allowed it to reserve 80 per cent of beds in the intensive care units of the private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spike-in-delhi-kejriwal-likely-to-amit-shah-next-week/story-EGFugfVoemWNUFcZ7HKeeO.html
14-11-2020||India||8 years after IPS officer died by suicide, Chhattisgarh cops to probe death||The Chhattisgarh government has constituted a panel headed by a director general of police rank officer to probe the suicide of an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and then Bilaspur district’s Superintendent of Police (SP) in 2012, officials said on Saturday. According to an order issued by the government, the five-member committee will be headed by Director General of Police (Jail) Sanjay Pillai and other officials. They will probe the death of 2002-batch Chhattisgarh cadre IPS officer, Rahul Sharma (37) who shot himself with his service revolver in the police officers’ mess in Bilaspur on March 12, 2012. The BJP government in the state at that time had recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which had ruled out any foul play in the death of Sharma after investigation and the agency had filed its closure report in 2013, a senior official said. After the Congress came in power in 2018, some leaders had been demanding probe into Sharma’s suicide Senior officials said that the latest probe announced by the government eight years after the incident will carry out an extensive investigation into some points mentioned by the CBI in its report into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-years-after-ips-officer-died-by-suicide-chhattisgarh-cops-to-probe-death/story-67kdF0KSobB4t1lVDC9hDL.html
14-11-2020||India||India concerned over situation in South China Sea that ‘erode trust’||Against the backdrop of China’s assertive activities in the South China Sea, India on Saturday expressed concern over actions in the region that erode trust and said a proposed code of conduct for the disputed waters shouldn’t affect the legitimate interests of third parties. External affairs minister S Jaishankar outlined India’s position on the South China Sea while representing the country at the East Asia Summit, which brings together the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), India, Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand South Korea, Russia and the US. With Chinese Premier Li Keqiang watching, Jaishankar pointed to the importance of adhering to international law, respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty, and promoting a rules-based global order. Without naming China, Jaishankar expressed concern about actions and incidents in the South China Sea that “erode trust” and said ongoing negotiations on the proposed code of conduct “should not be prejudicial to legitimate interests of third parties and should be fully consistent” with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The minister’s remarks came amid the India-China border standoff in Ladakh sector along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Both sides are yet to make headway in disengagement and de-escalation despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks since the standoff began in May. China has been pushing the members of Asean to quickly conclude negotiations for the code of conduct for the South China Sea. Premier Li had raised the issue during the Asean-China Summit on Thursday, reflecting Beijing’s efforts to consolidate its influence in the region. The code of conduct is aimed at regulating activities in the South China Sea, where China is embroiled in disputes with Asean members such as Vietnam and the Philippines. The virtual East Asia Summit, chaired by Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc in his capacity as chair of Asean, discussed ways to strengthen the platform and make it more responsive to emerging challenges. Jaishankar reaffirmed the importance of the summit as a leaders-led forum to exchange views on strategic issues. He also underlined the need for greater global cooperation in the post-Covid-19 world to tackle challenges cutting across national boundaries such as terrorism, climate change and pandemics. He briefed the summit on India’s response to Covid-19 and reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment to help make vaccines accessible and affordable to all nations. Jaishankar also noted the growing interest in the Indo-Pacific as an “integrated and organic maritime space with Asean at its centre”. He pointed to the synergy between Asean’s Indo-Pacific outlook and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and said: “Harmonising various perspectives would never be a challenge if there is commitment to international cooperation.” The leaders underlined the importance of cooperation in ensuring safe, effective and affordable access to Covid-19 vaccines, and sought greater cooperation in keeping global supply chains open for a speedy and sustainable economic recovery. Regional and international issues such as the situation in the Korean peninsula and the Rohingya refugees from Myanmar’s Rakhine state were also discussed. The summit adopted the Hanoi Declaration and four leaders’ statements on marine sustainability, epidemics prevention and response, women, peace and security, and steady growth of the regional economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-concerned-over-situation-in-south-china-sea-that-erode-trust/story-gAdrIY3UugAeOhi9g7YRQJ.html
14-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India summons Pakistani chargé d’affaires to protest civilian deaths in LoC shelling and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India summons Pakistani chargé d’affaires to protest civilian deaths in LoC shellingIndia on Saturday summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires to lodge a strong protest over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the firing was aimed at supporting cross-border infiltration by terrorists. Read morePM Modi rides on Arjun’s ‘aatmanirbhar’ fire power to send message to Pakistan, ChinaPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rode an Arjun tank as he spent his Diwali at the Longewala Post at the Western border. The message of vocal for local is loud and clear as the Arjun is the first indigenously developed battle tank of the India Army. Read moreWhite House planning for second Trump term despite defeat: OfficialThe White House is planning for President Donald Trump to serve a second term despite his reelection loss, a top official said Friday. Read moreDelhi’s air quality turns severe on Diwali: IMDDelhi’s air quality turned severe on Diwali with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of the city’s PM2.5 pollution and calm winds worsening the situation as they allowed accumulation of pollutants, the weather officials said. Read moreTeam India starts outdoor training in Australia after all players test negative for Covid-19The likes Hardik Pandya, Prithvi Shaw, Kuldeep Yadav, Hanuma Vihari and Mohammed Siraj were seen going through light training at Blacktown International Sports Park inside the Sydney Olympic Park. Read moreFrom Salman Khan to Kareena Kapoor Khan, Sidharth Malhotra, Neha Kakkar and others, here’s who wore what in BollywoodThe festive vibes might have just kicked in for you but our Tinsel Town celebrities are already up and glittering in their glamorous best. Read moreWatch | ‘How much does Obama know?’: Sanjay Raut denounces remark on Rahul Gandhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-summons-pakistani-charge-d-affaires-to-protest-civilian-deaths-in-loc-shelling-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iYNBS4PxpRm85nQD1I6PtN.html
14-11-2020||India||US state secretary Mike Pompeo extends his greetings on Diwali||US state secretary Mike Pompeo on Saturday greeted Diwali to everyone who is celebrating the victory of light over darkness. “Happy #Diwali to everyone celebrating the victory of light over darkness. May you have a joyous festival of lights,” US state Secretary Mike Pompeo tweeted. Happy Diwali to everyone celebrating the victory of light over darkness. May you have a joyous Festival of Lights! pic.twitter.com/KyV7y9Nc0qEarlier, UK prime Minister Boris Johnson also extended his greetings on Diwali and expressed his respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have gone out of their way to help others during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19).Diwali is observed on the 15th day of Kartik, the holiest month in the Hindu lunar calendar and it is believed that on this day Lord Rama (the seventh incarnation of Lord Vishnu) returned from a 14-year-long exile, during which he fought and won a battle against the demon king Ravana.People across India and around the world celebrate the festival by decorating their houses, exchanging gifts, and offering prayers in order to commemorate the “victory of light over darkness, good over evil, and knowledge over ignorance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-state-secretary-mike-pompeo-extends-his-greetings-on-diwali/story-OgEYuen9hNfs5gZUbWgTHI.html
14-11-2020||India||India summons Pakistani chargé d’affaires to protest civilian deaths in LoC shelling||India on Saturday summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires to lodge a strong protest over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the firing was aimed at supporting cross-border infiltration by terrorists. Aftab Hassan Khan, the acting head of the Pakistan high commission, was summoned by the external affairs ministry a day after the ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops triggered an intense exchange of fire. Nine Indians, including four civilians and five security personnel, were killed while the retaliatory shelling killed at least eight Pakistani soldiers and injured a dozen more. A strong protest was lodged with the Pakistani charge d’affaires over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces in multiple sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, resulting in the “death of four innocent civilians and serious injuries to 19 others”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistani forces,” the statement said. “It is highly deplorable that Pakistan chose a festive occasion in India to disrupt peace and perpetrate violence in Jammu and Kashmir through coordinated firing along the length of the LoC using heavy caliber weapons, including artillery and mortar on Indian civilians,” it added, referring to the festival of Diwali. India also strongly protested “Pakistan’s continued support to cross-border terrorist infiltration into India, including through supporting cover fire provided by Pakistan forces”, the statement said. The Indian side reminded Pakistan of its bilateral commitment to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner. On Saturday, an uneasy calm settled along the LoC in Uri and Gurez sectors after the heavy shelling by the two sides across the de facto border. Following the unprovoked firing by Pakistani forces, the Indian Army had retaliated with artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles. Pakistani ammunition and fuel dumps and terror launch pads were among the targets destroyed by the Indian shelling, officials said. The heavy exchange of fire on the eve of Diwali turned the spotlight on the LoC at a time when Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-summons-pakistani-charge-d-affaires-to-protest-civilian-deaths-in-loc-shelling/story-8MwvXBriUsE4ptuK6NW1QJ.html
14-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM celebrates Diwali with army, ITBP jawans in Uttarkashi||On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed soldiers at Rajasthan’s Longewala post, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat celebrated Diwali with the jawans of the army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Uttarkashi district near Indo-China border on Saturday.Rawat first visited the ITBP jawans at Kopang area and then the army troopers in Harsil valley area of the district. Addressing the ITBP jawans at Kopang while celebrating Diwali with them, he said, “I am fortunate to spend time with you all. Uttarakhand has a deep rooted relationship with army and paramilitary forces. My father was also in the army, due to which I have a special relation with the jawans.”“We are very grateful to our jawans that they serve the country in difficult conditions miles away from their families so that we can live peacefully. The people of the country always respect the sacrifice they make for the country,” said Rawat. The CM also offered his condolences to the family members of Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal who made the supreme sacrifice in encounter with the terrorists in Baramulla area of Jammu on Friday evening. Dobhal, 37, was a resident of Rishikesh and is survived by his wife and a 10-year-old daughter. He had joined BSF in 2004 and was posted in Jammu since last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-celebrates-diwali-with-army-itbp-jawans-in-uttarkashi/story-in6oA03s8dM1okVyzMub9I.html
14-11-2020||India||PM Modi rides on Arjun’s ‘aatmanirbhar’ fire power to send message to Pakistan, China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rode an Arjun tank as he spent his Diwali at the Longewala Post at the Western border. The message of vocal for local is loud and clear as the Arjun is the first indigenously developed battle tank of the India Army.The Indian army will raise two more regiments of Arjun MK1A (Mark 1 Alpha), which will have 72 improvements over the Mark 1 tank, out of which 14 are major improvements and 58 are minor.Also Read: ‘Expansionism a mental disorder, whole world is troubled by expansionist forces’: PM Modi targets ChinaThe new regiments will be inducted in the next six months. “ The acceptance of necessity for the procurement of 118 Arjun MBT Mk1A is being progressed. We are expecting the indent in another three to four months,” a senior DRDO official said. Two regiments will have 59 tanks each.  With panoramic vision thermal imaging feature, the commander of the tank will be in control of the situation. It also has a remote control weapon system to deter low-flying objects like helicopters. It also has a mine-plough feature which can fig as deep as one feet. It can fire thermobaric ammunition and penetration-cum-blast ammunition. Also Read: Indian troops hold positions at LAC in Ladakh braving PLA and polar temperaturesThe Arjun entered the India Army Services in 2004. The army has, so far, inducted 124 Arjun tanks which are deployed along the border with Pakistan in Jaisalmer.The defence sector is at the forefront when it comes to India’s push for ‘vocal for local’. The ministry recently came out with a list of 101 defence items, importing which are banned.PM Modi’s message to Pakistan and China come at a significant time when Indian army is engaged in a faceoff with the PLA on the Line of Actual Control. On Friday, five jawans were killed in a Pakistani aggression along the Line of Control (LoC). “Today, country’s Army is engaged in military exercises with other big countries. We are engaged in strategic partnerships to fight against terrorism,” the Prime Minister in Jaisalmer.“Today the whole world is troubled by expansionist forces. Expansionism is, in a way, a mental disorder and reflects 18th-century thinking. India is also becoming a strong voice against this thinking,” PM Modi in a veiled dig at China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rides-on-arjun-s-aatmanirbhar-fire-power-to-send-message-to-pakistan-china/story-Mcgf6itdrOVDKUFaMFRrsI.html
14-11-2020||India||Higher temperature may keep Mumbai’s post-Diwali air pollution lower: SAFAR||With Mumbai recording the hottest day this season so far on Saturday, the city is expected to witness marginally lower air pollution post Diwali owing to change in weather factors such as hotter conditions and rise in wind speed, said official at the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).The day temperature recorded at the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the city, was 36 degrees Celsius, 2.4 degree Celsius above normal. Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 35 degrees Celsius, almost 2 degrees Celsius above normal. Pollution levels were in the ‘moderate’ air quality category on Saturday (Diwali) against a prediction of ‘poor’ air quality. The air quality index (AQI) for all pollutants on Saturday was 111 (moderate) with PM2.5 levels in the satisfactory category at 54 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3, and AQI for PM2.5 at 98 (satisfactory).SAFAR published a revised air quality forecast for Sunday that said, “A positive development is that the prevailing temperature is not as cooler as expected. Also increase in wind speed may bring relief for Mumbai and the AQI is going to be towards the lower end of the very poor category with a 50% firecrackers (half of the average emissions from firecrackers in 2016-2018) scenario. In case of no firecracker emissions, AQI is likely to remain steady and within poor range only.”Also read: ‘Very poor’ tag for Delhi’s air as IMD predicts foggy DiwaliThe most polluted areas are expected to be Chembur, Mazgaon, and Malad on Sunday. On Saturday, not a single location in Mumbai recorded ‘poor’ or ‘very poor’ air. Bhandup and Navi Mumbai had the cleanest air.“The highest levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1 am to 4 am between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Air Quality will start to improve from Monday,” SAFAR said.Against the originally predicted AQI of 338 (very poor), which would have been the worst post Diwali air quality in six years, SAFAR’s revised forcecast said the AQI was expected to be 309 (very poor) on Sunday and 267 (poor) with 50% cracker emissions, and 227 (poor) on Sunday and 203 (poor) on Monday from zero firecracker emissions. SAFAR categorises AQI levels from 0-50 as good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor, and above 401 is severe.Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR said, “When the temperature and wind speed is low, pollutant particles get suspended closer to the surface but in this case current weather factors can allow slight increase in pollutant particle dispersion.”According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind direction changed from cooler northeasterly winds to warmer easterly to southeasterly winds on Saturday allowing the rise in temperatures. The wind speed ranged between 11 and 14 km/hour against the average wind speed over the past three days at 5-6 km/hour. The minimum temperature on Saturday increased to 22 degrees Celsius (a degree Celsius above normal) from 19.6 degrees Celsius on Friday in the suburbs while south Mumbai recorded a 1 degree Celsius rise from Friday to 24 degrees Celsius on Saturday.SAFAR also predicted that the concentration of PM2.5 on Sunday would be over twice the safe limit if firecrackers were used. Against the safe limit of 60µg/m3, Mumbai could record 132 µg/m3 on Sunday (50% firecracker emissions) and 98 µg/m3 (nil emission from firecrackers).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/higher-temperature-may-keep-mumbai-s-post-diwali-air-pollution-lower-safar/story-ynaOgxqBl5TeVJEfTJkNqN.html
14-11-2020||India||PM to unveil ‘Statue of Peace’ in Raj on Monday to mark 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jain monk||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil the “Statue of Peace” in Rajasthan’s Pali district via video-conferencing on Monday to mark the 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jain monk Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj.The 151-inch-tall statue is made of “ashtadhatu” (eight metals with copper being the major constituent) and is being installed at the Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Rajasthan’s Pali, an official statement said.The saint, who lived during 1870-1954, led an austere life, working selflessly and dedicatedly to spread the message of Lord Mahavira, it said.He also worked relentlessly for the welfare of the masses, spread of education and eradication of social evils, wrote inspiring literature (poetry, essays, devotional hymns and stavans) and gave active support to the freedom movement and the cause of the swadeshi, the statement said.With his inspiration, more than 50 educational institutions of eminence, including colleges, schools and study centres, are operational across several states, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-unveil-statue-of-peace-in-raj-on-monday-to-mark-151st-birth-anniversary-celebrations-of-jain-monk/story-g8pyKfCR5vFd57WwYZM8YK.html
14-11-2020||India||5 from Navi Mumbai killed in Satara as bus plunges 50 ft from bridge||Five members of a Navi Mumbai family including a three-year-old boy were killed in a road crash in Satara after their bus plunged off a bridge and fell 50 feet early Saturday morning, police said. The extended family of 11 was headed to Goa for a vacation.The Nair family travelling in a Tempo Traveller bus had left from Vashi for Goa on Friday around 9 pm.The crash took place on the Tarali river bridge on the outskirts of Umbraj village in Karad, Satara between 4.30 am and 5 am, according to the police.“The driver of the vehicle dozed off and ended up crashing off the bridge. The vehicle fell 50 feet from the bridge by the river side,” said AL Gorad, assistant inspector at Umbraj police station.One of the injured occupants called the emergency police helpline number following which a rescue operation was mounted.Five persons including Madhusudhan Nair, 42, his wife Usha, 40, their 23-year-old son Aditya were killed along with Sajan Nair, 35, and his three-year-old son Aarav.The local traffic police officials said the spot where the crash took place is not a blackspot – a location where crashes are more likely to occur. The two-lane bridge is separated by a gap. Incidentally, a spot a few metres after the bridge ends is prone to crashes, police said.“Such a crash has not taken place on the bridge. Nevertheless, crash barriers have been installed on the side of the roads to prevent crashes. It appears the vehicle was at such a high speed that it crashed through the barriers while diving off the bridge,” said Asmita Patil, in-charge at Karad traffic police.The driver and six other members of the Nair family were injured in the crash. All of them are said to be recuperating and out of danger.The injured were rushed to Satara civil hospital and the bodies of the five victims were sent to Karad civil hospital for autopsy.“We contacted their relatives in Mumbai to inform them about the crash. The relatives are on their way,” said an officer from Satara police.The police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the 30-year-old driver Rinku Gupta. Police said he was sober at the time of the crash but may have been fatigued. After the injured were rescued, the police deployed cranes to pull the vehicle out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-from-navi-mumbai-killed-in-satara-as-bus-plunges-50-ft-from-bridge/story-aFnqOGtnBJFdCuQLyGJJGM.html
14-11-2020||India||Yes to uncle Shivpal, but no to major parties: Akhilesh Yadav reveals his probable plans for 2022 elections||Without naming the Congress and Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP), Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said his party won’t be looking at alliance with any major party in 2022 assembly elections while doors are open for smaller parties. Akhilesh is ready to bury the hatchet with estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav and his Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party. And if the SP comes to power, Shivpal’s party will have representation in the cabinet, Akhilesh said. “We will adjust that party too. Jaswantnagar is his (Shivpal Yadav’s) seat and the Samajwadi Party vacated the seat for him. In the coming times, we will make their leader a cabinet minister, and what other adjustment is needed?” Akhilesh said, as quoted by PYI. Shivpal Yadav, the estranged uncle of Akhilesh Yadav, was elected from the Jaswantnagar assembly constituency in the 2017 state elections. He later floated a new political party, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on its symbol from Firozabad.“When the elections are contested by the election officers, superintendents of police, additional district magistrates, SHOs and police jawans, who will win then. The BJP was not contesting the bypolls but the officials of its government,” Akhilesh said on the performance of his party in the bypolls in the state. In 2017, SP and Congress announced an alliance in the assembly election. BJP had won 312 seats, while the Congress won seven seats and the SP won 47 seats. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-to-uncle-shivpal-but-no-to-major-parties-akhilesh-yadav-reveals-his-probable-plans-for-2022-elections/story-jjM4BPXoRNOcVGBmGBHBGM.html
14-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Places of religious worship in Maharashtra to reopen from Nov 16 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Religious places in Maharashtra to reopen on November 16The Maharashtra government on Saturday said that all religious places in the state will be reopened for devotees from November 16 and wearing of mask will be compulsory. Read moreOn Diwali, PM Modi distributes sweets to Indian soldiers at Longewala, rides tankPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday celebrated Diwali with Indian soldiers at Longewala in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer. The prime minister distributed sweets to security forces personnel and wished them on the eve. Read moreDeepika Padukone’s all white sharara at Siddhant Chaturvedi’s Diwali party is perfect for low-key festivities amid coronavirus lockdownDeepika Padukone, who has been MIA both on social media and otherwise, was recently spotted for the first time in a while as she attended the Diwali bash at Gully Boy actor Siddhant Chaturvedi’s house. Read more‘Please do not burst crackers’: Virat Kohli sends Diwali wishes from AustraliaAs India celebrate the auspicious festival of Diwali on Saturday, India captain Virat Kohli also extended his wishes to the nation. Kohli, who is currently in Australia, and is placed under mandatory quarantine ahead of the series, took to Twitter to share a video in which he wished everyone a ‘Happy Diwali’ and also requested them to not burst crackers. Read moreLife-like finger fighting video receives a thumbs up from netizens. Seen it yet?There are plenty of videos on the Internet that netizens can’t get enough of. This finger fighting video based on a ninja battle theme is a perfect example of that category. Shared on Reddit, the old video has recaptured the attention of netizens. After watching, chances are you will be amazed thoroughly just like others. Read more‘Expansionism is a mental disorder’: PM Modi at Rajasthan’s Longewala PostPrime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the soldiers at Rajasthan’s Longewala post on the occasion of Diwali. He congratulated families of soldiers who are deployed along the border in festival season. On the occasion, PM Modi recalled the fight the post had witnessed in 1971 war against Pakistan. He asserted that India will give ‘prachand jawab’ (fierce reply) if it is provoked. PM Modi’s unambiguous message came amid continuing standoff with China at Ladakh border. Longewala post in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer is a strategic post on the western border. It is known for the Battle of Longewala which took place during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. The Prime Minister was accompanied by CDS Gen Rawat, Army Chief Gen Naravane, BSF DG Asthana. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-places-of-religious-worship-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-nov-16-and-all-the-latest-news/story-i3iYckWXqfj8shRxGmEeCP.html
14-11-2020||India||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palanisami announces aid of Rs 25 lakh each to fire officers who died in Madurai||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami on Saturday announced aid for fire department officers who lost their lives while trying to put out a fire in Madurai on Friday late night.A massive fire broke out at a shop in the Navabhathkana area of Tamil Nadu’s Madurai last night where at least two fire officers lost their lives in the line of duty. Two personnel sustained injuries during fight fighting.The chief minister on Saturday condoled the death of K Sivarajan and P Krishnamurthy and announced, “Rs 25 lakh each will be given to the families of fire officer Sivarajan and Krishnamurthy who died in the accident.”One family member of the deceased officers will also be given a government job, the chief minister further said. The state government will also provide financial relief of Rs 3 lakh each to two injured fire officers. Praying for their speedy recovery, CM Edappadi Palanisami also said that he has directed the district administration to ensure high medical attention is given to them.Accordign to police, an electrical short circuit is suspected to have caused the fire in the old building, PTI reported. The building collapsed when Fire Service officers were trying to douse the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palanisami-announces-aid-of-rs-25-lakh-each-to-fire-officers-who-died-in-madurai/story-g3lFKWnEf6Sbrf3B5I9y3H.html
14-11-2020||India||Pre-recorded prayers played in dormitories for migrant workers celebrating Diwali in Singapore||Pre-recorded religious prayers and greetings by the chief priests of various Hindu temples in Singapore were shared with migrant workers through social media as part of Diwali celebrations on Saturday, according to a media report. Various organisations also came together to distribute goodies to the workers across 144 dormitories which house migrant workers including Indian nationals working in labour-intensive industries here. When the coronavirus pandemic hit Singapore’s shores, the migrant workers in dormitories were the worst affected, with tens of thousands infected. Many were placed in quarantine or under lockdown in an effort to control the spread of the disease, and restrictions were imposed on what they could do on the rest of the days. Currently, they are still largely restricted to their workplaces and dormitories, or approved locations such as recreation centres. “The last few months have been very challenging for our migrant brothers in the dormitories. They have cooperated with measures implemented by the authorities and have generally taken all the controls in the right spirit... (It is) timely during this festive period to recognise and laud the contributions of some of the true heroes of this pandemic - the workers themselves,” Migrant Workers’ Centre (MWC) chairman Yeo Guat Kwang said on Saturday. Over 1,000 volunteers took part in the initiative organised by the Ministry of Manpower’s Assurance, Care and Engagement (Ace) Group, the Hindu Endowments Board (HEB) and the Coordinating Council of Sikh Institutions (CCSI), The Straits Times reported. From November 12 to 14, the workers received gift packs containing savoury and sweet treats such as murukku and laddu, which were contributed by the three organisers, various Hindu temples, Sikh Gurdwaras and Indian International School here. Meanwhile, Singapore reported two imported Covid-19 cases on Saturday, said the Ministry of Health (MOH), adding that they have been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival here. There was no locally transmitted infection for the fourth consecutive day. The 12 imported cases, reported on Friday, came from France, India, Indonesia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Myanmar, Russia, France and the Netherlands, United States, United Kingdom and United Arab Emirates. Fifty Covid-19 patients are hospitalised while 28 were recuperating in isolated community facilities as of Friday. With six patients discharged on Friday, 58,008 people have fully recovered from the disease in Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pre-recorded-prayers-played-in-dormitories-for-migrant-workers-celebrating-diwali-in-singapore/story-Qbn3yz31zxkUIrlUVnPDrJ.html
14-11-2020||India||Religious places in Maharashtra to reopen on November 16||The Maharashtra government on Saturday said that all religious places in the state will be reopened for devotees from November 16 and wearing of mask will be compulsory.“All religious places in the state to re-open for devotees from Monday, November 16. Wearing the mask will be compulsory. All Covid norms will have to be followed,” the Government of Maharashtra said in a statement.The government headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged citizens to follow social distancing and Covid-19 protocols while entering religious places.“The decision has come at the right time when the number of corona patients is low. The rules will be the same for all the religious places. The use of masks, sanitizers would be mandatory. Social distancing is very important,” Jayant Patil, Maharashtra minister told reporters.Thackeray had earlier held discussion with all divisional commissioners and district collectors of the state via video-conferencing over the reopening of places of worship after Diwali festivities are over.In March, religious places were closed due to the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus disease(Covid-19) pandemic. Thackeray had earlier said that there has been a delay in opening religious places, as the state is being opened in a phased manner to avoid the second wave .Maharashtra recorded 4,132 new coronavirus cases on Friday, which took the case tally to 17,40,461, the state health department said.With 127 fatalities, Covid-19 death toll in the state reached 45,809, it added.On the other hand, 4,543 patients recovered and were discharged during the day. The total number of recoveries thus rose to 16,09,607.There are 84,082 active cases in the state.So far 97,22,961 people have been tested. As many as 58,686 tests were conducted in the state on Friday.The recovery rate of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra is 92.48 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.63 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-on-november-16/story-mPBuAboVBvJjflyhsSgGCJ.html
14-11-2020||India||On Diwali, PM Modi distributes sweets to Indian soldiers at Longewala, rides tank||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday celebrated Diwali with Indian soldiers at Longewala in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer. The prime minister distributed sweets to security forces personnel and wished them on the eve. “I would like to extend my Diwali greetings. I am here to convey every Indians greetings to you today. On the occasion of Diwali, I would like to wish all our security forces,” PM Modi said during his address to the soldiers. “No power in the world can stop our brave soldiers from guarding the borders of our country. This country is happy and we are celebrating festivals because of your existence,” he added.The prime minister was accompanied with chief of defence staff, Bipin Rawat, Army chief MM Naravane and Border Security Force director general Rakesh Asthana. Reminiscing 2014 Diwali when he celebrated the festival with security forces in Siachen, PM Modi said, “In 2014, I celebrated Diwali at Siachen. Many people were surprised. But you know me, I am always with my own people during festivals, and I have continued with that tradition even this year.” #WATCH I Rajasthan: Prime Minister Narendra Modi distributes sweets among jawans during his visit to Longewala, Jaisalmer. #Diwali pic.twitter.com/qE76hDVVF5 #WATCH | Rajasthan: PM Narendra Modi took a ride on a tank in Longewala, Jaisalmer, earlier today.He was in Longewala to celebrate #Diwali with security forces. pic.twitter.com/n77KRdIZfQ“My Diwali is complete only when I come amid you. My happiness doubles when I look at the joy on your faces,” he further said.During his visit to the soldiers in Jaisalmer’s Longewala, PM Modi also rode on a tank.Also read | ‘Expansionism a mental disorder, whole world is troubled by expansionist forces’: PM Modi targets ChinaThe prime minister also delivered a strong message to Pakistan, a day after eight Indian soldiers were killed and 12 injured in shelling at the Line of Control (LoC) on Friday.Talking about the 2016 surgical strikes, PM Modi said, “India has proved that it has the military might, as well as the political will to protect its borders. The entire world, especially those countries who promote terrorism, has seen that Indian forces can kill terrorists and their leaders by entering their homes.”The Longewala post is a strategic post on the western border in the desert of Rajasthan, where the first major battle of 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, also known as the Battle of Longewala, was fought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-diwali-pm-modi-distributes-sweets-to-soldiers-at-longewala-rides-tank/story-IbrClKvxKqNWp1HMoTtwlL.html
14-11-2020||India||BMC plans to spend Rs 160 crore to improve storm water drains, reduce flooding during monsoon||In an attempt to mitigate flood-prone areas in several parts of the Western suburbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned various augmentation measures for storm water drains between Andheri and Malad after it took note of extreme weather conditions in the city this year. The civic body has planned to spend Rs 160 crore on various works including repairs, restructuring and widening work of drains at 19 chronic flooding spots in Western suburbs as part of a major overhaul plan for chronic flooding spots across Mumbai. This is expected to increase the water receding time.Civic officials said that some of the work has been well-planned so that it can be finished before the next monsoon but some crucial work will be completed in the next two to three years. The civic work mainly includes re-modelling or new construction of box drains on the SV Road drain from Vrindavan Hotel to Marve Road junction in Malad.“All ward offices were asked to identify localised water-logging spots that can be fixed in the short duration of 6 months. The measures will help excess water, that gets accumulated in areas during monsoon, pass through bigger drains easily. The work is expected to start in January,” an official said requesting anonymity.Apart from this, BMC is also mulling to have flood tanks in the city to hold excess rainwater. The tanks will be constructed along the lines of underground water holding tanks in the Japanese capital, Tokyo, and are likely to be located between Bhandup and Mulund. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner said, “We are now focusing mainly on the civic works that is crucial for next monsoon and ensure that we finish those before that. Flood tanks are a long-term concept that would require thorough studying and planning the scope of work. The work on this front is still ongoing.” The city has witnessed multiple instances of flooding and water-logging for hours in many areas during monsoon this year and reported record-breaking rainfall. Areas like Andheri, Malad, Goregaon, Hindmata, Sion and King Circle among others faced severe water-logging for long hours. The official attributed these disasters to delayed drain cleaning work this year due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-plans-to-spend-rs-160-crore-to-improve-storm-water-drains-reduce-flooding-during-monsoon/story-XVI4V7OqGCbRknGGRgO0wK.html
14-11-2020||India||Vice president pays tributes to Nehru on his birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday paid tributes to the country’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary, saying he will always be remembered for his contribution to building a modern India.Naidu also extended greetings on Children’s Day which is observed on Nehru’s birth anniversary as a tribute to his contribution towards the development of the nation and his love for children.Nehru wad born on this day in 1889.“My tributes to the former Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary today. He will be always remembered for his contribution to building a modern India,” the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.Naidu in another tweet said children are the future of the country and must be nurtured with love and care. “The values of honesty, integrity, respecting elders along with the importance of Indian culture and harmonious co-existence with nature must be inculcated in the children from the very beginning,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-pays-tributes-to-nehru-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-qzsX27o0h6mIQQkuEePUOO.html
14-11-2020||India||ED Director S K Mishra’s tenure extended by one year||The Union government has extended the tenure of Enforcement Directorate (ED) Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra by a year after modifying his appointment order that was issued in 2018, officials said.Mishra, 60, is a 1984-batch Indian Revenue Service officer of the Income Tax cadre and was appointed the Enforcement Directorate chief on November 19, 2018.His tenure was to end next week as the ED director’s post comes with a fixed term of two years.As per an order issued by the Department of Revenue under the Union finance ministry on Friday, the 2018 order for appointment of Mishra has been modified.  “The President of India is pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Shri Sanjay Kumar Mishra as director of enforcement in the Enforcement Directorate,” it said.It added that his appointment will be for a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier.The ED is a central investigative agency that enforces two central laws-- the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).These laws were enacted to curb money laundering, terror financing, black money and hawala or illegal financial transactions that have cross-border ramifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-director-s-k-mishra-s-tenure-extended-by-one-year/story-YAjjhFeoEqRnoVNNykiBSN.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Role of Indian soldiers in rescuing people during Covid-19 praiseworthy’: PM Modi to Air Force personnel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the efforts of Indian Air Force and Navy in bringing people stranded in various parts of the world due to the coronavirus pandemic home.“While the Indian Armed Forces are capable of dealing with the enemies, they’re at the forefront to help people during disasters. The role played by Air Force & Navy in rescuing people who were stranded in other countries due to Covid-19 is praiseworthy,” he said while addressing the Air Force personnel in Rajasthan.“The Indian armed forces worked on a war footing during the coronavirus disease pandemic and contributed at every level ensuring availability of masks, sanitisers, PPE kits, medical equipment, and hospitals in the country,” he added.He also highlighted the forces’ fight against terrorism.“Today, Indian Army is engaged in military exercises with other big countries. We are engaged in strategic partnerships to fight against terrorism. Indian Armed Forces have shown that they can strike on terrorist havens anywhere, anytime,” said the prime minister.PM Modi also said that if anyone casts an evil eye on India, its soldiers are capable of giving a befitting reply. “This establishes the credibility of Indian Army in the world. Today, country’s Army is engaged in military exercises with other big countries,” the prime minister said.He also talked about the induction of the French Rafale fighter jets and operationalisation of Tejas during the Covid-19 period.PM Modi is in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer to celebrate Diwali with soldiers. Earlier, addressing Indian Army soldiers at Longewala, he said that entire country is proud of their valour.“Be it the peaks of the Himalayas, the stretch of desert, dense forests or the depths of seas - your valour has always triumphed in every challenge. 130 Crore Indians are standing with you. Every Indian is proud of the strength and valour of our soldiers. They are proud of your invincibility. No power in the world can stop our brave soldiers from guarding the borders of our country,” said the prime minister.PM Modi said as he spends more time withn the soldiers, his resolve to serve and protect the country gets stronger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/role-of-indian-soldiers-in-rescuing-people-during-covid-19-praiseworthy-pm-modi-to-air-force-personnel/story-ZY9KPydFJ5w5DXBJcVviHI.html
14-11-2020||India||Elaborate precautionary measures in Sabarimala in view of Covid-19||With only one day left for the opening of Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa temple for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season, the Kerala government said elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure that no Covid-19 patient reaches the hill shrine for the pilgrimage. The entire pilgrimage would be through the virtual queue system this time, so the usual heavy rush can be regulated, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said after a high level meeting of officials to review the final preparations at the temple on Friday. Detailing various measures taken by the government to ensure a smooth pilgrimage in the wake of the pandemic, Surendran said each pilgrim, visiting the shrine, should carry a COVID negative certificate, taken within the last 24 hours. Covid-19 testing kiosks would be opened at Pampa and Nilakkal, the base camps, to help devotees to carry out the test before beginning the trekking. Apart from this, arrangements would be made by the health department to make antigen tests in various centres including, all bus stands and railway stations at Thiruvananthapuram, Tiruvalla,Chengannur and Kottayam, where pilgrims arrive to proceed to the Lord Ayyappa temple, he said. Steps would be taken to ensure social distancing while allowing pilgrims for darshan. For this, specific place would be marked for each devotee, the minister said adding that those aged between 60- 65 years should submit a medical fitness certificate. Those testing positive for the viral infection, including those from other states, would be given adequate treatment until they turn negative. Treatment can be given in either government or private hospitals as per the demand of the pilgrims. All arrangements including the ambulance facility have been arranged in the government medical colleges in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam and also in the private hospitals in these districts, he said. Noting that mask was not mandatory for pilgrims while trekking, Surendran said the relaxation was according to the protocol that provided exemption during high physical activity, but, devotees should follow strict COVID protocol. Used masks should not be thrown away and arrangements would be made to collect and recycle it, official sources added. The two-month-long annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season at the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple, located in Pathanamthitta district, would begin on November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elaborate-precautionary-measures-in-sabarimala-in-view-of-covid-19/story-avitgJGbeeIpwjatIh7DtN.html
14-11-2020||India||‘How much does he know about this nation?’: Sanjay Raut in response to Obama’s memoir||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday denounced the mention of Rahul Gandhi as a “student eager to impress the teacher” in former US President Barack Obama’s upcoming memoir. Raut also said that the comments of leaders who said Obama’s remarks were accurate were ‘distasteful’.“A foreign politician can’t give such opinions on Indian political leaders; subsequent domestic political discourse on it is distasteful. We won’t say ‘Trump is mad’. How much does Obama know about this nation?” Raut said.Watch | ‘How much does Obama know?’: Sanjay Raut denounces remark on Rahul Gandhi  A foreign politician can't give such opinions on Indian political leaders; subsequent domestic political discourse on it is distasteful. We won't say 'Trump is mad'. How much does Obama know about this nation?: S Raut, Shiv Sena, on remarks on Rahul Gandhi in Barak Obama's memoir pic.twitter.com/ZaCJL4RNnFPublishers of Obama’s memoir, ‘A Promised Land’, said it provides insights into the dynamics of US partisan politics and international diplomacy. The New York Times has reviewed Obama’s memoir, highlighting the political leaders from around the world he has talked about. According to The New York Times review, Obama has called Rahul Gandhi “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.”Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also find mention in Obama’s memoir among other leaders. While Sonia Gandhi has been mentioned in the context of nobody talking about the “beauty of women leaders”, Manmohan Singh features as someone who “ comes across as having a kind of impassive integrity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-much-does-he-know-about-this-nation-sanjay-raut-in-response-to-obama-s-memoir/story-hoxnmgLr12XRtPFldR113L.html
14-11-2020||India||PMLA adjudicating authority dismisses attachment of assets of Kochhars||In a major setback to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in its probe against former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar and her husband Deepak Kochhar, an Adjudicating Authority under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has dismissed the attachment of their properties worth Rs 78 crore by the agency. The adjudicating authority has also trashed the premise of the case -- that a loan was given by the ICICI Bank to Videocon Group following which an alleged kickback of Rs 64 crore was paid to Deepak Kochhar. Tushar V Shah (Member, Law), adjudicating authority, said in a detailed 800-page order on Thursday that the loan of Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) by ICICI Bank in September 2009 was never declared NPA (non-performing asset) and was in line with the credit policy of the bank. He further observed that the loan was repaid; so there was no question of a loss to the bank and that Chanda Kochhar was just one of the members in loan sanctioning committee and that the “decision to sanction any loans could not have been taken by her individually.” Shah also termed the investment of Rs 64 crore in Deepak Kochhar’s Nupower Renewables Ltd (NRL) from Venugopal Dhoot’s SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd) a business transaction. He observed that the agency failed to establish that this money was proceeds of crime. “The FIR fails to justify any investigation having been done before alleging the wrongful loss in respect of the said RTL (rupee term loan) of Rs 300 crore from ICICI Bank to M/s VIEL. The said RTL loan account of Rs 300 crores is shown by Chanda Kochhar to be not declared NPA,” the order stated. The federal anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached movable and immovable properties worth Rs 78 crore including Rs 10.5 lakh cash belonging to Kochhars and their flat at CCI Chambers, Church Gate, Mumbai in January . According to the law, a PMLA adjudicating authority has to sign off on any attachment. Regarding the CCI Chambers flat of Kochhars, which the agency has alleged was part of the kickback, the Adjudicating Authority observed: “It is beyond doubt that the flat was purchased by Deepak Kochhar in the year 1995-96 much before the period of alleged scheduled offences i.e. 2009-2012 and prior to coming into force of PMLA, 2002.” He further observed that the “flat was not from the alleged proceeds of crime and the consideration paid way back in the year 1995-96 could not have been designated as proceeds of crime, from any source whatsoever.” He also criticised Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for not yet interrogating senior officials of the bank: Sandeep Bakshi, K Ramkumar, Sonjoy Chatterjee, N S Kannan, Zarin Daruwala, Rajiv Sabharwal, K V Kamath and Homi Khusrokhan. These people were members of sanctioning committees of ICICI Bank at different periods. ED officials who didn’t want to be named said the order of Adjudicating Authority will be challenged. An agency spokesperson wasn’t immediately available for comment. Kochhar’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “ED galloping ahead before CBI is not contemplated in law and this practice of ED attaching properties and arresting people on the basis of CBI FIR has been exposed; ED complaint filed without CBI having moved an inch is clear abuse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmla-adjudicating-authority-dismisses-attachment-of-assets-of-kochhars/story-AIrg4VA8R68R5V0LYNZ5ZN.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Initiate dialogue’: Mehbooba Mufti asks Centre after shelling at LoC||Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) chief and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said on Saturday that leadership of India and Pakistan should rise above their political compulsions. She was reacting to shelling at the Line of Control (LoC) on Friday in which eight Pakistani soldiers were killed.“Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of LoC. If only Indian & Pakistani leadership could rise above their political compulsions & initiate dialogue. Restoring the ceasefire agreed upon & implemented by Vajpayee ji & Musharaf sahab is a good place to start,” the PDP chief said on Twitter.On Friday, eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 others were injured after the Indian Army targeted Pakistani positions across the LoC in north Kashmir in response to the heavy shelling by the neighbouring army in which eight Indians - four civilians and four security personnel - died, people familiar with the development said. Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of LOC. If only Indian & Pakistani leadership could rise above their political compulsions & initiate dialogue. Restoring the ceasefire agreed upon & implemented by Vajpayee ji & Musharaf sahab is a good place to startThe Indian Army destroyed Pakistani ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and terror launch pads, they added.The casualties from the Pakistani side included two commandos belonging to the Special Service Group (SSG), they said.Also Read: If you can talk to China, why not Pakistan, says Mehbooba MuftiFriday’s altercation at the LoC comes at a time when India is already in a border dispute with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Though a disengagement plan is being discussed between the two countries, no crucial progress has been made till now.Mufti had on Tuesday asked the Centre to hold dialogue with Pakistan in a bid to bring border skirmishes to an end and restore peace.“If you can talk to China, why can’t you talk to Pakistan? We have been pleading with China to give us our land back but they are not budging from their stand. Why can’t we talk to Pakistan?” she saidMufti also said that militancy is on the rise in Kashmir, adding that a dialogue was required with Pakistan and stakeholders in the Kashmir valley to restore peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/initiate-dialogue-mehbooba-mufti-asks-centre-after-shelling-at-loc/story-ePP8yYT9fflIwAakF0Wu6O.html
14-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Arvind Kejriwal to perform ‘Diwali pujan’ at Akshardham Temple at 7.39pm and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to perform ‘Diwali pujan’ at Akshardham TempleChief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal will perform ‘Diwali pujan’ at the Akshardham Temple on Saturday evening along with the members of his cabinet. The pujan will begin at 7.39 pm and the event will be live streamed. On Wednesday, Kejriwal tweeted a video message inviting people to tune in to the event. Read moreUneasy calm along LoC day after heavy exchange of fire between India, PakistanAn uneasy calm settled along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir’s Uri and Gurez on Saturday a day after Indian and Pakistani troops exchanged heavy shelling across the de facto border between the two countries. Read moreLibrary for children on tram to be launched in KolkataThe world’s first library for children on a tram would be launched on Saturday in Kolkata on Children’s Day, which is celebrated to commemorate first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary. Read moreIBPS RRB office assistant, officers scale- 1 results 2020 declared at ibps.in, here’s direct link to checkIBPS RRB Result 2020: The Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) on Friday declared the results for RRB- VIII officer assistant (multi-purpose) and officers scale- I recruitment exam on its official website. Read moreRanveer Singh wishes his ‘gudiya’ Deepika Padukone on second wedding anniversary with unseen pics from Italy weddingRanveer Singh has wished actor wife Deepika Padukone on their second wedding anniversary, which happens to fall on Diwali this year. He shared unseen pictures with her on Instagram, along with a sweet message for his “gudiya (doll).” Read more‘He’s just another player to me:’ Tim Paine says Australian cricketers ‘love to hate’ Virat KohliIndia captain Virat Kohli has been a thorn in the eye for many oppositions, but no team likes to test Kohli more that Australia. Over the past few years, Kohli and Australia have been at each other’s throats on the field and have shared a bitter-sweet relation over the years. Read moreSatyameva Jayate 2: John Abraham’s egg diet-weight lifting leaves Tiger Shroff, Abhishek Bachchan and fans impressedAfter landing in Lucknow on Tuesday morning to shoot for Milap Zaveri’s Satyameva Jayate 2, John Abraham seems to have his “beast mode” on as he preps for the role of a police officer or so the latest pictures on the Internet suggest. Read moreDiwali 2020: Netizens celebrate festival of lights by sharing highly relatable soan papdi posts. Seen them yet?With the lights all set up, rangolis all made, and cleaning all done, all that’s left to do is... think about what you’re going to do with all the soan papdi boxes you’ve received this Diwali. Surely, you cannot consume all of them. So would it be acceptable to pass it on to your neighbours? Read moreWatch| Diwali 2020: PM Modi, President Kovind, others extend their wishes to nation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-arvind-kejriwal-to-perform-diwali-pujan-at-akshardham-temple-at-7-39pm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-21AyIqLIb668eASqY4miKP.html
14-11-2020||India||‘If you want to dig old graves, so can we’: Shiv Sena warns BJP||With the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi approaching its first anniversary on November 28, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut advised the Bharatiya Janata Party to forget about “Operation Lotus” to destabilise the government and work with the government for the welfare of the people. On the ongoing series of allegations made by BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, Raut, in a veiled warning, added that if the Sena starts digging old graves it will unearth skeletons of corruption involving the national party.Raut said that Shiv Sena had never suppressed the voice of the opposition parties. He added that Somaiya, a former Lok Sabha MP, is not taken seriously by his own party.“I don’t think his party also takes whatever he does seriously. But opposition must criticise. We want a strong opposition party in the state. Those who know Uddhav Thackeray and knew Balasaheb Thackeray will definitely tell you that we never stiffle or suppress the opposition like it is done in other states and by the Centre. Therefore, he must stop leveling false allegations. If they want to dig old graves, even we can do that. But our outlook is to forget the past and move on. If we keep digging graves, we will find the skeletons of your corruption,” he said.Speaking to reporters on the eve of Diwali, Raut recalled the same period last year when the movement to make a new political alliance to form the MVA government has started. He said that during this first year the Thackeray government faced several challenges, both natural and man-made, but the CM crossed the hurdles.“Several unholy attempts were made to destabilise the governments but none were successful. In the last year, opposition tried to carry out several operations but could not even scratch the government. So they should stop the language of operation Lotus and work with the government for the state. Nobody in the state has any doubt in that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government will complete its full term and that he will remain the chief minister,” the Sena leader said. The Rajya Sabha MP added that auspicious days for the people and for the government will start after Diwali. “In the remaining four years we will work for the good and welfare of the people in the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that we must forget the past and make Maharashtra stronger. If Maharashtra gains strength, the country becomes stronger, he said when I met him yesterday,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-want-to-dig-old-graves-so-can-we-shiv-sena-warns-bjp/story-fnTkaBJHwOtDgHKWbV1V3J.html
14-11-2020||India||‘India has military might, political will to protect its borders’: PM Modi slams Pakistan in strong terms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed Pakistan in strongest possible terms, as he talked about the 2016 surgical strikes while addressing the soldiers of the Indian Army in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer.“India has proved that it has the military might, as well as the political will to protect its borders. The entire world, especially those countries who promote terrorism, has seen that Indian forces can kill terrorists and their leaders by entering their homes,” he said in Longewala.“India is safe today because it has the power to protect itself, it has brave sons and daughters like you,” he added.The remarks were made a day after eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 injured in heavy shelling by the Indian Army on Pakistani positions across the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir. Artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles were used by the Indian side in response to heavy shelling by the neighbouring army. Pakistani ammunition dumps, fuel dumps, and terror launch pads were among the targets destroyed by the Indian Army, people aware of the developments said.PM Modi, meanwhile, also described the valour of Indian soldiers in the 1971 Battle of Longewala. “Whenever the valour of our soldiers is talked about, Battle of Longewala will be remembered. Our soldiers gave a befitting reply to Pakistani soldiers in that battle,” said the prime minister.PM Modi further said, “The 1971 war against Pakistan is an example of exemplary coordination among Army, Navy and Air Force. The Battle of Longewala proved that no one can stand in front of the combined might of Indian forces.”The Longewala post is a strategic post on the western border where the first major battle of the 1971 war, known as the Battle of Longewala, was fought.PM Modi reached Longewala on Saturday morning to celebrate Diwali with soldiers of the Indian Army. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Army Chief MM Narvane and Border Security Force (BSF) Director General Rakesh Asthana accompanied the prime minister.Earlier on Saturday, PM Modi had greeted the prople of the country on Diwali and wrote on Twitter, “Wishing everyone a Happy Diwali! May this festival further brightness and happiness. May everyone be prosperous and healthy.”On Friday, he had appealed to the people to light a ‘diya (lamp)’ on Diwali as a salute to the soldiers guarding the nation on the borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-military-might-political-will-to-protect-its-borders-pm-modi-slams-pakistan-in-strong-terms/story-iqc4qxG9gq9lL1E3iug0fN.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Your valour has triumphed in every challenge’: PM Modi in his address to soldiers at Longewala||On the occasion of Diwali, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed soldiers at the Longewala post in Rajasthan. It is a strategic post situated on the western border and is most notably known as the location where the Battle of Longewala took place during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. The Prime Minister was accompanied by the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General MM Naravane and Border Security Force (BSF) DG Rakesh Asthana. PM Modi began his address by extending greetings to the soldiers and said his Diwali is only complete when he joins them. Modi said that 130 crore Indians are standing with the soldiers adding every Indian is proud of their strength and valour . The Prime Minister also said that as long as the soldiers are here, the country’s Diwali celebrations will continue to be, in full swing and luminescence. Here are the top quotes from the Prime Minister’s address: 1. “You may be at the snow-capped mountains or in deserts, my Diwali is complete only when I come amid you. My happiness doubles when I look at the joy on your faces,” Prime Minister Modi said. 2. The Prime Minister told the soldiers at Longewala post that their valour has always triumphed in every challenge- be it the peaks of the Himalayas, the stretch of desert, dense forests or the depths of seas. 3. Highlighting the Battle of Longewala, PM Modi said the battle will be remembered whenever history on the excellence of soldiers will be written and read. 4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address credited the strength and valour of the soldiers by saying, “Today India kills terrorists & their leaders by entering their homes. World now understands that this nation won’t compromise with its interests, not at any cost.”5. Modi said India is working rapidly to increase its defence capability and make its defence sector Atmanirbhar. “We’ve decided to focus on the indigenous arms factory. This one decision of the defence sector propelled 130 crore Indians to work towards vocal for local doctrine,” he added. 6. “Today the strategy of India is clear. Today’s India believes in the policy of understanding and making others understand. But if attempts are made to test us, the reply they receive is intense,” Modi said. 7. The Prime Minister also urged soldiers to take note of three things- Firstly, to continue ingenuity by innovating; secondly, to practice yoga and thirdly, to learn another language other than their mother and English. He added this would help them ingrain new perspectives and enthusiasm. (With ANI inputs) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-valour-has-triumphed-in-every-challenge-pm-modi-in-his-address-to-soldiers-at-longewala/story-kYs9IyWYNpHeP1OxusEwKI.html
14-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 467 new Covid-19 cases, CM warns against bursting firecrackers on Diwali||Uttarakhand reported 467 new Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the tally of total cases to 67,705. Four more Covid-19 patients also died in the state taking the death toll to 1097. Out of 67,706, who have tested positive so far, a total of 61,732 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 91.18%. The positivity rate in Uttarakhand now stands at 5.80%. Also, 300 Covid-19 positive people recovered from the infection on Friday. According to the health bulletin issued on Friday, Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 18,778 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (11,452), US Nagar (9,838) and Nainital (7,825). Uttarakhand currently has three containment zones in two districts including two in Dehradun district. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in his address to the people of the state on the eve of Diwali urged them to minimize the use of firecrackers.“Due to the pandemic, people should try to minimize the use of firecrackers and try to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali to contribute towards environment conservation,” Rawat said.He also urged the people of Uttarakhand to take all precautions when venturing out of the house. “We should understand that the Covid-19 pandemic is not over. We have to wear masks when in public and maintain proper social distance to prevent the infection from spreading,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-467-new-covid-19-cases-cm-warns-against-bursting-firecrackers-on-diwali/story-Hn185mXIgBC3clAbQQ7jYO.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Expansionism a mental disorder, whole world is troubled by expansionist forces’: PM Modi targets China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday slammed China, by saying that the entire world is troubled by expansionist forces.“Today the whole world is troubled by expansionist forces. Expansionism is, in a way, a mental disorder and reflects 18th-century thinking. India is also becoming a strong voice against this thinking,” PM Modi said in Jaisalmer, without directly naming China, while addressing the soldiers of Indian Army.India is engaged in a border standoff with China in the Ladakh region since May. Many rounds of talks have taken place between the two countries, but tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is still continuing. A skirmish between the Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh had led to casualties on both sides.The prime minister is in Longewala to celebrate Diwali with soldiers.“In 2014, I celebrated Diwali at Siachen. Many people were surprised. But you know me, I am always with my own people during festivals. And I have continued with that tradition even this year,” said the prime minister.“My Diwali is complete only when I come amid you. My happiness doubles when I look at the joy on your faces,” he added.PM Modi also highlighted the achievements of Indian Army in various battles and said the entire country is proud of their valour.“Be it the peaks of the Himalayas, the stretch of desert, dense forests or the depths of seas - your valour has always triumphed in every challenge. 130 Crore Indians are standing with you. Every Indian is proud of the strength and valour of our soldiers. They are proud of your invincibility. No power in the world can stop our brave soldiers from guarding the borders of our country,” he said.He also said that as he spends more time withn the soldiers, his resolve to serve and protect the country gets stronger.The prime minister urged troops to make three things part of their lives: Innovation which will help them progress, yoga which will keep them helthy and any other Indian language than their native language to help in the growth of their mental faculty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expansionism-a-mental-disorder-whole-world-is-troubled-by-expansionist-forces-pm-modi-targets-china/story-OqPxnpnFBZb7l4QhYls0LP.html
14-11-2020||India||Library for children on tram to be launched in Kolkata||The world’s first library for children on a tram would be launched on Saturday in Kolkata on Children’s Day, which is celebrated to commemorate first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary.The Kolkata Young Reader’s Tramcar has been jointly developed by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) and Apeejay Anand Children’s Library and will have around 1,000 books.“The tram would run on Shyambazar-Esplanade and Esplanade-Gariahat routes, spanning across north and south Kolkata, every day from morning to evening. The Oxford Bookstores has curated the selection of books,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of WBTC.Entry is free for children. Only parents accompanying their children will have to pay normal tram fares to board it.Earlier in September India’s first library on tram was launched in Kolkata with a wide range of books including those for competitive exams. A similar effort was earlier initiated at Brno in the Czech Republic.“The concept of transforming an AC train into a moving children’s library is, however, the first of its kind in the world,” said Singh.Kolkata has the only existing tramways in India. The Kolkata Tramways have been operating since 1873 when the first tram pulled by horses started operations.The authorities are planning year-long activities for children on-board such as story-telling, poetry sessions, and book launches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/library-for-children-on-tram-to-be-launched-in-kolkata/story-K5Llc3hppTXtPVoJOjXuWP.html
14-11-2020||India||Uneasy calm along LoC day after heavy exchange of fire between India, Pakistan||An uneasy calm settled along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir’s Uri and Gurez on Saturday a day after Indian and Pakistani troops exchanged heavy shelling across the de facto border between the two countries.Eight Indian security personnel and civilians were killed in the shelling. At least eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 injured when the Indian Army retaliated with artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles.Mukthair Ahmad, a resident of Uri’s Garkote, said there has been complete silence along the LoC since Friday night. “No shelling took place in Uri after yesterday [Friday]’s heavy shelling which left four civilians dead and many injured.”Ahmad, who lives close to the LoC, said many shells fell on roads and close to the residential areas. “We live in fear every time now. Do not know when the shells will start raining close to our homes.”Mohammad Jaffer, a resident of Gurez’s Baktoor village, said the shelling stopped on Friday allowing his family to return home from an underground bunker. “The shelling started around 11 am yesterday [Friday] and continued till evening forcing all the people to take shelter in underground bunkers.”Jaffer said it has started snowing, making the tense situation along the LoC particularly difficult for them. “Our area receives heavy snowfall and where will we go along with our families in this harsh winter. People living on both sides of the LoC are facing difficulties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uneasy-calm-along-loc-day-after-securitymen-civilians-killed-in-pak-ceasefire-violation/story-C3EvNWov7xHD0eHpiZJDbJ.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Your sacrifices teach country discipline and sense of service,’ PM Modi tells soldiers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the soldiers at Rajasthan’s Longewala post on the occasion of Diwali. “India is proud of our forces who protect our nation courageously,” PM Modi said.The PM also congratulated the families of the soldiers who are deployed along the border in the festival season. “I bow before the families of the soldiers,” he said.“In 2014, I celebrated Diwali at Siachen. Many people were surprised. But you know me, I am always with my own people during festivals. And I have continued with that tradition even this year,” PM Modi said.Longewala post touches 50 degrees Celsius in summers and plunges below zero in winters, the PM said, but it does not waver our soldiers. “In May, people get sun-struck here. But you people have never shied away from performing your duties,” he said.“Whenever the valour of our soldiers is talked about, Battle of Longewala will be remembered. Our soldiers gave a befitting reply to Pakistani soldiers in that battle,” the PM said. “The Battle of Longewala proved that no one can stand in front of the combined might of Indian forces - Army, Navy and Air Force,” PM Modi said.The Longewala post is a strategic post on the western border where the first major battle of the 1971 war, known as the Battle of Longewala, was fought.PM Modi in his message said that India is safe today only because the country’s forces have the strength to stand up to terrorism and other anti-nation powers, and the forces have proper policial support. “The entire world, especially those countries who promote terrorism, has seen that Indian forces can enter other countries and kill terrorists,” he said.The PM also said that expansionism is a mental disorder and the whole world is troubled by the expansionist force. “Today the whole world is troubled by expansionist forces. Expansionism is, in a way, a mental disorder and reflects 18th-century thinking. India is also becoming a strong voice against this thinking,” he said.PM Modi concluded his speech with three requests. “My first request is, try to create something new. Try to innovate. Second, make sure yoga is a part of your life. And my third request is, learn a language other than your own mother tongue from your colleagues,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-proud-of-our-forces-who-protect-our-nation-courageously-pm-modi-tells-soldiers-in-jaisalmer/story-tAgy2WxsU7XzIVpBLx7wdK.html
14-11-2020||India||Coastal road: BMC pays Rs 150.33 crore for marine biodiversity conservation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is building the coastal road in south Mumbai, has deposited Rs 150.33 crore funds required for the conservation of coastal and marine biodiversity as per specific conditions under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance. BMC, however, has revised the total construction cost and reduced the applicable funds for marine biodiversity conservation by 31%. According to CRZ clearance granted in May 2017, the civic body had to pay 2% (Rs 254 crore) of the total cost of the project (Rs 12,721 crore) to the Mangrove Foundation — an autonomous society that assists the state government in marine conservation — on or before commencement of work in December 2018. “The total project cost computed by the mangrove cell was not correct. The actual project construction cost is Rs 8,429 crore along with some additional costs taking the complete tally to around Rs 8,750 crore. So, as per CRZ condition, all approvals have been received to pay 2% (Rs 175 crore) to the Mangrove Foundation. Of this, Rs 25 crore was paid last year, and now the final fund transfer of Rs 150 crore is underway,” said a senior BMC official in-charge of the project, requesting anonymity. Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) and executive director, Mangrove Foundation, said, “We have received an official intimation from BMC that they have processed Rs 150.33 crore. The funds will be kept in fixed deposits as per the Foundation’s mandate. The interest earned will be utilised for improving coastal and marine biodiversity of Mumbai and Thane regions, research projects, and to build awareness among citizens.” The 9.9-km-long road aims to connect Princess Street flyover in south Mumbai to the Worli-end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link and cut short travel time between south Mumbai and western suburbs by 70%. The submission of funds comes after a delay of two years. HT had, on November 3, reported that Tiwari had requested the environment department to ensure that conditions under CRZ clearance are complied with before considering fresh amendments proposed by BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coastal-road-bmc-pays-rs-150-33-crore-for-marine-biodiversity-conservation/story-XfVwFYr7ic8jZOvtJYYo1K.html
14-11-2020||India||Indian troops hold positions at LAC in Ladakh braving PLA and polar temperatures||It snowed last night in Daulet Beg Oldi sector and the temperature all along the 1,597-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh has plummeted below zero with fierce wind bringing down the chill factor.In spite of the elements, the Indian Army troops have not budged an inch from their positions at all the friction areas and are standing up to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) since May this year. There is no change in troop position or Indian armour on ground even as some reports have speculated that both India and China have decided to de-escalate and disengage troops with no patrolling zones at friction points. India and China have completed eight rounds of talks on disengagement and de-escalation with tangible results still not in sight.Undeterred by the inclement weather, the Indian troops are packed up in snow tents and igloos with the adversary living it out in containers across the LAC. With the Indian Army fully deployed on the LAC along with specialized forces, the Border Roads Organization has decided to keep all the high mountain passes - Marsimika La (18314 feet near Hot Springs), Chang La (17585 feet on road to Pangong Tso) and Khardung La (17582 feet, on road to DBO) - open for army movement throughout the winter.“All the reports about agreed step by step disengagement and de-escalation are speculative as the negotiations are still on at the military commanders level. There is no change in any position on ground with Indian troops high on morale and ready to face challenges posed by the PLA and the deteriorating weather,” said a top military commander.A former Army Chief and a top diplomat both concurred by saying that breakthrough on the LAC will not be achieved easily as both sides are testing each other’s capability and capacity to stand up against the weather. “ It is a staring game. The first one who blinks will lose,” said a former army chief.The PLA troops are also packed up on their side of the LAC and holding their positions at Gogra-Hot Springs, North Pangong Tso and on South Pangong Tso with accretion of troops across the DBO sector. According to available inputs, the Chinese are in strength at the base camp in the Galwan sector and at the friction point at finger four on Pangong Tso with continued rotation of troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-troops-hold-positions-at-lac-in-ladakh-braving-pla-and-polar-temperatures/story-GwI12EopXiheomax6UVXgP.html
14-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt looks to crack down on staffers with fake certificates||The Chhattisgarh government has started a process for sacking government officials, who allegedly got their jobs on the basis of fake caste certificates.The state’s general administration department said a high-level panel constituted to look into the matter submitted a report last week and highlighted 926 cases of fake caste certificates from 2000 to 2020. “Out of these 926 cases, 659 cases were resolved after investigation, and in the remaining 267 cases, the certificates were found fake between 2000 to 2020. In the last two years, 75 cases have been found to be fake,” the panel said in its report. General administration department secretary DD Singh said they have the list of officials, who got their jobs on the basis of fake certificates, and action in these cases has started. “We have started a review of these cases and action will be initiated,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-looks-to-crack-down-on-staffers-with-fake-certificates/story-CFpmN805hT9PfQxsZCKMnN.html
14-11-2020||India||BJP chief JP Nadda begins preparing for 2024 polls, to go on 100 days nationwide tour||National president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), JP Nadda is set to tour the country to strengthen the organisation with an aim to begin preparing for 2024 general elections.Nadda, not resting on the laurels of a big victory, would soon be undertaking a 100 day ‘Rashtriya Vistrit Pravas’ throughout the country. He has further divided days of his stay in a state to work on devising a strategy for 2024 general elections. One of the objectives would be to work on seats that were not won by the party in 2019 and also on how to win those seats in 2024 has been listed as one of the crucial aspects of the trip BJP chief would undertake soon. Nadda, who has been praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for winning Bihar polls, would be meeting party’s public representatives, debating and discussing new possible coalitions, improving state governments image, interacting with various influencial groups, bringing clarity on the party’s ideology in the cadre and initiating dialogue with senior functionaries of the party and coalition partners in the states.“To include teams in the decision making process and targets thereof, to give a detailed report on party related activities and to bring uniformity in various activities and to expand the footprints of the party with an objective of making country Supreme,” a highly placed source said.Taking Covid-19 spread into consideration, during his tour in various states, a request has been made not to gather more than 200 persons in a big hall. “There should be temperature checking machine, sanitiser and compulsory face mask instructions in place and there should be no programe of gifting shawl, garlands in the stage. Every aspect of the meeting should be well documented,” stated a highly placed source. The states too have been categorized in A, B, C and D categories. Category A are the states where BJP is in government or is a principal coalition partner like Nagaland, Bihar, Karnataka, Tripura, etc.Category ‘B’ pertains to those states where BJP is not in power like Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Odisha.Category ‘C’ pertains to small states like Lakshadweep, Meghalaya and Mizoram and Category D is for election-bound states like Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, Pudducherry and Tamil Nadu. Except for Uttar Pradesh, Nadda will stay in the category ‘C’ states for 2 days as for categories A and B are concerned, the national president will stay for 3 days. In UP, the national president will be doing pravas for 8 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-begins-preparing-for-2024-polls-to-go-on-100-days-nationwide-tour/story-WdQK3AuxdrKs7KzXM6MRVN.html
14-11-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata, Prashant Kishor strategise to control rebel TMC minister||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her election strategist Prashant Kishor are trying to control rebel party heavyweight and transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and his aides in the districts through talks and pressure tactics. Their efforts showed some apparent signs of success on Friday evening when the minister did not make controversial statements at the public programmes he attended. Earlier this week, senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders told HT on condition of anonymity that Adhikari is unhappy with Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor for making recent organizational changes and wants the party to field candidates of his choice at 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. Assembly polls in Bengal are due in about six months. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, has said that its doors are open for Adhikari if he is serious about switching sides. Many TMC leaders joined the BJP before and after the polls. Like some of them, the transport minister is also named in the CBI’s FIR in the Narada sting operation case. Kishor, who was roped in by Banerjee after the Lok Sabha poll debacle, drove down from Kolkata to Adhikari’s home at Kanthi in East Midnapore district on Thursday evening. The minister, who threw a veiled challenge at the TMC from a huge rally on Tuesday, was not present at home. Kishor talked for more than two hours with his father Sisir Adhikari, the TMC’s most senior Lok Sabha member who represents the Kanthi constituency. TMC leaders aware of the development said Kishor conveyed to Adhikari that the leadership might consider discussing the minister’s demand for assembly poll tickets for some of his followers if he stops acting against the party. In a parallel move, the chief minister called up district leaders and said nobody should make any statement against Adhikari or his family. Suvendu Adhikari’s brother Dibyendu is the Lok Sabha member from Tamluk while Soumendu, the youngest of the three siblings, is chairman of the Kanthi municipality. The strategy apparently paid off within 24 hours. Adhikari did not say a word against the TMC while addressing people at the inauguration of some community Kali Pujas in Bankura district on Friday evening. The minister’s followers, however, had put up posters in his support in Bankura town. Similar posters, displaying Adhikari’s image sans any mention of the TMC, have appeared in several districts of south and north Bengal since last month. “Kishor had a talk with Suvendu’s father. The differences, if any, will be sorted out,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. Suvendu Adhikari avoided the media. The rift in the TMC came out in the open on Tuesday when the transport minister addressed a rally held by his supporters at Nandigram in East Midnapore in memory of party workers killed 13 years ago in a violent land agitation that helped Banerjee oust the Left Front government. There was not a single TMC flag or photograph of Banerjee at the venue. This made the leadership angry and urban development minister Firhad Hakim rushed to Nandigram the same day to address a counter rally. He referred to Adhikari as a traitor without taking his name.“Journalists and political observers are waiting for me to announce my political programme. They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this sacred platform. I will speak from a political platform. I am not afraid of anyone. We will meet on the battlefield,” Adhikari said at Tuesday’s rally. Leaving food for thought, he ended his short speech with the slogan “Bharat Mata Zindabad,” (long live motherland) which appeared to be an improvisation of the Hindi slogan BJP leaders raise. TMC leaders, including Banerjee, end their speech by saying “Jai Bangla” (victory for Bengal). Interestingly, Adhikari said this as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-prashant-kishor-strategise-to-control-rebel-tmc-minister/story-1uZUWcoyZcEtLEF946ANfO.html
14-11-2020||India||Crocodile with fish hook stuck in mouth rescued in Uttar Pradesh||A Mugger crocodile with a fish hook stuck in its mouth has been rescued from a village pond in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad and released into River Chambal after medical treatment.Officials said members of Wildlife SOS and the Uttar Pradesh forest department personnel rushed to help the crocodile after receiving a call from the regional forest officer.The crocodile was rushed to the Wildlife SOS hospital in Agra, where an X-ray revealed that the fish hook was approximately three cm long and stuck in the crocodile’s jaw.Wildlife SOS deputy director (veterinary services) Ilayaraja said the crocodile was in pain and could have even starved to death. “We had to surgically remove the hook followed by post-operative care and laser therapy.”Wildlife SOS CEO Kartick Satyanarayan said the rescue was challenging as it was night time and they had to use safety nets instead of a trap cage to rescue the large crocodile. “We are very grateful to the Uttar Pradesh forest department for helping us coordinate such a seamless rescue.”Regional forest officer Tulsiram Dohare said, “We are thankful to the Wildlife SOS team for their expert assistance in conducting such sensitive rescue and release missions.”The Mugger crocodiles are commonly found in freshwaters and are listed as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List and protected under the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/croc-with-fish-hook-embedded-in-mouth-rescued/story-ZUJxRVk4ZarMfxMSXCPHFM.html
14-11-2020||India||India records 44,684 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 8.77 million||On Saturday, India recorded 44,684 new cases of the coronavirus disease, which pushed the nationwide tally to 8,773,479, according to Union health ministry.The number of active cases are 480,719, while 81,635,72 patients have been discharged from hospitals, the health ministry data showed at 8 am.India also reported 520 fresh fatalities due to the disease which took the death toll to 129,188.The health ministry had said on Friday that India’s active Covid-19 cases remained below five lakh, or 5.55 per cent of the total caseload. This has been made possible by the trend of Covid-19 recoveries exceeding new cases, which has ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload, it underlined.The ministry also said that the recovery rate has reached 92.97 per cent. It further said that 77.83 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories.Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Friday announced that it will set up a global centre for traditional medicine in India. The announcement was made by WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus through a video message.“This new centre will support WHO’s efforts to implement the WHO traditional medicine strategy 2014-2023 which aims to support countries in developing policies and action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine as part of their journey to universal health coverage and a healthier, fairer and safer world,” said Ghebreyesus.The WHO chief also lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his commitment to the universal coverage under Ayushman Bharat and evidence-based promotion of traditional medicines to achieve health related objectives.PM Modi hailed the announcement and expressed confidence that just like the country has emerged as the ‘pharmacy of the world’, the WHO institution will become a centre for global wellness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-44-684-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-up-to-8-77-million/story-Gyf8O3fYR10XqeqILP8EYP.html
14-11-2020||India||PM Modi reaches Rajasthan’s Longewala post to celebrate Diwali with soldiers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Longewala post at Rajasthan border on Saturday morning to celebrate Diwali with soldiers. PM Modi has been spending the day with soldiers since 2014, the year he first became came to power.Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General MM Naravane and Border Security Force (BSF) DG Rakesh Asthana are also accompanying the PM.Earlier in the day, PM Modi tweeted his greeting to the nation and wished for the festival to bring ‘brightness and happiness’ in the lives of people. “Wishing everyone a Happy Diwali! May this festival further brightness and happiness. May everyone be prosperous and healthy,” PM Modi tweeted.On Friday, the PM shared a clipping from his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, delivered last on October 25, in which he urged every citizen to light a diya as a as a salute to soldiers who “fearlessly protect our nation”.“This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders,” he tweeted.In 2019, PM Modi visited the “Hall of Fame” in Rajouri and the Pathankot Airbase. In 2018, he visited Kedarnathand and inspected a military post on the India-China border and in 2017, he visited Gurez sector of north Kashmir. He spent his Diwali with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police in Himachal Pradesh in 2016 and in 2015, he visited the Punjab border.The Longewala post is a strategic post on the western border where the first major battle of the 1971 war, known as the Battle of Longewala, was fought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-rajasthan-s-longewala-post-to-celebrate-diwali-with-soldiers/story-HJOmEcMkjwUiI4OwUTlHIJ.html
14-11-2020||India||From Holi to Diwali, how Covid-19 and lockdown impacted India||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has brought the world to a halt. The year 2020 has seen millions getting affected across the globe by the disease which originated in China late last year.In India too, Covid-19 wreaked havoc and affected normal lives of the people. Most of the festivals in the country were observed under lockdown.It started in March this year, when the first phase of the lockdown was imposed by the Centre to check the spread of the disease. Though the festival of Holi was celebrated weeks before the nationwide lockdown was announced (on March 9), the entire country had started to feel the impact of the coronavirus disease.Many events in national capital Delhi were cancelled in March as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 47. Delhi has been in severe grip of the pandemic till now, and has been witnessing a record spike in the number of daily cases. The national capital’s tally has now reached 4,74,830.The spike has been particularly pronounced due to the festive season. In the week ending October 25, when the city held muted Dussehra celebrations, there were an average of 3,663 cases every day. As on Thursday, this number rose to 7,196.In comparison, the number was 2,627 in the first week of October.Till March 10, 1,10,000 people worldwide had been infected with Covid-19. But the situation started deteriorating rapidly and the global tally reached a million. India too imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 - initially for 21 days - and kept increasing it due to the grim situation. The lockdown remained in place for 75 days.During this period, movement was restricted, planes grounded and trains stopped. It led to a crisis; people who wanted to go to their native places, were stuck. Due to the immediate curbs, the country saw massive movement of migrant labourers from metro cities to their native places. They walked miles on foot; the ordeal to reach their hometowns lasted many days.All this happened because many economic activities came to a grinding halt due to the lockdown, and thousands lost jobs. Restaurants, schools, shopping malls and places of worship were shut down too.Along with the curbs that were put in place, the government also started increasing the testing for Covid-19 to determine the spread of the disease. Soon, the number started swelling, and different symptoms started appearing in infected people. Not just lungs, doctors found out that the Sars-CoV-2 virus, responsible for the disease, affected other internal organs too.The situation turned grim, the curbs more stringent. The race to find a vaccine too began.India saw the first relaxation in curbs in the month of June when Unlock 1.0 kicked in. The government allowed opening of hotels, temples, mosques and other religious places from June 8 but laid down protocols to be followed before letting people in. In the containment zones, which had increased since the outbreak was first reported, no relaxation was given.In the following months, the government ordered phase-wise opening of different sectors of the economy, to help people and businesses but strict measures remained in place in the containment zone.Though the situation has improved, and the country is past the peak of the disease, the vigil is on. Depite relaxations, the government is constantly monitoring the situation. On Diwali too, there are restrictions in place and authorities have urged people to avoid going to crowded places where the fear of catching infection looms large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-holi-to-diwali-how-covid-19-and-lockdown-impacted-india/story-GmLvrnXQp9OUzYPIRyGncK.html
14-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi greets nation on Diwali, hopes for ‘brightness and happiness’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi greets nation on Diwali, hopes for ‘brightness and happiness’Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Diwali and wished for the festival to bring ‘brightness and happiness’. Most parts of India celebrate the festival of lights on Saturday. Read more.Covid-19: Deaths, cases breaking global recordsThe latest wave of Covid-19 infections in the US and Europe has been pushing the seven-day average of new infection numbers to record levels through the past month. Now, the global death trajectory too has seen a sharp rise — it’s still nowhere near peaks seen during the first wave in the US and Europe in individual European countries, but with more countries around the world affected now (as compared to March, April, and May), the overall number of deaths has increased. Read more.Joe Biden, set to take over as US President in Jan 2021, tweets urgent action needed on Covid-19Amid the surge in coronavirus (Covid-19) infections in the United States, President-elect Joe Biden tweeted that urgent action is needed now by the current administration as he would take over next year. Read more.National Children’s Day 2020: History, significance and celebrations for the day dedicated to childrenChildren are the foundation upon which the future of the human race stands. Their well-being and growth ensure the growth of all humanity collectively. The legacy that we work towards building is all in the hope that one day future generations might reap the benefits of it. Read more.‘That’s what I am going to do’: Devdutt Padikkal talks about the advice he received from Virat KohliRoyal Challengers Bangalore may not have succeeded in the mission to win the Indian Premier League 2020 trophy, but if there is one positive they can take from the season, it is the rise of 20-year-old batsman Devdutt Padikkal, who left fans and cricket experts impressed with his talent. Read more.Watch: Arjun Rampal grilled by NCB for 7 hours in drug-related caseBollywood actor Arjun Rampal was questioned by NCB for over seven hours. The actor was questioned in a drug-related probe on Friday. The actor reached the office in Ballard estate at 11 in the morning. Watch video.Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max, iPhone 12 mini go on sale in IndiaApple iPhone 12 mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max are now available to purchase in India, and globally. iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro went on sale first late last month and with the two new models added the iPhone 12 series is complete now. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-greets-nation-on-diwali-hopes-for-brightness-and-happiness-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ndyh98JJeVy8fOT0ah2XDM.html
14-11-2020||India||‘Very poor’ tag for Delhi’s air as IMD predicts foggy Diwali||Delhi’s air remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday morning despite an increase in pollution levels. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Air Quality Index (AQI) at 6.00 am on Saturday was 364. On Friday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 339.Pollution levels are expected to rise over the weekend and may improve after the passage of a western disturbance, causing rain over parts of north India after November 15, according to an official forecast.The AQI was in the ‘severe’ zone for six days, starting November 5. Delhi got minor relief on Wednesday and Thursday, when the AQI improved to the ‘very poor’ category after winds shifted direction, blowing in from the east.ALSO READ | Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate later todayKuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the average wind speed on Friday was around 8kmph, which led to an increase in the pollution levels. He said from Diwali afternoon, the wind speed will dip to nearly 6 kmph.“From Diwali evening (Saturday), the air quality is likely to start deteriorating. However, from Sunday night, the wind direction is expected to change again to easterly and there is a possibility of light rain. The pollution particles stick to the moisture in the air and settle closer to the ground, making the air quality worse,” Srivastava said.The IMD forecast said from Monday, the wind speed is likely to improve, which again could improve the air quality.ALSO READ | ‘Bad air leading to Covid-19 spike; respite soon’: Arvind KejriwalMeanwhile, IMD has predicted a foggy Diwali morning and a cloudy day on Saturday. The minimum temperature is likely to be at around 12 degree Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to be around 30 degree Celsius. On Friday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 12.3 degree Celsius – one degree below normal. The maximum temperature was 29.7 degree Celsius – one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-poor-tag-for-delhi-s-air-as-imd-predicts-foggy-diwali/story-vv9HrwwWeX3gMHeSgAiCmK.html
14-11-2020||India||41 trains cancelled, 11 short terminated due to farmers’ agitation in Punjab: Northern Railway||Forty-one trains have been cancelled while eleven trains short terminated in view of farmers’ agitation in Punjab, according to a release by Northern Railway.Mostly, trains on the New Delhi-Katra route have been affected.Farmers in Punjab have been protesting against the three agriculture laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- since they were passed by the Parliament.The railways ministry had earlier said that it has continued to lose revenue as Freight operations remain forcibly suspended due to tracks blockages in Punjab.Recently, Punjab Assembly had passed a resolution rejecting three farm laws enacted by the central government with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh later leading a delegation to Governor VP Singh Badnore urging him to give his assent to three bills by the assembly.On November 4, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh staged a ‘dharna’ at Jantar Mantar in Delhi over the issue of suspension of goods railways services in Punjab since September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-trains-cancelled-11-short-terminated-due-to-farmers-agitation-in-punjab-northern-railway/story-W0ocZGTHEHCLyAsZVttewO.html
14-11-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Jawaharlal Nehru on his 131st birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his 131st birth anniversary. “My humble tribute to the country’s first Prime Minister Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary,” Modi tweeted. Nehru was born on November 14, 1889, in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj. He breathed his last on May 27, 1964.He became the prime minister on August 15, 1947, following an active role in the freedom struggle of the country.In India, Children’s Day is celebrated on November 14 every year as a mark of respect to Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of independent India.Nehru was fondly called ‘Chacha Nehru’ and was known for emphasising the importance of giving love and affection to children.After the death of Nehru, it was unanimously decided to celebrate his birthday as ‘Bal Diwas’ or Children’s Day in India.On this day, a number of activities are organised for students in schools nationwide such as games, competitions, and so on, while government bodies pay tributes to the late prime minister and organise commemorative events on this day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-his-131st-birth-anniversary/story-xUvJIyTBkxDMR8BGhpNGBM.html
14-11-2020||India||PM Modi greets nation on Diwali, hopes for ‘brightness and happiness’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Diwali and wished for the festival to bring ‘brightness and happiness’. Most parts of India celebrate the festival of lights on Saturday.“Wishing everyone a Happy Diwali! May this festival further brightness and happiness. May everyone be prosperous and healthy,” PM Modi tweeted. सभी देशवासियों को दीपावली की हार्दिक मंगलकामनाएं।Wishing everyone a Happy Diwali! May this festival further brightness and happiness. May everyone be prosperous and healthy.On Friday, he shared a clipping from his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat in which he urged every household to light a diya as a sign of respect for the soldiers who “fearlessly protect our nation”. This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders. pic.twitter.com/UAKqPLvKR8“This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders,” he tweeted.Continuing the tradition of spending Diwali with soldiers, PM Modi is likely to travel to Jaisalmer to celebrate the festival with soldiers on the Western border. The PM has been spending the day with soldiers since 2014, the year he was first elected as the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hopes-for-brightness-and-happiness-in-diwali-greetings-to-the-nation/story-lmDfLFCMV2LVgOVMfwju3O.html
14-11-2020||India||East Asia Summit set to focus on pandemic, economic recovery||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will represent India at the East Asia Summit on November 14, with leaders of the 18-member grouping that includes China and the US, expected to focus on the pandemic and economic recovery.This will be the second time this week that the top leadership of India and China will be on the same virtual platform. Prime Minister Narendra Modi used his participation in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit on Tuesday to make an indirect reference to Chinese infrastructure projects by saying SCO members should respect sovereignty and territorial integrity while implementing connectivity initiatives.The East Asia Summit, which brings together the 10 members of the Association for Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) will discuss ways to strengthen the platform and make it more responsive to emerging challenges.The leaders will also exchange views on global and regional issues, including the pandemic and cooperation among EAS members to achieve speedy and sustainable economic recovery.“EAS is the only leaders-led forum of its kind that brings the US, China, Russia, India, South Korea and Australia together on one platform. It allows members to focus on strategic issues in the Indo-Pacific and serves as a mechanism to reinforce adherence to international norms and rules,” said a person who didn’t want to be named.The external affairs ministry said India believes Asean-led frameworks, of which EAS is an important part, are at the core of the regional security architecture and need to be strengthened further.The virtual East Asia Summit, being held on the margins of the Asean Summit, will be chaired by Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc. Vietnam is the current chair of Asean.India is a founding member of EAS, which was established in 2005. “India also sees EAS as a logical platform to promote a free, open, inclusive, transparent, rules-based, peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” said the person cited above.At the last East Asia Summit in Bangkok in November 2019, Modi had unveiled India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI), which is aimed at forging partnerships to create a secure and stable maritime domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/east-asia-summit-set-to-focus-on-pandemic-economic-recovery/story-qXarJ1tzVDCJUSXTgmItMK.html
14-11-2020||India||Inside the operation to restore the Peshawar homes of superstars Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor||Tucked away near the centuries-old Storytellers’ Bazaar, the decaying Pakistani mansions once home to Bollywood superstars are being brought back to life as Peshawar emerges from years of Islamist militancy.The ancestral homes of Golden Age heroes Raj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar in the northwestern city are symbols of its link to the world’s largest film industry, but have suffered from decades of neglect.The region’s archaeology team says it is close to wresting the more than 100-year-old buildings, located in the heart of the historic walled city, from their private owners so they can be restored and turned into museums.“I always feel sad and angry while looking at Kapoor’s house, that it once was a beautiful mansion of top quality,” said Samiuddin Khan, who remembers running through the 40-room abandoned house as a child and flying kites from the rooftop.“It was extremely beautiful inside. The structure is still intact but some walls have collapsed and much of the wood has been damaged.”Once an architectural wonder, the family home of Kapoor, who died aged 63 in 1988, is influenced by Mughal empire, Central Asian and British colonial design, featuring ornately carved doors and balconies and gothic-style windows.Kumar lived in a simpler home down a small lane in a busy market, its entrance faded and its roofless interior heavily damaged.The actors grew up in a quarter that is home to the fabled Qissa Khwani (“Storytellers’“) Bazaar where travellers would share tales of their adventures.Kumar, who is now 97, has credited his successful career to his early life in the neighbourhood, where he first learned to narrate.But like many emerging actors, the pair were enticed away from Peshawar to India’s entertainment centre Bombay, now Mumbai, in the years before the partition of British-ruled India.The pair even starred alongside each other at the beginning of their careers, in the 1949 hit “Andaz”.“This is our cultural heritage and we take pride in preserving it. We are very proud that Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor were from Peshawar,” said Abdul Samad, director of archaeology and museums in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province -- of which Peshawar is the capital.Present-day Indian superstar Shah Rukh Khan, known as the King of Bollywood, also has links to the area but his family home which is still in use has not suffered the same decline.Across the country, hundreds of pre-partition buildings have been left to ruin or been demolished over the years.Many had been built by Hindus and Sikhs who left them behind when they fled newly founded Muslim-majority Pakistan for India, archaeology experts say.- Heritage treasure trove -Peshawar suffered a huge knock-back to its cultural standing after becoming a hotbed of Islamist extremist violence from the 1980s onwards, bringing an end to the golden era of Pashto-language cinema in the region, known as Pollywood.Militant groups, including the Pakistani Taliban, bombed at least three cinemas and more than 100 music shops before a military crackdown near the border with Afghanistan in 2015 resulted in drastic improvements in security.As the city revives, more than 1,800 heritage buildings with traditional features have been identified for preservation by the province’s archaeology team, but impoverished Pakistan will need years to arrange the finances required to their purchase and restoration.“If a proper archaeological survey was conducted, we would discover a cultural site almost every kilometre,” said archaeological director Samad about Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.There are hurdles still to overcome in saving the Kapoor mansion too.Its owner Hajji Ali Qadir told AFP he would take the authorities to court if they did not pay him at least two billion rupees ($12.5 million).“I told them that it’s an antique and the price for an antique is multiplied 10 times,” he said. “We will get more money if we build a plaza here.”The archaeology department has said it will use legal powers if needed to purchase the Kapoor and Kumar homes with taxpayer money, for a figure still to be determined by the province’s financial authorities.Bollywood movies and their leading actors are loved by Pakistanis, despite the country’s contempt for its rival neighbour to the east.Millions bypass bans on Indian films in cinemas and on television by watching them on YouTube or pirated DVDs.“We felt proud and held our heads high while watching the actors from Peshawar performing in Indian movies, that this land has produced such great actors who proved their worth in Mumbai,” Khalo Khalil Sarhadi, an 80-year-old resident of Peshawar, told AFP.“Now the new generation will know how Peshawar has produced big stars and actors, those who have given an identity to Pakistan and India,” he said of the museum projects.sjd-ecl/wat/qan/kma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inside-the-operation-to-restore-the-peshawar-homes-of-superstars-dilip-kumar-raj-kapoor/story-HfLF5HVB1p1phnqhYSW2DK.html
14-11-2020||India||Govt eases norms for thermal power plants, allows coal to be sourced, moved without fresh approvals||The Union environment ministry has relaxed norms for the coal mining sector and thermal power stations, allowing thermal plants to change their source of coal irrespective of its ash content or mode of transport from the source.This means that coal will be allowed to be transported by trucks covered with tarpaulin sheets, even if the source of the raw material is located a long distance away.The change was made in an office memorandum issued by the ministry on November 11, and comes after demands by thermal power plants, who said that the constraints were leading to delays in obtaining coal from new domestic sources. “All the thermal power plants having environmental clearance can change the coal source (from imported to domestic, domestic to domestic and domestic to imported) including lignite through e-auctions, short-term linkage, long-term linkage other linkage options of the ministry of coal or any organisation recognised for allotting coal linkages without seeking the amendment in environmental clearance...,” the order, reviewed by HT, states. Environment activists, however, said the move could lead to a spike in pollution because there will be no oversight of how changing the source of coal would impact the environment. Under the environment impact assessment notification 2006, any change in the sourcing of coal required thermal power plants to seek an amendment in the environmental clearance (EC) granted to them. This would mean that environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee would reassess the project based on the new source. This was to ensure that the transportation and use of coal was monitored in order to ensure emissions is low. Every EC usually stipulates transport mode, which was rail/conveyor belt. The new rules state that no amendment will be required in the EC granted to the plant, even if the source of coal, and consequently, its distance from the thermal power plant changes. Details regarding the location of the coal source; quantity; quality which includes (ash, sulphur, moisture content and calorific value); distance and mode of transportation, will only have to be informed to the environment ministry and its regional office.About transportation, the office memorandum advises thermal power plants that, as far as possible, transportation should be done by rail or conveyor belt or other environment friendly modes. But road transportation of coal will be allowed in tarpaulin covered trucks, till railway or conveyor belt infrastructure is made available. There is no deadline about when this infra will be ready.“The EC is granted based on a specific source of coal and distance from the mine. Any change in source required an amendment in EC as conditions for appraisal change. Now we have done away with the need for that amendment,” said a senior environment ministry official.“We had asked the ministry a couple of times about the need to simplify these norms. This is for a simple reason. Mines keep changing. Every time there is a change in the mine location, there is unnecessary delay in amending the EC,” said Ashok Khurana, director general of the Association of Power Producers. Experts have warned that this could lead to air pollution, damage of roads in many areas through which coal will be transported and it weakens the environment appraisal process for thermal power plants.“The flexibility to change the source or coal or indefinitely using road transportation even as mandatory rail lines or conveyor belts are being put into place can be seen as part of the pool of exemptions and incentives being given to the mining projects. In effect, the ministry has replaced rule of law with flexibility of law that is to only suit the requirement of mining and coal power projects,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research. “This no holds barred approach has serious implications for places and people where these decisions will be operationalised. Coal transportation will be carried out on public roads or village roads, none of which was in the original plans,” she said. “The ash content requirements for sourcing of coal were watered down earlier. So we are not being vigilant about the quality of coal. If coal is dirty and emission control equipment is not installed as per norms, then emissions will be high,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eases-norms-for-thermal-power-plants-allows-coal-to-be-sourced-moved-without-fresh-approvals/story-rXuP2PWEskjEtCN2qkhLNL.html
14-11-2020||India||Farm groups lay down demands as talks begin||Representatives of farmers from Punjab who are protesting a set of laws enacted to liberalise the farm sector held talks on Friday with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal, but the seven-hour-long negotiations did not result in any breakthrough ahead of a planned march to the national capital on November 26 by thousands of cultivators.Food bowl Punjab is at the centre stage of a farmers’ agitation against three laws enacted on September 24 that open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population.Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey on November 10 invited leaders of at least 30 farmers’ bodies, including constituents of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKCC), an umbrella platform spearheading the protests, for talks with the two ministers, in an attempt to end a politically challenging farmers’ uprising. People familiar with the developments said that, at the meeting, held at Vigyan Bhawan, participating farm leaders demanded an outright repeal of the three laws and a roll-back of the reforms; a legislation guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSP); the resumption of goods train services in Punjab; the pending Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 be sent to a select committee; and the repeal of an air pollution ordinance for the national Capital that aims to crack down on farm stubble fires.A government statement at the end of the talks stated that “various issues related to farmers’ welfare were discussed at length and the talks were held in a cordial atmosphere with both sides agreeing to continue to hold further discussions”.AIKCC said Friday’s talks were “inconclusive” and the government offered no “concrete assurances” but talks could continue in future. “There was no agreement on any issue. We made it clear that we want the three laws repealed. We told them that farmers don’t want these laws because they are meant to benefit businesses rather than farmers,” said Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, a participant. Pal’s organisation is a constituent of AIKSCC. The three laws farmers are protesting, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s MSP system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The three legislations are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, which Parliament cleared in September. The delegation sought a legislation guaranteeing MSP and procurement, which refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at federally determined assured prices. “The government did its best to address a key fear of the farmers’ delegation that the MSP system will be weakened. The assumption that MSP could be withdrawn is simply not correct,” a farm ministry official said, requesting anonymity. There were two rounds of discussion on this issue. The government presented farmers with procurement data, which showed that support prices for rice under the Modi government had increased 43% between 2013-14 and 2020-21, and foodgrain quantity procured had gone up 109% in the same period. “Since the government assured us that MSP would continue, we repeatedly asked what is the problem in bringing a law to guarantee it. The ministers evaded this question,” Pal said. “We also asked rail minister Piyush Goyal to resume goods train services in Punjab and not punish the state since we have vacated stations, trains and even platforms but the minister sought a guarantee that we will allow passenger train movement too, which we didn’t agree,” he added. Farmers in the state have blocked rail tracks and road transport as part of their protests. “We have said please don’t demand of us that we concede and give in writing to allow passenger train movement too as a pre-condition, which is basically like asking us to call off the agitation itself,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of AIKSCC. The delegation demanded that the government refer the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, currently awaiting Parliament’s approval, to a select committee. Farmers have opposed a key provision of the bill, which provides for a direct-benefit-transfer mechanism for transferring power subsidy directly in cash to eligible consumers, including farmers, a major recipient of subsidised power. The farmers also sought a repeal of an ordinance passed by on October 29 to tackle air pollution, called The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, 2020 because it “seeks to unfairly penalise farmers for crop-residue burning”, said another participant Balbir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal faction). “We demanded that all intellectuals arrested by the government should be freed. There are court cases against farmers too, which should be withdrawn,” Pal added. Friday’s talks appear to be an attempt by the government to be accommodative of a precondition set by farm leaders that any talks must happen in the presence of Union ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-groups-lay-down-demands-as-talks-begin/story-T19mtKXk5TVBZszNQAqtIM.html
14-11-2020||India||Lotus, peacock motifs to adorn new Parliament building||Indian Parliament’s new building, to which it is expected to move in 2022, will come not just with more space and facilities but also a distinctly Indian touch, built around symbols associated with the country. There are plans to incorporate the peacock and the lotus, India’s national bird and flower, into motifs and murals, and the complex will have a real banyan tree (the country’s national tree), said officials familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. The existing circular building, completed in 1927, is most famous for its 144 columns but it too has some recognisable Indian touches. The use of fountains both inside and outside the building, Indian-style balconies and marble lattice screens. ‘Iconic structure’ planned near Yamuna as part of Central Vista projectThe new building, to be constructed right in front of the existing one, will use the motifs in a contemporary way, the officials said. “One House will have lotus motifs while the other House will see peacock inspired bas-relief. There will be no Central Hall but a central lounge will be available to MPs for socialising,” said one of the officials.The construction of a new Parliament building is part of the larger Central Vista development plan the NDA government has embarked on, which will see the construction of a new secretariat to house government offices, and of new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. The current Parliament building is inadequate to allow for any expansion in the size of the houses — an exercise that is expected to begin around 2025-26 so as to make the houses more representative.Central Vista redevelopment: Contractors will need to curb air, noise pollutionThe cost of the Central Vista project is projected to be Rs 20,000 crore, with the Parliament building estimated to cost Rs 861 crore. The entire project is scheduled to be completed by 2024, while the new Parliament building is expected to be constructed by 2022. The new Parliament building will also have around 90 offices to accommodate all ministers. “There will be several dining halls including an exclusive dining hall for MPs and another one for VVIPs,” said an official. But before the new edifice gets functional, the existing Parliament complex will see some key changes. The Gandhi statue in front of the main gate — the favourite spot for Opposition MPs to protest — will be temporarily shifted as it falls right in the middle of the construction site. Similarly, two other statues — those of Motilal Nehru and Devi Lal — will be temporarily relocated to make space for construction, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lotus-peacock-motifs-to-adorn-new-parliament-building/story-lelgyJ6pEOB9udqxG2YSFI.html
14-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Deaths, cases breaking global records||The latest wave of Covid-19 infections in the US and Europe has been pushing the seven-day average of new infection numbers to record levels through the past month. Now, the global death trajectory too has seen a sharp rise — it’s still nowhere near peaks seen during the first wave in the US and Europe in individual European countries, but with more countries around the world affected now (as compared to March, April, and May), the overall number of deaths has increased.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageOver the past week, daily deaths have surpassed the previous peak witnessed in early April. This means that more people are dying from Covid-19 across the world every day now than ever before in the 11 months since the virus was first reported in eastern China’s Wuhan. And even in countries such as France, the UK, and Italy, the numbers are climbing sharply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-cases-breaking-global-records/story-0MAk8SEGRu053bhsQARSfM.html
14-11-2020||India||India hits Pak targets after shelling at LOC||At least eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 injured on Friday after the Indian Army targeted Pakistani positions across the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir with artillery guns and anti-tank guided missiles in response to heavy shelling by the neighbouring army in which eight Indians — four security personnel and four civilians — lost their lives, people familiar with the developments said.Pakistani ammunition dumps, fuel dumps, and terror launch pads were among the targets destroyed by the Indian Army, they added.The heavy exchange of fire — triggered by ceasefire violations by the Pakistani army in multiple sectors on the eve of Diwali — has turned the spotlight on the LoC at a time when Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a border dispute along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive Ladakh sector, where a disengagement plan is under discussion but has made no significant progress so far.Three Indian soldiers, a Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector, and four civilians including a woman and a seven-year-old boy, were killed in Pakistani shelling in Uri, Naugam, Keran and Gurez sectors in north Kashmir, the officials said, asking not to be identified. Three Indian soldiers were injured.The Pakistani casualties include at least two Special Service Group commandos, they said.The Indian Army blamed Pakistan for unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC spread across multiple sectors including Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam. Pakistan used mortars and other weapons,” said Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia. He added that the neighbouring army deliberately targeted civilian areas.“Our troops retaliated strongly causing casualties and substantial damage to Pakistan army’s infrastructure across the LoC. Several ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and multiple terrorist launch pads have been damaged,” Kalia said.The Pakistani army began shelling Indian positions after the Indian Army foiled a major infiltration attempt in the Keran sector, the officials said. There has been a significant increase in ceasefire violations by Pakistan this year. While the neighbour violated the ceasefire 3,233 times last year, the figure this year stands at 4,052 so far, according to army data. Pakistan carried out 394 violations in October as against 128 till now in November.The Indian Army released several images, including unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) footage, showing multiple Pakistani bunkers and other positions going up in flames in the retaliatory Indian action. One of the videos released by the army showed a Pakistani soldier running for cover before his post was hit by an anti-tank guided missile.“Pakistani casualties may be higher. What we have right now is an initial estimate,” the officials said.The Pakistanis have got it back “right and proper”, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations, commenting on the Indian Army’s retaliatory action. “Pakistan is seeking to create trouble along the LoC as it is aware of our focus on the LAC and the commitment there. The Pakistan army is making desperate attempts to push in infiltrators before harsh winters set in. The ceasefire violations are carried out to help the infiltrators. Also, the Valley has been quiet and the neighbour wants to up the ante there to trigger violence and bloodshed,” Bhatia added. In Naugam sector, a BSF officer posted at Atma Complex was killed in the shelling. He was identified as sub-inspector Rakesh Dobal. Baramulla SSP Abdul Qayoom said that shelling was still going on in some areas of Uri. “Four civilians were killed in Uri and another four were injured,” he said.The ceasefire violation was reported from all the important sectors stretching from Uri to Gurez. All these sectors have witnessed multiple ceasefire violations this year and soldiers have been on high alert.Locals in Uri said the Indian and Pakistani soldiers were targeting each other’s pickets at Haji Peer and Kamalkote sectors since morning. The locals said small arms and mortars have been used during the shelling which triggered panic among the villagers near the LoC.“This was one of the deadliest shellings in many years in Uri sector. Some shells hit residential houses,” said Iqbal Ahmad, a resident of Uri. “The people are very scared as we could see shells landing in the villages,” another civilian Mukthair Ahmad Khawaja said. The situation in Uri town was tense even as ambulances sped towards villages near the LoC to ferry injured civilians to hospitals.In Keran and Gurez sectors, mortar shells landed close to residential areas in Izmerg, Baktore and Tarabal localities, which are just few kilometres from the LoC. Two girls were injured in Baktore and both were referred to Srinagar for treatment.“We were attending an election meeting when shelling began around 11am. The intensity of shelling was heavy and people ran for cover. The markets were shut and many people took refuge in underground bunkers. Now the shelling has stopped but people are still in underground bunkers,” said Zaheer Ahmad, a government official posted in Gurez. The infiltration attempt in Keran sector on Friday was the second infiltration bid this week, Kalia said. “Three terrorists were killed in the earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid in Machil sector on November 7-8,” he added. Three soldiers, including a Captain, were killed in action in Machil that day.At a time when there are military tensions between India and China in eastern Ladakh, the military is also keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hits-pak-targets-after-shelling-at-loc/story-YpYtsSed1VZ3ZeEYZqTs9I.html
14-11-2020||India||On Diwali, PM Narendra Modi likely to celebrate with troops on western border||In line with his practice of celebrating Diwali with soldiers since the NDA government came to power in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to spend the festival with troops deployed at a forward base in the western sector, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. The PM is likely to celebrate Diwali with soldiers in Jaisalmer even though his final itinerary has been kept under wraps, the officials said asking not to be named. He spent his first Diwali with soldiers as PM in Siachen in 2014 in a rare and unannounced visit. He has followed the practice every year by celebrating the festival with soldiers in forward areas. His visit is expected to boost the morale of soldiers at a time Indian is locked in a border dispute with China in eastern Ladakh and the situation along the Line of Control with Pakistan has also been volatile. “The details of the PM’s itinerary are not known but he is expected to visit Jaisalmer and interact with troops there. His message to troops will boost the morale of front-line soldiers,” the officials said. Preparations have also been made at another location in the same sector for the PM to spend Diwali with soldiers, the officials said. PM Modi expressed gratitude to soldiers for their service on the eve of Diwali. “This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-diwali-pm-narendra-modi-likely-to-celebrate-with-troops-on-western-border/story-JOenr74GElKcgKmdvdWvPO.html
14-11-2020||India||In BJP’s new team of state bosses, Radha Mohan gets UP, Kailash Vijayvargiya retained in Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Friday announced the new state in-charges from the national team that was appointed in September. Newly appointed office bearers have been given charge of election-bound states with the exception of West Bengal where Kailash Vijayvargiya continues to hold his position as state in-charge.Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya, head of BJP’s IT cell have been nominated as deputy In-charge of West Bengal. Baijayant Panda who is the national vice president has been given the given responsibility to look after Assam, CP Radhakrishnan, a former Lok Sabha MP will look after Kerala, CT Ravi who is also a national general secretary, has been given charge of Tamil Nadu while Nirmal Kumar Surana, vice president of the Karnataka unit will look after Puducherry. All these five states will pick new assemblies in 2021.Panda will also look after Delhi. Among the newly appointed national general secretaries, Tarun Chug has been given the responsibility for Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Telangana, CT Ravi in addition to Tamil Nadu, will also look after Goa and Maharashtra, D Purandeswari will be in charge of Odisha and Chhattisgarh, Dushyant Gautam of Chandigarh, Uttarakhand and Punjab and Dilip Saikia has been made in-charge of Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand.Chug replaces Ram Madhav as the in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that Madhav who was dropped from the national team could move back to the RSS where he was a national spokesperson. Maharashtra politician Vinod Tawde has been given the charge of Haryana, along with Pankaj Munde. Tawde was recently appointed as a national secretary by Nadda. Munde has been made co-incharge of Madhya Pradesh along with Bishwesar Tudu, a Lok Sabha MP from Odisha. Minister of State for external affairs and Parliamentary affairs, V Muraleedharan has been retained as in-charge of Andhra Pradesh, and Sunil Deodhar as the deputy. National general secretary Bhupendra Yadav has retained Bihar and Gujarat while P Muralidhar Rao who was dropped from the national team has been given the responsibility of looking after Madhya Pradesh.Arun Singh who is also a national general secretary has been given charge of Rajasthan and Karnataka, while former agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh will oversee Uttar Pradesh.Avinash Rai Khanna has been given charge of Himachal Pradesh, Abdullah Kutty of Lakshadweep, Sambit Patra of Manipur and Nalin Kohli of Nagaland. Vinod Sonkar has been made in charge of Tripura, Sukanta Majumdar of Sikkim, Mmhonlumo Kikon of Mizoram, Chuba Ao of Meghalaya, Satya Kumar of Andaman and Nicobar, and Vijaya Rahatkar of Daman, Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bjp-s-new-team-of-state-bosses-radha-mohan-gets-up-kailash-vijayvargiya-retained-in-bengal/story-fVshkfBTHxPP0zOhBUzTcN.html
14-11-2020||India||16 million Covid-19 warriors lead virus battle||From March to June this year, nurse Bimlesh Kain, 57, woke up every morning at 5am and travelled 30km from her home in Rohini to report to work at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital by 8.30am. Dressed in personal protective gear (PPEs), Kain was at the nurse’s station in the hospital’s Covid-19 ward for a nearly 11-hour shift. That was her life for much of those months. “I started work in the Covid-19 department in March when the Covid-19 roster had been formulated, and was on active Covid-19 duty till June. It was a gruelling experience,” she says. Kain is currently in isolation after being diagnosed with Covid-19, and is awaiting her next posting in another government hospital. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageKain is also one of India’s Covid-19 warriors, as they are termed, a force of health workers, ASHA and Anganwadi workers volunteers, and people from fire departments, whose number is now close to 16 million (15.89) according to a database maintained by the IT ministry of the Union government. It’s a number that’s increased since April, when there were 11 million Covid warriors -- with more being drafted in to help India and Indians combat a viral disease for which there is still no vaccine, although health workers have progressively become better at saving lives. The disease, first recorded in India on January 30 in a Kerala student, has infected 8,764,826 people across the country since, killing 129,129. But 8,154,463 of those infected have recovered, with many not requiring hospitalistion, and India’s case fatality rate of 1.48% compares well with the world’s 2.44% -- a statistic in which Covid-19 warriors such as Kain can take pride. According to details available on covidwarriors.gov.in, these overall numbers include around 900,000 doctors, 150,000 MBBS students, 1.75 million nurses, 1.12 million pharmacists, 830,000 Ayurvedic doctors, 3.5 million ASHA and Anganwadi workers, 3.5 million members of the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (a voluntary grass-roots youth organisation), and 2.5 million members of the National Service Scheme, another voluntary student organisation. Covid-19: Deaths, cases breaking global recordsWhile the role of the doctors, nurses and pharmacists is clear, the others perform critical tasks such as supervising quarantine facilities, helping with contact tracing, even monitoring lockdown restrictions. ASHA and Anganwadi workers in particular are at the frontline of the state’s war against the virus in rural areas. “Covid-19 warriors have different roles in the larger scheme of Covid-19 management, like we call warriors even those patients who have recovered from the disease and are now volunteering to generate awareness about the disease, the need for testing and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, among other things. States are making use of these people. Then there are frontline workers, members of civil defence, NGOs, etc, that are also our corona warriors,” said a health ministry official, who wished to remain anonymous. “Then there are ASHA workers who contribute towards disease surveillance, especially in containment zones in many states by making door-to-door visits, mapping houses for high-risk cases,” the official added. Around 1.36 million Covid-19 warriors have undergone training on the Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform. The platform is an inter-ministerial collaboration, and individual ministries can upload content on the website according to their individual requirements. “There are web modules created to teach, for example, bio medical waste management, how to dispose of personal protection equipment, infection control and hygiene practices, etc. These have been created in a quick, easy-to-learn format,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named. The Covid-19 warrior dashboard itself comes under the purview of one of the empowered groups set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March to combat Covid-19. No such database was previously available. The dashboard is developed and maintained by the National Informatics Centre under the ministry of information and technology.Experts said it always helps to have an exact idea of the human resource at hand . “In an outbreak situation it is a good idea to have a comprehensive list of trained manpower that can be utilised based on the requirement of a state,” says Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16mn-covid-warriors-lead-virus-battle/story-zB7GXnf9iLK0lSzRd7iLXO.html
14-11-2020||India||Ayodhya lights up on Deepotsav with 6,06,569 diyas to set another Guinness world record||Ayodhya on Friday created a new Guinness world record by lighting 6,06,569 earthen lamps (diyas) at the majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat on the banks of the Saryu river and other ghats of the temple town during the fourth Deepotsav. Ram Ki Paidi, a series of ghats, wore a celestial look with lakhs of earthen diyas illuminating it in the backdrop of the Saryu. A Guinness team was present to judge the event. By creating this world record, the Ayodhya administration broke its own record it set last year by lighting 4,10,000 diyas. Chief minister Adityanath lit the first diya at Ram Ki Paidi ghat. Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion. The CM congratulated the Ayodhya administration for the world record and for organising the Deepotsav event successfully. Around 8,000 students of Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Faizabad, had volunteered to make the event successful. “I congratulate the Ayodhya administration, students of Ram Manohar Lohia University and all volunteers for creating this world record,” Adityanath. Hundreds of temples and maths dotting Ayodhya were also lit up for the occasion. Almost the entire town was decked up with colourful lights. In the 2018 Deepotsav also, a Guinness record of lighting 3.1 lakh earthen lamps was set. After the BJP government came to power in UP (March 2017), the Adityanath government has been organising Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya on the eve of Diwali. The grand finale of Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya was marked by all-women Ram Leela by artists from Chhattisgarh. Adityanath watched this performance along with other members of his cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-again-creates-guinness-world-record-by-lighting-6-06-569-diyas/story-Hvz3C10s5C21bpq6zlyhqN.html
14-11-2020||India||Madras HC orders removal of Tamil movie teaser from social media, ‘obscene’ ads from TV||In two cases, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government and Centre to ensure that ‘obscene’ content is removed from social media sites and television observing that it will otherwise affect young minds amid a rise in crimes against women and children. Hearing a batch of public interest litigations (PILs), on Wednesday, the bench comprising justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed that the teaser of a Tamil movie, Irandam Kuthu, be removed from social media for propagating vulgarity (as per Cinematograph Act, 1952). The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has given an ‘A’ rating for the film after 32 cuts and is slated for a Diwali release. It is a sequel to a 2018 movie by the same director and comes under the genre of erotic-horror-comedy. The petition (filed by a cultural outfit, Samuganeethi Kalvi Panpattu Maiyam) listed all the sexual innuendos in the teaser’s dialogues. It appealed that children attending online classes due to Covid-19 had the “possibility of uncontrolled viewership” of the movie’s “vulgar and obscene teaser”. Though the petition sought an injunction against the film, the court said it was not in its limits to restrain the movie.“The court has also directed to take penal action under sections 67 and 67a (of the Information Technology Act, 2000 prohibiting obscene and sexually explicit material). So those who have produced and directed the movie will have to face consequences,” said a senior lawyer in the case who did not wish to be named as the court is yet to issue copies of its order. “Social media is a state subject. So Tamil Nadu is the appropriate respondent to issue a notice directly to the intermediary, like YouTube, to remove the indecent content under section 39 of the IT Act,” he said.The court also ordered an interim restriction on television commercials based on another petition that stated condom advertisements are “in the nature of arousal of the prurient interest” which should not be telecast in the middle of films and serials. “We are specifically against ads on contraceptives, underwear, soaps that promote virility,” says M Purshothaman, counsel for the petitioner, K S Sagadevaraja.The petition said that while contraceptives are a preventive measure against birth control and sexually transmitted diseases, the ad “need not explicitly show a sexual act” which is against sections 5 and 6 in Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1995.“We pushed this matter urgently because children are hooked to TV due to the pandemic and several movies will be screened during Diwali,” Purshothaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-removal-of-tamil-movie-teaser-from-social-media-obscene-ads-from-tv/story-teDIGhmmln5TiFyvLDuO4M.html
14-11-2020||India||Kalanamak rice, zari: What Yogi Adityanath gifts Narendra Modi this Diwali||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has prepared a special gift box for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President ram Nath Kovind and other Union ministers containing samples of the state’s specialities. This box includes one product from 13 district of Uttar Pradesh in tune with the state’s One District One District One Product scheme. The gift box contains Gorakhpur’s terracotta Ganesh laxmi idols and diyas, Siddharthnagar’s kalanamak rice, Luckow’s chikan kurta, Varanasi’s silk stole, Moradbad’s brass bowl, Agra’s marble tea coaster, Azamgarh’s black pottery flower vase, Saharanpur’s wooden pen stand, Pratapgarh’s amla products, Kannauj’s perfume, Muzaffarnagar’s jaggery, Chandauli’s zari Prayagraj’s moonj basket. On Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government commenced its Deepotsav to mark the homecoming of Lord Ram to this holy town. A team from the Guinness World Records was present to see if it made it to their book. Hours later, team leader Nishchal Barot gave the final count as 6,06,569 `diyas’, telling PTI that it was “largest display of oil lamps” in the world.This was the fourth annual Ayodhya Deepotsav, and the first since the ‘bhoomi pujan’ in August for a Ram temple in the city. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalanamak-rice-zari-what-yogi-adityanath-gifts-narendra-modi-this-diwali/story-ilPdbByKDfwRa7DwIWU3wN.html
14-11-2020||India||BJP names new state in-charges, Amit Malviya gets a role in West Bengal. Read full list here||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday released a list of new state in-charges who will look after operations in election-bound states. The list, released by party president JP Nadda, includes the names of Sambit Patra, Baijayant Panda, CT Ravi, CP Radhakrishnan and Tarun Chugh among several. An exception has been made by the party in the state of West Bengal, where the existing state chief Kailash Vijayvarghia has been retained in his position. Additionally, party’s IT Cell in-charge Amit Malviya, along with Arvind Menon, has been made the deputy in-charge for parties poll duties. Here is the full list of names picked by the BJP for state in-charge role:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-names-new-state-chiefs-amit-malviya-gets-a-role-in-west-bengal-read-full-list-here/story-04INCrVgwn4DQn1wMm4uVK.html
