15-11-2020||India||Pregnant leopard killed in road accident on Mumbai’s Western Express Highway||A three-to-four-year old female leopard identified as L98 was found grievously injured in a road accident on the Western Express Highway (WEH) near Kashi Mira, Bhayander at around 12.30 am on Sunday, and subsequently succumbed to injuries.The leopard was one-month pregnant with three foetuses, said forest officials.According to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) director and conservator of forest G Mallikarjuna, the injured leopard was rescued by an SGNP team and brought to the facility’s leopard rescue centre.“However the leopard succumbed to its injuries during treatment at 2.15am. A post mortem was conducted by a team of veterinarians at SGNP on Sunday afternoon where the leopard was found to be pregnant with three foetuses,” said Mallikarjuna.The post-mortem revealed that the cause of death was mostly probably due to the collision with a vehicle. “It was due to strong mechanical impact (probably vehicular origin) causing multiple hemorrhages, multiple fractures, and muscular damage resulting in hypovolemia (life threatening condition due to high blood loss) and respiratory arrest,” added Mallikarjuna.Wildlife biologist from Wildlife Conservation Society Nikit Surve, who has been annually assessing leopard numbers in and around SGNP, said L98 was first photographed in October 2018 at Ghodbunder village after local residents had spotted the animal. “Early last year, the leopard was spotted on the opposite side of the road near Kashi Mira, Bhayander, which showed that she had successfully crossed. Also, just about seven days ago, the leopard was spotted in one of our camera traps near Kashi Mira. However, it is extremely unfortunate that she met with the accident probably while crossing the road on Sunday because it is not easy for animals to understand oncoming traffic. It is even more disheartening that she was pregnant,” said Surve, adding that leopards do not stop hunting or movement till the moment they stop to give birth.Dr. Shaliesh Pethe, senior veterinarian, SGNP said the gestation period for a leopard is three months. “This leopard was one-month pregnant. Externally (photographs) one can identify that a leopard is pregnant only within the last 15 days before she delivers,” he said.SGNP and peripheral areas are home to at least 47 big cats that include the transient population moving between SGNP into surrounding landscapes, according to a 2019 estimation by Surve and SGNP. Data from SGNP, NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) and Mumbaiikars for SGNP revealed that 19 leopards had been killed around SGNP, most of them on the Western Express Highway and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS) from 2008 to 2018.“Unless we provide adequate mitigation structures (under or overpasses) on roads, railways and canals, we will lose most of our large mammals to linear infrastructure, very rapidly,” said Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust.An earlier assessment under the ‘Mumbaikars for SGNP’ initiative in 2013 revealed that 40 leopards died in road accidents along the periphery of SGNP from 1994 to 2012.“Over the last two years, accident cases with animals have reduced as road widening work is underway on the WEH. Owing to less traffic during Diwali, vehicles were moving at a faster speed that led to this unfortunate incident. However, we have suggested several mitigation measures along this route, and we are trying to expedite their construction with project proponents as early as possible,” said Mallikarjuna.Apart from the incident in Mumbai, another leopard was killed in a road accident on Saturday near Satara on the National Highway 4 that connects Pune and Bengaluru. The country recorded 83 leopard deaths in train and road accidents in 2019, the highest in a decade, according to the Wildlife Protection Society of India. Of these, 73 were killed in road accidents and 10 were run over by trains. Also, there had been a 278% rise in such deaths due to road and rail accidents from 2010 to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-leopard-killed-in-road-accident-on-mumbai-s-western-express-highway/story-y3m8KpdVGlgMvUDzS7Kp0J.html
15-11-2020||India||Dissension in Congress unit in Bihar spills into the open||The cracks in the Congress party in Bihar have widened further after its debacle in the recently concluded assembly election.Dissension against the top guns in the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) and the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge is growing. They are now being blamed for the party’s poor show after it won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested — eight less than its tally in 2015 — in the 243-member Bihar assembly. Raj Kumar Sharma, the national coordinator of the All India Kisan Congress, staged a sit-in Sunday at the Sadaqat Ashram, the state headquarters of the Congress, demanding a complete revamp of the BPCC. His supporters are also baying for the blood of Bihar Congress in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, secretaries in-charge Ajay Kapoor and Birender Singh Rathore, appointed by the AICC for the assembly polls. Also in the firing line are BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha, its campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Singh and Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh, all of whom were instrumental in the ticket distribution to candidates. “I have just two demands. First, remove the nearly one dozen ticket brokers, who sold our party tickets to candidates. Secondly, revamp the Congress and have in its core group grassroots workers and party loyalists for over two decades,” said Sharma, who is leading the revolt. Sharma minces no words when he says “ticket dalaals” (ticket brokers) in his party “sold” the party symbol to candidates. “Our leaders who had a say in distribution of tickets surreptitiously worked for the BJP and RSS. They sold tickets at a heavy price and favoured the BJP,” he said. “There were at least 26 candidates who didn’t get tickets from the constituencies of their choice. For instance, Praveen Kushwaha, who wanted a ticket from Bhagalpur, was made to contest from Patna Sahib assembly constituency in Patna. Gunjan Patel, who wanted to contest from Digha, was given a ticket from Nalanda. Kundan Gupta from Lakhisarai was asked to contest from Harnaut in Nalanda. Sanjeev Kumar Singh was given a ticket from Vaishali when he wanted one from Muzaffarpur. Pappu Singh was given a ticket to contest from Lalganj when he was interested in Aurangabad,” he added. BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha was not available for comments. He had diverted his calls to a number which was switched off on Sunday evening. Cong spokesperson Harkhu Jha demanded a complete revamp and said Gohil was responsible for the Congress’ poor show. “The unrest within the Congress is because of the flawed distribution of tickets and decisions taken by AICC’s Bihar in-charge. The party should change the whole set up of leaders, who are responsible for the debacle of the Congress in Bihar,” he added. Dissension within the Congress began in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections itself when many candidates who had switched alliance, were given party tickets at the eleventh hour. Some leaders including Jha had then written to the Congress high command, seeking a revamp to revive the Congress in Bihar. However, it did not pay heed and continued with the same set of persons when the assembly elections were announced. Peeved at the distribution of tickets, more than a dozen leaders went solo as independents in the assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissension-in-congress-unit-in-bihar-spills-into-the-open/story-u77NaVWwRXvlQ4NcNG831K.html
15-11-2020||India||Case of murder lodged against district collector in Odisha||Odisha police on Sunday lodged case of murder against Malkangiri district collector Manish Agrawal and three others on direction of a judicial magistrate in the case of death of the collector’s personal assistant under mysterious circumstances, said the police.The order was given in the mysterious death case of Debanarayan Panda, PA of the collector.“We have formed an SIT in this case following the orders of the court. A deputy SP has been put in-charge of the investigation,” said a senior police official. Agrawal did not comment on the developments.Early this month, Banaja Panda, the wife of Debanarayan Panda, former personal assistant of Malkangiri district collector Manish Agarwal, had moved the court of SDJM in Malkangiri, seeking lodging of case of murder against the IAS officer and three others alleging that her husband may have been murdered since he allegedly came to know about the involvement of the collector and others in corruption. Alleging lack of transparency and efficiency in the investigation process, she claimed that the CCTV footage of the district collector’s office has been tampered with.Also Read: ‘Bande Utkala Janani ‘will be part of class 9, 10 school curriculum in OdishaOn December 27 last year, the collector’s personal assistant had gone missing from his office. Next day, his body was recovered from Satiguda dam in Malkangiri town. His motorcycle and helmet were found lying near the dam. Though police had initially registered a suicide case and later an unnatural death case into the incident, family members of the deceased had alleged that they were being threatened by cops while investigation was underway.In January this year, Congress in Malkangiri had called for a 24-hour bandh demanding the arrest of the district collector over the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-of-murder-lodged-against-district-collector-in-odisha/story-shFuh1tgueq5sDaW2Sf95H.html
15-11-2020||India||District judge in Chhattisgarh allegedly dies by suicide||A 55-year-old district judge in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli who was found dead in her official residence on Sunday is suspected to have died by suicide, police said.No suicide note was found from the spot and the postmortem report is awaited, police said. Superintendent of Police, Mungeli, Arvind Kujur that the Mungeli District and Sessions Judge, Kanta Martin, who was living alone in her official residence was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her official residence in the district. “The staff of the judge told police that on Sunday she told them to leave at around 6 pm and there was no one present at her residence when the incident took place,” the SP said adding that the incident took place between 11 pm to 11 am as per preliminary investigation. Kujur said that on Sunday, when the cook returned, he found the door of her residence locked from inside and there was no response to his knocking. He then informed the judge’s guards.“I reached the spot after we got the information. We managed to open a window and found that the judge was already dead,” said the SP. Police preliminary investigation seems to suggest that she died by suicide since all the doors were locked from inside while the guards were present at the gate of the residence. The staff and some other acquaintances claimed that she was under depression after her husband died last year following which she had been alone, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/district-judge-in-chhattisgarh-allegedly-dies-by-suicide/story-eHfSCdRSUdpSXzI9VdcNEM.html
15-11-2020||India||Pollution level in Delhi higher this Diwali than last year, says CPCB||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Sunday said pollution levels were higher in Delhi this Diwali as compared to the last year and this could be attributed to high share of stubble burning and unfavorable meteorology during the festival season. In a special report, the CPCB said almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali day this year as compared to 2019. “Diwali was in mid-November this year which has unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersal of pollutants as compared to 2019 when it was in last week of October,” it said, according to news agency PTI. The contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was 32 per cent on Diwali day this year as compared to 19 per cent last year. Therefore, it may be inferred that elevated PM2.5 concentrations in 2020 in comparison to previous year had enhanced contribution of stubble burning and the same is also reflected in elevated levels of CO and NO2,” it added.The air quality dipped to severe at several places across the national capital on Saturday night owing to a combination of stubble burning and firecrackers burst during the Diwali celebrations in violation of a ban on the same.The Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM 2.5 pollutant stood at 481 in Anand Vihar, 444 in IGI Airport area, 457 in ITO, and 414 in Lodhi Road area, all four in the ‘severe’ category, at 11 pm on Saturday, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data.A thick blanket of smog was seen at several places across the national capital as the Diwali celebrations came to an end late Saturday night. Meanwhile, the air quality was at 460 at Anand Vihar, 382 at IGI Airport area, 415 at ITO, and 322 at Lodhi Road for PM 10 pollutant.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-level-in-delhi-higher-this-diwali-than-last-year-says-cpcb/story-ik14XVJTkxGfwcg9PsumWJ.html
15-11-2020||India||Bihar has set template for Bengal, Assam elections, claims CPI-ML chief||National general secretary of the CPI-ML (liberation) Dipankar Bhattarcharya on Sunday said the huge support won by the grand alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and the three left parties has set the template for coming elections in West Bengal, Assam and other states where the polls would be fought on people’s agenda like unemployment, migration, agrarian crisis and opposition to labour law reforms. Bhattacharya, while addressing a press conference on Sunday, said the GA would continue to raise the people’s issues inside the state assembly and outside to register its opposition to the BJP–JD(U) led NDA government and emphasised it was a wrong propaganda being spread by the BJP that there was resentment against the chief minister Nitish Kumar, who was facing anti-incumbency. “The BJP has been an equal stakeholder in power in the NDA government for over a decade and people have put the BJP on the dock as well. If the issue of employment was a poll agenda, the privatisation of railways was also an election issue,” he said. To buttress his point, Bhattarcharya said the poll results of 2020 should not be compared with 2015 and instead compared with 2010 results when the NDA had got a big majority in Bihar even though the UPA was in power at the centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were not around in national politics. Also Read: Nitish Kumar’s most challenging term“This time, the NDA has managed to form the government with a thin majority. It is clear, there is widespread resentment against both the JD(U) and the BJP among people,” he said. Bhattacharya, whose party won 12 seats in the recently concluded elections, said people of Bihar had shown their resistance against the conspiracy of BJP to have an opposition-free democracy by strongly supporting the GA. Also Read: The Bihar mandate has lessons for all parties“On November 26, the CPI-ML would extend its support to the joint call by trade unions across the country for a strike against the reform in labour laws,” he said. Besides, CPI-ML state secretary Kunal and senior leader Kavita Krishnan too said the party would discharge its responsibility as a strong opposition in the state assembly and outside in coming days and raise issues of employment, migration and poverty in the state. Krishnan also said that the theory being spread by the NDA that women voters gave their support to the NDA overwhelmingly in this state polls was a false propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-has-set-template-for-bengal-assam-elections-claims-cpi-ml-chief/story-GOfr9p1yB8xYKlykB0lE3O.html
15-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 free certificate mandatory at Sabarimala and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 free certificate mandatory for pilgrimage at SabarimalaThe Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala in Kerala opened for the two-month-long annual pilgrimage season on Sunday evening. The new head priest took charge on the opening day but pilgrims will be allowed to trek to the hilltop shrine from Monday morning. Read more Yogi Adityanath visits Kedarnath ahead of closure ceremony for winterUttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath along with his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat reached Kedarnath on Sunday afternoon to attend Monday’s ceremony for closing of the portals of the shrine. Read moreMayawati names new UP BSP chief, signals strategy for 2022 pollsBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati, on Sunday, named Bhim Rajbhar as the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit president with an eye on other backward castes (OBC) votes in the 2022 assembly election. Read moreLewis Hamilton lets tears flow as he clinches record 7th F1 titleAfter winning a difficult race to equal Michael Schumacher’s record of seven Formula One championships on Sunday, the hardest thing for Lewis Hamilton was containing his emotions. Read more Children bullied in school are likely to develop violent behaviour in future: StudyIt is likely that the children who went through bullying in school, may develop a violent behaviour in later years of their lives, as per the findings of a new study led by scientists at the University of Cordoba and the University of Cambridge. Read moreInside Siddhant Chaturvedi’s Diwali bash: Deepika Padukone, Ananya Panday party with team of Shakun Batra’s nextSiddhant Chaturvedi has finally shared a glimpse of the Diwali bash he hosted at his residence on Friday. It was attended by the team members of his upcoming film being directed by Shakun Batra. Deepika Padukone and Ananya Panday also partied with the Gully Boy actor. Read moreAfter Ladakh child’s salute goes viral, ITBP honours Nawang: Watch him marchThe Indo Tibetan Border Police honoured 5-year-old Nawang Namgyal from Chushul, Ladakh. A video of the child saluting passing soldiers went viral in October. ITBP had tweeted about the ‘enthusiastic kid’ saluting with ‘high josh’. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-free-certificate-mandatory-at-sabarimala-and-all-the-latest-news/story-x2UVblAu8Yq1HTtmIxPtfL.html
15-11-2020||India||‘No credibility’, India trashes Pak’s claims of Delhi sponsoring terrorism||India on Sunday rubbished Pakistan’s dossier with so-called evidence of Indian sponsorship of terrorism, saying it was a propaganda exercise that will find few takers as the world community is aware of Islamabad’s role in supporting terror. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and chief military spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar had on Saturday released the dossier along with they said were intelligence intercepts that purportedly showed the involvement of Indian intelligence operatives in acts of terrorism. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded to the allegations levelled during the “press conference by the Pakistani establishment” by saying: “This is yet another futile anti-India propaganda exercise.” He added, “The so-called claims of ‘proof’ against India enjoy no credibility, are fabricated and represent figments of imagination. This desperate attempt will find few takers as the international community is aware of Pakistan’s tactics and proof of its terror sponsorship has been admitted by none other than its own leadership.” Srivastava noted that al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden, the “face of global terror”, was found in Pakistan, and Prime Minister Imran Khan had “glorified him as a ‘martyr’” on the floor of Parliament. Khan also “admitted the presence of 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan”, and Pakistan’s science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry “proudly claimed involvement and success of Pakistan, led by its Prime Minister, in the Pulwama terror attack” in 2019 in which 40 Indian troopers were killed, he said. “Despite repeated calls for restraint and adherence to the ceasefire understanding of 2003 for maintaining peace and tranquillity, Pakistani forces continue to engage in providing supporting cover fire to infiltrators. The incessant infiltration of terrorists and induction of weapons to fuel terror activities continues unabated,” Srivastava said. These activities are not possible without the support of Pakistani forces deployed along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. The news conference on Saturday by Pakistan’s civilian and military leadership was a “deliberate attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures”, Srivastava said. It also sought to “justify cross-border terrorism, including ceasefire violations and infiltration across the LoC and international boundary”, he said. “We call upon Pakistan to end its support to cross-border terrorism. Pakistani leaders have never hidden the fact that it has become a factory for producing terrorists,” Srivastava said. “India is not the only neighbour to be targeted as underlined by the statements of countries similarly targeted. Distant parts of the world have seen the terror trail lead back to Pakistan. Concocting documents and peddling false narratives will not absolve Pakistan of such actions. We are confident the world will hold it to account,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-credibility-india-trashes-pak-s-claims-of-delhi-sponsoring-terrorism/story-UQqc4QnXfHBkY9DeTihH2L.html
15-11-2020||India||Adityanath visits Kedarnath ahead of closure ceremony for winter||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath along with his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat reached Kedarnath on Sunday afternoon to attend Monday’s ceremony for closing of the portals of the shrine. Adityanath flew into Dehradun and then accompanied Rawat to Kedarnath where they also took stock of the reconstruction work underway in the town of Kedarpuri near the shrine. On Monday, the portals of Kedarnath shrine will close for the winter season at 8:30 am on the occasion of Bhai Dooj. After offering prayers at Kedarnath, the two chief ministers will head for Badrinath shrine, where Adityanath will offer prayers and lay the foundation stone of a tourist guest house of the Uttar Pradesh government that will be built there. In October 2017, PM Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stones of five major reconstruction projects at the Kedarnath shrine. The projects include improved facilities for devotees, construction of retaining walls and ghats at the Mandakini and Saraswati rivers, an approach road to the shrine and reconstructing the Samadhi Sthal of Adi Shankaracharya, an early eighth-century seer and the founder of the Vedanta school of philosophy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-visits-kedarnath-ahead-of-closure-ceremony-for-winter/story-u1OafdjOmMPa2YdwPBAQ7K.html
15-11-2020||India||Fire at Assam’s Baghjan gas well finally doused after more than five months||The fire at the Baghjan natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) that had raged from June 9 was finally doused on Sunday after a five-and-half-month effort. The fire was extinguished by a team of experts from Canada, who had reached the site in Tinsukia district on November 4, using a technique called snubbing. “The well has been killed with brine solution and is under control now. The fire has been doused completely,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said in a statement on Sunday. “There is no pressure in the well now and the same will be observed for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build up. Further operation to abandon the well is in progress,” he added. The gas well in Tinsukia district had a blowout (uncontrolled release of oil or gas) during a workover operation on May 27. It caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Another engineer died at the site in September due to electrocution. Though the fire at the wellhead was doused in August and a portion of the released gas diverted for production, the unused gas directed to a flare pit near the well was still blazing. Finally it was decided to ‘kill’ the well by snubbing-a process to install or remove tubular from a well while it remains pressurized (alive). This technique is used when it is not possible or desired to kill a well using a mud-sludge called ‘kill fluid’, a technique which was tried unsuccessfully earlier. Earlier this month, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel has stated that OIL was operating well at Baghjan without the required official permissions at the time of the incident. In its progress report filed on November 3, the committee headed by retired Gauhati High Court judge Brojendra Prasad Katakey also recommended directions to be issued to Pollution Control Board, Assam (PCBA) to take legal action against OIL and its officials for violation of mandatory requirements. The committee’s report also mentioned that despite Supreme Court orders, OIL did not carry out biodiversity impact assessment study for the Baghjan well, which is close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP). It stated that OIL had also not taken environmental clearance from the Union environment, forest and climate change ministry before starting drilling operations at Baghjan from November, 2006. Besides the loss of three lives, over a dozen houses located close to the well had been gutted in the fire and nearly 40 others damaged partially. Thousands of people were forced to leave their homes and stay in temporary camps for months while efforts were on to control the blaze. As the well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri Motapung Wetland there were also apprehensions of damage to ecology due to the blowout and fire. According to OIL, several studies were conducted to access the damage caused and none of them had detected any major harm. Impact on the areas close to the well will be studied after the well is completely brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-assam-s-baghjan-gas-well-finally-doused-after-more-than-five-months/story-ib8oG0BUsgtAYTR5jGgWKN.html
15-11-2020||India||Doubling RT-PCR tests to mobile testing vans: Amit Shah announces steps to curb Covid-19 surge in Delhi||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday announced a number of measures to bring Delhi’s coronavirus situation under control. The measures announced by Shah include, among others, doubling of RT-PCR tests and deployment of mobile testing vans belonging to the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in vulnerable places in the national capital.“Chaired a meeting to review the surge in Delhi’s Covid-19 cases and take stock of medical infrastructure here. In May, the Modi government took a series of steps with the Delhi government to save the people from the virus. We all witnessed the positive results,” Shah tweeted on Sunday. दिल्‍ली के अंदर कोविड-19 के बढ़ते मामलों और यहां मेडिकल इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर की समीक्षा करने के लिए आज एक उच्च स्तरीय बैठक की।मई 2020 में मोदी सरकार ने दिल्ली की जनता को कोरोना से बचाने के लिए दिल्ली सरकार के साथ विभिन्न कदम उठाये थे जिनके सकारात्मक नतीजे सभी को देखने को मिले थे। pic.twitter.com/iTOW18kATdThe various measures announced by the home minister are as follows:-RT-PCR testing to be doubled in Delhi-Mobile testing vans of the Union health ministry and ICMR to be deployed at vulnerable places-Capacity of hospitals in Delhi and availabitiy of medical infrastructure to be improved. With regards to this, 250-300 more beds to be provided at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Covid-19 facility in Dhaula Kuan-To increase the availability of beds with oxygen facilities, 10,000-bed Chhatarpur Covid centre to be further strengthened-For treatment of patients showing mild Covid-19 symptoms, some hospitals of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals-A dedicated multi-department team will visit every private hospital in Delhi to give clear information on the availability of hospital beds-Previously established containment measures, like marking of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantine and screening, to be reviewed-To deal with the shortage of healthcare staff in Delhi, extra doctors and paramedical staff from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to be airlifted to Delhi.-Special emphasis to be given to Covid-19 patients staying in home isolation and immediately shifting them to hospital if required-Protocol to be prepared for plasma donation in cases which are especially serious-Centre will provide Delhi government with oxygen cylinders, High Flow Nasal Cannula and other equipment to save as many lives as possible in Delhi-A solid dialogue strategy should be prepared to educate people on Covid-19 behaviour and its negative impact on medical and health norms in the long run||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rt-pcr-tests-to-be-doubled-in-delhi-says-amit-shah-after-reviewing-surge-in-capital-s-covid-19-cases/story-C9tePWneiOWe6EW8Higi7N.html
15-11-2020||India||Rain and snow lash J-K, authorities sound caution for Jammu-Srinagar highway||Light snowfall and widespread rains lashed parts of Kashmir on Sunday breaking the extended dry spell which had affected the region for the past many months.The Srinagar-Jammu national highway authorities have asked the people to avoid travelling on the highway for the next few days as there are chances of blockade owing to the inclement weather.The precipitation was prompted in northern and central parts of Kashmir after a western disturbance hit the region on Friday bringing rains in some parts on Saturday.By Sunday evening, heavy snowfall began at both ends of Jawahar Tunnel but vehicles were moving through the tunnel that connects the Kashmir region to Jammu.It was also raining in other parts of Ramban district in the evening.“As expected, moderate snow with isolated heavy fall was recorded on higher reaches of J&K, Zojila and in Drass area. System persisted even today. Rain and snow will to continue on Sunday at many places but significant improvement is likely from Monday,” India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Dr Sonam Lotus wrote in a Facebook post.The Meteorological centre in Srinagar said that there was light snowfall in Gulmarg while it rained in many parts of the Valley.“Gulmarg received 4.5 inches of snow on Sunday and 7 inches on Saturday. Besides, there was heavy rainfall in north Kashmir and light rain in southern parts,” said an official of the meteorological department.He said that Kupwara was drenched by 14 mm of rains on Sunday and 71 mm on Saturday. “In Jammu, there were 12.4 mm rains and 8.8 mm in Katra,” he said.In Srinagar, there were traces of rain in these two days.The meteorological department’s deputy director Mukhtar Ahmad said that the weather is expected to improve from Monday. “The sun will also come out on Monday afternoon. There is a prediction of another wet spell on November 18,” he said.Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said that snowfall was less this time owing to an increase in night temperatures from November 13. “The snowfall was less as the minimum temperature on the night of November 13 and 14 had increased to 6 degree Celsius which changed the nature of the precipitation. Subsequently tomorrow there would be improvement in weather,” he said.The MeT office said that the maximum temperature in Srinagar was 7.7 degree Celsius while it was 2.3 degree during the Saturday night.The traffic department has asked people to avoid travelling on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway as there are chances of blockades due to landslides.“However subject to fair weather and road conditions, light motor vehicles will be allowed from Jammu to Srinagar,” said the department in a statement.It said that the Mughal Road and Leh-Kargil roads are blocked owing to accumulation of snowAs against the monsoon in the rest of the country, Kashmir mostly owes its precipitation to winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea which is y called ‘Western Disturbance’.The union territory has been witnessing unusually dry weather this year causing immense problems in the availability of water for irrigation as well as drinking.On November 4, there was very light snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh but there was no precipitation for the plains.The summer this year was abnormally dry.“The year saw abnormally dry weather in J&K. The precipitation due to Western Disturbance was almost zero while the rainfall due to monsoon from July 1 to October 1 was 35 per cent less than normal,” said Mohammad HussainLight to moderate rains also lashed the Jammu region on Sunday afternoon.Traffic police in Jammu advised people against driving to Srinagar on the national highway till Tuesday when the weather is expected to be clear. “The highway is functioning as of now. There are overcast conditions in Ramban after light rains. We are advising the people to avoid undertaking journeys on Jammu-Srinagar national highway (NH 44) till Tuesday when weather opens up.” JS Johar, SSP Traffic, Kashmir (highway) said.He also advised the people to cross check the status of the highway from Ramban TCP before undertaking the journey. The Mughal Road, an alternate link between the Kashmir Valley and the rest of the country, was also closed for vehicular traffic on Saturday following snowfall. Pir Ki Gali, the highest point on the Mughal Road, received further snowfall on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-snow-lash-j-k-authorities-sound-caution-for-jammu-srinagar-highway/story-CfqEJbt08bs8vWAbkxJaEN.html
15-11-2020||India||Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad set to replace Sushil Modi as Bihar’s Dy CM||The selection of Tarkishore Prasad, four-time MLA from Katihar, as the leader of BJP legislature party has put a question mark on the role of Sushil Kumar Modi in Nitish Kumar-led NDA government, which is to be sworn in on Monday. Prasad is being tipped to replace Sushil Kumar Modi as deputy chief minister even as suspense over the BJP candidate for the post continues. “The candidate will be decided soon,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh, who came as party observer on Sunday. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, too, said that the name will be decided soon. A senior BJP functionary, however, confirmed that Prasad will be the deputy CM. What has set the rumour mills agog about the possible new role for Modi, who was deputy CM-cum-finance minister of the state for close to 11 years was that he was called by the BJP’s central leadership to New Delhi on Friday. On Sunday, he was all along moving with the defence minister and was not seen with Nitish Kumar when he went to meet the governor to stake claim to form the government. Modi, later congratulated both Prasad and Renu Devi, who was elected as deputy leader of the party and posted an emotional tweet. “The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years that no other person would have got it. I will also discharge the responsibility that will be given. No one can take away the post of worker,” Modi tweeted. Prasad, 64, is an intermediate pass from the local D S College Katihar. He won Katihar seat on a BJP ticket in October 2005 and since then he has never lost the seat. Prasad comes from RSS background and he had held several posts in the organization before joining the BJP. He retained the seat even in 2015 when JD-U had allied with the RJD and the Congress.“I’ve been given this responsibility and I’ll carry out the duty to the best of my ability,” said Prasad after being elected as leader of the BJP legislature party in Bihar. He, however, refused to comment on the post of deputy CM. “I can’t comment on it as of now. Whatever responsibility comes, I will take the challenge,” he said. Ranjit Kumar, a resident of Manihari said, “Prasad held several posts in RSS and his elevation in the BJP and in Bihar politics was because of his dedication to the party and the RSS.” Katihar shares a border with West Bengal and experts believe it could be one of the reasons for his elevation in the party ahead of the assembly election in Bengal. “BJP wants to enter West Bengal politics in an emphatic way and hence Tarkishore Prasad was elevated to the post of the leader of BJP in Bihar,” political expert Naresh Kumar Srivasatava said. Prasad’s elevation has been widely hailed by the rank and file of the BJP in Seemanchal. “This is a matter of happiness that a leader of Seemanchal has been offered this coveted post in Bihar,” Rakesh Kumar, BJP president of Purnia district said.In Seemanchal BJP and its ally JD-U won 12 seats out of 24 in with the BJP alone winning eight seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/katihar-mla-tarkishore-prasad-set-to-replace-sushil-modi-as-bihar-s-dy-cm/story-ocFPp7JB7exGYl0vMfb2TI.html
15-11-2020||India||Australian high commissioner meets RSS chief Bhagwat, discusses Covid-19 relief||Australia’s high commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell AO met Mohan Bhagwat, the head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday. Tweeting about the meeting, O’Farrell said the RSS has been “actively supporting the community during Covid-19”. “... I met with sarsanghchalak Dr Mohan Bhagwat who shared relief measures the organisation has adopted across during these challenging times,” he tweeted.The tweet was a throwback to the 2019 meeting between Bhagwat and German ambassador Walter J Lindner. The German ambassador had also tweeted about the meeting, which set off a storm on social media with many people criticising the meeting.Commenting on his meeting, the Australian High Commissioner said, “Since arriving in India I’ve reached out to all sections of society, civil, business, government and politics, as I seek to gain a greater understanding of the country. During my political career I had an ‘open door policy, which served me well; I intend to continue it as Australia’s representative to India.” The RSS for its part said the meetings are in keeping with the organisation’s outreach. Sangh functionaries have been meeting diplomats formally since 2009 when an ambassador of a European nation hosted a meeting between Bhagwat and 27 other ambassadors.More recently, the Sangh chief has begun holding meetings between diplomats and the foreign press representatives to answer their questions about the Sangh, the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party.Also Read: It is wrong to think on the basis of ideology which eclipses national interest: PM in JNUIn the past, the then deputy high commissioner and minister-counsellor of Singapore, Jonathan Tow, was present for the Vijayadashami speech in Nagpur in 2012; in August 2016, the president of the Central Tibetan Administration Dr Lobsang Sangay met Bhagwat and in 2018, Kieran Drake, minister-counsellor at the British high commission also called on Bhagwat, which was later described as a courtesy call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-high-commissioner-meets-rss-chief-bhagwat-discusses-covid-19-relief/story-0FJgrmW77E0KkTDaw9mA2J.html
15-11-2020||India||‘Angry’ over farm bills, Punjab records highest stubble burning cases in 4 years||Punjab has recorded around 74,000 incidents of stubble burning this season, the maximum in four years, with experts saying anger over farm bills and the government not paying the Supreme Court-ordered financial incentive to farmers could be among the reasons for the spike in farm fires.According to data released by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, the state recorded 73,883 incidents of stubble burning between September 21 and November 14, which is the highest since 2016.Punjab had reported 51,048 cases of stubble burning in the corresponding period last year and 46,559 such incidents in 2018. The number of farm fires was 43,149 in the state during the same period in 2017.An official from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) said the incidents of stubble burning hit the peak between November 4 and November 7. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi-NCR’s pollution peaked to 42 per cent on November 5, when 4,135 farm fires were recorded in the region.“It was a bumper harvest this year, so the amount of crop residue was also large. Also, it was a cloud-free season as compared to last year. The biomass was drier and prone to burning.“It also appears that the farmers are not willing to cooperate. There could be anger over farm bills,” he said.According to a Punjab government official, “farmers are not happy” as the ruling dispensation has not disbursed the financial incentive to them as directed by the Supreme Court to prevent stubble burning.Following the apex court’s guidelines to incentivise farmers to stop stubble burning, the governments of Punjab and Haryana announced a bonus of Rs 2,500 per acre for small and marginal farmers last year. Farmers say the incentive can help them cover the cost of fuel used in operating machinery for in-situ management of stubble.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, the general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab, also said the number of farm fires is “very high this year and anger over farm bills is one of the major reasons”.“Unavailability of labourers -- many returned to their native states due to the Covid-19 pandemic -- is also a reason why farmers are burning stubble to clear the fields quickly,” he added.Also Read | Delhi’s air quality turns severe on Diwali: IMDThe IARI official said the increase in the number of incidents of stubble burning does not mean that the policy of providing farm equipment for in-situ management of crop residue has failed.“The numbers of stubble burning incidents in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh tell a different story altogether. The figures have come down significantly,” he said.According to IARI’s data, Haryana recorded 4,699 farm fires between October 1 and November 12 while Uttar Pradesh reported 2,288 such incidents during the period, which is the lowest in both the states in the last five years.Haryana recorded 5,807 incidents of stubble burning and Uttar Pradesh 2,653 cases during the corresponding period last year.“In Punjab also, the number of cases was reducing every year till 2019. Only 2020 has been the ‘odd’ year out,” the IARI official said.According to a study conducted by IARI scientists in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts of Punjab, stubble burning incidents between October 1 and October 10 in Amritsar increased from 180 in 2019 to 515 in 2020 -- a rise of about 2.9 times.In Tarn Taran, the number of stubble burning incidents increased from 92 in 2019 to 341 in 2020 -- a rise of about 3.7 times.“It is estimated that the harvested area increased by 35,500 hectares in Amritsar and by 39,300 hectares in Tarn Taran by October 10 this year as compared to last year.“It indicates a significant early harvesting of paddy in these two districts this year, which may be on account of early planting of paddy by about 7-10 days, an increase in the proportion of area under short-duration varieties, and a clear weather during 2020 as compared to a cloudy weather in 2019 during the same period,” the study said.“By October 10, the proportion of burnt area to harvested area in Amritsar increased from 38 per cent in 2019 to 74.6 per cent in 2020. In Tarn Taran, it increased from 30.9 per cent in 2019 to 60.9 per cent in 2020,” it added.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting paddy and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Last year, Punjab produced around two crore tonnes of paddy residue, of which 98 lakh tonnes were burnt by farmers.Farmers in Haryana burnt 12.3 lakh tonnes of the 70 lakh tonnes of paddy residue produced.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between the harvesting of paddy and the sowing of wheat.Also Read | MeT office sounds hail, rain warning for parts of Delhi, NCRThe high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing a 50 to 80-per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/angry-over-farm-bills-punjab-records-highest-stubble-burning-cases-in-4-years/story-YH7PAIxgB028Btm4eEGetK.html
15-11-2020||India||India to carry out multiple launches of BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles by month-end||Amid the ongoing tensions with China, India is all set to showcase the massive firepower of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile by the month-end as the three defence forces would carry out multiple firings of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developed missile system in the Indian Ocean Region in the last week of this month.The BrahMos supersonic cruise missile is the world’s fastest operational system in its class and recently DRDO has extended the range of the missile system from the existing 298 km to around 450 km.The defence services are scheduled to carry out multiple test-firings of the BrahMos in the last week of November against different targets in the Indian Ocean Region. The tests would help the defence services to further improve the performance of the missile system, government sources told ANI.In the last two months, DRDO has been successful in testing both new and existing missile systems including the Shaurya missile system which can hit targets at over 800 km and technology demonstration vehicles for hypersonic missile technology.Recently, the Indian Air Force had flown its Sukhoi-30 aircraft from the Halwara air base in Punjab and launched the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile at an old warship acting as its target in the Bay of Bengal area. The air-launched version of the missile has been used to equip a squadron of the Air Force in Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu.The BrahMos-equipped aircraft from the squadron were also deployed close to the Northern borders soon after the conflict with China had started and 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in the Galwan valley in a clash with the Chinese Army.Also Read | Russia to consider India’s request for speedy delivery of S-400 air defence systemsLast month, the Indian Navy had also carried out the test firing of the Brahmos missile from its warship INS Chennai to showcase its capability to strike targets at ranges more than 400 km in high seas.India is also working on finding export markets for the supersonic cruise missile which has been indigenised to a large extent by the DRDO under its project PJ 10.After the launch of the joint venture between India and Russia in the late 90s, the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile has become a potent weapon for the all three armed forces which are using them for different roles in different trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-carry-out-multiple-launches-of-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missiles-by-month-end/story-KucmNkZrxFh6WzAWuoOLXI.html
15-11-2020||India||Sound pollution spikes 66% in Ranchi’s silence zone on Diwali in prohibited hours||Sound pollution in Ranchi’s silence zone rose 66% on Diwali on Saturday following a massive violation of the two-hour window given by the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) for bursting firecrackers, according to the data released by the board on SundayThe same zone recorded 37% increase in noise pollution against the limit during the two-hour window.On directive of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), JSPCB on November 12 issued an order giving a two-hour window, from 8pm to 10pm, for bursting firecrackers on Diwali.The board measured the status of sound pollution in four locations - Jharkhand High Court (silence zone), Albert Ekka Chowk (commercial zone) Kutchery Chowk (commercial zone) and Ashok Nagar (residential area) - on Saturday from 6pm to 12 midnight.Jharkhand High Court, the city’s silence zone, registered average sound pollution at 67.83 decibel (dB) between 6 pm and 12 midnight on Diwali, a slight drop against the pre-Diwali measurement. The zone recorded 70.28 dB on November 9.The silence zone registered 68.55 dB during window hour, from 8pm to 10pm against the permissible limit of 50dB, while the same zone recorded 66.5 dB during post window hours, from 10pm to 12midnight, against the limit of 40 dB.The permissible limits for silence zone are 50 dB during day (6am to 10pm) and 40 dB at night (10pm to 6am).Similarly, Ashok Nagar, city’s posh locality, recorded average decibel at 71.28 during six hours against the limit of 55 dB in day and 45 dB at night. The area registered 74.45 decibel during allotted hours against the limit of 55 dB and 71.6 dB after that from 10pm to 12 midnight, against the permissible limit of 45 dB.The residential area had registered an average 57.85 dB in six hours during pre-Diwali measurement. The commercial zones Albert Ekka Chowk recorded average sound pollution at 78.41 dB and Kutchery Chowk at 74.31dB during the six-hour period. Permissible limits for commercial areas are 65 dB in day and 55 dB at night.The commercial zones registered 70.9 dB and 72.36 dB respectively during pre-Diwali assessment on November 9.Albert Ekka Chowk registered 80.9 dB during the allotted hours and 73.75 during post window hours. Similarly, Kutchery Chowk recorded 74.31dB during window hours and 71.3 during post window hours on Diwali night.JSPCB analyst RN Kashyap said, “The increase in sound pollution during post window hours seems due to unawareness of Diwali revelers. It seems that the order of two-hour window had not reached many residents.”“In some places like Albert Ekka Chowk, rise in noise level is appearing due to some other factors such as loud speakers and vehicular sound,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sound-pollution-spikes-66-in-ranchi-s-silence-zone-on-diwali-in-prohibited-hours/story-CNPVkqFtC12OV0Jfvb9AkI.html
15-11-2020||India||Gangotri shrine portals close after 23,000 pilgrims visited shrine amid pandemic||Following all rituals and traditional prayers, the portals of Gangotri shrine in Uttarkashi district closed for the winter season at 12:15pm on Sunday. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat took to Twitter and said, “The portals of the world famous Gangotri shrine closed for the winter season after offering prayers on the holy festival of Annakut-Govardhan Puja. Around 23,500 devotees and pilgrims visited the shrine this year.” He further said, “Special guidelines were issued by the government this year with regard to Covid-19 epidemic, which was followed by all the devotees. For this, I thank all the devotees and local people. I pray and wish that Ma Ganga blesses you all.” After the closing of the portals, the palanquin of Goddess Ganga left for Mukhba in the district, where prayers will be offered for the next six winter months. During the ceremony on Sunday, members of Gangotri Temple Committee Suresh Semwal, Deepak Semwal, Rajesh Semwal, Harish Semwal and police officials were present. All norms of social distancing were followed during the closure of the temple and the departure of Utsav Doli. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM celebrates Diwali with army, ITBP jawans in Uttarkashi On Monday, the portals of Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district will close at 8:30am on the occasion of Bhai Dooj for the winter season. The Char Dham shrines were opened for pilgrims on July 1 this year by the state government. Relaxing norms, in the last week of July, Uttarakhand government had decided to allow pilgrims from other states to visit Char Dham shrines with some conditions. In September, the Uttarakhand government further removed the requirement for a mandatory negative Covid-19 report from pilgrims visiting the shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangotri-shrine-portals-close-after-23-000-pilgrims-visited-shrine-amid-pandemic/story-8T2OIqSTXRpYVYSy1kcGhL.html
15-11-2020||India||Baghjan blowout well successfully killed, fire completely doused: Oil India Limited||Energy major Oil India Limited (OIL) announced on Sunday that the blowout in Baghjan gas well in Assam has been successfully killed after months of struggle. The natural gas liquids company said in a statement that the fire has been completely doused and the well has been killed with brime solution. The fire had continued unabated for weeks in the gas well situated in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district before it was tamed by the company with the help of foreign experts. OIL tweeted that the situation is under control, adding that currently there is no pressure in well and the same will be observed for the next 24 hours. The company further stated that operation to abandon the well is in progress.’Also Read | Baghjan blowout: Oil India Limited operated well without mandatory clearances, says NGT panelDr P Chandrasekaran, Director (Exploration & Development ), PK Goswami, Director(Operations) and Shri D K Das, Resident Chief Executive, visited the Baghjan well site and had a detailed discussion with the experts from Alert & OIL team. The confirmation comes two days after the company revealed that it has discovered 1 (one) Hydrocarbon at Well Dinjan-1 in Tinsukia Petroleum Mining Lease (PML) in the Upper Assam Basin.“This discovery will open up new areas for further oil & gas exploration in Assam and would help in enhancing the gas production with future appraisal & development activities,” OIL said in a statement on November 13.A National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel had earlier concluded that the company was operating the natural gas well without required permissions, recommending legal action against OIL and its officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghjan-blowout-well-successfully-killed-fire-completely-doused-oil-india-limited/story-yiy5Pl15Jp0qWsimBCfdZM.html
15-11-2020||India||PDP founder quits over DDC poll ticket, Mehbooba urges focus on ‘bigger’ cause||Former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) patron and one of its founding members, Muzuffar Hussain Beigh has resigned from the PDP.The resignation of Beigh has come at a time when the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was finalising the list of candidates for the District Development Council (DDC) polls. PDP leaders confirmed that Beigh has resigned and conveyed his decision to Mehbooba Mufti, who is the president of the party. “The news about his resignation hasn’t been denied by Beigh or the PDP. So, it’s true,” said a senior PDP leader.Beigh had previously served as deputy chief minister of the erstwhile state and also as a member of parliament (MP) from Baramulla Lok Sabha seat. Among the senior most leaders of the party, Beigh had mostly stayed away from party activities since last year when Centre abrogated Article 370 that had conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir. However, Beigh’s wife Safeena Beigh, who is the president of PDP’s Women’s wing, has been actively attending party meetings after the release of PDP leaders, especially the PDP president, from detention. Beigh is now planning a press conference in the coming few days to chalk out his future strategy. Some leaders are still trying to convince Beigh to stay within the party. Neither Muzaffar Beigh nor his wife Safeena Beigh responded to calls or messages. PDP too, has not made any official announcement about Beigh’s resignation.PDP leaders claimed that Beigh was upset since his wife was not given a ticket from Sangrama block on a seat reserved for women, resulting in the seat going to a National Conference candidate. Beigh feels that PDP didn’t do much to secure a seat for the party candidate in Sangrama.“Beigh wanted a seat from Sangrama and despite request from the PDP, NC local leadership didn’t relent, which became the reason for his resignation,” said a senior PDP leader, close to party president.Also Read: Army holds pre-recruitment training camp in J-K’s Poonch districtThere have been strong indications that Beigh will leave the party, especially after the formation of the Apni Party in March this year, when almost two dozen PDP leaders, including many former legislators and ministers, left the party to join the new party.Earlier, PAGD leadership decided to contest the DDC polls jointly; however, after NC candidates cornered most seats released in the first list, leaders from other parties in the alliance raised questions over the distribution of seats. NC president Farooq Abdullah who is the chairman of the PAGD was authorised to select the candidates for the DDC polls. On Saturday, another meeting was held at the residence of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, in which further deliberations were held on the names of the candidates for the remaining phases of the polls.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, however, said that the PAGD has bigger cause to fight for than petty electoral gains. “PAGD was formed solely to safeguard the identity of people of J&K that has been under constant attack since August 2019. To assume it was created for petty electoral gains or to further party interests is erroneous. We have a bigger cause to fight for than bicker over DDC elections,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti. Also Read: ‘Initiate dialogue’: Mehbooba Mufti asks Centre after shelling at LoCPeoples’ Conference chairman, Sajjad Lone, while endorsing the tweet of Mufti hinted that there are differences on the distribution of seats.“I agree with every word and would further add that the reality, as it exists, is that statesmanship and magnanimity is still a missing trait in our polity. And the absence is being felt more than any other time,” Sajad Lone tweeted.Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples’ Conference, the CPI (M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. Peoples’ Conference however participated in the elections. Congress has also said that they are part of the alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-founder-quits-over-ddc-poll-ticket-mehbooba-urges-focus-on-bigger-cause/story-M3w0Kfvd8VqzyeZkhhz8uM.html
15-11-2020||India||Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad elected as BJP legislature party leader||Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad has been unanimously elected as the leader of BJP legislature party in Bihar, party leader Sushil Kumar Modi said on Sunday.“I have been given this responsibility and I will carry out the duty to the best of my ability,” Tarkishore Prasad said after being elected as leader of BJP legislature party in Bihar.“I can’t comment on it as of now,” said Tarkishore Prasad when asked about the post of Deputy CM in Bihar.Modi, a deputy chief minister in Nitish Kumar’s last cabinet and also the leader of BJP legislature party in Bihar before 2020 Assembly polls, said no one can take away the post of the party worker and he will also discharge the responsibility that will be given to him.“Congratulations to Tarkishoreji for being unanimously elected as the leader of BJP legislature party,” Modi tweeted in Hindi.“The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years that someobody else might have have not received it. I will also discharge the responsibility that will be given to me. No one can take away the post of the worker,” he said in another tweet.He also congratulated Bettiah MLA Renu Devi on being elected as deputy leader of BJP legislature party.“Heartly congratulations to four-time MLA from Bettiah Renu Devi, who comes from Nonia community for being elected as deputy leader of BJP legislature party,” Modi tweetedEarlier in the day, a meeting of the NDA was held where Nitish Kumar was named as the leader, paving the way for his return as chief minister for the fourth consecutive term.NDA secured a majority in the recently-concluded election to 243-member Bihar Assembly by winning 125 seats. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/katihar-mla-tarkishore-prasad-elected-as-bjp-legislature-party-leader/story-cZTDmGScuR2M6hSWSBSBIP.html
15-11-2020||India||Goa CM Pramod Sawant pledges to cut coal handling at Mormugao port by 50%||The Goa government plans to reduce coal handling at the Mormugao port by 50%, chief minister Pramod Sawant said Sunday while speaking during an interaction with children who had called on him to urge him to stop coal import because of pollution in localities around the port and railway line. The children met Sawant while he was exiting a function.The children who were accompanied by a few adults, carried placards demanding the stoppage of coal import to reduce pollution. The group was part of a larger anti-coal import agitation in Goa. Sawant, who last week met Union Minister for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said efforts were on to reduce the quantity of coal imported through the port by exploring other commodities or services that could be promoted at the port. “I assure you coal import and handling will drop by 50 per cent. We will reduce coal and are in the process of stopping it as soon as possible. We cannot stop it altogether. Industries are on (have been running) for 40 years,” Sawant said. “There are 2,000 people working there. They also have small children. We have to give them other employment first and then stop coal. Once the other work starts, we will reduce coal and completely shut it down. Give us some time,” Sawant said. Around 12-14 million metric tons of coal and coke is imported via Goa’s Mormugao Port primarily by steel units in north Karnataka. Goa has seen intermittent protests against the state government’s plans to enhance the coal handling at the port as envisaged under the Sagarmala programme. The protests intensified over the last few months after the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests cleared a plan for double tracking of a railway line passing through the Western Ghats coupled with other infrastructure projects, which environmentalists have said is being done solely to enhance the coal ferrying capacity via rail from the port to the industries in the hinterland. A Change.org petition asking for the scrapping of the projects started by a group of students has garnered around 150,000 signatures over a few days. “It will spell permanent damage to the tiger’s habitat, as the path of the project was already marked as tiger reserve by the National Tiger Conservation Authority. In this region other than trees, there are 5,000 flowering plant species, 139 mammal species, 508 bird species, 179 amphibian species and 325 globally threatened species of wildlife reside here. The doubling of railway lines project is set up for coal transport across states and in order to connect with the Mormugao port which will bring out a lot of pollution,” says the petition.However, Sawant has said that the projects will bring other benefits as well. “People think double tracking is being done for coal. We are creating infrastructure for passengers and other commodities too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-pledges-to-cut-coal-handling-at-mormugao-port-by-50/story-Qu4NhcF8oZQBuZTJclfaHI.html
15-11-2020||India||Man tries to kill woman at Mumbai’s Dadar, stabs himself later to evade arrest||The Dadar police on Saturday evening arrested a 28-year-old man who stabbed his 25-year-old lady friend after she broke up their relationship. Police said the accused stabbed himself after he saw the police and is currently being treated at Sion Hospital. According to the police, the survivor has been identified as Ruchita Hadkar and the accused is Tejas Khobrekar. Ruchita’s elder sister Nikita told the police in her statement that, “Ruchita and Tejas were in a relationship for the past four years and were looking at getting married but she was very upset with Tejas’s alcohol addiction.” “Due to his alcohol habit, they had fights and the accused physically assaulted her on multiple occasions. She was fed-up with his behaviour and habit and hence decided to move on. Since two months she kept on ignoring him and was not answering his calls,” her statement reads. An officer from Dadar police station said, “On November 13, he called her and asked to meet him for the last time at Agar Bazar road, Dadar (west). When she reached there at around 11 pm, the accused started hitting her. Ruchita fled from there but he chased her till Chandrakant Dhuru Wadi road and pushed her.” When she fell on the ground he pinned her there and sat on her and started stabbing her with the intention to kill her. She received injuries on her neck and left hand. After attempting to kill her he ran away from the spot,” the officer said. According to the police, pedestrians alerted them and after reaching the spot they rushed the woman to KEM hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, the detection team from Dadar police station started looking for the accused. A police team spotted him near Kirti College, Dadar Chowpatty, and when they were chasing him he started stabbing himself to avoid his arrest but the team managed to nab him. He was rushed to Sion Hospital for treating the self-inflicted injuries. A senior officer said, “We have deployed adequate security near his ward in which he is admitted for treatment, once he is discharged we will arrest him for further investigation.”The accused has been booked under Sections 307 (Attempt to Murder) , 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-tries-to-kill-woman-at-mumbai-s-dadar-stabs-himself-later-to-evade-arrest/story-NO78CZyOyrwFcaALEBLoEI.html
15-11-2020||India||MeT office sounds hail, rain warning for parts of Delhi, NCR||Air pollution levels are likely to fall as several places in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) have started recording thunderstorm with light rain and moderate winds. The air quality index at 4.30 PM was 435 in “severe” category. There is a hailstorm warning Gannaur in Haryana for early evening. Many other places including Kharkhoda, Sonepat, Hansi etc are also likely to receive hail according to scientists at the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi. The rain and thunder is associated with a western disturbance which started impacting the western Himalayas on Saturday. Gusty winds of 30 to 40 kmph were blowing in many parts of NCR also on Sunday before it started raining. “The rain we are recording is mainly due an active western disturbance which is impacting the Himalayas. In the hills, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are recording heavy to moderate rains. Punjab, Haryana, Delhi northwest Rajasthan, parts of Uttar Pradesh are getting thundershowers and hail,” said Anand Sharma, scientist, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-office-sounds-hail-rain-warning-for-parts-of-ncr/story-qPYW80v02Y8WUdeW8vkQmK.html
15-11-2020||India||BSF says Pak’s bid to push 250-300 terrorists from each launchpad foiled||A top BSF official on Sunday blamed Pakistan for violating the 2003 ceasefire agreement without any provocation and using heavy weapons on Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir on November 13, inflicting damages on life and property of Indian forces as well as civilians.The Indian Army and the BSF paid tributes to four army men and a BSF officer who were killed in different sectors of Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora districts in the shelling by Pakistan army on Friday. Four civilians including a woman and a seven-year-old boy were also killed in the exchange of firing in Uri, Naugam, Keran and Gurez sectors.“Without any reason, Pakistan indulged in ceasefire violation using heavy artillery which prompted us to respond. We have also suffered some damage including the martyrdom of sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal,” said Inspector General of BSF, Rajesh Mishra, after paying tributes to his slain colleague.The BSF said Pakistan started unprovoked ceasefire violations on the LoC on November 13, using artillery, mortars and other weapons targeting even the civilian areas. Dobhal, a 2004 batch sub inspector from BSF’s artillery regiment, was hit in the firing in Naugam sector of Kupwara. He is survived by his parents, wife and a daughter, who all live in district Dehradun (Uttrakhand).“Pakistan used heavy weapons in this firing which was without any provocation. BSF and army responded fearlessly but in the firing, army jawans were also killed as well as a lot of damage was inflicted on civilians including civilian casualties,” Mishra said.Also Read: India summons Pakistani chargé d’affaires to protest civilian deaths in LoC shellingArmy also paid tributes to its slain men; Havildar Hardhan Chandra Roy (38) from Assam, Naik Satai Bhushan Rameshrao (28) from Nagpur, Gunner Subodh Ghosh (22) from West Bengal and Sepoy Jondhale Rushikesh Ramchandra (20) from Maharashtra, who gave their lives on November 13.In a solemn ceremony at BB Cantt, Lt Gen BS Raju, Chinar Corps Commander, and all ranks paid homage to the soldiers who had received splinter injuries in Uri and Gurez sectors.The IG BSF said that the forces responded fiercely during the violation.“In our befitting response, Pakistan defenses were also hit and I understand they have suffered a lot of damages,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi rides on Arjun’s ‘aatmanirbhar’ fire power to send message to Pakistan, ChinaPakistan media quoting Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) has blamed India for the ceasefire violation on November 13. It has said that a Pakistani army soldier and four civilians were killed in Indian firing on Friday.The BSF officer said that militants were waiting on launching pads on the other side of LoC to infiltrate into the country.“As per our inputs, the infiltrators are ready there on launching pads. Around 250-300 are present on each launching pad and make every effort to infiltrate into the country and target the internal security here but army and BSF have remained successful to a large extent in thwarting those efforts,” Mishra said.India and Pakistan, who have fought at-least three wars since 1947, had agreed in 2003 to maintain peace along the border, but violations intensified after bilateral relations plummeted in 2016. India often accuses Pak of violating the ceasefire to give cover to infiltrating militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-says-pak-s-bid-to-push-250-300-terrorists-from-each-launchpad-foiled/story-CMhGIaEGLt0lJ1a7MawTKL.html
15-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Ahmed Patel who was tested Covid positive, admitted to ICU, family says condition stable and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel admitted to ICU, condition stable, says familySenior Congress leader Ahmed Patel has been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, weeks after he first tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Patel’s son, Faisal, shared a statement on behalf of his family to update on the medical condition of his father. Read morePM Modi spells out the offensive-defensive doctrine for IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s friends and detractors know that there is nothing casual about the man from Gujarat. He practises his speeches, measures his words and then articulates the message for maximum impact. Read moreAmit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at 5pmUnion home minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting on Sunday to review the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in national capital Delhi. The meeting till take place at 5 pm today. Read more‘He’s doing it very well’: Mark Taylor calls star India batsman a ‘very powerful guy’Former Australia captain Mark Taylor played in an era where he witnessed what the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, Brian Lara, Michael Atherton, Inzamam Ul Haq and many more were capable of doing. But rest assured, none of those players come close to the transformation India captain Virat Kohli has shown over the years. Read more‘Apu said goodbye’: Film celebs, politicians bid farewell to Soumitra ChatterjeeThe film industry as well as millions of fans have mourned the loss of iconic actor Soumitra Chatterjee. The veteran actor died on Sunday after several weeks in hospital; he was diagnosed with Covid encephalopathy. The President, the Prime Minister and the West Bengal chief minister posted tributes to the actor. Read moreGoogle Maps introduces ‘Trips’ tab to remind of previous vacationsGoogle Maps will soon roll out a new Trips tab in timeline on Android that can present customers an abstract of previous holidays and complete kilometres travelled. Read moreSatyameva Jayate 2: John Abraham’s egg diet-weight lifting leaves Tiger Shroff, Abhishek Bachchan and fans impressedAfter landing in Lucknow on Tuesday morning to shoot for Milap Zaveri’s Satyameva Jayate 2, John Abraham seems to have his “beast mode” on as he preps for the role of a police officer or so the latest pictures on the Internet suggest. Read moreDiwali 2020: Netizens celebrate festival of lights by sharing highly relatable soan papdi posts. Seen them yet?With the lights all set up, rangolis all made, and cleaning all done, all that’s left to do is... think about what you’re going to do with all the soan papdi boxes you’ve received this Diwali. Surely, you cannot consume all of them. Read moreDiwali 2020: PM Modi, President Kovind, others extend their wishes to nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Diwali. He wished for the festival to bring ‘brightness and happiness’. This year too, PM Modi has continued the tradition of spending Diwali with soldiers. He travelled to Jaisalmer to celebrate Diwali with soldiers on Western border. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-ahmed-patel-who-was-tested-covid-positive-admitted-to-icu-family-says-condition-stable-and-all-the-latest-news/story-esCcTFMSWoac6nEQnb4lmM.html
15-11-2020||India||Expected surge in Covid-19 cases post Diwali will not lead to shortage of beds in Mumbai||With the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expecting a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases post Diwali; it has at the same time maintained that the possible spike post the festival should not pose a challenge to the availability of Covid-19 beds in the city.From over 14,000 beds available in Covid-19 hospitals, 66% are vacant, BMC officials said.In categories like ICU, oxygen and ventilators the vacancy rate is between 30-60%. The BMC has said there will not be any impact on the bed availability, and if need arises it can increase the bed capacity depending on the requirement.According to the data on BMC’s dashboard, of the 14,456 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and centres, 9,580 beds were vacant, as of November 14.In case of ICU beds, out of the total 2,003 ICU beds, 803 are available followed by 5,987 oxygen beds of the total 8,689 oxygen beds and 373 ventilators of 1,183 ventilators, are vacant.After the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, BMC had come under criticism owing to non-availability of beds. To deal with the issue, the BMC starting June 2020, created 24 mini controlled ward war rooms to regulate the allocation of beds rather than having a single centralized bed allocation control room.Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner of BMC said, “The 14 days cycle post Diwali is crucial, and there may be a surge upto some extent. But bed availability will not be an issue and citizens don’t need to worry about it. However, they need to be cautious and take all precautions to control the spread of Covid-19.”The BMC had reserved 80% of the total beds for Covid-19 in a few chosen private hospitals and nursing homes. However, with the daily case load going down several hospitals and nursing homes had requested to bring down the cap and reduce Covid-19 beds, but the BMC has not allowed that yet.The BMC had also decided to put several temporary Covid-19 centres on standby or shut them owing to the caseload going down. But the state Covid-19 taskforce has warned against permanently closing down such centres fearing a second wave.Meanwhile, Dr Kedar Toraskar, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said, “We understand that daily operation of these centres can be a costly affair but we don’t have to shut them but should rather put them on standby wherein they can be activated anytime, in case of any spike in the coming days.”The state government had last week warned of a possible second wave in the month of January and February owing to unlocking of economic activities. There is also a school of thought that cases will increase during the winter season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expected-surge-in-covid-19-cases-post-diwali-will-not-lead-to-shortage-of-beds-in-mumbai/story-SA5BLtsZkkBihU5CV8vuoL.html
15-11-2020||India||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel admitted to ICU, condition stable, says family||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel has been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, weeks after he first tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Patel’s son, Faisal, shared a statement on behalf of his family to update on the medical condition of his father. The family said that Patel’s condition is currently stable as he continues to be under medical observation.“We will provide you updates from this handle. We request you to pray for his speedy recovery,” the family of the Rajya Sabha member said in a statement posted on Twitter handle @mfaisalpatel.On October 1, Patel announced that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had gone into self-isolation at his Delhi residence. Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader urged everyone who came in close contact with him recently to self-isolate.Also Read | Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tests positive for Covid-19, goes into self-isolationIn the recent past, several key political figures from around the country, including Union home minister Amit Shah, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Haryana chief minister ML Khattar, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, tested positive for Covid-19.On Saturday, India recorded a single-day spike of 41,100 new coronavirus cases, taking the total case tally 88,14,579. As many as 836 people lost their lives to the highly contagious disease as the total coronavirus-related death toll reached 57,542, according to the Union health ministry update at 8 am.The ministry said that a total of 82,05,728 people have been cured/discharged/migrated from Covid-19. The daily caseload has remained under 50,000 for the seventh day in a row. India continues to be the second worst-hit country in terms of total coronavirus cases and third-worst in terms of related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-admitted-to-icu-condition-stable-says-family/story-Cyyx8zRlfJFx8VhzpjsZEL.html
15-11-2020||India||‘Deeply pained’: Amit Shah on veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s demise||Union home minister Amit Shah condoled the death of veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee at a private nursing home in south Kolkata earlier today. Chatterjee was 85.“Deeply pained to learn about the demise of legendary Soumitra Chatterjee ji. An iconic actor, who took Bengali cinema to new heights. In Soumitra Da, the Indian silver screen has lost a gem. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and countless followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti,” the home minister tweeted.The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winning actor died at 12.15 pm at a private hospital in south Kolkata on Sunday after battling critical health issues including Covid encephalopathy. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.ALSO READ | ‘Indian cinema has lost a legend’: President Kovind condoles Soumitra Chatterjee’s deathBest known for his multi-faceted roles in the movies of another doyen of Bengali cinema Satyajit Ray, Chatterjee’s film career spanned nearly 61 years. His name is synonymous with Ray’s protagonist ‘Apu’ from the internationally acclaimed Apu trilogy. He also portrayed the immortal ‘Feluda’—Ray’s well known fictional detective on screen. He featured in as many as 14 Ray films throughout his career, the last being Sakha Prosakha. The actor has also been honoured with France’s highest civilian award—the Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur, (Legion of Honour) for his contribution to Indian cinema.Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to his passing as a colossal loss for the world of Indian cinema as he expressed his condolences on Twitter. “Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-pained-amit-shah-on-veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-demise/story-zFf50vWsdW6V8br7rQHjIO.html
15-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: Over 250 register for Covaxin trial, Sputnik-V to reach Kanpur trial||A worldwide search for a vaccine to cure the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues as several countries across the world are busy battling resurgence of the outbreak. So far, as many as 53,945,763 people have been infected by the Covid-19 across the world, numbers published by the John Hopkins University show. Most of the fresh cases were reported from the United States and Europe. While 1,311,427 others have succumbed to the disease.Here is what is happening in Covid-19 vaccine development front:- The first batch of Russia’s Sputnik-V vaccine for Covid-19 is likely to reach Kanpur’s Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College by next week wherein the vaccine’s Phase 2 and Phase 3 human clinical trials will be conducted. The Russian officials recently claimed that the Sputnik-V vaccine is 92% effective at protecting people from Covid-19 citing findings in the human trials.- More than 250 applications have been received for the trial of Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’, one of the three vaccine candidates being developed in India, at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital of the Aligarh Muslim University.- Johnson & Johnson will spend about $604 million expanding its deal with the US government to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority will commit about $454 million in additional money to the Phase 3 Ensemble trial, which seeks to evaluate the efficacy of the company’s vaccine candidate as a single-dose.- Speaking at a last week, Union health minister of India Dr Harsh Vardhan said that the government has announced a USD 120 million grant for Covid-19 vaccine research. The grant will be provided under CovidSuraksha (Mission for protection from Covid) and is to be used purely for research and development in this field. India is also hosting clinical trials for all the major vaccine contenders. Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, is conducting trials for the vaccine developed by Oxford University, he had also informed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-over-250-register-for-covaxin-trial-sputnik-v-to-reach-kanpur-trial/story-C6cAAoOPJ3lVxrhG39aT6H.html
15-11-2020||India||LPG cylinder explodes in Tamil Nadu; three killed, four injured||Three people, including an eight-year-old boy and his mother, were killed and four injured when a wall collapsed after a domestic LPG cylinder exploded near here on Sunday, police said. The injured had been hospitalised and investigations were on with a case registered over the incident, suspected to have been triggered by a gas leak at a house in nearby Arani, a police official said. When the cylinder exploded, a wall that divided portions of the house between the landlord and a tenant besides that of a neighbour collapsed. J Kamatchi, the tenant, and her son J Hemanath, and neighbour S Chandra, died in the wall collapse. Kamatchi’s husband M Janakiraman and another son J Suresh (15) were injured, the official said. “Under the impact of the explosion, 55-year old D Mukthabai who owned the house on Pudhukamur Road and her 15- year old daughter D Meena sustained 90 and 50 per cent burns respectively,” the official told PTI. After initial treatment at a state-run hospital in Arani, all the injured have been admitted to a government facility at neighbouring Vellore, he said. Condoling the deaths, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs two lakh each to the families of Kamatchi and Chandra and Rs one lakh each to severely injured and Rs 50,000 to those who sustained injuries. After he got to know about the mishap, Palaniswami said he directed Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department Minister Sevur Ramachandran, who hails from the district, and the collector to immediately reach the spot and take up relief work and ensure top class treatment to those injured. Palaniswami also appealed to the people to take care and exercise caution while using Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders in their households. PMK founder leader S Ramadoss urged the government to come forward to provide an assistance of Rs 25 lakh to the victims of the mishap and Rs 10 lakh for those injured and rebuild the houses damaged in the impact. Negligence in using LPG cylinders could be life threatening, Ramadoss said and requested the people to assimilate information provided by oil companies in their awareness programmes and act with caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-cylinder-explodes-in-tamil-nadu-three-killed-four-injured/story-CIhxbPhrZLfrUO6j6NwafN.html
15-11-2020||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan, Qutub Minar and other monuments to #GoBlue on World Children’s Day||The Rashtrapati Bhavan, Qutub Minar and other monuments across India will #GoBlue on the World Children’s Day on November 20 in solidarity with child rights and the impact of Covid-19 on children’s lives, the UNICEF said. Iconic monuments will light up in blue under the #GoBlue campaign, it said. On the occasion of World Children’s Day, UNICEF said, this year’s activities will occur in the virtual and the digital spaces. “Along with grownups, children will also wear masks and maintain physical distance. That, however, does not mean that children’s voices will be any quieter – children will be Masked but not Muted! this World Children’s Day,” the UN body said in a statement. UNICEF in partnership with Parliamentarian’s Group for Children (PGC) is organizing a Climate Parliament with Children on November 20, under the leadership of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, and 30 members of Parliament. “Children will discuss the impact of climate change with the parliamentarians and present a Charter of Demands on climate action. The participant parliamentarians are expected to sign a letter of commitment to support integrating children’s rights and voices to climate action and adaptation plans,” it said. “Monuments across the country – the Rashtrapati Bhavan (Presidential Palace), Prime Minister’s Office (North and South Block), the Parliament House and Qutub Minar in New Delhi, and other historical buildings, landmarks and key government buildings across India – will #GoBlue on November 20, standing in solidarity for child rights and the impact of Covid-19 and climate change on their lives,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-qutub-minar-and-other-monuments-to-goblue-on-world-children-s-day/story-cVNXBwvw62Ors0N5CsLesI.html
15-11-2020||India||‘Feluda is no more, film world in Bengal has been orphaned’: Mamata Banerjee mourns Soumitra Chatterjee’s demise||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday mourned the demise of legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee.Banerjee took to Twitter and penned an emotional note on the demise of Chatterjee. “Feluda’ is no more. ‘Apu’ said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned,” she wrote.“Best known for his films with Satyajit Ray, Soumitra Da was conferred with Legion of Honor, Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Banga Bibhushan, Padma Bhushan & several National Awards. A great loss. Saddened. Condolences to his family, the film fraternity & his admirers across the world,” Banerjee added.The actor breathed his last at Belle Vue Hospital in Kolkata.Chatterjee was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was later shifted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) as Covid encephalopathy set in, affecting his central nervous system and causing renal dysfunction.He recovered from the infection subsequently, but his health condition did not improve, despite several plasma therapies, dialysis and tracheotomy.“We declare with a heavy heart that Shri Soumitra Chattopadhyay breathed his last at 12:15 pm at Belle Vue Clinic today (November 15 2020). We pay our homage to his soul,” the hospital said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feluda-is-no-more-film-world-in-bengal-has-been-orphaned-mamata-banerjee-mourns-soumitra-chatterjee-s-demise/story-ycj35HGfQoCbM6VRdvsqVJ.html
15-11-2020||India||‘Soumitra Chatterjee’s death colossal loss to world of cinema’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the death of Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee, saying it’s a colossal loss to the world of cinema.“Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” the prime minister tweeted. Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.In a tweet, President Ram Nath Kovind had said that Chatterjee will be remembered for the ‘Apu’ trilogy and other memorable performances in Satyajit Ray’s masterpieces.“With the passing of Soumitra Chatterjee, Indian cinema has lost one of its legends. He will be specially remembered for the ‘Apu’ trilogy and other memorable performances in Satyajit Ray’s masterpieces. He made immense contribution to the craft of acting,” he said. The 85-year-old breathed his last at Belle Vue Hospital in Kolkata.The actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was later shifted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) as Covid encephalopathy set in, affecting his central nervous system and causing renal dysfunction.He recovered from the infection subsequently, but his health condition did not improve, despite several plasma therapies, dialysis and tracheotomy.“We declare with a heavy heart that Shri Soumitra Chattopadhyay breathed his last at 12:15 pm at Belle Vue Clinic today (November 15 2020). We pay our homage to his soul,” the hospital said in a statement.Several actors and directors, who have worked with the Dada Saheb Phalke awardee, mourned his demise.In a career spanning six decades, Chatterjee has acted in more than 300 films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soumitra-chatterjee-s-death-colossal-loss-to-world-of-cinema-pm-modi/story-S1JErha1E2DhXk7QT3kwCO.html
15-11-2020||India||Manipur CM N Biren Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Sunday said he had tested positive for Covid-19 and urged those who came in contact with him in the past few days to get themselves tested.“Friends, I have tested Covid positive today after having some symptoms,” Biren wrote on his Facebook page on Sunday.“All that have been in close proximity to me in the last few days are requested to get themselves tested,” he said. “I am fine at the moment.”In September this year, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu too had tested positive for Covid 19.Union home minister Amit Shah, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Haryana chief minister ML Khattar, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia are among some top notch politicians who tested positive for Covid-19 infection in the last two months before recovering.Also Read: Bypolls over, surveillance teams to identify cases in Manipur constituenciesOn Saturday, five men succumbed to Covid-19 at four health care centres in the state, according to health department officials. The cumulative number of deaths recorded due to Covid-19 has risen to 218.With the recovery of 211 Covid-19 infected persons, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur has reached 18,334 on Saturday, said the officials. The recovery rate in the state stands at 84.73%.The cumulative number of positive cases recorded in the state so far stands at 21,636, while the number of active cases is 3,084, as per official data.So far 452,128 people have been screened at various entry points of the state while 384,235 individuals have been tested for the disease, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-n-biren-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-cIEmNgFZQ7AKodwwld1QpJ.html
15-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar elected NDA leader, to take oath as Bihar CM tomorrow||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners which met on Sunday at the CM’s official residence at 1, Anney Marg, chose Nitish Kumar as the next chief minister of Bihar. BJP MLC and Nitish Kumar’s deputy, Sushil Kumar Modi was elected as the leader of the BJP legislature party while Tarkeshwar Prasad has been elected as the leader of the BJP in the Bihar assembly. Kumar was elected unanimously at the meeting in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was appointed as an observer by the BJP central leadership. Kumar will take oath as the chief minister for the seventh time on Monday. The meeting was attended by all the 125 newly-elected alliance MLAs comprising BJP, JD (U), HAM-S and VIP. Kumar later went to the Governor’s house to hand over the letter for government formation and list of MLAs of the alliance. One independent candidate has also extended support to the NDA. NDA sources said that a couple of ministers are also likely to be sworn-in with Kumar. Earlier in the day, before the NDA meeting, Kumar was also elected as JD (U) legislature party leader. Kumar is a member of the Bihar legislative council. In the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, the BJP had won 74 seats, JD-U 43, while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents. The NDA combined won 125 seats, which is three more than the majority mark in the 243-strong Bihar assembly. The RJD, led by 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats. The opposition alliance won 110 seats. The Bihar governor dissolved the assembly on November 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-elected-nda-leader-may-take-oath-as-bihar-cm-tomorrow/story-0tPfshmw4cnxh5n95mTQkN.html
15-11-2020||India||Insomnia, dementia, anxiety most common among those infected by Covid-19: Lancet study||Nearly one-fifth of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients presented with a psychiatric diagnosis within 14 to 19 days of being tested positive for the infection, according to a recent Oxford University study published in the medical journal, the Lancet.It reached this conclusion based on a research conducted on as many as 69 million individuals, 62,354 of whom had Covid-19.Also Read: Covid-19: As nationwide tally fall, top 10 states reporting maximum number of daily casesInsomnia, dementia and anxiety disorder were most common among people infected with Covid-19, even if they had no previous psychiatric history. The probability of being diagnosed with dementia was increased after a diagnosis of Covid-19 among patients older than 65 years, the study found.“Among anxiety disorders, adjustment disorder, generalised anxiety disorder, and, to a lesser extent, post-traumatic stress disorder and panic disorder were the most frequent,” the study said.Also Read: Amit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at 5pmAccording to the study, existing mental health problems put a person at higher risk of Covid-19 infection. “The elevated risk of psychiatric sequelae after Covid-19 diagnosis compared with control health events could not be readily explained by differences in illness severity. Patients with Covid-19 who required in patient admission were at a higher risk of psychiatric sequelae than patients not requiring admission,” the study found.“Having a diagnosis of psychiatric disorder in the year before the Covid-19 outbreak was associated with a 65% increased risk of Covid-19,” the study said.Also Read: Covid-19: As nationwide tally fall, top 10 states reporting maximum number of daily casesHowever, despite showing increased diagnoses in all major anxiety disorder categories, it was still unclear if patients’ anxiety would have attributes of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).“Our data show increased diagnoses in all major anxiety disorder categories, and it remains unclear whether post-Covid-19 anxiety will have a particular post-traumatic stress disorder-like picture,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insomnia-dementia-anxiety-most-common-among-those-infected-by-covid-19-lancet-study/story-C9vHb8wMThPNmUbvml5RNP.html
15-11-2020||India||No decision so far on reopening monuments in Maharashtra, says minister||Minister of State for Tourism Aditi Tatkare on Sunday said the Maharashtra government has not taken a decision so far on reopening monuments for tourists.An association of tourist guides in Aurangabad on Friday wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanding that monuments, like the world famous Ajanta and Ellora caves and others, be reopened for visitors as the shutdown due to Covid-19 has brought many to the brink of starvation.“I will not be able to say anything about this as this is a decision of the chief minister. A decision on opening tourist sites is yet not taken,” Tatkare told news agency PTI.Aurangabad Collector Sunil Chavan said he has met several people who are dependent on tourism for their bread and butter, adding that many people are facing trouble.The Archeological Survey of India’s (ASI) Aurangabad circle is also planning to write to the state government over the issue.“We are prepared for reopening the monuments and permission of the state is awaited. Our office will write a letter to the state government soon,” an ASI official said, according to news agency PTI.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-so-far-on-reopening-monuments-in-maharashtra-says-minister/story-cJtUUDBw66TthulPicxwLL.html
15-11-2020||India||A hub of terrorists and anti-nationals, situation in Bengal worse than Kashmir: Dilip Ghosh||Alleging that the state has become a hub of “terrorists and anti-nationals”, West Bengal BJP President Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said that the situation here is worse than Kashmir.“The other day six Al-Qaeda terrorists were arrested from Aipurduar (in North Bengal). A network has been formed in several places of the state. Even Bangladesh leader Khaleda Zia has said the terrorists are being trained in India and sent to Bangladesh to create disturbance. This state has become a centre of terrorists, and anti-nationals. They are coming here from other places and taking shelter. The situation of Bengal is now worse than Kashmir,” Ghosh alleged while talking to reporters after a BJP event at Baranagar in North 24 Parganas district on Sunday. He added the people of Bengal are living in a state of fear. “Even my name was included in the hit list of the anti-nationals. I have been attacked in Jaygaon in Alipurduar district where Rohingya Muslims were placed. If you watch the video of the incident carefully, you can identify them through their appearances that they are not from Bengal,” said Ghosh, adding West Bengal has abundant Rohingyas, and other infiltrators who caste their vote to Chief Minsiter Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC).“It is very alarming that a few political parties are giving shelter to the terrorists and anti-social elements.” The BJP leader, however, expressed confidence in the people of the state who know “which party to vote for” even if all other parties collectively contest against the BJP.On AIMIM’s President Asaduddin Owaisi’s announcement to contest the next election in West Bengal, Ghosh said, “Many things can happen. Several political parties cane come here and contest. That doesn’t matter to the BJP. Our party has created a good atmosphere to conduct polls. Around 45 per cent people of Bengal cast their votes for the BJP. They have full faith in us. The TMC, CPI(M), Congress, AIMIM, all the parties can merge together. The party, which wants development, will be on one side and which want to create unrest will be on another.”Before meeting the media persons, he attended the “Cha Chakra” -- an event on lines of tea adda -- on Tobin Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-hub-of-terrorists-and-anti-nationals-situation-in-bengal-worse-than-kashmir-dilip-ghosh/story-C2c7BW8hMU0cmNvUz4BFmL.html
15-11-2020||India||First batch of Sputnik V vaccine to arrive in Kanpur medical college for Phase 2, 3 trials||The first batch of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 is likely to reach Kanpur’s Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College by next week wherein the vaccine’s Phase 2 and Phase 3 human clinical trials will be conducted.The decision to conduct the human clinical trials of the vaccine was taken after Dr Reddy’s Laboratories got approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in this regard, an official said. Speaking to PTI, college principal R B Kamal said the human clinical trials of the vaccine will start from next week.“As many as 180 volunteers have registered for the trials. Head of the research Saurabh Agarwal will determine the dosage of the vaccine to be administered. One dose will be administered and the condition of volunteers will be monitored to determine whether they need further doses or not,” he said. Kamal said the volunteers’ vitals and condition will be checked periodically and the data will be analysed to determine whether the vaccine is a success or not.Read more | 250 register for Covid vaccine trial at AMUHe said the effect of the vaccine on the volunteers will be studied for seven months after the same is administered once, twice or thrice within an interval of 21 days. After observing the effects of the vaccine for a month, authorities will be apprised of the results of the trial and they will then make a decision accordingly.The ethics Committee of the college has also given permission for the trails, he said. The vaccine has to be kept at a temperature of -20 to -70 degrees Celsius. In September, Dr Reddy’s and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy’s upon regulatory approval in India. On August 11, the Sputnik V vaccine was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 based on the human adenoviral vector platform.On November 15, India’s Covid-19 tally reached 88,14,579 as the country reported a spike of 41,100 new cases while 447 succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-batch-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-arrive-in-kanpur-medical-college-for-phase-2-3-trials/story-udeEv0KGTXDJD95xs2X9uI.html
15-11-2020||India||250 register for Covid vaccine trial at AMU||More than 250 applications have been received for the trial of Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital of the Aligarh Muslim University. According to Prof Mohd Shameem, principal investigator, all applications will be screened as per the protocol and procedure laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before inclusion in the study/trial. Shameem informed that the registration is moving satisfactory but there is an exclusion, as well as inclusion criteria, and other detailed procedural/protocol formalities for the Covaxin trial which includes written consent and other related formalities that will be completed in due course of time. He further informed that the vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor had volunteered himself for Phase-3 trial of the Covaxin. On perusal of his recent medical history by the principal investigator, it has come to light that a few days back, the vice-chancellor was administered influenza vaccine (Fluarex-Tetra), which is administered to him annually. Since his case falls in the exclusionary criteria according to the protocol for the vaccine trial, he may not be able to participate in the trials, and hence his name will not be included in the initial study period of the trial.Read more | AMU VC registers himself as first volunteer of Covaxin Phase-3 trialThe resource persons from Bharat Biotech will visit AMU in the coming days for training of staff for the vaccine trials. According to the protocol for the trial, “person participating in the trial should not have taken any licensed/experimental vaccine within four weeks before enrolment in the study”. Also, the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) is planning to open ‘Out-Patient Department (OPD)’ in a phased manner. The Principal JNMCH, Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui will consult the university authorities and chairpersons and decision may be taken in the next few days depending upon the Covid-19 situation, staff position and availability of resources. Till now the various OPDs were working through on-line mode. The principal informed that OPDs will open with proper mandatory precautions such as social distancing, hygiene, sanitation, wearing of masks etc. Opening of OPDs will also help in enrolment of subjects for the Covid-19 trial.On November 15, India’s Covid-19 tally reached 88,14,579 as the country reported a spike of 41,100 new cases while 447 succumbed to the disease.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/250-register-for-covid-vaccine-trial-at-amu/story-4UXSyg68Do5lCYrFlyQ62L.html
15-11-2020||India||4 minors rescued in Assam after allegations of attempted human sacrifice||Police in Assam’s Sivasagar district have rescued four minor boys following allegations from local residents that they were about to be sacrificed by the father of one of the boys. While reports in local news channels claim that the father of one of the boys wanted to sacrifice his own son and the sons of his brother on the advice of a witch doctor with the hope of getting some hidden treasure, police say there is no evidence of an attempted human sacrifice yet, but are investigating. “A police team was sent to Demowmukh following reports that some human sacrifice was about to take place there. We have taken the four boys into our custody on Saturday night for their safety,” said Amitava Sinha, superintendent of police, Sivasagar. Also Read: Minor brutally murdered on Diwali, organs missing; police chase 2 theories“The allegations of attempted human sacrifice are yet to be confirmed. Apart from hearsay, there is no concrete evidence about such a crime. According to the locals, the father of one of the boys wanted to sacrifice them. On questioning, the father said they were planning some exorcism ritual,” he added. An FIR on the incident has been lodged by local residents and police have detained two persons Jamirul Hussain and Shariful Hussain, fathers of the minor boys, for further interrogation.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-minors-rescued-in-assam-after-allegations-of-attempted-human-sacrifice/story-Ia2kjwRq72zxZ37BtACO9I.html
15-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New DACA rules invalid, says federal judge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New DACA rules invalid, says federal judgeA federal judge on Saturday said that the rules limiting applications and renewals for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programme were invalid as federal judge Chad Wolf, when he signed rule, was not legally serving as acting Homeland Security secretary, reported CNN. Read MoreAmit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at 5pm todayUnion home minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting on Sunday to review the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in national capital Delhi. Read MoreIn Mumbai, BMC begins restoration of British era heritage milestonesAfter a delay of about two years since it was first planned, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday started work on restoration of 11 British era heritage milestone markers of the city. Read MoreCovid-19: As nationwide tally fall, top 10 states reporting maximum number of daily casesIndia has been witnessing a decline in the Covid-19 cases for the last few weeks, but there are 10 states and union territories (UTs) are still reporting the maximum number of daily cases. Read MoreKolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworksFireworks and crackers, an integral part of Diwali and Kali Puja, almost disappeared on Saturday night from the West Bengal capital as a vast majority of residents followed the recent order of the Calcutta high court. Read More‘He sent me a text saying ‘you’re playing really well’’: Devdutt Padikkal reveals special praise from star batsmanDevdutt Padikkal of Royal Challengers Bangalore was quite easily the find of the Indian Premier League 2020. In his maiden IPL season, Padikkal scored 473 runs to not only be the highest run-scorer for RCB, but hold the record for the most runs by a batsman in his debut IPL season. Padikkal peeled off four five half-centuries and the promise showed by the youngster fetched him the ‘Emerging Player’ award. Read MoreDiwali 2020: Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi look gorgeous as they attend puja, Salman Khan and Katrina Kaif share festive looksDiwali celebrations may be low-key in Bollywood this year but they more than made up with the glitz and glamour. Salman Khan, Katrina Kaif, sisters Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi were among those who shared their festive looks as they gave a glimpse into their celebrations. Read MoreTrump supporters rally in Washington, insists he won US presidential raceDefiant supporters of US President Donald Trump held a rally in Washington on November 14, a week after the presidential race was called for Democrat Joe Biden They displayed support for Trump through chants and waving flags as they marched to the Supreme Court to protest the election results and falsely assert the vote was stolen. The march was peaceful during the day before turning tense at night. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-daca-rules-invalid-says-federal-judge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ODb3sk1J0LpWyDTNKFSwKM.html
15-11-2020||India||PM Modi spells out the offensive-defensive doctrine for India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s friends and detractors know that there is nothing casual about the man from Gujarat. He practises his speeches, measures his words and then articulates the message for maximum impact. Addressing the tri-services at historic Longewala, where a Punjab regiment company and Air Force Hunters destroyed 40 Pakistani tanks in 1971 conflict, Modi spelt out the Indian war strategy and it was certainly not pacifist. He said that India is willing to understand or make the adversary understand but there will be fiery retaliation if the enemy tries to test its military might. Simply put, India is not seeking confrontation but will stand its ground in case it is confronted. In Modi’s speech there was a message for both domestic and international audience. He skipped the East Asia Summit to be with Indian troops on Diwali Day and deputed External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on his behalf. US President Donald Trump did not attend the summit even last time and Cambodian leader was under quarantine.That Modi was not war mongering and meant business is will known to Pakistan during the Balakot Strike on February 26, 2019. After Pakistani propaganda started posting pictures of a captured and bleeding Wing Commander Abhinandan, Modi let it be known to Islamabad through then ISI chief that India will launch a missile strike if any harm came to the Indian Air Force pilots. He conveyed through interlocutors that “humne Diwali ke patake nahin rakh rakhe (we have not kept Diwali crackers in our arsenal)” and asked the Indian Prithvi Missiles to be deployed in the same Rajasthan sector. Such was the impact of the message that the MiG-21 Indian pilot was set free by the Pakistan government the very next day.Also Read | PM Modi rides on Arjun’s ‘aatmanirbhar’ fire power to send message to Pakistan, ChinaWithout naming China, PM Modi took on the expansionist policies of the present Chinese regime by saying that it was a product of 18th century twisted mindset and that India would firmly oppose it. By saying this the PM countered the Chinese description of rapidly emerging QUAD, with US, Japan and Australia as other members, as a product of Cold War mindset.At Longewala, he again reiterated the Indian resolve to take the battle to the enemy or extinguish the threat to India at the source. Clearly, this is the new offensive-defensive doctrine of India, which coupled with building of airborne and expeditionary force projection capability, will ensure that future battles are not fought on Indian soil.Prime Minister Modi’s statement should not be seen in isolation but in context of what his Cabinet minister ranked National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on banks of River Ganga at Rishikesh on October 22 and what External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said at the East Asia Summit on Diwali. The message from both was not sugar coated but expression of what India expects from the neighbours in terms of cross-border terrorism and freedom to navigate the South China sea and resist any attempts to make it into Chinese pond. Without seeking any acrimony or confrontation with Beijing, what Jaishankar conveyed on Saturday was a reiteration of PM Modi’s conversation with the then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during the first summit meeting in 2014. At that time, it alarmed the Indian mandarins but Modi did not flinch from what he had to convey. It is another matter, that Jaishankar was among the more moderate voices on South China Sea at the East Asia Summit.While India and China are on track to disengage and de-escalate from East Ladakh to mutual satisfaction, India is neither over-negotiating with PLA to bring the Depsang bulge issue into the current resolution nor is it willing to cede an inch of territory from the friction points at Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and finger 4 spur on the north banks of the Pangong Tso. Under Modi, India has decided to call a spade a spade by building a pro-India lobby in the world and is prepared to defend its own interests by choosing its friends and degrading its enemies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-spells-out-the-offensive-defensive-doctrine-for-india/story-Ik7AHB2S5Heyr2Km7rWzNO.html
15-11-2020||India||End of an era: Soumitra Chatterjee, Ray’s all-time favourite protagonist in iconic films will live on||The curtains came down on an era in Bengali cinema as Soumitra Chatterjee, 85, the most illustrious protégé of legendary director Satyajit Ray, died at a private hospital in south Kolkata at 12.15 pm on Sunday. He was suffering from Covid encephalopathy. With the Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner’s death, a 61-year-long journey in movies and theatre that were influenced by Bengal’s history, creation of Bangladesh, the Emergency and rise of Marxism and shaped by the works of immortal writers, came to an end. Most of the great actors with whom Chatterjee shared screen space - Chhabi Biswas, Uttam Kumar, Utpal Dutta and Subhendu Chatterjee to name just a few -- passed away over the decades. Chatterjee was the last male face of what the veterans often referred to as the golden age. The chronicle of his life, which gave the audience around 300 movies in monochrome and colour, stands as testimony. When Mohit Kumar Chatterjee and his wife, Asha, had their second son on January 19, 1935, nobody in the family possibly thought that the name Soumitra would touch a chord with millions someday. Fondly called Pulu, a nickname the Chatterjees found apt for the naughty boy who would run around the family’s home at Krishnanagar in Nadia district, Soumitra showed the first signs of a performer among the four siblings at a rather young age. “Our family moved to Howrah when I was around ten. I was the high jump champion at the Howrah Zilla School. My parents had great influence on me. My father inspired me to be an actor while my mother guided me into the world of poetry,” Chatterjee said during a television show in 2010, six years after he had been awarded the Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian award given by the Government of India. The veteran was already 75 in 2010, but real recognition for the performer inside him had not yet come. Unlike no other actor in Indian cinema, Chatterjee played key roles in as many as 14 movies Ray made between 1959 and 1990. Most of these received national and international acclaim but Chatterjee, despite his outstanding performance in some, never got the national award for acting. These movies included Apur Sansar (The World of Apu), the third in Ray’s internationally acclaimed Apu Trilogy, in which Chatterjee made his debut in 1959 as the husband of another debutant, 15-year-old Sharmila Tagore. Ray became Chatterjee’s mentor. Their partnership lasted till Ray’s second last movie, Shakha Proshakha (Branches of the Tree), released in 1990. Their 31-year-long journey became unique as Ray made Chatterjee walk in and out of diverse characters such as private detective Pradosh Mitra or, a village teacher (Hirak Rajar Deshe or The Kingdom of Diamonds, 1980) who led people into a rebellion against an autocratic king played by another doyen of Bengali cinema and theatre Utpal Dutta. The other movies of Ray in which Chatterjee stood out are Abhijan (The Expedition, 1962), Charulata (The Lonely Wife, 1964), Aranyer Din Ratri (Days and Nights in the Forest, 1969), Ashani Sanket (Distant Thunder, 1973), Ghare Baire (The Home and The World, 1984) and Ganashatru (Enemy of the People, 1989). Director Shyam Benegal, while commenting on Chatterjee during an interview, said, “He has worked particularly for Satyajit Ray. All the films he has made for Ray are so extraordinary. He fits into the role in a way that he becomes the person you would know immediately. That’s a brilliant quality in an actor and he has that.” Chatterjee, who graduated from City College and got his master’s degree in Bengali literature from the Calcutta University, was immensely inspired by thespian Sisir Kumar Bhaduri, an icon in his time. Chatterjee joined theatre after college and got a job as an announcer at the All India Radio (AIR) where he worked for about two years. “I was closely associated with the great Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. It was almost predestined that I should be an actor. I made up my mind when I was doing my graduation. But I never thought that I would be a famous film star. Before witnessing a revolutionary change in India with Pather Panchali (the first part of the Apu Trilogy and released in 1955) I had a snobbish kind of an idea about cinema. I didn’t like Bengali cinema in those days,” Chatterjee candidly said during an interview decades after his debut. Although he shared screen space with acclaimed performers such as Uttam Kumar, Utpal Dutt, Suchitra Sen, Tanuja and Sharmila Tagore, Chatterjee, unlike these co-actors, was always reluctant to try his luck in the Mumbai film industry. He appeared in only two full-length Hindi movies; Nirupama (1986), which was a telefilm, and Hindustani Sipahi (2002). Both were made by Bengali directors who had cast local actors. Some of the movies Chatterjee worked in were, however, later remade in Mumbai. Often described by critics and fans as the hero of intellectual moviegoers and not the masses, Chatterjee also worked for nationally acclaimed Mrinal Sen and Tapan Sinha. He played the lead in Sen’s Akash Kusum (Up In the Clouds, 1965) opposite Aparna Sen, his life-long friend and co-actor in many projects. The movie was remade in Hindi 10 years later by another legendary director, Basu Chatterjee. Starring Amitabh Bachchan and Moushumi Chatterjee, Manzil (destination) did moderate business but its music composed by R D Burman remains a chartbuster. With Sinha, Chatterjee worked in Khudita Pashan (Hungry Stones, 1960), Jhinder Bandi (the Prisoner of Jhind, 1961) and Atonko (Fear, 1984). Based on a novel by Sharadindu Bandopadhyay who was inspired by Anthony Hope’s 1894 novel, The Prisoner of Zenda, Jhinder Bandi saw Chatterjee playing a ruthless villain for the first time, and that too against Uttam Kumar who was then the star of Bengali cinema. Chatterjee received the highest awards from the Government of India rather late in life. He even refused the Padma Shree twice as he felt that his prowess had not been recognized. “I have long since lost all interest in these awards because they have so often been awarded to someone who didn’t deserve them. It is not an ego problem. It is just reasonable thinking. I have acted in 14 of Ray’s films and I have not been considered to be the best actor in any of them,” Chatterjee once said during an interview. Chatterjee received the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1998 and 2011, the Padma Bhusan in 2004 and the National Film Award for acting in Podokkhep (footsteps) in 2006 although two of his more well-known movies got the National Film Award in 1991 and 2000. Finally, in 2012, Chatterjee received the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award and, in 2018, the government of France honoured him with the Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur, (Legion of Honour) the highest civilian award in France. But here too, Chatterjee followed his mentor. Ray received the award from the French government in 1987. Chatterjee gave an emotional speech after accepting the Dadasaheb Phalke Award from Hamid Ansari, the Vice-President of India. “I am really not in a frame of mind to say anything about this. All my life I am have been plagued with a doubt about my work and always thought that maybe this business of entertainment is not really worthwhile. And I have always thought that if I could instead do something like Albert Schweitzer and go away to a distant leper colony and serve people, my life would have been worthwhile. But time and again for the last more than 50 years, I have been accepted, loved and made to feel as one of their own by my countrymen. I love them. I respect them. They are the reason I have come this far…. I salute them that they have supplied me with the energy and the determination to continue with what I believe in and what I think to be good art..,” said Chatterjee. The recognition moved some of the stalwarts in the Indian film industry. “Mr Chatterjee getting the Phalke award is eminently deserved. I think he is one of those actors who would be counted as one the best in the world,” director Govind Nihalni said in an interview. An ardent follower of literature, a writer and a poet, Chatterjee loved drawing sketches as well. But he never left theatre, his first passion. He presented his first play during his college days and directed or acted in a dozen more over the next few decades. In November 2010, Chatterjee put on makeup and Celtic costumes to appear on stage at the age of 75 as Raja Lear (Kind Lear), a play based on the tragedy by William Shakespeare and directed by Suman Mukhopadhyay. As he won accolades for the role, Chatterjee said at a literary festival that he would like to do Macbeth but was not sure if his health would permit it. A statement Chatterjee made during his last interview to a Bengali news channel a few months ago showed the world his indomitable spirit and perhaps his vulnerability as well. “I feel alive because I am still acting,” he said. Nothing could be more true for a man who surprised the YouTube generation in 2015 by playing the husband of Radhika Apte, an actor a third his age, in Sujoy Ghosh’s 14-minute film, Ahalya. Some of the films iconic actor Soumitra Chatterjee will be remembered for: Apur Sansar, 1959 Khudita Pashan, 1960 Devi, 1960 Jhinder Bandi, 1961 Teen Kanya, 1961 Abhijan, 1962 Akash Kusum, 1965 Aranyer Din Ratri, 1969 Teen Bhubaner Paare, 1969 Prathom Kadam Phool, 1969 Baksho Badal, 1970 Stree, 1972 Ashani Sanket, 1973 Basanta Bilap, 1973 Sonar Kella, 1974 Ganadevta, 1978 Hirak Rajar Deshe, 1980 Ghare Baire, 1984 Atonko, 1984 Kony, 1986 Ganashatru, 1989 Shakha Proshakha, 1990 Asukh, 1999 Bela Seshe, 2015 Ahalya, 2015 Sanjhbati, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/end-of-an-era-soumitra-chatterjee-ray-all-time-favourite-protagonist-in-iconic-films/story-07c64jZuD2AClBrO8JFM2J.html
15-11-2020||India||In Mumbai, BMC begins restoration of British era heritage milestones||After a delay of about two years since it was first planned, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday started work on restoration of 11 British era heritage milestone markers of the city. These milestones are approximately 200 years old, according to information from BMC, and were installed to mark the distance from St Thomas Cathedral near Horniman Circle in Fort, which is considered the zero milestone. There are supposed to be 15 or 16 such milestones in the city limits, of which 11 have been traced so far.The restoration process includes excavating buried milestones, cleaning and polishing the surface, reinstalling them in the original location on a raised platform, with an information plaque next to the stone. Each milestone will have a QR Code tag as well, that tourists can scan on their mobile phones to view the entire milestone heritage circuit. While those 11 that have been traced will be restored as per this plan, BMC plans to install replicas in place of those that have not been traced to commemorate a heritage spot.Rahul Chemburkar from Vaastuvidhaan, which has been appointed as the conservation architect consultant for the project said, “The unique selling point of this project is the QR code, that will enable us to create a heritage circuit of all milestones, tying up the circuit together digitally.” If a tourist comes across any one milestone, they can scan the QR code, and will be able to access map showing the entire heritage circuit, the distance and directions to the next milestone from the tourist’s present location, and more information about the history and relevance of each milestone. The Cooperage Bandstand, and the Kothari Pyau also have similar QR codes, and both were restored by Vaastuvidhaan. These are also part of heritage circuits, for example the Kothari Pyau will be part of a circuit of 22 such pyaus, that will be restored by the civic body over the next few months.Chemburkar said, “We need to give these distance markers their due importance. Its relevance today is a history marker, even though in those times it was used to measure the distance in the city limits which were quite limited.”In the past three years various initiatives have been taken up by different stakeholders to reinstate a few milestones in the city, at the BMC ward level. This project will cost an estimated Rs 26 lakh, and will take about three months to complete.The project was first pitched in 2018 before BMC’s Heritage Committee and has been in the pipeline due to cost and design revisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mumbai-bmc-begins-restoration-of-british-era-heritage-milestones/story-24yCmZ13LJSRwVYJTgVE0O.html
15-11-2020||India||Two women from Tripura gang raped in Assam’s Karimganj; 3 accused nabbed||The police in Assam’s Karimganj district have arrested three persons on charges of allegedly raping two women from neighbouring Tripura. According to the police, the incident took place at Nilambazar on Friday night. The victims managed to escape and inform the police on Saturday following which three accused have been nabbed. “One of the victim’s mother is admitted in Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) in Cachar district where she is undergoing cancer treatment. The women had come from Tripura to visit her on Friday,” said Mayank Kumar, superintendent of police, Karimganj. “The women had booked a vehicle to return back to Tripura. But the driver took them to a building under construction where they were raped by at least five persons. There could be another accused as well, but we are not sure of it yet,” he added. The victims managed to escape from the building on Saturday and lodge a complaint with the Nilambazar police following which police teams swung into action and nabbed three accused till Sunday morning. “We are confident of arresting all the accused soon based on information provided by the victims as well as interrogation of the three persons nabbed so far,” said Kumar. Medical examinations of the two victims, aged 37 and 40, have been conducted and further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-women-from-tripura-gang-raped-in-assam-s-karimganj-3-accused-nabbed/story-wHTcrYm8Tgk592HJ5vhMOI.html
15-11-2020||India||Covid-19: As nationwide tally fall, top 10 states reporting maximum number of daily cases||India has been witnessing a decline in the Covid-19 cases for the last few weeks, but there are 10 states and union territories (UTs) are still reporting the maximum number of daily cases. These include the national capital Delhi which is witnessing the third wave of the coronavirus disease outbreak.As of Saturday morning, India’s total caseload stood at 88,14,579. The death toll climbed to 1,29,635 with the viral disease claiming 447 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country.Here are the top 10 states and UTs reporting maximum Covid-19 cases:DelhiOn Saturday evening, the national capital reported as many as 7,340 Covid-19 cases in a day taking the infection tally to over 4.82 lakh on Saturday, while 96 more fatalities during the same period pushed the death toll in the city to 7,519. Delhi continues to witness the worst wave of the virus yet.On Wednesday, the city had reported its highest single-day spike so far with 8,593 cases. On November 12, the number of fatalities was 104 which was the highest in over five months.KeralaOnce hailed for successfully controlling the virus, the southern state of India is reporting the maximum number of cases in the state. On Saturday, Kerala reported as many as 6,357 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths. The Covid-19 caseload is currently at over 5.20 lakh while the death toll stood at 1,848.MaharashtraAmong the worst-affected states, Maharashtra has 17,44,698 total cases of Covid-19 infections as of Saturday. The death toll stood at 45,914.It reported 4,237 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday and more than 100 others succumbed to the disease.For the last 40 days, the Covid-19 cases have been falling in the state. However, the experts have warned that Maharashtra may witness the third wave if people in the state fail to follow the precautionary measures.West BengalWest Bengal’s Covid-19 tally rose to 4,28,498 on Saturday as 3,823 more people tested positive for the infection. The state’s death toll was pushed to 7,610 after fifty-three more people succumbed to the infection.In a positive development, the state reported a record number of recoveries as 4,479 people were cured of the disease. West Bengal’s recovery count now stands to 3,90,096 and 30,792 active coronavirus cases.HaryanaHaryana reported 2,118 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The state’s Covid-19 caseload has reached 1,97,917, while the number of fatalities is at 2,011. The districts that are reporting the highest number of infections include Faridabad (621), Gurgaon (504) and Hisar (196).Uttar PradeshAfter reporting a daily average of more than 5,000 cases in the last few months, Uttar Pradesh’s positivity rate has declined. However, it is still among the states reporting the maximum number of cases across the country.On Saturday, it reported 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, taking the active case count to 23,367. While the death toll stood at 7,354.RajasthanThe deadly coronavirus claimed 12 more lives and infected 2,162 people in Rajasthan on Saturday. With this, the total number of deaths increased to 2,056 and positive cases to 2,23,633 in the state with active cases on the day being 18,053.Among the worst affected cities in Rajasthan are Ajmer, Jodhpur, Jaipur and Udaipur.KarnatakaKarnataka was also among the worst-hit states by Covid-19. At the peak of the Covid-19 infection, the state was recording an average of 10,000 cases daily. The number has now dropped to around 2,000. However it is still among the highest.On Saturday, Karnataka reported 2,154 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the total count of cases in the state to 8,60,082. The death toll was at 11,508.Tamil NaduOn Saturday, Tamil Nadu reported 1,912 new coronavirus cases and 12 deaths, pushing the cumulative tally of infections to over 7.56 lakh and total fatalities to 11,466. With the addition of the fresh infections, the caseload has gone up to 7,56,372.Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reported 1,657 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 8,52,955 on Saturday. The total figure includes 19,757 active cases and 8,26,344 recoveries.The death toll due to the novel coronavirus in the state stands at 6,854.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-as-nationwide-tally-fall-top-10-states-reporting-maximum-number-of-daily-cases/story-GynKXZrwsot8rwHPZzYUFI.html
15-11-2020||India||Kolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworks||Fireworks and crackers, an integral part of Diwali and Kali Puja, almost disappeared on Saturday night from the West Bengal capital as a vast majority of residents followed the recent order of the Calcutta high court. Barring a handful of incidents in some pockets, the festival was marked for the first time as one without air and noise pollution. The vigilant Kolkata Police seized a few thousand kilos of fireworks before and during the festival and arrested 294 people. The Kolkata Police tweeted photos of the city skyline in the middle of the night to show the effect of the ban.  #SayNoToCrackersHappy Diwali..Our city as on tonight ...@CPKolkata @KolkataPolice pic.twitter.com/jKhdqaTKis“This became possible only because of the level of consciousness among citizens. People followed the rules in the interest of society,” said urban development minister Firhad Hakim. The court had banned the use of all types of fireworks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I cannot believe this. For elderly people who suffer from asthma like me, the festival of lights turns into a nightmare. I felt so relieved,” said Saradindu Roy, 75, a resident of Gariahat in south Kolkata. The districts, however, stayed behind Kolkata with fireworks used at random in some parts. A minor girl even died of burn injuries in the Kaliachak area of Mala district in a fireworks related accident. There were, however, a few incidents of accidental fire in Kolkata. Part of a slum at Baguiati in east Kolkata was gutted when one of the rooms caught fire from candles and the flames spread to adjacent homes. In another incident, an elderly woman died inside her home in central Kolkata when her saree caught fire from an oil lamp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-residents-create-history-on-diwali-by-shunning-fireworks/story-QjHlq3BGMyHhJauz761wHL.html
15-11-2020||India||Amit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at 5pm||Union home minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting on Sunday to review the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in national capital Delhi. The meeting till take place at 5 pm today.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will attend the meeting.According to people aware of the developments, the high-level meeting will discuss measure to control the spread of the disease.Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19This is the second time that Shah is intervening after spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. He had held a series of meetings in June-July when a major spike in Covid19 cases in Delhi. He had also visited several Covid-19 facilities at that time.Delhi reported 7,340 new Covid-19 cases and 96 deaths on Saturday, according to the bulletin released by the state government. With this, total cases in the national capital reached to 4,82,170.There are 44,456 active cases in Delhi while 7,519 deaths have been reported.It logged the most single-day fatalities on Thursday and, a day earlier, the most number of new cases. The city’s hospitals have been swamped as active cases rose from 21,490 on October 13 to over 43,000 on November 13.Kejriwal had said on Friday that the third wave of the coronavirus disease outbreak in the city was likely to come under control in another 7-10 days.“Whatever necessary steps are needed, we are taking them. There are steps we will take over the next few days, next week and we believe within the next 7-10 days, the outbreak will be brought under control,” the CM said in a video press conference.Experts, however, said they feared it might take longer for the city to turn the corner from its current peak.“By the current trends, it looks like cases can go up for at least another three weeks unless the government imposes certain restrictions on non-essential activities - that can concern market timings, size of gatherings, etc,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-calls-emergency-meet-to-discuss-rising-cases-of-covid-19-in-delhi-at-5pm-today/story-aU3mOcmcMwFHkZooRS2uSK.html
15-11-2020||India||No choir singing, touching of idols: Maharashtra issues SOPs as places of worship set to reopen||All religious places across Maharashtra will be allowed to open from November 16, according to a state government order on Saturday. These places of worship will open seven months after they were closed due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).However, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people to continue adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. “We can’t forget that the demon coronavirus is still amongst us. Even though this demon is slowly falling silent now, we cannot be complacent. Citizens need to follow discipline,” he said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe reopening comes amid criticism for keeping the religious places closed even as unlocking began in June. However, the decision was defended by Thackeray, saying that it was difficult to follow physical distancing at the places of worship.Here is the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) mandated by the state government:- Religious places located out of Covid-19 containment zones will be only allowed to remain open. The timings will be decided by the local authorities.- Only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside places of worship. The devotees will be allowed to enter places of worship in a staggered manner.- Wearing a face-mask is mandatory and the visitors are required to strictly follow the social distancing norms.- Shoes will have to keep outside the premises.- The management is required to conduct thermal scanning and provide visitors with hand wash facility or sanitiser.- Touching statues, holy books, idols is prohibited under the guidelines. Large gatherings continue to remain prohibited.- As per state authorities’ assessment, local administration can further add any directions to these guidelines which will help in preventing the spread of Covid-19.- Only recorded devotional music will be played. Choir or singing groups are not allowed.- Common prayer mats should be requested to be avoided. Devotees are asked to bring their own prayer mats or pieces of cloth, can then be taken back with them.- The physical offering of ‘prasad’, distribution or sprinkling of holy water is not allowed.- Floors at places of worship should be cleaned multiple times in a day, and community kitchens and langars should follow physical distancing.- Effective sanitisation of the premises should be done with a particular focus on lavatories, and hand and foot washing stations.- Workers at places of worship will have to undergo pre-joining and weekly Covid-19 tests for highly exposed groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-choir-singing-touching-of-idols-maharashtra-issues-sops-as-places-of-worship-set-to-reopen/story-c1h7q2owVlDzv7y1VB9zrL.html
15-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 case count drops to 41,400; tally crosses 8.8 million||India on Sunday recorded 41,100 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to Union health ministry, which took the overall tally to 88,14,579.There have been 447 new fatalities in the last 24 hours and the death toll has reached 1,29,635, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases yet again stayed below the five lakh mark - at 4,79,216 - and 82,05,728 patients have been discharged from the hospitals.This is the seventh day in a row that the daily caseload has stayed below 50,000.The health ministry said on Twitter early on Sunday that there has been a continuous decline in average daily cases for the last five weeks. It also shared a graph which showed the daily new cases from October 3 to November 13.Health minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Friday that India has initiated an integrated response to overcome the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking at the 8th BRICS Science, Technology and Innovation Ministerial Meeting, Vardhan said that India is also hosting clinical trials for all the major vaccines, and about 20 vaccines are in different stages of development.“From the development of indigenous vaccines, novel point-of-care diagnostics and therapeutic formulations based on traditional knowledge, to establishing research resources and offering services, Indian R&D entities, both public and private, are working relentlessly to develop effective interventions for combating the pandemic,” the health minister said.A little over 75 per cent of the new recovered cases are contributed by 10 states and union territories, and the similar number of states has contributed 76.38% of the new cases.The 10 states reporting maximum Covid-19 cases so far in the country are Delhi, Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-case-count-drops-to-41-400-tally-crosses-8-8-million/story-n5kn9daQNmfiM9be5DzcnK.html
15-11-2020||India||Hope gloom of Covid-19 pandemic, economic distress end this Diwali: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday wished fellow citizens on the occasion of Diwali and hoped that the festival of lights would end the gloom of pandemic, darkness of economic recession and distress.Sending greetings and warm wishes to all countrymen and women, she wished this joyous and pious occasion will put the nation back on to the path of progress, harmony and prosperity.She expressed hope and prayed that “a million lamps illuminating India and our hearts on this festival of lights would end the gloom of pandemic, darkness of economic recession and distress being caused to fellow citizens”.She appealed to people to adhere to all the pandemic-related guidelines and precautions as they celebrate.  Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also wished fellow citizens on Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-gloom-of-pandemic-economic-distress-end-this-diwali-sonia-gandhi/story-UDiRHiSqfQl2aALQoCQr2O.html
15-11-2020||India||India records less than 50,000 daily new Covid-19 cases for 7 consecutive days||India has reported less than 50,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for seven days in a row, taking the total number of cases in the country so far to close to nine million (87,73,479), according to data released by the Union health and family welfare ministry.India’s active case load, which is the number of current positive cases in the country, has also come down to below 5 lakh, and stands at 4,80,719 as on date.There has been a continuous decline in average daily new cases for the past five weeks; from around 73,000 new Covid-19 cases getting reported in the beginning of October to the current around 49,000 cases from across the country.ALSO READ | Covid-19 spike in Delhi: Kejriwal likely to meet Amit Shah next week“New cases continue their downward slope indicating adoption of Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour among the population, and effective containment measures by the State/UT governments following guidelines of the Union Government. The daily new cases on an average show a declining trend over the last five weeks,” said the health ministry in a statement. “This trend has also upended the recovery rate to cross 93% today. The cumulative national figure is 93.05%. The total recovered cases stand at 81,63,572. The gap between the recovered cases and active cases that is steadily increasing, presently standing at 76,82,853,” the statement further read.The gap between recovered Covid-19 cases and active cases has been increasing steadily, and the trend of daily new recoveries outnumbering daily new cases continues for the 42nd day.ALSO READ | Delhi records 7,340 new Covid-19 cases despite conducting fewer tests; death toll crosses 7,500Also, 75.38% of the new recovered cases are contributed by 10 States and Union Territories, and the similar number of States has contributed 76.38% of the new cases.The 10 states reporting maximum Covid-19 cases so far in the country are Delhi, Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.“Barring a few states, the outbreak overall is very much under control in the country. However, that does not mean we can afford to drop guard; it is extremely important to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behavior such as wearing a mask whenever stepping out, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene to keep the infection at bay. This is the key to cut the transmission cycle of the virus,” said a senior health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.“It is all the more important to be careful around this time when drop in temperature is feared to increase the risk of faster spread of infection,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-less-than-50-000-daily-new-covid-19-cases-for-7-consecutive-days/story-jlx2bHUkZiSjx6b2Gf79CL.html
15-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Post Diwali Delhi’s air quality remains ‘severe’, may improve later today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality remains in ‘severe’ zone post Diwali, likely to improve later todayA night of cracker bursting, pushed Delhi’s air quality further into the ‘severe’ zone, touching 468 at 7am on Sunday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that from around 3 pm on Saturday, the air quality in Delhi entered the ‘severe’ zone and continued to deteriorate throughout the evening. Read moreNitish Kumar on wafer-thin majority, won’t last long as CM, says RJD’s Manoj JhaJanata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar is on a wafer-thin majority in Bihar “managed” by the Bharatiya Janata Party, said senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha on Saturday adding his government won’t last long. Read more We can’t waste time,’ says Trump after threatening to withhold Covid-19 vaccine to New YorkOutgoing US President Donald Trump on Saturday said any other administration would have taken five years to produce a vaccine against Covid-19, while his administration ensured a ‘great and safe vaccine far ahead of the schedule’. “Many lives to be saved, but we are ready when they are. Stop playing politics!” he tweeted amid the ongoing vaccine face-off with New York. Read more BJP leader Kailash Sarang dies, PM Modi ‘anguished’ by his demiseSenior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Kailash Sarang died on Saturday at a hospital in Mumbai, his son and a minister in the Madhya Pradesh government Vishwas Sarang said. The 85-year-old leader was suffering from age-related ailments and had been admitted to a hospital in Mumbai 12 days ago. Read moreSonam Kapoor talks about sexism in Bollywood films, says ‘each one of us needs to make better choices’Sonam Kapoor, who has been highlighting the contributions of women in the film industry with her #WomenInFilm series on Instagram, talked about sexism in Bollywood. In a new interview, Sonam said that even now, it is believed that female actors need to act and dress in a certain way. She added that women need to take a stand for themselves and ‘make better choices’. Read moreBigg Boss 14: When Kavita Kaushik got emotional remembering her dad’s struggle with cancerActor Kavita Kaushik, who is currently inside the Bigg Boss 14 house, was seen getting emotional while remembering her father and his last words. She was seen talking in a “special masala video” aired for the show’s fans. Read more‘He will go down as one of India’s greatest across formats’: Jason Gillespie predicts big things for India fast bowlerIndia have reached Australia for the upcoming series which begins with the first T20I taking place on November 27th. One of the biggest factors that make the current Indian team a tough opposition to deal with is the fast-bowling attack that skipper Virat Kohli has nourished under him comprising Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Ishant Sharma, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Navdeep Saini, Umesh Yadav, Shardul Thakur, Deepak Chahar, among many others. Read moreReporter escapes bridge collapse by mere seconds. Watch shocking clipThe job of reporting an incident is definitely not an easy one. And reporting stuff during any natural calamity is way harder and dangerous too. This reporter’s close save from a major injury during a live telecast is an apt example of how tough the job is. After watching the video you may find yourself gasping in shock. Watch hereDiwali: Joe Biden, Donald Trump, Kamala Harris, Boris Johnson extend wishesUS president-elect Joe Biden extended wishes on the occasion of Diwali. Biden took to Twitter saying, “To the millions of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and Buddhists celebrating the Festival of Lights, @DrBiden and I send our best wishes for a #HappyDiwali. May your new year be filled with hope, happiness, and prosperity.” US president Donald Trump also wished everyone on Diwali. Trump posted an image from his twitter with a ‘Happy Diwali’ message. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-post-diwali-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-severe-may-improve-later-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AWcB8mBPohQAwMhuYgRIOJ.html
15-11-2020||India||Senior PDP leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig quits party ahead of DDC polls: Reports||The Peoples Democratic Party in Jammu and Kashmir received a setback after its founder member Muzaffar Hussain Baig resigned on Saturday, news agency PTI reported.Baig had disagreement over the seat-sharing arrangement in the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections, according to PTI and other news agencies.Leaders close to Baigh were quoted by news agency ANI as saying that he was not consulted for the seat-sharing agreement by People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, who is the president of the PAGD, had announced that the alliance will jointly contest the DDC elections. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is the vice-president of the alliance.The leaders quoted above said Baigh informed Mufti about his decision of leaving the party with which he has been associated since its inception in 1998.The PAGD is an amalgam of mainstream political parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the People’s Conference and the CPI(M).The election to 20 DDCs will be conducted in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases between November 28 and December 19, and the counting of votes will take place on December 22. This will be the first major electoral exercise in the union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-pdp-leader-muzaffar-hussain-baig-quits-party-ahead-of-ddc-polls-reports/story-R4PaPwkiL4vxMnOwb6vn6M.html
15-11-2020||India||From Joe Biden to Boris Johnson, world leaders extend Diwali greetings||Leaders from around the world extended their greetings to people who celebrated festival of light Diwali, that marks the victory of good over evil, lightness over darkness and knowledge over ignorance.US President-elect Joe Biden tweeted, “To the millions of Hindus, Jains,Sikhs, and Buddhists celebrating the Festival of Lights, @DrBiden and I sendour best wishes for a #HappyDiwali. May your new year be filled with hope,happiness, and prosperity. Sal Mubarak.” To the millions of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and Buddhists celebrating the Festival of Lights, @DrBiden and I send our best wishes for a #HappyDiwali. May your new year be filled with hope, happiness, and prosperity. Sal Mubarak.Vice president-elect Kamala Harris, who scripted history by becoming the first Indian-American and Black woman vice president in the US, extended greetings on the occasion of Diwali, “HappyDiwali and Sal Mubarak! @DouglasEmhoff and I wish everyone celebrating aroundthe world a safe, healthy, and joyous new year.” Happy Diwali and Sal Mubarak! @DouglasEmhoff and I wish everyone celebrating around the world a safe, healthy, and joyous new year.President Trump shared a picture of him lighting a lamp in the White House. ‘Happy Diwali’ was written on the photo. In an official statement issued by the White House, Trump said, “The United States is a deeply faithful nation, and I am proud of my administration’s work defending the constitutional right of all Americans to live and worship according to their conscience. Wherever Americans light diyas to celebrate Diwali, our nation shines bright as a beacon of religious liberty for all people.”UK prime minister Boris Johnson tweeted, “Happy #Diwali and #BandiChhorDivas! I know that this year celebrations will be different, but I am filled with respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have gone out of their way to help others throughout this pandemic.” Happy #Diwali and #BandiChhorDivas from Downing Street! Celebrations this year will be different. Restrictions are in place to keep you and your family safe. pic.twitter.com/N1Z1X4LwQvPrince Charles, the Prince of Wales, said in his message, “This brings you all my warmest greetings on the occasion of Diwali and, for those of you marking a New Year, let me wish you a happy, peaceful and prosperous year ahead.”Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau said in his tweet, “Diwali reminds us that truth, light, andgoodness will always prevail. To celebrate that hopeful message and mark thisimportant festival, I joined a virtual celebration earlier this evening. HappyDiwali to everyone celebrating!” Happy Diwali! I know celebrations will look different this year, but the message at the heart of the day - that light, hope, and knowledge will always triumph over darkness, evil, and ignorance - remains the same, and it has never been more important. https://t.co/HBAydTSaiW pic.twitter.com/KrVU18DKLzAustralian prime minister Scott Morrison extended his greetings to “Australia’s good friend@narendramodi”. “Wishing everyone celebrating Diwali, a very happyfestival of lights. Shubh Diwali.”Prime minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong tweeted, “Deepavali symbolises the triumph of good over evil, and light over dark, and so this year’s celebrations take on a poignant significance after the events of this turbulent year. We are not out of the woods just yet, but if all of us continue being vigilant, we too can triumph over this ordeal.”Austria’s chancellor Sebastian Kurz said, “I wish PM @narendramodi and all those celebrating a happy festival of lights, a happy Diwali! Shubh Diwali.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-joe-biden-to-boris-johnson-world-leaders-extend-diwali-greetings/story-4MLWU1RkIQQU1vt4WYQleL.html
15-11-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality remains in ‘severe’ zone post Diwali, likely to improve later today||A night of cracker bursting, pushed Delhi’s air quality  further into the ‘severe’ zone, touching 468 at 7am on Sunday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that from around 3 pm on Saturday, the air quality in Delhi entered the ‘severe’ zone and continued to deteriorate throughout the evening. At 3 pm, the hourly average AQI recorded was 405, by 6 pm; this had spiked to reach 423. By midnight, with cracker bursting continuing unchecked, the AQI levels had reached 460. By 7.30 pm, the AQI reading at the monitoring station at Jahangirpuri had already maxed out at 500, the highest possible reading recorded in the AQI scale. ALSO READ | Delhi’s air quality turns ‘severe’ on DiwaliThe Union ministry’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said despite the spike, this Diwali week is likely to be better than the impact seen over the last four years. The forecast said that a western disturbance passing over Delhi-NCR is likely to improve the wind speed over the city by Sunday afternoon, helping disperse the pollution particles that have accumulated close to the surface. By Monday, the impact of light rain in parts of NCR and high wind speed will be seen more clearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-remains-in-severe-zone-post-diwali-likely-to-improve-later-today/story-jfI58a0PbWI28TaubevFRP.html
15-11-2020||India||BJP leader Kailash Sarang dies, PM Modi ‘anguished’ by his demise||Senior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Kailash Sarang died on Saturday at a hospital in Mumbai, his son and a minister in the Madhya Pradesh government Vishwas Sarang said.The 85-year-old leader was suffering from age-related ailments and had been admitted to a hospital in Mumbai 12 days ago, according to news agency PTI.“It has to be informed with great sadness that the death of my revered father and former BJP leader Shri Kailash Narayan Sarang ji has passed away at 3 o’clock today. His body will be flown from Mumbai to Bhopal by 8.30 am tomorrow,” Vishwas Sarang tweeted in Hindi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid tribute to the departed leader and said that he was ‘deeply anguished’ by the death of the compassionate and hardworking leader. “Shri Kailash Sarang Ji made stupendous efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh. He will be remembered as a compassionate and hardworking leader, committed to MP’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-kailash-sarang-dies-pm-modi-anguished-by-his-demise/story-QYBBMfjIBwviuAIgWu60rJ.html
15-11-2020||India||Air quality dips to ‘severe’ in Delhi post Diwali||The air quality dipped to “severe” at several places across the national capital on Saturday night owing to a combination of stubble burning and firecrackers burst during the Diwali celebrations in violation of a ban on the same.The Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM 2.5 pollutant stood at 481 in Anand Vihar, 444 in IGI Airport area, 457 in ITO, and 414 in Lodhi Road area, all four in the ‘severe’ category, at 11 pm on Saturday, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data.A thick blanket of smog was seen at several places across the national capital as the Diwali celebrations came to an end late Saturday night. Meanwhile, the air quality was at 460 at Anand Vihar, 382 at IGI Airport area, 415 at ITO, and 322 at Lodhi Road for PM 10 pollutant.Also Read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia perform ‘Diwali Pujan’ at Akshardham TempleThis comes as many burst firecrackers in violation of the complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital by the Delhi government and the National Green Tribunal.The sale and bursting of firecrackers were also completely or partially banned in several other States or Union Territories including West Bengal and Telangana to prevent worsening air quality and risking aggravating the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-dips-to-severe-in-delhi-post-diwali/story-ykHxSpaTcy2IX8YRCdPk0K.html
