16-11-2020||India||Branded Indian spy, Kanpur man returns home after 28 years in Pakistan||Seventy-year-old Shamsuddin finally made it back to Kanpur and his family on Monday after 28 years in Pakistan. He spent eight of these years in a Pakistani prison after being branded an Indian spy but was later acquitted of the charge. His return set off Diwali-like celebrations in Kanpur’s congested Kanghi Mohal locality.Shamsuddin was quarantined in Amritsar after he was released from a Pakistan jail on October 26. An Uttar Pradesh police team brought him to Kanpur on Monday afternoon and he was handed over to his family after brief questioning, circle officer (Sisamau) Tripurari Pandey said.As he stepped into the narrow lane, his sister Shabeena fainted. His daughters Azra and Uzma cried on seeing him after a long time. There were hundreds to welcome Shamsuddin, who was choked with emotion. “I suffered a lot in that prison. My freedom is the best Diwali gift I could ask for,” he said. A shoemaker by profession, Shamsuddin had left India in 1992 after a tiff with some relatives and went to Pakistan on a 90-day visa.After sometime, he sent his family back to Kanpur and stayed on in Pakistan. In 2012, he was arrested on charges of spying and then spent eight years in a Pakistan prison. He was exonerated of the charge and released from Ladi jail in Karachi on October 26.He entered India via the Attari border, but since the rules required him to complete a 14-day quarantine, he was kept in Amritsar.After completing all the formalities, a UP police team reached Amritsar on November 14 and brought him back on Monday morning.“My country is the best; the Muhajirs (Indian immigrants) are not treated well (in Pakistan). I made a huge mistake by going there. The Indians are like enemies to them,” he said.On his return, the policemen gave him sweets and garlanded him. He started sobbing and said this was the most memorable Diwali for him. His sister Shabeena said the prayers of the family were finally answered and everyone was elated to have him back.His brother Fahim thanked the central government for help. The family, he said, had lost all hope of seeing him ever again at one stage. His two daughters, who were three and four years old when they last saw him, did not leave their father’s side after his return. His wife, Azra, who has not been keeping well, could not stop crying.“I cannot explain what I am feeling on seeing him alive. I am going to take such care of him that he forgets all the suffering he underwent,” said Azra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/branded-indian-spy-kanpur-man-returns-home-after-28-years-in-pakistan/story-9i0Aap47OXEvpDrWnnXSFL.html
16-11-2020||India||Snowfall strands Adityanath, Trivendra Singh Rawat in Kedarnath for hours||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat were stuck for several hours in Kedarnath on Monday because of foul weather following snowfall.They managed to reach Gauchar, in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, in the evening. “Uttarakhand CM Rawat and UP CM Adityanath were stuck in Kedarnath due to bad weather following snowfall,” Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), Uttarakhand, said.Both the chief ministers arrived at the Kedarnath temple on Monday morning to offer prayers at the closing ceremony of the shrine for the winter. The portals of Gangotri temple in Uttarkashi were closed for winter on Sunday and that of Kedarnath, and Yamunotri were closed on Monday. The last of the Char Dham (four Himalayan pilgrimage sites), Badrinath, will follow the ritual on November 19. Adityanath and Rawat witnessed the closure of Kedarnath shrine’s portals amid all rituals and special prayers as snowfall continued. The portals for Kedarnath closed at 8:30 am and, thereafter, the two CMs got stuck there following heavy snowfall. Both were scheduled to leave for Badrinath at 8.40 am by a helicopter. But due to the snowfall, the chopper could not take off.The two chief ministers then waited in the government guest house near Kedarnath from where they could finally fly at around 4.45 pm for Gauchar town in Chamoli district, 130 km away from Badrinath. They will spend the night at Gauchar and visit Badrinath on Tuesday. “I was supposed to inaugurate a tourist guest house of the UP government near Badrinath shrine. We were stuck due to snowfall,” Adityanath said. On the sidelines of the event, Adityanath told reporters that all problems related to distribution of assets between UP and Uttarakhand have been sorted out and a few that may be remaining will also be resolved amicably soon. Citing an example, he said the two state governments had long been fighting a legal battle in the Supreme Court over the ownership of Alaknanda guest house in Haridwar but now UP has agreed to give its ownership to Uttarakhand.“All issues between UP and Uttarakhand have been resolved and in future also we will continue to work together. There was a case regarding the Alaknanda guest house. That has also been resolved and it was decided that the guest house will be given to Uttarakhand government,” Adityanath said.Later in the day, his office, in a statement, said that he along with Rawat he inspected the renovation/development works being carried out in Kedarnath Dham by the Uttarakhand government.According to a UP government statement, Adityanath said the state government is making another guest house near Haridwar, which will help pilgrims. The guest house will be ready before next year’s Kumbh.“The UP government is making a tourist lodging place and I have already spoken to the Uttarakhand government about it. Soon, the foundation will be laid for it,” Adityanath said.(With input from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-strands-adityanath-trivendra-singh-rawat-in-kedarnath-for-hours/story-bRUCJagtR8AmQT8lMxu1yJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Delhi records 3,797 new Covid-19 cases, peak of third wave nearing end, says minister||Delhi recorded 3,797 new infections on Monday after 29,821 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the positivity rate to 12.73 per cent. The Capital, which has been reeling under the third wave of Covid-19 since October last week, recorded 99 deaths in the last 24 hours. In the third phase, the daily cases breached the 8,000 mark and daily death toll crossed 100.However, health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the peak of the third wave has already been reached. Instead of further increase, the cases will now come down, the health minister said dismissing rumours of lockdown in the Capital — in view of the sudden increase in the number of case.Also Read: Covid-19: Over 1K new containment zones created in Delhi in last 15 days as cases rise Delhi has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.On November 12, 104 deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city.Union minister Amit Shah has intervened and has announced a number of steps to tackle the Covid-19 situation, including making available 300 additional ICU beds, doubling the number of daily RTPCR tests and a house-to-house survey in the national capital to check the spiralling numbers of cases in Delhi.Amid the increase of the cases, Delhi markets witnessed huge footfall during the festive season. In the last 15 days, over 1,000 areas have been identified as containment zones. There were 3,359 Covid-19 containment zones in the city on November 1, but the number rose to 4,430 on November 15, with the maximum 740 in southwest Delhi and the lowest 142 in northeast Delhi.According to data, there were 4,016 containment zones in the national capital on November 11, followed by 4,141 (November 12), 4,184 (November 13) and 4,288 (November 14). In a containment zone summary as on November 15, the revenue department said that Delhi’s three districts have more than 500 containment zones - southwest (740), south (700), west (568) and southeast (505).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-797-new-covid-19-cases-peak-of-third-wave-nearing-end-says-minister/story-zNAHI3t0lzdCG7HbCyUlUN.html
16-11-2020||India||Nagaland seals civil secretariat after surge in Covid-19 cases in state||The Nagaland State Civil Secretariat has been sealed for 48 hours for preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in workplace settings amid fresh spike in the daily coronavirus cases, according to a government notification on Monday.With the state’s Covid -19 tally crossing 10,000 mark on Monday, the government ordered aggressive contact tracing. The daily case tally, which was at a double figure consistently in the past two weeks, shot to 135 on Sunday and 140 on Monday with maximum cases reported from the state capital Kohima.Along with the Civil Secretariat complex, the establishment of the Chief Electoral Officer and the Directorate of Information and Public Relations have also been sealed till November 18.“Fumigation of the premises is to be done and aggressive contact tracing is to be initiated following all health and safety measures and SoPs of the government,” said the notification issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Kohima.“The sealed area is mapped and cordoned off and the public and all concerned are advised to follow all safety precautions,” the notification added.The Nagaland health department has reported that out of 10,025 total Covid positive cases in the state, there are currently 1,009 active cases while 8,860 have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-seals-civil-secretariat-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-B6lbO9316LihPAEUZoCnAI.html
16-11-2020||India||AIADMK, BJP spar over Vetrivel Yatra days before Amit Shah’s Chennai visit||The alliance between the ruling AIADMK and the BJP in Tamil Nadu has run into friction over the saffron party’s Vetrivel Yatra with the former insisting that it will not allow any procession that aims to disrupt the peace and the harmony in the state.“Tamil Nadu will not allow any procession or yatra that seeks to divide people in the name of caste or religion,” stated a column published Monday in the AIADMK’s mouthpiece, Namadhu Amma. The standoff between the allies comes ahead of the visit of Union home minister Amit Shah to Chennai on November 21 to strategize with BJP’s state unit for the 2021 assembly elections. On Sunday, BJP’s state president L Murugan, announced that Shah will attend government programmes and his maiden visit since taking over as Union minister was expected to boost the morale of the cadre. The BJP has recently appointed its national general secretary CT Ravi as in-charge of the state. The party has been attempting to make inroads into Tamil Nadu where it is battling a perception of being an outsider. The party which swept the 2014 and 2019 general elections hasn’t been able to recreate its electoral dominance in Tamil Nadu. The DMK won 37 of 38 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 drubbing the AIADMK-BJP combine. But in the assembly bypolls conducted simultaneously, AIADMK won 9 of the 22 seats to retain power. The DMK won 13.While the AIADMK has been a loyal partner by supporting BJP’s stance at the Centre on issues such as the CAA, triple talaq and the farm bills, it has asserted itself recently in the state’s interests on issues of NEET and NEP. An AIADMK leader who did not wish to be named said that any truck with the BJP will affect their performance. Political observers also say that the BJP wants to be seen as a contender against the DMK.The month-long Vetrivel yatra was designed to consolidate the Hindu vote bank by invoking Lord Muruga, a popular deity amongst the Tamils. The BJP wants to expose what it views as “anti-Hindu and anti-Tamil propaganda”. The yatra stemmed from a controversy when BJP went up against a Youtube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. “It seems like Lord Muruga is being hijacked by the Aryan discourse,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration department, University of Madras. “BJP is bringing in a Hindu narrative which may create some dent but that number will be insignificant. Radicalisation of the Hindus in the north is different. While the Ram mandir issue is a captivating situation in the north, people in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have been marching for Lord Muruga for a long time, so they don’t need BJP to campaign for them now.” Though BJP leaders say they are hurt with the opinion piece in the AIADMK mouthpiece and feel it was unnecessary, both parties maintain that there is no strain in their ties even while their representatives wrangle over the matter at the Madras high court.“Both Karuppar Kootam and those holding saffron flags should understand that unity and harmony prevails in Tamil Nadu,” said the AIADMK opinion piece. This was in response to BJP’s newly appointed Mahila Morcha national president, Vanathi Srinivasan’s comments on the yatra. Srinivasan clarmed that the AIADMK misunderstood her comments. “We are alliance partners but that doesn’t mean we will not raise people’s issues,” Srinivasan said. “We want to expose the hypocrisy of political parties in the state who don’t object to those ridiculing Hindu dharma.” The BJP has accused opposition DMK leader M K Stalin of backing the arrested members of the Youtube group. DMK denied any role in it but has steered clear of commenting on the yatra. “The BJP is thinking that they will pit the Tamil parties as being against religion. But opposition parties will pitch it as a Dravidian versus Aryan discourse,” said Manivannan. “Tamil Nadu views them as communalising the social environment. They are unlikely to eat into DMK’s Hindu votes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-bjp-spar-over-vetrivel-yatra-days-before-amit-shah-s-chennai-visit/story-z7Dokgdr2XpuCxIhizqesN.html
16-11-2020||India||Sonu Sood is now Punjab icon, announces Election Commission||Actor Sonu Sood has been appointed as the Punjab state icon by the Election Commission of India, an official statement said here on Monday. The statement quoting Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said his office had sent a proposal to the ECI in this regard and they approved the same. Belonging to Moga district of Punjab, Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for his work in helping migrants reach their homes during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Sood arranged transport facilities for migrant labourers stuck in various places to their homes and his humanitarian work was highly appreciated by all sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonu-sood-is-now-punjab-icon-announces-election-commission/story-tuMgcwzgVzBhTv9TNXwfPN.html
16-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti alleges Centre driving out Gujjar-Bakerwals from J&K||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday accused central government of driving out Muslim nomads - Gujjars and Bakerwals- from their homes with an intention to elicit an extreme reaction from this community and to settle outsiders here.Mufti made the comments after visiting Anantnag in south Kashmir where the administration has been issuing eviction notices for the past few weeks and demolished dozens of structures. She met the families of those whose houses were demolished.The administration says that it was an anti-encroachment drive meant to retrieve forest and state land.Mufti said that Gujjars and Bakerwals are the protectors of the forests and their ancestors have lived here for hundreds of years.“The central government has started an illegal process by which our people living here–-nomads, Gujjars and Bakerwals-- whose ancestors have lived here are being pushed out. They finished our domicile law and want to bring people here from across the country but they want to chase away the locals from here,” Mufti said.Tribal activists say that some of the structures which the administration was demolishing are temporary (Kothas) which the nomads use during their annual migration in summers and winters along with their livestock. For half of the year, these structures, made of mud and wood and partially underground, remain empty till the nomads return. Deputy Commissioner, Anantnag, Kuldeep Krishan Sidha said that they have launched the drive to remove illegal encroachers and the drive is being monitored by the high court.“Whatever illegal encroachment we saw on paper we have removed that. No nomad was affected. We did not bring down any Kotha. This action has affected those who have constructed concrete structures in forest areas,” he said.Also Read: Gupkar alliance wants to continue with corruption in J&K, says RS Prasad, seeks explanation from CongressMufti said that this was not only happening in Kashmir but even in Jammu’s Bathindi, Sujwa and Chatta areas.“Wherever, there is a Muslim population or Gujjars and Bakerwals, who are the actual protectors of these forests, they are being evicted. Where will they and their children go in these winters?,” she said.Mufti questioned whether the central government’s intention was to hand over the land to their capitalist friends. “You have already given 24,000 kanal land to industries, that land is forest land which is our resource and now you are evicting them (nomads),” she said.Also Read: Gupkar alliance an exploitative outfit formed to grab power: BJP“To whom do you want to hand over our land, air, water and beautiful forests? They want to give everything to their big capitalist friends who give them funds; Railways, Air-India, now, do you want to put J&K’s land also on sale,” she said. She said that Gujjars and Bakerwals are very loyal and peace loving people. “I think the central government is deliberately pushing them out. They have never participated or opted for violence. They have always opted for peace but I think they are being forcefully evicted to force them for extreme reaction,” she alleged.She cautioned the government of consequences if it did not stop. “I want to tell the central government, which is controlling the administration here that these nomads should not be disturbed, else you will have to face its dangerous consequences,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-alleges-centre-driving-out-gujjar-bakerwals-from-j-k/story-NKQLgJ9FZYBc8jEUR0UJUN.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre forms teams to check treatment, testing of Covid-19 patients in Delhi private hospitals||The ministry of home affairs on Monday constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit all private hospitals in Delhi to check status of compliance of various directions issued by the Union health ministry for testing and treating Covid-19 patients and of government of Delhi to contain the spread of Covid-19.In an order issued on Monday evening, MHA has directed the 10 teams to start their visit immediately. The teams have been further directed to submit their reports, along with specific details to the health ministry and MHA within two days of issuance of the order. The multi-disciplinary teams, in a designated list of tasks, will have to report to MHA if the private hospitals have wards and ICU beds in accordance with orders issued by the Delhi government, and whether the same is displayed on Corona dashboard of Delhi government on a real-time basis. Violations by these selected Delhi private hospitals will also be checked and reported by the newly formed teams to the MHA. The teams will also scrutinize whether these private hospitals are following the Covid-19 discharge policy as directed by the Centre. In the drill, the teams will also spotlight the RT-PCR testing mechanism to check the testing capacity available, along with the turnaround time of the test report. In terms of patient care, the teams will also check if the critical patients are being referred to other government or private hospitals without ascertaining the availability in those hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-teams-to-check-treatments-testing-of-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-private-hospitals/story-zDtUUWU5lZcsjnNHRfyZMP.html
16-11-2020||India||Central agencies sabotaging Kerala’s pet projects, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the central investigating agencies were exceeding their jurisdiction to malign the state government and sabotage its pet developmental projects. Addressing a news conference in the state capital he came down heavily on central agencies saying they were “acting in a prejudiced manner to portray the state government in bad light”. “I think except one all agencies are hovering over the skies of the state. They can’t interfere with decisions taken by the executive. They are summoning officials at will and demoralising them. We will not allow this,” he said. His statement came in the wake of the ruling Left Democratic Front’s state-wide protest against the Union government and its agencies. The Kerala government had initially welcomed the probe by the NIA into the gold smuggling case after the seizure of 30 kg gold that came to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital in July camouflaged as diplomatic baggage.But it has taken offence after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that is also involved in the probe, sent a communiqué to the chief secretary last month seeking details of four projects of the government - K Phone, e Mobility Hub, Smarty City and Down Town. The ED claims it came across alleged irregularities in some of these projects when it was probing money-laundering linked to the gold smuggling case. The ED suspects that kickbacks and commissions were paid in some of these projects but the state government feels that the agency’s conduct is aimed at sabotaging these projects. The ED’s suspicion about kickbacks was fuelled after it found Rs one crore in cash and two kg gold in the locker of Swapna Suresh, one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case.She reportedly told investigators that the money was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’ which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakkencherry in Thrissur district. The government is also angry at central agencies after Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar gave a statement that he was forced to take the name of senior political leaders and others and he was victimised by central agencies for not toeing their line in the gold smuggling case. In a statement in the High Court, Sivasankar also said he had become a pawn in the state-Centre cold war and central agencies were leaking concocted stories to discredit the state. The senior IAS officer who was suspended after his alleged liaison with Swapna Suresh came to light said the ongoing investigation was politically motivated. He said he was arraigned as an accused based on some WhatsApp chats and he claimed he was not aware of smuggling activities of Suresh. His bail plea is coming up before a special court in Kochi on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-agencies-sabotaging-kerala-s-pet-projects-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-bHlJ7IELuXO1LdR4Mvwy3O.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekend and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekendThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has begun work on expanding the capacity of its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi Cantonment to deal with an unprecedented surge in coronavirus infections in the capital, DRDO officials said on Monday.Read more. ‘BJP-nominated CM’: Prashant Kishor’s acerbic message to Nitish KumarPrashant Kishor, the political strategist who had worked closely with Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections before they fell out earlier this year, tweeted his congratulatory message to the Bihar chief minister as soon as he started his fourth straight term.Read more. Quad navies ready for high intensity Malabar phase 2, China watchesThe navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on Tuesday at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials said on Monday.Read more. Govt considering common code of conduct for TV news channels, backs self-regulationThe government is thinking of developing a common code of conduct for TV channels while also considering enhanced powers for the Press Council of India (PCI), Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday.Read more. Apple Watch Series 6 review: How do you make something good, better?The Apple Watch Series 6 is a great device, I cannot say that enough, but it isn’t a huge upgrade over the Apple Watch Series 5 except for the Blood O2 reader.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-drdo-hospital-in-delhi-to-get-250-more-icu-beds-by-weekend-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ROZtNw9vtpx92mPxsJzauO.html
16-11-2020||India||Quad navies ready for high intensity Malabar phase 2, China watches||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on Tuesday at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials said on Monday. The second phase of Malabar naval drills --- to be conducted from November 17-20 --- will be more elaborate and complex than the first one as it will involve the participation of Indian and American aircraft carriers. “Phase 2 of Exercise Malabar 2020 will witness joint operations centered around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarines and aircraft of the participating navies, would be engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days,” an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Monday. The exercise is being conducted at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector and talks to reduce military tensions remain deadlocked. The first phase of the exercise was held in Bay of Bengal from November 3-6. The exercise is being conducted in a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ format in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The second phase of the drills will include cross-deck flying operations and advanced air defence exercises by INS Vikramaditya’s MiG-29K fighters and USS Nimitz’s F-18 fighters and E2C Hawkeye aircraft, the officials said.The drill will cover advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, and weapon firings to “further enhance inter-operability and synergy between the four friendly navies,” the spokesperson said.The Indian warships taking part in the exercise include indigenous destroyers INS Kolkata and INS Chennai, stealth frigate INS Talwar, fleet support ship INS Deepak and integral helicopters. Rear Admiral Krishna Swaminathan, Flag Officer Commanding, Western Fleet, will be leading the Indian Navy during the exercise, which will also feature the indigenously-built submarine INS Khanderi and P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft. The USS Nimitz will be accompanied by cruiser USS Princeton and destroyer USS Sterett, with the US Navy’s P-8A maritime reconnaissance aircraft also taking part in the drills. Her Majesty’s Australian Ship (HMAS) Ballarat (long-range frigate) with its integral MH-60 helicopter will also take part in the exercise. The last time Australia was invited as a non-permanent partner by India for Malabar was in 2007, a move that drew sharp reactions from China. Also Read: Malabar exercise that upsets China is a tectonic shift in power balance | AnalysisThe Indian Navy statement said the Japanese navy would be taking part in the drills, without giving out the details of its participation. Japanese destroyer Onami with its integral SH-60 helicopter had taken part in the first phase of the drills. “The 24th edition of Malabar highlights enhanced convergence of views amongst the four vibrant democracies on maritime issues, and showcases their commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order,” the spokesperson said. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. Also Read: Under Biden, the future of US-India tiesSpeaking at an event on November 6, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said a “great power competition” was playing out “fairly vigorously” in IOR. The navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR to check China’s ambitions. “IOR is one of the most militarised regions… Also, there are differing interpretations of international laws and there is this fear that ‘Global Commons’ can change to ‘Contested Seas’, threatening free flow of commerce and trade,” the navy chief said.The exercise comes after the Quad foreign ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and follows the India-US two plus two dialogue on October 26-27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-navies-ready-for-high-intensity-malabar-phase-2-china-watches/story-1qGNjygMTtQqMqlKTof3eP.html
16-11-2020||India||DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekend||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has begun work on expanding the capacity of its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi Cantonment to deal with an unprecedented surge in coronavirus infections in the capital, DRDO officials said on Monday. This comes a day after the government announced that the Capital will get hundreds of more intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients, testing for the coronavirus will be doubled, and doctors from central paramilitary forces will be flown in. The 1,000-bed DRDO medical facility will get 250 additional ICU beds by Friday to provide treatment to patients who are seriously ill, said one of the officials cited above asking not to be named. This will take the total number of ICU beds at the hospital to 500 though the total capacity of the centre, spread over 25,000 square metres will stay the same. The hospital --- built by DRDO in record time of 12 days with assistance from the armed forces, ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and Tata Trust --- became operational in July and has so far treated and discharged 2,500 people. More than 400 patients are currently being treated at the hospital whose ICU centre is almost full, said a second official. The doubling of the ICU beds will increase the requirement of doctors and paramedics at the hospital. “The medical centre currently has around 150 doctors and paramedic. We will need an additional medical staff of around 100 people. This will be provided by the Armed Forces Medical Services and the Central Reserve Police Force,” said a third official, adding that the hospital also plans to get dialysis machines. The ICU ward in the hospital has been named after Col B Santosh Babu and two other medical wards have been named after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh to honour the memory of brave hearts killed in action in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash with the People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal described the lack of ICU beds as the “biggest challenge” in the fight against Covid-19 at a high-level meeting on Sunday. The meeting was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attendees included Kejriwal, the health ministers of the Centre as well as the state, Delhi’s lieutenant governor and top officials from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). In a presentation, Niti Aayog’s VK Paul described Delhi’s situation as “unprecedented” and “likely to become worse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-hospital-in-delhi-to-get-250-more-icu-beds-by-weekend/story-1eIAzwkr8VpOHSk0Izs4qN.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Only Congress can keep nation united’: Gehlot attacks Sibal, takes Congress versus Congress a notch higher||Veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal, in an interview, has emphasised on the need of introspection in the party. The party is on decline, the former Union minister said in the aftermath of the Congress’s massive drubbing in the recently held Bihar assembly election.Congress leaders are divided over Sibal’s comment which took Congress versus Congress a notch higher with senior leader contributing to the discourse. Karti Chidambaram has supported Sibal’s introspection call. Earlier, when Congress leaders alleged EVM fraud during the counting of the votes, Karti disagreed.Rajasthan Chief Minister and Congress’s tall leader Ashok Gehlot blamed Sibal for mentioning the party’s internal issue in media. “This has hurt the party workers across the country,” Gehlot said.“Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996 - but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programs, policies and firm belief in party leadership,” Gehlot tweeted. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam demanded that party leaders who were responsible for taking decisions in Bihar polls should be held accountable for the dismal show, but defended Rahul Gandhi.Gehlot lauded Sonia Gandhi’s leadership but did not brush aside the issue of Congress’s electoral loss. “There are various reasons for Electoral loses. But each time rank and file of the Congress Party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too,” he said. “Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this Nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development,” he added.“We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual, Sibal tweeted on Monday. Sibal was part of a group of 23 senior Congress leaders who had in August written to party chief Sonia Gandhi making suggestions on ways revive the organisation.In 2018, the Congress wrested Rajasthan from the BJP, winning 100 seats (Rasjtriya Lok Dal won 1 seat. With deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot crossing swords with Gehlot, the Congress leadership in the state was questioned. But finally, Gehlot government win floor test and Pilot too yielded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-congress-can-keep-nation-united-gehlot-attacks-sibal-takes-congress-versus-congress-a-notch-higher/story-T7V0D47GZs4c4pWRfLTRRM.html
16-11-2020||India||‘He was passionate about Rajasthan’, PM Modi expresses grief over passing away of Bhanwarlal Meghwal||Rajasthan minister of social justice and empowerment Bhanwarlal Meghwal passed away on Monday after prolonged illness. The 71-year-old Congress leader suffered brain haemorrhage in May following which the right side of his body had paralysed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed sadness over the demise of the veteran leader.“Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters,” PM Modi tweeted. Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters: PM @narendramodi“Deeply saddened at the passing away of my ministerial colleague Master Bhanwar Lal Meghwal ji after a prolonged illness. We have been together since 1980. My heartfelt condolences to his family members in this most difficult time, may God give them strength. May his soul RIP,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted. Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters: PM @narendramodiRecently, his daughter Banarasi Devi had passed away due to cardiac arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minister-bhanwarlal-meghwal-passes-away/story-7bhpciCGptmBVvNlVBS8kK.html
16-11-2020||India||Daughter of BSF soldier vows to join army as ‘tribute’ to father killed in Pak firing||Thirty-nine year old Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal who died on Friday in cross border shelling by Pakistan in Jammu & Kashmir’s Baramulla was cremated in his hometown in Rishikesh on Monday. Dobhal’s mortal remains reached his home in Rishikesh at 7am and he was cremated in the afternoon in the presence of a large number of people who had gathered to pay their tributes to him. He is survived by his wife and a 10-year-old daughter named Dwitya who showed exemplary courage while paying last tributes to her father.Raising slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai and Jai Hind, she hardly shed any tears and declared her intent to join the Indian Army to serve the nation, which she said would be the “ultimate tribute” to her father. “When I grow up, I will join the army and serve the nation. My father sacrificed his life for the country; I too, would follow in his footsteps and serve the nation with whatever I could. That would be my biggest tribute to him,” she said during the last rites. While Dobhal’s mother and wife were seen crying, Dwitya was trying to console them, saying, “Why are you crying? Feel proud for the sacrifice made by father,” bringing tears in the eyes of people gathered there. Also Read: Our immediate neighbourhood, a particularly egregious example of state-sponsored cross border terrorism’: S JaishankarDobhal had joined BSF in 2004 and was posted in Jammu & Kashmir since last one year. Earlier Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat paid his tributes to him saying, “People of Uttarakhand are proud of Dobhal who made the supreme sacrifice for the motherland. Our prayers are with his family members in this difficult moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughter-of-bsf-soldier-vows-to-join-army-as-tribute-to-father-killed-in-pak-firing/story-ZWVSxQrkAf2yiVkA29BHRI.html
16-11-2020||India||CBI books 16 people for targeting SC, Andhra HC judges on social media||The Central Bureau of Investigation has initiated a probe against some YSR Congress party supporters who allegedly posted abusive comments and derogatory statements on the social media against the Andhra Pradesh High Court and Supreme Court judges earlier this year, people familiar with the development said. The agency took over 12 First Information Reports (FIRs), registered by the Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Division (CID) from April to July this year on the complaint of Registrar General of Andhra Pradesh high court, and clubbed all these into a single case. Sixteen people have been named as accused by the central agency in its FIR registered on November 11 and they have been charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, residence, language etc), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505 (inciting a community), 506 (criminal intimidation) and section 67 of Information Technology Act. According to the CBI FIR, it was alleged in the complaint that key persons who were occupying posts of prominence in Andhra Pradesh, by intentionally targeting the judges, made interviews/posts/speeches attributing motive, caste and corrupt allegations to some of the Supreme Court judges and high court judges in delivering orders/judgements. “These people posted abusive, life threatening and intimidating posts against judges on Facebook, Twitter over recent judgments delivered by judges of Andhra Pradesh HC,” the CBI FIR said.The CBI has stated that it has clubbed 12 CID cases into one “in view of the similarities in the nature of allegations and the modus operandi and for the purpose of uniformity and to look into commonality, if any”. A division bench of Andhra Pradesh high court, comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi, had ordered a CBI probe in the matter on October 12 observing that the CID had failed to take appropriate action against those who had made derogatory comments against the judiciary. “The persons occupying high posts are indulging in waging war against the judicial system in the state, oblivious to the fact that even their entity existed since there is a democratic system in our country. In a democratic state, if such a war is initiated against the judicial system by persons holding high positions, certainly it will create unnecessary doubt in the mind of citizens against the judicial system, which may cripple the entire system,” the bench had remarked. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy had complained to the Chief Justice of India that the Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice and four other judges were acting against his elected government at the behest of a senior Supreme Court judge. Reddy had claimed that this SC judge was close to his rival, the Telugu Desam Party chief, Chandrababu Naidu.Reacting to the development, senior YSR Congress party legislator and government chief whip G Srikanth Reddy said the comments made by some social media activists allegedly against some judges of Andhra Pradesh high court only reflected the feelings of the common people in the state. “Whenever there is any judgment from the high court against the state government, the Telugu Desam Party leaders are claiming it as their victory. Doesn’t it given an impression among the people that the judiciary in the state is acting in favour of the TDP?” Reddy asked. He said let the CBI inquiry bring out all the facts. “The people will judge who is right and who is wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-16-people-for-targeting-sc-andhra-hc-judges-on-social-media/story-lqE389oJ7uI2txH0RMJD0L.html
16-11-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ into phase-3 trials||Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin - being developed by Bharat Biotech, is now undergoing phase-3 trials, Chairman and Managing Director of the company Krishna Ella said on Monday. Speaking at a virtual programme organised by the Indian School of Business, Ella said the company is also working on another vaccine for Covid-19 which would be in the form of nasal drops and can be ready by next year. “We partnered with ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) for a Covid-19 vaccine as we speak it will be entering the phase-3 trials,” he said. Bharat Biotech is the only vaccine company in the world which has BSL3 production facility (Biosafety-level 3), he said. Last month, the vaccine-maker said it had successfully completed interim analysis of Phase-I and -II trials of the vaccine and is initiating Phase-III trials in 26,000 participants. Covaxin is being developed by BharatBiotech, in collaboration with the ICMR - National Institute of Virology (NIV). The city-based vaccine-maker had, on October 2, sought the Drug Controller General of India’s (DCGI) permission to conduct phase-3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, sources said. “We are working on another vaccine through nasal drops.My feeling is by next year it will reach the population,” Ella said. Bharat Biotech in September said it had entered into a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis for a novel ‘chimp-adenovirus’ (chimpanzee adenovirus), a single-dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. Meanwhile a press release from Bharat Biotech said the Phase-III trials of Covaxin would involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India and it is being conducted in partnership with ICMR. It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. This is Indias first phase-3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase-III efficacy trial ever conducted in the country. Participating volunteers, who undergo vaccination in the phase-II trials, would be monitored over the next year to detect occurrence of Covid-19. The trial volunteers would receive two intramuscular injections approximately 28 days apart, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-into-phase-3-trials/story-Fu40AZW9ESmgXzqRKqQvKM.html
16-11-2020||India||Govt considering common code of conduct for TV news channels, backs self-regulation||The government is thinking of developing a common code of conduct for TV channels while also considering enhanced powers for the Press Council of India (PCI), Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday.The minister also said efforts to provide a regulatory framework for the Over the Top (OTT) platforms, like Netflix and Amazon Prime, were also on as the sector was largely unregulated.Javadekar also asserted that the government felt that it should not step into the regulatory domain and self-regulation by those in the profession was the ideal system.Speaking at an event organized by the PCI on the National Press Day, Javadekar said that while the Press Council was working in the print domain there was no similar system for the electronic media.“There is no system like the Press Council for TV channels so there should be a system of self-regulation. An organization has been formed which is headed by Justice Sikri which even punishes and asks channels to apologise if required. However, many channels are not even members of this system and we can’t leave things like that,” Javadekar said.The I&B minister said that many people were suggesting a common code of conduct for all TV channels. “We have not taken a final decision but are definitely discussing it,” the minister said.Complaints related to content are presently handled by the News Broadcasters Standards Authority which is headed by Justice (retd) A K Sikri.Javadekar said that there was a demand to also increase the powers of the PCI.I was also a member of the Press Council, he said, adding the body had representatives from all stakeholders.“Some people are demanding that there should be more powers for the Press Council. This is being considered,” the minister said.Also Read: ‘NDA family will work together for Bihar’s progress’: PM congratulates NitishSignificantly, the minister’s comments come days after the government brought digital media under the I&B ministry’s purview. There have been demands in the past that the Press Council of India be converted into a Media Council with digital and even electronic platforms under its ambit.Touching another key area, Javadekar said that a self-regulatory mechanism for OTT platforms was also needed.For OTT platforms, there is neither a platform like the PCI nor a self-regulatory mechanism, he said. “There can be good films, bad ones and very bad ones on these platforms. That is why, what can be done there? People are giving suggestions and we are looking into all of them. These are the challenges. Hundreds of people write on these issues and we are deliberating on them,” he said.The I&B minister, however, asserted that in his opinion people from the press or media should take lead so that an ideal forum supporting responsible freedom is established.“The government does not want to enter this (regulation) and also not curb any freedom. However, when the government is showing trust, those in journalism should also present an example of responsible journalism,” the minister said, adding that this was a challenge and “our work this year”.Also Read: CBI books 16 for ‘defamatory’ content against judges on social media Speaking on the issue of TRP manipulation, an issue that came to the fore recently, involving Republic TV, Javadekar said while the government was reluctant to enter into this domain but it had to set up a committee to look into issues as the situation demanded.“To check the possibility of any TRP manipulation and address the issue, we have formed a committee which will give its report very soon,” he said.At the event, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi also, in their messages, emphasised on the importance of a free media while lauding the work done by journalists to spread awareness about Covid-19.In his written message, which was read out at the event, President Ram Nath Kovind said media persons were among frontline corona warriors who played a major role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the pandemic.The vice president, through a video message, said the press in India has always been at the vanguard of protecting and strengthening the foundations of democracy.“Democracy cannot survive without a free and fearless press. Therefore, any attack on the freedom of the press is detrimental to national interests and should be opposed by one and all,” Naidu said.The prime minister also lauded the media for doing an exceptional service by spreading awareness against COVID-19 and said that it has acted as a valuable stakeholder in helping the government in its initiatives. His message was read out by PCI Chairman C K Prasad during the webinar conducted to celebrate the occasion.Modi said that at a time the world is up against an unprecedented crisis in the form of Covid-19, the nation’s fight against the pandemic is powered by the restraint and resolve of its 130 crore citizens.“In such a scenario, the media has been continuously doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against the Covid pandemic. In a post-Covid world, India is marching ahead with its resolve to build a strong and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Media is giving our resolve the shape of a big campaign and carrying forward the message of ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said.The government could also consider changes in the Press and Registration of Books (PRB) Act to deal with digital media entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considering-common-code-of-conduct-for-tv-news-channels-backs-self-regulation/story-HDecpffJim3uO96m6YTCPM.html
16-11-2020||India||In 2-line tweet, Prashant Kishor throws many punches at ex-boss Nitish Kumar||Prashant Kishor, the political strategist who had worked closely with Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections before they fell out earlier this year, tweeted his congratulatory message to the Bihar chief minister as soon as he started his fourth straight term.Kumar took oath as chief minister on Monday afternoon after the Bharatiya Janata Party decided to stick with Nitish Kumar despite the less than impressive performance of the Janata Dal United in the just-concluded assembly elections.Nitish Kumar’s party, once considered the senior partner in the ruling Bihar alliance, won only 43 seats in the 243-member assembly, in contrast to the BJP’s 74 seats. The depleted strength of the JDU in the assembly is reflected in the composition of the council of ministers that was sworn-in with Kumar. The BJP has seven ministers in Nitish Kumar’s team as compared to five ministers from the JDU. One cabinet berth each has gone to the smaller allies, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP).“Congratulations to Nitish Kumar for taking oath as the BJP-nominated chief minister,” tweeted Prashant Kishor, an effort to underline Nitish Kumar’s dependence on the BJP.Kishor continued.“With a tired and politically belittled leader as CM, #Bihar should brace for (a) few more years of lacklustre governance,” Prashant Kishor said in a tweet that appeared to echo the campaign pitch of the opposition.Through the campaigning, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav who led the Grand Alliance of opposition parties, or Mahagathbandhan, had put Nitish Kumar’s 15 years as Bihar chief minister at the heart of its pitch. Tejashwi Yadav would frequently claim that Nitish Kumar was tired, an attempt to dent the public perception during his early years in power that Nitish Kumar is an efficient and effective administrator.Prashant Kishor had strategised for Nitish Kumar ahead of the 2015 elections when arch rivals - JDU, RJD and Congress - had come together to form a grand alliance to stop the BJP from coming to power. Nitish Kumar walked out of this alliance in 2017 when he pole vaulted into the BJP’s camp, accusing Tejashwi Yadav - his deputy from the RJD - of corruption.Nitish Kumar’s switch had ejected Tejashwi Yadav from the treasury benches in the assembly to the opposition but the 31-year-old had promptly hit the ground running in his new role, campaigning against Nitish Kumar. Tejashwi Yadav’s RJD, which had emerged as the single largest party in the elections, was projected to be within striking distance of power by most exit polls.The Tejashwi Yadav-led alliance boycotted Monday’s oath ceremony, claiming the mandate in the elections was “against the NDA” which has been changed by a “fraud”. Tejashwi Yadav later tweeted his congratulations to Nitish Kumar, stressing that he had been nominated as chief minister. Tejashwi Yadav also added that he hoped Nitish Kumar would, instead of struggling to retain the chief minister’s chair, give priority to delivering the NDA’s promise on 19 lakh jobs, education, health and irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-nominated-cm-prashant-kishor-s-acerbic-message-to-nitish-kumar/story-TZeMVQz218Xu5TyOus7HXK.html
16-11-2020||India||Top BJP leaders congratulate Nitish Kumar after he takes oath as Bihar CM for record 7th time||Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar took oath on Monday as Bihar’s chief minister for a record seventh time. Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were sworn in as the deputy chief ministers of the state. Several BJP leaders have extended their wish to the chief minister and the deputy chief ministers after they were sworn in at Raj Bhawan in Patna.BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda congratulated Kumar and all the newly sworn-in ministers in Bihar cabinet. Taking to Twitter, Nadda said that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will provide a “pro-farmer, women, youth and development-oriented” government in the state. He assured the people of Bihar that NDA is committed to fulfilling their aspirations.Devendra Fadnavis, BJP in-charge for Bihar Assembly elections, expressed delight over the NDA’s victory in Bihar. Speaking to ANI, Fadnavis stressed that the government will run for the next five years and take Bihar forward. Bihar’s firebrand BJP leader Giriraj Singh also extended his hearty congratulations to Nitish Kumar and all other leaders who took oath at the swear-in ceremony.Also Read: Nitish Kumar forms government in Bihar, inducts new Cabinet. Full list of ministers hereUnion I&B minister Prakash Javadekar expressed confidence that Bihar will achieve new dimensions of development under Kumar’s leadership. “Many congratulations and best wishes to Shri Nitish Kumar for taking the oath of Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time,” tweeted Javadekar.Defence minister Rajnath Singh wished Bihar chief minister and deputy chief ministers all the best for fulfilling the aspirations of the people of Bihar. Congratulating the three newly elected leaders, Union minister of railways Piyush Goyal expressed confidence that Bihar will continue its “development journey by adding more new dimensions of progress.”NDA crossed the magic figure of 122-mark to form the government, out of which JD(U) has won 43 seats and BJP grabbed 74 seats. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party shared 4 seats each, helping the tally to reach 125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-bjp-leaders-congratulate-nitish-kumar-after-he-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-record-7th-time/story-Xfvy5nPtYhNoxDkfEw7lhO.html
16-11-2020||India||Amid snowfall, Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines close for winter season||The Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines were closed for the winter season on Monday after special prayers amid snowfall. The portals for Kedarnath closed at 8:30 am in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, while the portals of Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district closed at 12:15 pm. This year over 1,35,000 pilgrims visited the Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand since the Char Dham yatra resumed July 1. Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district welcomed 8,000 pilgrims this year. On Monday morning, the shrine was opened at 3 am when the chief priest Shivshankar Ling performed the Samadhi Puja of Lord Kedar and the sanctum sanctorum was closed at 6:30 am. At 8:30 am the assembly hall and the main gate of the shrine were closed. Harish Gaur, media in-charge of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “This year, 1,35,023 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine since pilgrims were allowed to visit the shrine from July 1 following all safety protocols in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The deity will now stay in his winter abode of Ukhimath for the next six months and the palanquin left for the winter abode after closing of the shrine.” The palanquin with the deity will reach the winter abode of Onkareshwar temple on November 18 after which prayers will be offered there. Adityanath along with Rawat was scheduled to visit Badrinath shrine on Monday, but due to snowfall and inclement weather, the duo was not able to leave from Kedarnath till late afternoon.“I was supposed to inaugurate a tourist guest house of the Uttar Pradesh government near Badrinath shrine but we are stuck due to snowfall. Another guest house has been made by the Uttar Pradesh government near Haridwar, which is almost ready and will be inaugurated before next year’s Maha Kumbh,” Adityanath said. He also spoke of cooperation between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“All issues of dispute between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been solved and in future also we will continue to work together. There was a case regarding an Alaknanda Guest House in Haridwar, which was pending in Supreme Court, that has also been resolved and it was decided that the guest house will be given to Uttarakhand government,” Adityanath said.On the occasion of Bhai Dooj, special prayers were offered to Goddess Yamuna before the portals of Yamunotri closed for the next six months. Kriteshwar Uniyal, secretary of the Yamunotri Temple committee said, “Now for the next six months, devotees will be able to offer prayers to the Goddess Yamuna at her winter abode in Kharsali village in Uttarkashi district, where priests from the Uniyal community will conduct prayers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-snowfall-kedarnath-and-yamunotri-shrines-close-for-winter-season/story-rfBLNfuthyz5ICDo8oiqiM.html
16-11-2020||India||CBI books 16 for ‘defamatory’ content against judges on social media||The The Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) has booked 16 individuals for allegedly posting defamatory content against judges of the Supreme Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court on social media, officials said on Monday.The case was earlier being probed by the Andhra Pradesh The Central Bureau of Investigation(CID).The Andhra Pradesh High Court had directed the CBI to probe the case and submit a report to it in a sealed cover within eight weeks.The next hearing of the case is scheduled on December 14.Taking cognizance of the alleged defamatory posts, the high court had directed the CBI to probe the role of prominent persons in the southern state, who were intentionally targeting the Supreme Court and high court judges.“The postings were made to bring hatred, contempt, incite disaffection and ill-will against the High Court and Hon’ble judges,” the court had noted.The bench comprising justices Rakesh Kumar and J Uma Devi had passed the order after a series of allegedly derogatory posts were made on social media platforms against judges and the judiciary, following some court verdicts that went against the state government.On the directions of the high court, its registrar general got a complaint lodged with the CID, giving names and related evidence, but the state police wing reportedly booked only nine people.“Their comments are perilous to democracy and amounted to an attack on the judiciary. If some ordinary person makes any comment against the government, cases are promptly registered against such persons”.“When persons in positions made comments against the judges and the courts, why have cases not been filed? Looking at things, we are left to infer that a war has been declared on the judiciary,” the bench commented orally during a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-16-for-defamatory-content-against-judges-on-social-media/story-3zmWX75rprfi0l0bCeV1XM.html
16-11-2020||India||Congress MP Manish Tewari tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MP and former Union minister Manish Tewari on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19.Tewari got himself tested after running mild fever.“I have tested positive for Covid-19 today afternoon. I got up with mild fever around 2 AM last night. Got myself tested first thing in the morning. Two parallel Tests. No other symptoms so far,” the MP from Sri Anandpur Sahib said in a tweet.The former Union minister for Information and Broadcasting said “all those who have been in contact with me over the past few days are advised caution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-manish-tewari-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-TZm0bqjgAbNAbUXhSlTyJJ.html
16-11-2020||India||A slimmer Ganesh sweats it out in Lucknow||National Award-winning choreographer Ganesh Acharya is enjoying his stint as an actor. Seen in a slimmer avatar after losing 98 kgs, he is currently shooting for ‘Dehati Disco’ on the outskirts of Lucknow where he plays the leading role. “It has been a working Diwali this time but it’s a happy feeling that we are able to work during the unlock phase. For us work is ‘puja’ (worship), so it’s a good omen to work on auspicious days. Since I was in Lucknow, I called my entire family here for festival,” says the ABCD actor. Earlier weighing 200 kgs, he has now come down to 102 kgs and is sweating it out to shed more kilos. “A lot of hard work has gone in it. Combination of three-hour of gym workout, aquatic regime, exercise and diet has made it all possible. I have been working on it for over a year but this lockdown gave a golden opportunity to work more on it and made it possible. Hum industry wale pagal hote hain, isliye kuch bhi kar jate hain.” Talking of his fat to fit avatar, he says, “Many years back, I did a film ‘Hey Bro’ for which I had gained weight. Now, for this role, I am giving my best.” As he plays the leading role in the film, he says, “This is a very different kind of film. Unlike my comic roles, this is a much serious role, action and dance. I play a father who has a 10-year-old son. It’s a dance film based on Hindustani ‘kala’ (art form). Since I have directed films as well, all those experiences I am utilising in my role.” Acharya has earlier choreographed for ‘Bullet Raja’ and ‘Jolly LLB2’ in Lucknow. “This time we were able to find a beautiful village and the location that we were looking for. In his corona phase, even with big cast and crew, we are able to work so freely maintaining social distancing which is the need of the hour.” In the unlock phase he choreographed for Akshay Kumar’s film ‘Bell Bottom’ in Scotland for a month. His song in ‘Laxmii’ did well and his upcoming films are ‘Coolie No 1’, ‘Bhuj’, ‘Toofan’ and ‘Bell Bottom’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/a-slimmer-ganesh-sweats-it-out-in-lucknow/story-7Xh0t8I8RNHh4xLIQaa3mJ.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi, President Xi Jinping to join Brics Summit tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same platform within a week when leaders of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping convene for a virtual summit on Tuesday to focus on economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi will join the virtual Brics Summit with the theme “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. The summit, being held in the backdrop of the pandemic, will discuss intra-Brics cooperation and key global issues such as reforming the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, and cooperation in counter-terrorism, trade, health and energy. This will be the second time Modi and Xi will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in May.On November 10, Modi and Xi participated in the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), also hosted by Russia. In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Modi had urged SCO members to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries while implementing connectivity projects. He had also taken a swipe at Pakistan, saying it was unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to violate the SCO charter by raising bilateral issues. Russia had subsequently backed India’s position on this matter. The top leadership of India and China are expected to be on the same online platform during five meetings this month. Besides the SCO Summit on November 10, the East Asia Summit on November 14 and the Brics Summit on November 17, the two countries will also participate in the G20 Summit during November 21-22 and the SCO council of heads of government meeting on November 30. In 2021, India will take over as chair of Brics for the third time since the grouping’s inception and host the next summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-president-xi-jinping-to-join-brics-summit-tomorrow/story-JkIzCD9q04byVVA9BEC09L.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi to attend 12th BRICS summit with Putin, Xi Jinping; terrorism, trade in focus||Prime minister Narendra Modi will be attending the 12th BRICS Summit hosted by Russia on November 17, the ministry of external affairs said. The theme for this year’s summit has been decided as ‘Global stability, shared security and innovative growth’ and the meet will be conducted in a virtual format, the ministry said. The ministry also confirmed that India will host the next session of the BRICS summit in 2021.The 12th Summit will see the leaders from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa engage in topics ranging from intra-BRICS cooperation and key issues in the global context, the official statement read.In addition to PM Modi, BRICS leaders Chinese President Xi Jinping, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and Russian President Vladimir Putin are also scheduled to attend the summit.“During the 12th Summit, held in the backdrop of the 75th Anniversary of UN and in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, leaders would be discussing intra-BRICS cooperation and key issues in the global context, including the reform of the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation in Counter Terrorism, trade, health, energy and people to people exchanges,” MEA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-12th-brics-summit-with-putin-xi-jinping-terrorism-trade-in-focus/story-1mmLUBWKAo3tyjufeFiTiK.html
16-11-2020||India||Rajasthan’s paddy farmers look at Joe Biden with hope, it’s about Iran||Paddy farmers of Rajasthan’s Hadoti region and some other parts of India are selling their basmati quality paddy produce at half of the last year’s price as exports to the biggest market, Iran, has fallen due to United States trade sanctions against the Gulf state. About one-third of the rice exported from India goes to Iran.“I recently sold 20 quintals of quality Bundi rice for Rs 2000 per quintal. About three years ago, the price was Rs 4000 per quintal,” said Manveer Singh Virk, a paddy grower from Surajmal Nagar in Bundi district of Rajasthan.Virk said because of the fall in prices they are unable to recover the cost of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 incurred for per acre of cultivation. “Rice cultivation is not as profitable as it used to be earlier,” he said.Dashrath Kumar, general secretary of Hadoti farmers union said the rice produced in Kota region is mostly exported because of its Basmati like aroma and thin and long rice grain. “The demand is high in Iran because of its taste and smell,” he said.According to Rajasthan agriculture department, rice was grown on around 1.12 hectares of land in the Hadoti region this year and the estimated rice production would be around 4 lakh metric tonnes.But, the farmers are not getting the best price for their crop as exports to the Gulf and Iran have reduced due to strained US-Iran relationship. “With decline in export of rice from Kota region due to sanctions against Iran by the US, the prices have dipped substantially,” said farmer leader Jagdish Kumar.Joint Director, agriculture, Kota region, Ramavtar Sharma, agreed and said that less export demand has led to a crash in the prices.According to the US Department of State website, the US had imposed several economic sanctions against Iran since early this year for Tehran’s purported support to terrorist groups. The sanctions are aimed to contain Iran’s nuclear programme and as a punishment for the alleged violation of human rights.Also Read| Fund set up to plug gaps in food supply a hit among investorsThe US also asked countries not to buy crude-oil from Iran. A huge dip in international oil prices during Covid-19 pandemic also affected Iran’s cash inflow badly. Rice exporter, Neelesh Patel, said Iran was the major buyer of rice produced in Hadoti region but a decline in its purchasing power, due to the drop in the crude oil prices during Covid-19 pandemic and the US sanctions on its oil sale, had led to this situation.In 2019-20, India exported rice worth Rs 32,000 crore, of which about 10,800 crore was exported to Iran alone, according to an estimate by the All India Rice Exporters Association. Earlier this year, the association issued an advisory to all its members asking them to be cautious and not to send rice shipment to Iran till the situation improves.“Dues worth Rs 800 crore to big Indian exporters are still pending with Iranian firms. We have not got payment for exports last year and therefore traders are not willing to export rice on credit,” Patel said.Chauthmal Nagar, a board of management member of Agriculture University, Kota, blamed the US-Iran stand-off and the low demand for high quality rice in Gulf countries due to Covid-19 as the main reasons for Hadoti rice fetching poor price.However, farmers and rice traders in the region believe that the situation may change with Joe Biden taking over as US President from Donald Trump in January 2021.Dashrath Kumar said now with the election of Joe Biden as new US President, the rice farmers are hopeful of the revival of rice exports soon. He added that the farmer organizations of Hadoti region have been asking the Central government to resolve the rice export issues claiming it alone can help in fetching the right price for the farmers in the domestic market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-paddy-farmers-look-at-joe-biden-with-hope-it-s-about-iran/story-p2B9DE5QfMeoK0iIfAJHfL.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Ask BJP,’ says Nitish Kumar on why Sushil Modi was dropped from Bihar cabinet||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the decision to replace Sushil Modi, who has been in the chair of Bihar’s deputy chief minister for the maximum period since 2005, was taken by the BJP. “They should be asked about this,” Kumar said after his swearing-in ceremony in Patna.In a surprise element, the BJP introduced the two deputy CM formula in Bihar, after it did the same in Uttar Pradesh and many other states where it is in power. Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi have been chosen as the deputy CMs. Sushil Modi may get a post in the Centre, reports said. Also Read: Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM, 14 ministers inducted into cabinetThis move is being seen as a first indication that though JD(U) will have its leader as the CM, BJP might wield more power in the government. And the way has been paved by the votes — while the BJP won 74 seats, the JD(U) won only 43 seats.On the formation of the new government, Nitish said, “Based on the public decision, NDA has once again formed the government in the state. We will work together and serve the people.”Also Read: Chirag Paswan congratulates Nitish Kumar and BJP. But for two different reasonsAfter the name of the two deputy CMs became public after the NDA meeting on Sunday, Sushil Modi said he would remain a party worker and no one can take away that post. “The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years. I will discharge the responsibility that will be given to me. No one can take away the post of the party worker,” Sushil Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-bjp-says-nitish-kumar-on-why-sushil-modi-was-dropped-from-bihar-cabinet/story-l8eaOOjLnu1wgaTkZvFoNJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM for 7th time, gets two deputies from BJP||The new NDA government in Bihar was sworn in Monday evening with Nitish Kumar taking oath as chief minister for the seventh time with two deputy chief ministers - Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi from the BJP – in the cabinet namely.A total of 14 ministers in the new cabinet also took oath. Five of them from the JD(U) and seven from the BJP and two from smaller allies, HAM(S) and VIP. Kumar was administered the oath of office by Governor Phagu Chauhan at a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhawan which was attended by BJP national president J P Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and other prominent BJP leaders including former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis. Both Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were administered the oath after the chief minister indicating their position as number 2 and number 3 in the new council of ministers. They both sat beside Nitish Kumar at the main dais. The other prominent faces inducted as ministers are former Speaker in the previous NDA government, Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, Mewalal Choudhary and Sheela Kumari (all from the JD(U). From the BJP, Mangal Pandey, former health minister and Amarendra Pratap Singh, former deputy Speaker and senior party leader, Rampreet Paswan, Jibesh Kumar and Ramsurat Kumar were sworn in as ministers. Paswan took oath in Maithili as he hails from Madhubani district and won from Rajnagar assembly seat. Jibesh Kumar, another BJP MLA from Jale in Darbhanga, was also sworn in as minister . He also took oath in Maithili. The Mithilanchal region comprising Darbhanga and Madhubani got wider representation in the cabinet with three new faces from the districts namely Paswan, Jibesh Kumar and Sheela Kumari. The BJP and JD (U) performed well in the Mithilanchal region where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed rallies during the campaign. Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahani, chief of Vikasheel Insaan Party, also took oath as ministers in the new cabinet. Both HAM(S) and VIP are key smaller allies in the new NDA government having four MLAs each. Former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was also present although he was not seen much in the confabulations throughout the day among JD(U) and BJP leaders at the CM’s residence to decide on the ministerial faces, giving rise to speculations that Modi is apparently unhappy over not being re-appointed as deputy CM in the new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-7th-time-gets-two-deputies-from-bjp/story-HV1PjhT6ZFACksC4eM2VpN.html
16-11-2020||India||‘NDA family will work together for Bihar’s progress’: PM congratulates Nitish||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Nitish Kumar on taking oath as Bihar chief minister and said NDA family will work together for state’s progress.“Congratulations to @NitishKumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as Ministers in the Bihar Government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar,” PM Modi tweeted.Kumar was formally named the leader of the state’s ruling alliance at a meeting of the NDA MLAs on Sunday. The meeting was also attended by senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the party’s state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis.Apart from Kumar, a host of leaders from the constituent parties of the NDA alliance took oath as cabinet ministers. The deputy CMs — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — also took their oath in the ceremony.Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), JD(U)’s Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary and Mewa Lal Choudhary were also sworn in.The swearing-in ceremony comes a day after the Nation Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar chose Kumar as the chief minister for another term. Deputy chief ministers. Eight other ministers from NDA constituents — BJP, JD(U), HAM and VIP were also sworn in today.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)and its chief Tejashwi Yadav boycotted the oath ceremony. “Best wishes to respected Nitish Kumar ji for being ‘nominated’ as Chief Minister. I hope instead of pursuing his ambitions, he will fulfill the aspirations of the public and will fulfill NDA’s promise of 19 lakh jobs, and will make positive issues like employment, health, income generation, irrigation his priority,” the 31-year-old tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-family-will-work-together-for-bihar-s-progress-pm-modi-congratulates-nitish-kumar/story-5cCedhIBnRkmmO5UHhgXGN.html
16-11-2020||India||Chirag Paswan congratulates Nitish Kumar and BJP. But for two different reasons||Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan, who was projected to be a crucial factor in Bihar’s new government but then turned out to be a damp squib, congratulated both Nitish Kumar and the BJP, soon after the swearing-in ceremony on Monday. “Congratulations to you for being the CM once again and congratulations to BJP for making you the CM,” Nitish Kumar’s bete noire Paswan tweeted. In fact, he was one of the first political leaders to congratulate Nitish for his fourth consecutive time at the helm of Bihar.Also Read: “I am sending you the vision document prepared by four lakh Biharis so that you can implement some from them. Congratulations once again on becoming the Chief Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party for making you the Chief Minister,” Chirag tweeted. 4 लाख बिहारीयों द्वारा बनाया गया #बिहार1stबिहारी1st विजन डॉक्यूमेंट आप को भेज रहा हूँ ताकी उसमें से भी जो कार्य आप पुरा कर सकें वह कर दें। एक बार पुनः आप को मुख्यमंत्री बनने की और भारतीय जनता पार्टी को आप को मुख्यमंत्री बनाने के लिए बधाई।https://t.co/kZvjg56fRZ आदरणीय @NitishKumar जी को फिर से मुख्यमंत्री बनने की बधाई। आशा करता हूँ सरकार अपना कार्यकाल पुरा करेगी और आप एन॰डी॰ए॰ के ही मुख्यमंत्री बने रहेंगे।Earlier, Paswan wished for a complete term for Nitish Kumar. “I hope the government will complete its tenure and you will continue to be the Chief Minister of NDA,” he tweeted.The LJP which is an NDA constituent in the Centre severed its ties with the NDA and decided to contest alone in the elections. In a twist, it continued supporting the BJP aiming at an NDA government in Bihar minus the JD(U). But LJP managed to win only one seat though it was successful in cutting JD(U) votes, as Nitish Kumar himself has admitted. With only 43 seats, JD(U) has now made way for the BJP — which won 74 seats — to be the senior party in the alliance. keeping its pre-election promise, the NDA chose Nitish Kumar as their leader in Bihar, which also carries stamp from BJP’s top leadership. Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledged Kumar’s leadership, his development initiatives, women empowerment programmes for the victory in Bihar. However, JD(U)’s performance and RJD emerging as the single-largest party in the election made Kumar’s road to the CM chair for the fourth consecutive term a little bumpy. Terming NDA’s victory as PM Modi’s victory, Paswan wrote, “I hope the new government materialises the dream of a self-reliant Bihar. Respected Narendra Modi ji has won a big victory in Bihar. It is the wish of all Bihari to have a better change in Bihar’s conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-congratulates-nitish-kumar-and-bjp-but-for-two-different-reasons/story-XR8oHhQLv7S0OgPiq0rLBO.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre agrees to deploy 5 new CRPF battalions in Maoist-hit Bastar in a ‘bold’ move||Accepting the demand of the Chhattisgarh government, the Union ministry of home will deploy five extra battalions of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Bastar region, officials said on Monday. The officials said that Chhattisgarh chief minister, in September 2020, wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him for deployment of seven battalions of (CRPF) in Bastar region-- sanctioned in 2018-- and also for installation of mobile towers. “Taking cognisance of the demand, the union home minister has decided to send five battalions as soon as possible,” said a senior official privy to the development. The official further stated that CM Baghel wrote a letter to home minister Amit Shah, on November 12, and thanked him for accepting the demand and also made some suggestions to eradicate Maoism from Bastar region. “Out of the seven additional CRPF battalions allocated to the state in 2018, five battalions were immediately directed to be deployed in the Bastar region. As per the information I’ve received, a special recruitment rally for Indian Army is being considered in Bastar division in March 2021 to provide employment opportunities to the youth of Bastar while giving them a chance to render a national service. With your kind initiative on both of these subjects, we will reach a decisive edge in the anti-Naxal campaign,” Baghel stated in his letter. The officials posted in Bastar claimed that the impact of the five newly-deployed battalions would be incumbent on the speed and safety with which Bastar police assist in their induction in the designated places. Bihar: Maoists blow up community hall in Gaya, demand Rs2 crore from JD(U) leader“Five battalions means 30 companies, which further means that more than 20 locations would be acquired. Most of these locations are in security vacuum areas considered core areas of the Maoists. There will be strong resistance from the Maoists against CRPF acquiring advanced locations,” said an IPS officer posted in the region. Another intelligence officer deployed in the Bastar region said, “As all the five battalions are to be deployed in Sukma and Bijapur districts, the security forces in both districts would be tested.” “It seems governments (both central and state) have decided to take the battle to the end and aggressive deployment of CRPF companies can be a game changer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-agrees-to-deploy-5-new-crpf-battalions-in-maoist-hit-bastar-in-a-bold-move/story-lucY5sHtOMS3tncsMJuRON.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi urges spiritual leaders to promote ‘AtmaNirbharta’ by going vocal for local||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged all spiritual leaders to promote “AtmaNirbharta” (self-reliance) by going vocal for local.Speaking after unveiling the ‘Statue of Peace’ to mark the 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, via video conferencing, the Prime Minister said, all the spiritual leaders should amplify the message of “AtmaNirbharta” and preach about the benefits of ‘vocal for local’, just as it happened during the freedom struggleMentioning two ‘Vallabhs’, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and the Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, the Prime Minister said that he feels blessed by the fact that after dedicating the world’s tallest statue of Sardar Patel,‘Statue of Unity’, he is getting the opportunity to unveil the ‘Statue of Peace’ of the Jainacharya Shri Vijay Vallabh.“Reiterating his stress on ‘vocal for local’, PM Modi requested that as happened during the freedom struggle, all the spiritual leaders should amplify the message of “AtmaNirbharta” and preach about the benefits of ‘vocal for local’,” according to a release by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The Prime Minister said India has always shown the path of peace, non-violence, and friendship to the world. Today the world is looking towards India for similar guidance.“If you look at the history of India, whenever the need arose, some saintly figure emerged to guide the society, Acharya Vijay Vallabh was one such saint,” he said. Mentioning the educational institutions established by the Jainacharya, the Prime Minister praised his efforts to make the country “AtmaNirbhar” in the field of education as he established many institutes imbued with Indian values in states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh.He said these institutions have given so many industrialists, judges, doctors, and engineers who have given yeoman service to the nation.The Prime Minister underscored the debt that the country owes to the efforts of these institutions in the field of women’s education.“These institutions kept the flame of female education alive in those difficult times. The Jainacharya established many institutions for girl children and brought women to the mainstream. The life of Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji was full of kindness, compassion and love for every living being. With his blessings, Bird Hospital and many gaushalas are running in the country today. These are not ordinary institutions. These are the embodiment of the spirit of India and the hallmarks of India and Indian values,” he said. The statue unveiled in the honour of the Jainacharya has been named as ‘Statue of Peace’. The 151-inch tall statue has been made from Ashtadhatu i.e. 8 metals, with Copper being the major constituent, and is installed at Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Pali, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-urges-spiritual-leaders-to-promote-atmanirbharta-by-going-vocal-for-local/story-T9YKIdqc2zFFTkOQLtEN8N.html
16-11-2020||India||Gupkar alliance an exploitative outfit formed to grab power: BJP||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Monday called constituents of Gupkar Alliance an “exploitative outfit”, whose sole aim was to come to power and “hide their misdeeds”.The BJP also asked Congress to make its stand clear on joining the Gupkar Alliance, which has “openly given pro-Pak and pro-China statements”. “Gupkar alliance is not a political organisation but an exploitative outfit. The sole aim of this group is to come to power and at the same time hide their black deeds like illegally occupying land, getting them regularised, corruption cases and murders at the CM’s residence. Since all these cases will be investigated, they have joined hands to get power and hide their misdeeds,” BJP’s chief spokesman advocate Sunil Sethi told reporters.Sethi said that despite joining hands, differences have cropped up among the constituents over allotment of tickets for the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls. “While PDP has become the assistant of the NC, senior leaders and workers have started leaving PDP,” he said. One of the founding members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former minister Muzaffar Hussain Beigh recently quit the party.“It is the same story with other parties in the alliance. I am confident that rebel leaders and workers of the PDP, who will contest as independents, will emerge winners from Kashmir in the upcoming polls,” he said. Sethi also expressed surprise that the Congress joined the Gupkar bandwagon.“The Congress has to clear its stand. It should tell the people whether it endorses the pro-Pak and pro-China statements of PDP and NC. Congress cannot sail into boats and try to fool the people. The people won’t allow their duplicity to succeed,” he said. The BJP spokesman also took a swipe at the NC and the PDP saying “till recently they were not ready to contest any elections and demanded restoration of Article 370 and today they are on board just to get into the corridors of power.”Earlier in the day, Ravinder Raina, the JP’s chief in Jammu and Kashmir said the Congress joining teh Gupkar Alliance was “treachery”. “Congress has embraced those (Gupkar alliance), who speak the language of Xi Jinping, Syed Salahuddin, Azhar Masons and Hafiz Dared. It amounts to treason. By joining Gupkar alliance Congress has joined Pakistan and China but people will not forgive them, “ said. Raina further said that Congress wanted to deprive Dalits, West Pakistan refugees, women and Valmikis of their basic rights in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-an-exploitative-outfit-formed-to-grab-power-bjp/story-TbbgeJS2BcdbnVToF3lgvL.html
16-11-2020||India||Woman’s body found in a lake 3 days after quarrel with husband||The body of a 45-year-old housewife was found in a lake in Diva on Monday morning, three days after she left home following a fight. Police suspect she died by suicide.The woman, Savita Shirsagar, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in Diva had been missing since Friday when she left home after a fight with her husband.Shirsagar did not leave behind a suicide note. Around 9 am, a few locals alerted the police about the body, which had floated to the top of the lake.“The fire brigade officials reached the lake and pulled the body out. The body was bloated and it was handed over to police officials,” Santosh Kadam, Regional Disaster Management Cell chief, Thane Municipal Corporation said.According to the police, the woman had a domestic fight with her unemployed husband, over his drinking habit. Her two daughters are married.“The reason behind her suicide is not yet known except that she had a fight and had left home. No foul play is suspected. We have filed an accidental death report,” said MS Kad, senior inspector at Mumbra police station.Police said even though she did not return home for three days, no missing person’s complaint was filed at the police station.The police will record the statement of her husband and daughters to establish the trigger behind the suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-s-body-found-in-a-lake-3-days-after-quarrel-with-husband/story-NEKDM3rMXlM6cXWInmyNPI.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre to regulate sale of veterinary NSAIDS to boost vulture numbers||The Centre plans to stop the misuse and overuse of veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that lead to death of vultures by regulating its sale only against prescription and ensuring all treatment of livestock is done by qualified veterinarians. This is one of the key interventions of the Vulture Conservation Action Plan 2020-25, which was released by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on Monday.Regulating the sale of veterinary NSAIDs can prevent poisoning of cattle carcasses, which is the primary source of sustenance for vultures. Other interventions under the action plan include carrying out safety tests of available molecules of veterinary NSAIDs on vultures. Also read | UNESCO declares Panna Tiger Reserve a biosphere reserve“The new molecules should be introduced in the market following safety tests on vultures. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) must institute a system that removes a drug from veterinary use if it is found to be toxic to vultures,” the plan stated amid a bid to establish new vulture conservation breeding centres in the country.At present, there are eight vulture conservation breeding centres across the country.The plan proposes to have at least one vulture safe zone in each state for the conservation of the remnant populations in that state. The vulture safe zone will be created ensuring low prevalence of toxic NSAIDs in an area spanning a radius of around 100 kilometres (km) from the vulture colony. The Red Headed Vulture and the Egyptian Vulture will receive special attention in the conservation breeding programme, as their numbers have dwindled by over 80%.In the 1980s, the population of three resident vulture species such as Oriental White-backed Vulture, Long-billed Vulture and Slender-billed Vulture in the country was estimated at 40 million, but their count crashed by over 90% in the mid-1990s. By 2007, 99% of these three species of vultures had been wiped out. The numbers of other vulture species also declined rapidly. In 2004, following extensive research the cause of the crash in vulture numbers was identified to be the use of diclofenac, a NSAID. The MoEFCC had released the vulture action plan 2006 to prevent possible extinction of vultures. One of the main interventions under the 2006 plan was to remove the use of diclofenac and curbing leakage of human formulation of diclofenac into the veterinary sector.“However, the vulture populations in the country are still not safe. The populations are precariously small and remain vulnerable to adverse events till their numbers have increased substantially. This vulnerable period will be lengthy because of vultures’ low natural reproductive capacity,” the report stated.Experts lauded the MoEFCC’s move.“It’s a good move and a big decision, if it’s implemented well. I must congratulate the MoEFCC on this key action plan. Though veterinary diclofenac was banned, the drug meant for human use was being used for veterinary purposes in some parts of the country. If NSAIDs are sold only against prescription, the implementation gap can be curbed to a large extent,” said Asad Rahmani, a former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and a veteran ornithologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-regulate-sale-of-veterinary-nsaids-to-boost-vulture-numbers/story-f1PxQXGSSdHLmYWAliWEEM.html
16-11-2020||India||10 kids, 2 adults die of ‘unknown’ disease in 4 Jharkhand villages, doctors suspect Malaria||At least 10 children and two adults have died of an ‘unknown’ disease in four different villages under Noamundi block in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand during the past 15-20 days, putting the district health department on the edge. Health officials said on Monday that all the deaths were in different villages and tollahs in malaria-prone remote Naxalite violence-hit hilly and forested areas. A health team was sent to Gitikendu village, 30 km away from the block headquarter Noamundi, on Monday to examine other sick people and assess the situation on the ground. Three children, 2-year-old Pani Purty, 2-year-old Gita Languri, 2-year-old Ranjit Angariya, 18-year-old Jena Sirka and 25-year-old Ram Sirka alias Selay have died in Gitikendu village during the past fortnight.Earlier, health department teams had identified five malaria patients in Nuia village where two kids – 12-year-old Bablu Champia and 10-year-old Rohit Champia had died of this ‘unknown’ disease. Deaths of four more children were reported from Lupunga village, adjacent to Nuia village, during the past 14 days. 11-yeat-old Mani Kerai, daughter of Birsingh Kerai, also died on Thursday in Chumbrusai tollah in Pokhria village under Noamundi block while about a dozen villagers have fallen sick in the village during the period.“We have sent a team to Gitikendu village today. They will camp there and medically examine the sick people and assess the situation. Three children have died in the village apart from four in Lupunga, two in Nuia and one in Pokhariya during the past 15-20 days. Most of them had high fever and our preliminary suspicion is that they might have died of malaria. We have found five sick people testing positive in Nuia village. The entire area is inside a deep forest and malaria has been prevalent in the area. Further investigation and action will be taken as per the guidance of the senior authorities,” Dr Narendra Kishor Sundi, in-charge of Noamundi community health centre (CHC), said on Monday.West Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr Om Prakash Gupta said this is no epidemic or case of mass-infection as the four deaths in Lupunga village were reported from four different tollahs. “Some of them had high fever while some were having acute loose motion and such symptoms. We have done verbal autopsy and villagers are not able to give much information. Many sick people have tested positive for malaria and treatment is being done accordingly. We are keeping a close eye on these villages and further investigation is on,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-kids-2-adults-die-of-unknown-disease-in-4-jharkhand-villages-doctors-suspect-malaria/story-5wVjcp4cckbvKdC5SdbmBK.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Delhi pollution spikes, AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaignThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday launched the second phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in the national capital. Read moreIndia shaped debate on need for transparency in connectivity projects: JaishankarIn an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that India had shaped the debate on the need for transparency and respect for territorial integrity while implementing connectivity projects. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja proves to fashion world’s ‘knight in shining armour’ in Rs 1.6 lakh jacket, Versace heels and other haute dressesIf there is one Indian celebrity whose sartorial pulse has left international designers smitten, it has to be actor Sonam Kapoor Ahuja who entered the week with a flood of ravishing pictures from her latest photoshoot for a magazine. Read moreBigg Boss 14: Devoleena Bhattacharjee angrily reacts to Salman Khan’s comment about her, Rashami Desai getting less votesDevoleena Bhattacharjee was irked by Bigg Boss 14 host Salman Khan’s comment that she and Rashami Desai were shown the door by the audience in the first five weeks of an earlier season of the reality show, despite being popular stars with a huge fan following. She tweeted to Bigg Boss and said “mujhe gussa mat dilao (don’t make me angry)”. Read moreBhai Dooj 2020: Tweeple celebrate brother-sister relationship with memes dipped in naughtiness and loveThe festival of Bhai Dooj is observed every year to celebrate the lovely bond shared between brothers and sisters. Read moreMaruti sells 2 lakh cars through digital-only channel, boosts online presenceMaruti Suzuki on Monday informed that its online sales channel, first launched in 2018, has been witnessing increased traction with each passing month and that the company had sold 2 lakh units since April of 2019 through digital means alone. Read more‘If Tim Paine plays till 37-38, it may be too late for Steve Smith to become Australia captain,’ says Mark TaylorEven though it is Tim Paine who will be leading Australia troops in the upcoming home series against India, questions are circling around Steve Smith. The right-handed batsman was removed as Australia captain in 2018 after he was banned for 12 months for his role in the ball-tampering scandal. But now that Smith is back into the team, fans continue to wonder if he would ever return as Australia captain. Read moreWatch: Kedarnath shrine wrapped in a blanket of snow, closes for wintersKedarnath shrine was wrapped up in a blanket of snow after the valley and the surrounding hills received fresh spells of snowfall, causing a significant dip in the temperature levels of the hills. Devotees visiting the temple enjoyed the snowfall. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) informed that the state will receive light showers & snowfall. Snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places with height 3,000 m and above. Earlier, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat & UP CM Yogi Adityanath participated in the closing ceremony of the shrine’s portals. Kedarnath temple is scheduled to close for winters on November 16. Badrinath temple in Chamoli district also witnessed fresh snowfall. Watch the full video for more. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-aap-launches-2nd-phase-of-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fXM15qDaTzqikLhDaHNLDK.html
16-11-2020||India||Telangana reports 502 new cases of Covid-19, lowest since June||Amid apprehensions over a second wave of spread of Sars-Cov-2 across the country, Telangana has been witnessing a steady decline in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in the last two weeks. Official figures released by the state health department on Monday revealed that the state has reported only 502 positive cases for Covid-19 till 8 pm on Sunday night, which is the lowest in the last five months. The last time the state recorded the lowest number of positive cases was on June 19, when 499 cases were reported. Since then, the state witnessed a steep rise in the Covid-19 cases. The figures reported on Sunday night were the lowest since June 19.The previous day, too, only 661 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state. “Not just in the last two days, if one takes into consideration the overall figures available since the beginning of November, there has been a decline in the number of positive cases in the state,” an official in the state health department said. On November 1, there were 1,416 positive cases in the state. This figure fluctuated between 15,00-1,600 cases for a week, but after that there has been a steady fall in the infections. “The fall in the number of cases is not really in proportion to the number of tests. Except in the last two or three days, we have been conducting on an average around 40,000 tests per day,” the official said. The Covid-19 mortality rate has also fallen. In the last 15 days, there has been only three to four deaths per day, except on November 2 when the toll was 7. Director of health G Srinivasa Rao, however, cautioned the people against being complacent. He said the next three months would be crucial for the people of the state, as the country was bracing up for facing a second wave of Covid-19. “We are hoping to get the vaccine or even proven drugs against Covid-19 in January or February. Till then, people need to be very cautious and continue to take safety measures as they have been doing till now,” he said. He said a survey conducted by the state health department revealed that people were throwing safety precautions to winds in many places. “They have not been wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. This is dangerous. We cannot afford to hold mass gatherings which might result in a spreading of the disease,” Rao said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, there has been a sharp fall in the number of positive cases for Covid-19. By Sunday night, there were only 1,056 new cases and 14 deaths. The state has been reporting around 1,500-1,700 cases for the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-502-new-cases-of-covid-19-lowest-since-june/story-dQ57azMI1oU3ZgaqLe1TRJ.html
16-11-2020||India||On Bhai Dooj, coronavirus curbs keep sisters away from brothers lodged in UP jails||Sisters were disappointed on Bhai Dooj as they were not allowed to meet their brothers lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Jalaun jail where 62 inmates have contracted coronavirus in recent days.Similar scenes were witnessed in the state’s Shahjahanpur jail due to the precautions taken in the wake of the Covid outbreak. Jalaun Jail Superintendent Sitaram Sharma said due to coronavirus cases in the jail, they had told the inmates’ relatives before Diwali that if they wanted to send any item to their brothers or kin, then they would have to inform them.He said on Monday some women came to the jail to meet their brothers. “They should not have come as they were informed well in advance,” Sharma said. Jalaun Chief Medical officer Dr Alpana Bacariya told PTI that 62 inmates of the jail tested positive for coronavirus in the past some days. Meanwhile in Shahjahanpur, women were stopped at the entrance of the jail.Jail Superintendent Rakesh Sharma said, “Sisters of the inmates, who had come to meet their brothers on Bhai Dooj, were not allowed to enter the premises due to Covid-19. Packed items were sent to the inmates while there was a ban on open sweets.”He said a telecom facility was made available at the entrance so that the woman could speak to their brothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bhai-dooj-coronavirus-curbs-keep-sisters-away-from-brothers-lodged-in-up-jails/story-PJ3ctGOjlPtg8BG8Ui5WWP.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM, says ‘will work together’||In the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda, JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Monday took oath as Bihar chief minister for the fourth consecutive term. Apart from Kumar, a host of leaders from the constituent parties of the NDA alliance took oath as cabinet ministers. The deputy CMs — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — also took their oath in the ceremony. The presence of Amit Shah was significant as unlike Kumar’s past swearing-in ceremonies, this was a small-scale gathering owing to Covid-19 restrictions. Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), JD(U)’s Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary and Mewa Lal Choudhary were also sworn in.The swearing-in of Vijay Kumar Choudhary as a cabinet minister indicates that the Speaker post is going to BJP as Choudhary was the Speaker in the last term.Also Read: Nitish Kumar forms government in Bihar, inducts new Cabinet. Full list of ministers hereNitish Kumar’s new cabinetSushil Kumar Modi who has been Bihar’s for the maximum time since 2005 has not found any place in the new cabinet. According to reports, he might get a Central berth. The ministers who were sworn in on Monday form the interim cabinet. More ministers will be inducted later on. RJD boycotted Nitish’s swearing-inRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav did not attend the oath-taking ceremony as his party said the election has been rigged. The mandate was “against the NDA”, but has later been changed by a “fraud”. “The RJD boycotts oath-taking ceremony of this puppet government. The mandate is for a change, and against the (ruling) NDA. The peoples verdict has been changed by the rulers order,” the RJD alleged in a tweet.Swearing-in ceremonies in 2010, 2015Bihar state assembly election was the first major election to be held amid Covid-19 pandemic. Bearing the brunt of Covid, the swearing-in ceremony has become small-scale this year. During his previous terms, Kumar had taken oath amid large gatherings of dignitaries and common people at Gandhi Maidan. According to pre-election seat-sharing agreement, the JD (U), which has 43 MLAs, will get a maximum of 14 ministerial berths. BJP which has won 74 seats will get 20 posts in the cabinet. Both HAM (S) and VIP will have to settle for one ministerial berth each.Here are the latest updates of Nitish Kumar swearing-in 2020> The newly formed Bihar cabinet will hold a meeting tomorrow. A special session of the state legislative assembly to be held on November 23.> The new government in Bihar will be pro-farmer, said BJP chief JP Nadda Congrats to @NitishKumar Ji and all newly sworn-in ministers. I am sure that under the guidance of PM @narendramodi Ji, NDA will give pro-farmer, women, youth and development-oriented govt in the State. I assure people of Bihar that NDA is committed to fulfil their aspirations.> Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Nitish Kumar after his swearing in. Congratulations to @NitishKumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as Ministers in the Bihar Government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar.> Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Mangal Pandey and Amarendra Pratap Singh take oath as Bihar cabinet ministers. Patna: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Mangal Pandey and Amarendra Pratap Singh take oath as Bihar Cabinet Ministers. pic.twitter.com/U9Cn6oR3bk> Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, and Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take oath. Patna: Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi & Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take oath as a Cabinet Minister of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/mYCYhk22Pr> JDU leaders Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, and Mewa Lal Choudhary take oath as cabinet ministers of Bihar. Patna: JDU leaders Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, and Mewa Lal Choudhary take oath as Cabinet Ministers of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/peFgFjM8vq> Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi take oath as the Deputy Chief Ministers of Bihar. Patna: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi take oath as the Deputy Chief Ministers of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/60kHuDDzOC> Nitish Kumar takes oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time - his fourth consecutive term. #WATCH: Nitish Kumar takes oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time - his fourth consecutive term. pic.twitter.com/5jcZXabSYw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-swearing-in-nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-fourth-consecutive-time-at-the-presence-of-amit-shah-jp-nadda/story-d8nj0PBZ50XQz7k7JudwMO.html
16-11-2020||India||India logs more daily Covid-19 recoveries than new cases for 44 straight days||India continued with its unbroken trend of daily new recoveries surpassing the daily new infections for the 44th consecutive day on Monday. Nearly 43,851 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours as against 30,548 new cases of the viral infection reported from across the country.“India continued an unbroken trend of daily new recoveries outpacing daily new additions for the 44th day,” a statement from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said on Monday.“This translates to a net reduction of nearly 13,303 patients in the active viral caseload, which currently stands at 4,65,478, the MoHFW statement indicated. The country’s recovery rate has improved to 93.27 per cent today. The total recovered cases stand at 82,49,579, the Health Ministry said. ALSO READ | No lockdown in Delhi even as Covid-19 cases go up, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainThe addition of 30,548 new cases on Monday is a significant dip since many countries across the world are reporting a surge in infections and suspected second waves of the viral disease. A large number of countries in Europe and America are witnessing a sudden sharp spike in the number of daily coronavirus cases.India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 88,45,127 with 30,548 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours on Monday. The number of those who have recovered from the viral disease has surged to 82,49,579, according to data by the Union health ministry.The death toll touched 1,30,070 with 435 new fatalities. For the sixth consecutive day, the number of active cases remained below the 5 lakh mark.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Religious places in Maharashtra reopen after seven monthsNearly 78.59 per cent of the recovered cases reported in the last 24 hours belong to 10 states and Union Territories.Among the states, Delhi saw the greatest number of recoveries as 7,606 confirmed patients recovered. Kerala came next with 6,684 daily recoveries followed by West Bengal reporting 4,480 new recoveries.At least 76.63 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases have been reported from 10 states and UTs such as Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-more-daily-covid-19-recoveries-than-new-cases-for-44-straight-days/story-HLnhX6lw0pFVm5E8tuZJFN.html
16-11-2020||India||Free press ‘soul of democracy’, says Prakash Javadekar||A free press is the cornerstone of democracy, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said on Monday. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Press Council of India (PCI) on the ‘Role of media during the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on media’ on National Press Day, the minister said freedom comes with responsibility and asked news organisations to avoid sensationalism.  “Freedom of press is the soul of democracy. Freedom of press is very important but any freedom comes with responsibility. So, there has to be a responsible freedom and no sensationalism by the press,” the minister said in the video message.“The news should not be to deliberately defame anyone. The way freedom of press is being attacked these days is not good,” he said. Talking about the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation by some news channels, the minister said a committee formed by the ministry will soon submit its report on the issue. “To check the TRP manipulation and address the issue, we have formed a committee which will give its report very soon,” he said.  Javadekar also touched upon the issue of absence of a regulatory body for TV channels and said a decision may be taken on bringing a code of conduct for them. “The Press Council of India is a self-regulatory body which has representations from various media houses as well as parliament. There have been discussions on giving more power to the PCI,” he said.  “But for TV channels there is no self-regulatory body like PCI. We are getting suggestions to make a code of conduct for all TV channels but we are yet to take a decision on it,” the minister said, adding that the government doesn’t want to interfere but “press should present responsible journalism.” Javadekar further said just like TV, there is no regulatory body for over-the-top (OTT) platforms and the government is receiving suggestions on how to regulate its content. OTT platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar, and others were recently brought under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. “Neither there is any PCI nor any other body for OTT platforms which have very good content as well as very bad content. So, something needs to be done about it,” he said. “Discussions are going on and we are getting suggestions from a lot of people on what should be done to regulate the content on OTT platforms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-press-soul-of-democracy-says-prakash-javadekar/story-XT0xDvsOTBOsAUClPxB5AN.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 patient alleges molestation bid at Kerala hospital||The Malabar Medical College Hospital in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Monday suspended an employee after a Covid-19 patient complained that he tried to molest her on the pretext of taking her to the duty doctor. In her complaint the 38-year-old woman said the health worker, a class four employee, had earlier harassed her on the phone and she had warned him and informed hospital authorities about this. She alleged that on Sunday night he approached her and told her that the duty doctor wanted to meet her. She said he took her to the lift and then to a deserted floor where he tried to molest her. She said she somehow escaped and altered doctors and other officials. She said nobody took her seriously and she later informed her relatives and filed a police complaint over the phone. But hospital authorities maintained that they have not received any complaint in this regard and suspended an official pending inquiry. Police said the employee is under observation and he will be arrested after preliminary inquiry. The woman and her relatives accused the hospital staff of neglecting her earlier complaint that led to the midnight molestation attempt. Later Monday, workers of the Congress and BJP took out processions to the hospital seeking action against officials who ignored her complaint. Health minister K K Shailaja’s office said strict action will be taken against the accused after inquiry. When contacted the hospital superintendent refused to comment saying a police investigation was on. In September, a 20-year-old Covid-19 patient was allegedly raped by an ambulance driver in Pathanamthitta triggering widespread protest and indignation. The driver was arrested within hours of the crime. Police later found that the 29-year-old accused was involved in many criminal cases including a murder attempt. The case was fast-tracked for trial in a local court. After the bizarre incident came to light, health authorities had given strict instructions that every ambulance should have more than two employees and special care should be taken if patients are women. They also sought police help to verify antecedents of all drivers. But the latest incident allegedly involving a health worker has sent another shockwave in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-alleges-molestation-bid-at-kerala-hospital/story-PnghHxO9vCdr0pafIMmsrO.html
16-11-2020||India||Helpline for women shuts in MP, activists cry foul as calls start being diverted||The much-hyped women’s helpline (1090) launched seven years ago in Madhya Pradesh for reporting crimes against women and to help women in trouble has stopped working and the calls are being diverted to police control room number 100. Now, police personnel are planning to develop the helpline 1090 as the Next and Final Response (NFR) number to track rape and other heinous crimes against women, a police official said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had introduced the helpline after the Nirbhaya gang rape case in Delhi, in January 2013 so that woman in trouble could contact the police anytime. “The helpline was for prevention. After closing the women’s helpline 1090, which was being run by the crime against women cell, the number has been diverted to first response vehicle (FRV) Dial 100 last year that too doesn’t connect very often. Earlier, the helpline helped many women especially those who didn’t want to lodge an FIR of sexual harassment and stalking but now women don’t have any option to prevent crime,” said a police officer, who didn’t wish to be named. According to data from the Crime against Women Cell, from 2013 to 2018, as many as 1.20 lakh complaints were received on the women’s helpline and 40% were related to harassment over phone calls which the helpline resolved by warning only. Activists have expressed their unhappiness with the closure of the women’s helpline. Rolly Shivhare, a women’s rights activist, said, “The helpline was introduced to give a platform to women where they could share their problems related to harassment on the road, public transport and homes. The objective was to help women who were not willing to register a criminal case with the police due to society or family pressure. Even the staff had been trained to deal with such cases and the staff used to do counselling of the victims. The staff also used to warn the stalkers. Sometimes, if a woman used to give a missed call at 1090, the staff used to call back. But with discontinuation of the helpline, the whole system collapsed.” “Most of the women need help at the harassment level, not after the crime is committed. It’s good that police are planning to develop a feedback and tracking system and it will improve the policing and speed up the investigation. But it won’t prevent crime at the very first step like harassment and that often turn into heinous crimes like rape and murder. Police should work towards prevention,” said Prathna Mishra, another women’s rights activist. Additional director general of police (crime against women cell), Deepika Suri said, “We are not taking direct calls but we are taking feedback from victims of heinous cases to know their experiences at the police station. We asked whether they are satisfied with the police action or not.” “Soon the up-gradation of 1090 as the next and final response will be taken up to track every heinous case of crimes against women so that investigation can be completed within two months. The upgraded system will also ensure trauma counselling and legal support to the victim till conviction is obtained,” she added.MP director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri said, “The helpline is working to take feedback of heinous cases but the number 1090 is still working. Due to some operator issue of the telecom company, there is a connectivity issue.”“The state government is sensitive about women’s issues and the chief minister himself asked us to track every heinous case of crime against women. The women’s helpline will be upgraded soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helpline-for-women-shuts-in-mp-activists-cry-foul-as-calls-start-being-diverted/story-XfHm9XtoEpCMwQnSyu5kZJ.html
16-11-2020||India||I&B asks digital news platforms with FDI to provide ownership details||News websites and other digital platforms providing news and current affairs with a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) up to 26% have been asked by the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry to provide details of their ownership pattern in a month’s time.Entities which have FDIs over 26% will have to bring it down by October 2021.The I&B ministry on Monday issued a public notice asking entities involved in uploading or streaming of news and current affairs through digital media to comply with the directive.According to the notice, entities with foreign investments below 26% may furnish an intimation to the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting within one month from Monday, providing them with details of the company or entity and its shareholding pattern along with the names and addresses of its directors and shareholders.Also Read: WPI inflation at 8-month high standing at 1.48% in OctoberIt also sought the names and addresses of promoters and significant beneficial owners.A confirmation on compliance with pricing, documentation and reporting requirements under the FDI Policy, Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019 and Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019 also has to be provided.The ministry has also sought the companies’ Permanent Account Number (PAN) and the latest audited or unaudited profit and loss statement and balance sheet along with the auditor report.Entities, which, at present, have an equity structure with foreign investments exceeding 26% would also have to give similar details within one month from Monday, and “take necessary steps for bringing down the foreign investment to 26% by 15th October, 2021”, the ministry has said.Any entity which intends to bring fresh foreign investment in the country has to seek prior approval of the central government, through the Foreign Investment Facilitation Portal of the DPIIT.Every entity has to comply with the requirement of citizenship of Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officers (by whatever name called).The I&B ministry has also made clear that the entities are required to obtain security clearance for all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year by way of appointment, contract or consultancy or any other capacity for functioning of the entity, prior to their deployment.For this purpose, the entities will apply to Ministry of Information & Broadcasting at least 60 days in advance and the proposed foreign personnel shall be deployed by the entity only after prior approval of this Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-asks-digital-news-platforms-with-fdi-to-provide-ownership-details/story-TFgI4cBvCHIPLTQ92I9R5M.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Religious places in Maharashtra reopen after seven months||Religious places in Maharashtra re- opened on Monday, after remaining closed for seven months to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government’s decision to re-open all the religious places was welcomed not only by the priests but also by the devotees.This comes after the Maharashtra government, on Saturday, issued standard operating procedure (SOP) with safety measures. As per the SOPs, offerings to the deity(or prasad), group singing, large gatherings and congregation at religious places was still prohibited. Entrances of religious places have to have thermal screening and sanitiser dispensers.The state government has also specified that individuals must maintain six feet distance with each other, wash hands frequently using soap or sanitiser,wear masks compulsorily and follow respiratory etiquette. Also read | No lockdown in Delhi even as Covid-19 cases go up, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainThe state has called for staggered entry of visitors in places of worship, which must be decided based on the size of the structure, ventilation etc. by the trust/board running the place and the local authorities. Footwear must preferably be kept inside devotees’ own vehicles or in a separate slot for each person or family. Touching of idols, statues and holy books is not allowed and those over the age of 65 and below 10, those with comorbidities or pregnant women have been advised to stay at home.Adesh Bandekar, chairman, Shri Siddhivinayak temple trust, said, “With an aim to provide darshan to 1,000 devotees a day, the temple has laid down measures to be followed by each devotee. We have come up with a mobile application through which devotees can book a slot for their visit. Only when they get a QR code on their mobile phones will they be allowed to enter the temple.” The temple saw 500 devotees till 12pm and all its 1,000 slots were booked not only for Monday but also for Tuesday. Haji Ali Dargah had seen over 700 devotees till Monday noon. “It had been months since devotees offered their prayers to Haji Ali. Complying with all guidelines of the state, we expect the numbers to increase. We are allowing 15 people to enter the Dargah at a time,” said Mufti Mansoor Ziyaee, advisor and trust member, Haji Ali Dargah.At a Dadar gurudwara, 125 devotees had visited from 8am till Monday noon. “One person has been stationed at the entry to ensure social distancing and to check whether each person is wearing a mask...Langar has been postponed till next Sunday,” said Manmohan Singh Ratti, general secretary, Sri Guru Singh Sabha Bombay, Gurudwara, Dadar.Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said management officials had made all arrangements for the early morning namaz since 12am. “This 363-year-old dargah, which became the first religious shrine in India to get an International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certification in 2007, has its own SOP during this pandemic to ensure safety of devotees and the dargah. In addition, all government procedures are being followed,” said Khandwani. Shirdi Sai baba sansthan they too were following protocols and have restricted the daily count of devotees to 6,000. Following the state’s SOP, no devotee is allowed to wait and offer garlands and prasad.Fr Nobert D’souza from Holy Cross church in Kurla said, “We have opened the church for two hours in the morning and three hours in the evening. Monday morning saw around 100 devotees. Since our church is big and spacious, we are allowing 15 people at a time but with the help of a team we are ensuring that no one touches idols and lights candles.”Fr. Nigel Barrett, spokesman of the Archdiocese of Bombay, too said that they were allowing devotees only for five hours at least till Wednesday and they were not allowing community-based prayer. “We have made available only one entry and exit point in the church to ensure safety protocols are followed. A review meeting will take place on Wednesday to understand how our directives have been taken,” he said. At the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) temple, Juhu, approximately 1,200 devotees offered their prayers through the day on Monday. However, representatives explained they had a strict protocol in place both at the Juhu and Girgaum temples. “We have a separate entry and exit gate so people do not cross each other or mix. Only asymptomatic devotees are allowed to enter and we are checking them using temperature guns at the entry. We have markings on the floor which people are supposed to follow. It is a flowing crowd, and at no point is the queue allowed to stop inside the temple premises or during darshan,” said Parijata Devidasi, communications coordinator, ISCKON Juhu.Jehangir Patel, editor of the Parsi community magazine Parsiana said, “Our community is small and hence barring a few fire temples at places like Dadar and Tardeo that may have around 40 devotees in a day, we hardly see people going to the fire temples even during pre-Covid days. Hence, carrying out safety protocols and obeying the state governments rules would not be an issue for us.” Kersi Randeria, a trustee of the Bombay Parsi Panchayet (BPP) said, “We are happy with the state’s decision to open up religious places. While the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths are dropping in Mumbai, there is always a fear of a spike following the festive season, and the dangers that opening up more places may pose. There are 50 fire temples in Mumbai with three under the BPP trust while remaining are run by other trusts. We, as, a community are careful in following the law. Stringent measures in terms of social distancing, proper sanitisation, people have been asked to bring their own prayer books and not touch the ones within the temples, and limited hours for prayers. Overall, we are ensuring the safety of citizens but also reminding them that the pandemic is not over yet.”(With inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-in-maharashtra-reopen-after-seven-months/story-ZcqStGDHcWfEpYoRRX3rgO.html
16-11-2020||India||Media doing exceptional work in spreading awareness against Covid-19, is valuable stakeholder: PM||The media has been doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against Covid-19 and has acted as a valuable stakeholder in helping the government in its initiatives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on the occasion of National Press Day on Monday. Be it positive criticism or highlighting success stories, the media has been continuously adding strength to India’s democratic ethos, the prime minister added in his written message on the day, being celebrated virtually with a webinar organised by the Press Council of India.   “From creating mass awareness about important issues to contributing to a behavioural change in society for the larger good, we have seen how the media as a valued stakeholder has furthered the efforts of the government and helped many initiatives like Swachh Bharat and water conservation grow into mass movements in the last few years,” he said. In his message, read out by PCI chairperson C K Prasad, Modi said he was heartened to learn that the Council was celebrating the day. The webinar being held on the theme ‘Role of media during the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the media’ with participants from several other countries also reflects the “enabling power of technology”, he said.  The prime minister added that at a time the world is up against an unprecedented crisis in the form of Covid-19, the nation’s fight against the pandemic is powered by the restraint and resolve of its 130 crore citizens.  “In such a scenario, the media has been continuously doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against the Covid pandemic.“In a post Covid world, India is marching ahead with its resolve to build a strong and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. Media is giving our resolve the shape of a big campaign and carrying forward the message of ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said.The prime minister said the world is rapidly changing and there is need to harness India’s entrepreneurial energy, intent and talent to expand this vision across all sectors.“With digital technology showing the way, Indian media’s endeavour towards ensuring a stronger presence globally will strengthen our vibrant media landscape,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-doing-exceptional-work-in-spreading-awareness-against-covid-19-is-valuable-stakeholder-pm/story-Zyt4aE4oxMtanPKs1mIz8N.html
16-11-2020||India||India shaped debate on need for transparency in connectivity projects: Jaishankar||In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that India had shaped the debate on the need for transparency and respect for territorial integrity while implementing connectivity projects. Jaishankar described Pakistan as a “particularly egregious example of state sponsored cross-border terrorism” and called for a comprehensive global convention to counter the menace while speaking on the theme “Crisis and cooperation: Imperative in the times of pandemic” at the external affairs ministry’s Deccan Dialogue. He pointed to terrorism, pandemics and climate change as the “more existential aspects of globalisation” that will have to be factored into debates about international cooperation and the opening up of countries in future. Also Read: India concerned over situation in South China Sea that ‘erode trust’“On connectivity, we have actually shaped the debate on the merits of transparency, market viability, environmental friendliness and respect for territorial integrity. And in many parts of the world, ranging from Africa to the Caribbean to the South Pacific, we have helped to strengthen capabilities, offered training and spread best practices,” Jaishankar said without naming China. “These traits in India’s foreign policy outlook will only be stronger in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic,” he said. India is one of the main holdouts to BRI, which is facing growing criticism for pushing countries, including those in the neighbourhood, towards debt traps. India has also said Beijing’s connectivity initiative gives greater advantages to Chinese companies. “As regards terrorism, the era of ‘not my problem’ came to an end in 9/11 but it is still to produce a whole-hearted international collaborative effort,” Jaishankar said, adding India’s goal remains a comprehensive convention on terror. “We have in our immediate neighbourhood a particularly egregious example of state sponsored cross-border terrorism. The world is gradually becoming aware of the global nature of international terrorism. Our relentless efforts have kept it in the spotlight, bringing out related aspects like terror finance, radicalisation and cyber recruitment,” he said. India’s efforts have led to a larger awareness of terrorism’s different facets and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has “become a more important forum and black money is today firmly on the agenda of the G20”, he added. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, the immediate focus is on economic recovery and there is greater global awareness about more resilient supply chains. It is up to India to exploit this sentiment for additional growth as the crisis has brought out the importance of international cooperation, he said. While the world has become more multi-polar and rebalancing has gone beyond economic facets, an architecture with more variables requires better rules, and India must steer the debate towards greater international cooperation at a time when “current institutions are rigid and vested interests are really strong”, Jaishankar said. “In the interim, therefore, we have to look for practical solutions, including ad hoc groups of nations willing to cooperate on selected issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-shaped-debate-on-need-for-transparency-in-connectivity-projects-jaishankar/story-nZjv6xMTM6hJWXYycQvVsN.html
16-11-2020||India||Jaishankar lauds India’s Covid-19 response, says it should give people confidence in nation’s future||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday lauded India’s Covid-19 response and said that it should give people confidence in the country’s future.Speaking at the third edition of Deccan Dialogue, Jaishankar said, “A nation that had no preparedness for an enormous crisis, responded in a way that it should give us all confidence in our future.”He said during the onset of coronavirus pandemic, India was not able to provide enough PPEs and ventilators. Even N-95 masks were assembled in small quantities and testing kits were not produced in the country. “We should ask ourselves why not earlier, today not only (India) meets its national needs but helps beyond.”He also stated that during the ongoing pandemic situation, the social discipline in India stood out in comparison with many developed countries, which was the influence of the leadership and motivation.“If we had created more than 15,000 dedicated facilities, with 1.5 million isolation beds, if more than a million Indians are tested daily by 7,000 centres, if Aarogya Setu was devised to facilitate contract testing, then it speaks volumes about our inherent capabilities,” Jaishankar said.Jaishankar said the challenge now is to take this ability to rise to the moment of crisis and transform that to more routine sets of practices and procedures.“I do believe that the India which will come out of the Covid crisis, will do just that,” he added.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-lauds-india-s-covid-19-response-says-it-should-give-people-confidence-in-nation-s-future/story-F09vjOPkAWLgtFHRlYI4eP.html
16-11-2020||India||Govt sets Oct 2021 deadline for digital media to reduce foreign funding to 26%||Digital media companies that have more than 26% foreign investment will get one year to bring down the share, according to the ministry of information and broadcasting order issued on Monday that outlines the procedure for compliance with India’s foreign funding rules.According to the government order accessed by Hindustan Times, digital media groups which have foreign investment less than 26% should submit complete details about their shareholding pattern within one month. They will also have to provide details about the directors, promoters and shareholders.“Entities, which, at present, have an equity structure with foreign investment exceeding 26 per cent would give similar details... within one month and to take necessary steps for bringing down the foreign investment to 26% by 15 October 2021 and seek approval of the ministry of information and broadcasting,” Monday’s order issued by Amarendra Singh, under secretary at the ministry said.The government’s public notice comes a year after the Union Cabinet led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi spelt out a 26% foreign investment limit for entities engaged in uploading or streaming of news and current affairs via digital media.Any entity which intends to bring fresh foreign investment in the country has to seek prior approval of the central government through the foreign investment facilitation portal of DPIIT.The ministry has also stipulated that the companies will have to comply with “the requirements of citizenship of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officers (by whatever name called)”.The entities are required to obtain security clearance for all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year by way of appointment, contract or consultancy or any other capacity for functioning of the entity prior to their deployment.For this purpose, the order said, the entities will apply to the ministry of information and broadcasting at least 60 days in advance and the proposed foreign personnel shall be deployed by the entity only after prior approval of this ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-oct-2021-deadline-for-digital-media-to-reduce-foreign-funding-to-26/story-hICCc0owJVhRyHsbx5bo6K.html
16-11-2020||India||Gupkar alliance wants to continue with corruption in J&K, says RS Prasad, seeks explanation from Congress||Seeking explanation from Congress for extending support to Jammu and Kashmir’s Gupkar alliance, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday questioned Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti’s recent ‘anti-national’ comments. “Farooq Abdullah has hoped for China’s support in bringing back Article 370 of the Constitution. Mehbooba Mufti has said there will be no tricolour in Jammu and Kashmir before the restoration of Article 370. I want to question them whether they don’t want national laws to be implemented in J&K. So that they can continue with the corruption.”National conference leader Farooq Abdullah’s recent comment of Article 370 has led to controversies as he has been quoted as saying, “I am hopeful that with their support, Article 370 will be restored in J&K.”Later, his party denied the allegations and accused the BJP of twisting his words. “Our President articulated people’s anger over the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A by Parliament on August 5 last year as he has consistently done in recent months,” a spokesperson of the National Conference later clarified.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, on the other hand, earlier said she would hold the tricolour and the flag of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state together.Referring to these two comments which BJP termed as “seditious” and “anti-national”, Prasad said, “We have many questions to ask Congress as it is also with the alliance now. Congress has the liberty to tie up with any party it wants. We can’t question that. But we can question the agenda,” Prasad said.“There are two brutal truths of Jammu and Kashmir. India was partitioned, refugees from Pakistan came. Those who were left behind in Kashmir did not even get the rights to vote, buy land or houses. But those who left Kashmir behind and reached Punjab and beyond went on to become Prime Minister and deputy Prime Minister. Kashmir met a brutal fate,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-wants-to-continue-with-corruption-in-j-k-says-rs-prasad-seeks-answer-from-congress/story-b79s3P5hsZbGrLTenS0n6N.html
16-11-2020||India||‘BJP leaders grabbed my feet, started crying,’ RJD takes swipe at Nitish Kumar||Ahead of Nitish Kumar’s swearing-in on Monday afternoon as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term, which the Rashtriya Janata Dal has decided to boycott, the RJD took a swipe at Nitish Kumar and the performance of his party JD(U) in the assembly election.“I did not want to become chief minister because my party came third and also I was tired. But, several BJP leaders grabbed my feet, started crying and pleading before me. I, being a soft-hearted, power-hungry mendicant, was moved. How could I annoy them,” the RJD said in a sarcastic tweet, taking a dig at Kumar’s reported remark at Sunday’s NDA meeting that he did not want to become CM but was insisted by the BJP to continue in the post. तीसरे दर्जे की पार्टी होने और थकने के कारण मैं मुख्यमंत्री नहीं बनना चाहता था लेकिन BJP के कई वरिष्ठ नेताओं ने मेरे पैर पकड़ लिए,रोने लगे,गिड़गिड़ाने लगे। मैं ठहरा कोमल हृदय का कुर्सीवादी अंतर्यामी भिक्षुक, उन लोगों के आग्रह ने मेरे हृदय को पिघला दिया। मैं उन्हें नाराज कैसे करता?In the election results for 243 assembly seats announced on November 10, the BJP emerged as the largest party within the ruling coalition with 74 seats, followed by JD-U (43) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) four each. The RJD stands as the single largest party in Bihar with 75 seats.The BJP had announced before the polls that Kumar will remain chief minister irrespective of which NDA constituent wins the maximum number of seats.Alleging fraud in the election, which gave the mandate to NDA, the RJD said it will boycott the oath-taking ceremony as it claimed that the mandate was against the NDA.“The RJD boycotts oath-taking ceremony of this puppet government. The mandate is for a change, and against the (ruling) NDA. The peoples verdict has been changed by the rulers order,” the RJD alleged in a tweet.“Ask the unemployed, the farmer, the contract worker and teacher as to what they are going through. People are angry with NDAs fraud. We are public representatives and we stand with people,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-swearing-in-bjp-leaders-grabbed-my-feet-started-crying-rjd-takes-swipe-at-nitish-kumar/story-vPuu9TP8wQX7oNMG9a7KQM.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi unveils ‘Statue of Peace’ to mark 151st birth anniversary of Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday unveiled the ‘Statue of Peace’ in Rajasthan’s Pali to mark the 151st Jayanti celebrations of Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, via video conferencing.The 151-inch tall statue has been made from Ashtadhatu- 8 metals, with Copper being the major constituent, and is being installed at Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Pali, Rajasthan.After inaugurating the statue, the Prime Minister said: “Vijay Nityanand Surishwer Ji Maharaj used to say that the land of Gujarat gave us two Vallabh. In the political field, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and in spiritual field Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj... Both dedicated their lives for India’s unity and brotherhood. I am fortunate that the country gave me the opportunity to inaugurate the world’s highest ‘Statue of Unity’ by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. And today I am getting the privilege of unveiling the ‘Statue of Peace’ by Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh ji.”“India has been an example of humanity, the path of peace, non-violence and fraternity for the whole world. The world looks forward to India,” he said.Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj (1870-1954) led an austere life as a Jain Saint working selflessly and dedicatedly to spread the message of Lord Mahavira.He also worked relentlessly for the welfare of masses, the spread of education, eradication of social evils, wrote inspiring literature (poetry, essays, devotional hymns and Stavans) and gave active support to the freedom movement and the cause of Swadeshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-unveils-statue-of-peace-to-mark-151st-birth-anniversary-of-jainacharya-vijay-vallabh/story-dWszKf0CYCpA9iTwJjqKrM.html
16-11-2020||India||Srinagar-Jammu highway reopens as snowfall, rains abate for now, few vehicles ply||The Srinagar-Jammu National Highway was closed for traffic after fresh snowfall and rain in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday morning. Later in the day, however, the highway was reopened for traffic after the snowfall stopped, according to the authorities. Traffic officials said that the movement of traffic was stopped on Monday morning but post noon a few vehicles were plying. The authorities had on Sunday said that if weather permits small vehicles would be allowed to ply from Jammu to Srinagar.“From 9 am, the road was closed as the areas around the tunnel and Banihal received snowfall,” an official of the traffic control room said. The Jawahar Tunnel and Banihal fall to the south of Kashmir and connect it to Jammu division which further connects the region to the rest of the country. The Mughal road in South Kashmir and the Leh-Kargil road are already blocked due to heavy snow. The light snowfall and rains continued during the night and early on Monday in many parts of the northern valley for the third consecutive day as well even as the weather office has predicted a slight improvement from Monday afternoon. The precipitation in the region followed a western disturbance, with winds blowing in from the Mediterranean that hit Jammu and Kashmir on Friday after months of dry weather. Residents of North Kashmir and capital Srinagar said that rains continued throughout the night in the plains while the higher reaches got light snowfall. The morning update by the meteorological centre of Srinagar said that the snow depth in the ski resort of Gulmarg in North Kashmir is 19 cm while it is 1.5 cm in Banihal to the south of the valley in Jammu division. “In the northern Kupwara district, there is snow accumulation of 2 to 3.5 feet on the three high altitude passes to border areas of Karnah, Keran and Machil. All the three roads are closed and machinery will be deployed as soon as the weather improves,” Deputy Director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad said quoting the Kupwara administration. The minimum (night) temperatures in the Kashmir valley was the lowest in Gulmarg at minus 3 degree Celsius while it was minus 0.2 in Kupwara. Capital Srinagar recorded a minimum of 2.8 degrees Celsius during the night while it was 7.7 degrees on Sunday. Ahmad said that the weather is expected to improve from Monday. “The sun will also come out on Monday afternoon. There is a prediction of another wet spell on November 18,” he said.As against the monsoon in the rest of the country, Kashmir mostly owes its precipitation to winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea which is locally called ‘Western Disturbance’.The UT has been witnessing unusually dry weather this year causing immense problems in the availability of water for irrigation as well as for drinking.On November 4, there was very light snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh but there was no precipitation for the plains.The summer this year was abnormally dry.“The year saw abnormally dry weather in Jammu and Kashmir. The precipitation due to Western Disturbance was almost zero while the rainfall due to monsoon from July 1 to October 1 was 35 percent less than normal,” said Mohammad Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-jammu-highway-reopens-as-snowfall-rains-abate-for-now-few-vehicles-ply/story-rtRoUXLRwdbEwxACZPZZXL.html
16-11-2020||India||Media persons played important role in educating people, mitigating impact of Covid-19: Kovind||Media persons have been among frontline corona warriors who played an important role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday.In his written message on the occasion of the National Press Day, the president also appreciated the Press Council of India (PCI), which regulates the print media, for safeguarding the independence of the press.“I am happy to learn that the Press Council of India is celebrating National Press Day on November 16 on the theme ‘Role of Media during Covid-19 and its Impact on the Media’.“Rendering its service for nearly 55 years, PCI has been the watchdog safeguarding the independence of the press while trying to ensure quality journalism. Its role is important in the working of our democracy,” Kovind said.The president said the theme of this year’s National Press Day celebration deals with the most serious crisis facing the world and India.“In dealing with the issues concerning Covid -9, media has played a very important role in educating people and thereby it has helped in mitigating the impact of the pandemic.“Media persons have been among the frontline corona warriors. Through PCI, I convey my appreciation to such media persons,” Kovind said.India has so far recorded 88,45,127 Covid-19 cases, while 1,30,070 people have succumbed to the disease, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-persons-played-important-role-in-educating-people-mitigating-impact-of-covid-19-kovind/story-xGzRmWn8j9ChQE7tG0rofL.html
16-11-2020||India||Bihar: RJD to boycott NDA’s oath-taking ceremony today||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the main opposition in Bihar and the spearhead of the Grand Alliance (GA), or the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), has decided to boycott the oath-taking ceremony of the new National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, led by chief minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar. The oath-taking ceremony of the NDA government will be held at Raj Bhawan at 4.30 pm on Monday. The programme will be attended by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah and the party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh. The RJD said the people’s mandate was against the NDA and branded it a “puppet government”. The party tweeted that the mandate for change in the recently held three-phase Bihar assembly polls was against the NDA. Also read | Tarkishore Prasad, frontrunner in race for Bihar deputy CM, is part of BJP’s Bengal plan. Here’s how“The RJD is boycotting the swearing-in ceremony of the ‘puppet’ government. The people’s mandate has been changed to the rule of the government. Ask the unemployed, farmers, students, youth, contractual teachers and staff what they are going through. The public is angry with the irregularities in the election results and manipulation by the NDA. The RJD, as public representative, stands with the people (of Bihar),” the tweet alleged. The reference to the “puppet government” is seen as an indirect attack on Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to imply how the JD(U) president has been propped up by the BJP for the top job. The criticisms come amid the JD (U)’s poor show in the Bihar polls, as it won only 43 seats in the 243-member legislative assembly. The BJP, which was once a junior ally to the JD (U) in the NDA, emerged as the second single-largest party in the state with 74 seats and only next to the main rival, the RJD, which bagged 75 seats. The RJD’s tweet implied that the BJP could play a larger role in state politics on the back of its numerically superior strength in the state assembly. RJD scion Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (31), who was the GA’s CM face in the assembly polls, her mother and former state CM Rabri Devi (61), and other party leaders have decided to boycott the swearing- in ceremony.“No RJD leader will attend the swearing-in ceremony,” said a close aide of Tejashwi.Other GA allies such as the Congress and three Left parties will also follow suit. The RJD and its allies have alleged widespread irregularities in the counting process, which concluded in the early hours on November 11. The delay was because the counting was held amid the spectre of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The RJD is planning to move court after over two dozen of its candidates had lost the election by a slender margin because of “irregularities in the counting process”.The RJD and its ally, the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation, which won 12 seats, have announced that they would continue to raise burning issues that confront the state such as unemployment, migration, poverty and corruption in a bid to corner the Kumar-led NDA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rjd-to-boycott-oath-taking-ceremony-of-nda-s-puppet-government/story-jZOutaLWA7jUKYzJL8zJ8O.html
16-11-2020||India||25-year-old killed, several injured in Kanpur clash||A 25-year-old youth was killed and several injured during a clash between two communities that started over water being splashed on one of them and soon snowballed into stone pelting, police said on Monday.Police personnel, including the Provincial Armed Constabulary, have been deployed in large numbers to keep tabs on the simmering tension at Chakeri locality after the incident late Sunday evening. Four people have been arrested and efforts are on to ascertain the identities of the key accused, said Raj Kumar Agarwal, Superintendent of Police (East).Recapping the events of the evening, he said Pintu Nishad, 25, and his friend Sandeep left their homes in Wajidpur area and accidentally stepped on a water pouch lying on the road. The water splashed on Amaan, a resident from the same area who was passing through, sparking a clash.Hearing about the altercation, dozens of other locals reached the spot and pelted stones at each other, injuring Nishad and several others, he said..The injured were taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital where Nishad was declared brought dead, Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-killed-several-injured-in-kanpur-clash/story-rzfLm8x5bVJ25xnmgDOuiJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Congress included in PAGD’s 2nd list of candidates for J&K DDC polls||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has released the second list of candidates for district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, which includes tickets for three Congress candidates from north and south Kashmir.Earlier, PAGD had released the names of 27 candidates for the first phase of DDC polls and most of them were from the National Conference (NC) which had caused some bickering, mostly in the lower rung leadership of other parties that are part of the alliance.In the second list of 27 candidates, Congress has been given three seats; the PDP and Peoples’ Conference candidates got eight and five seats respectively; Awami National Conference (ANC) candidate will contest from one seat while J&K Peoples’ Movement candidates will contest from two seats of Srinagar. The National Conference candidates have also been allocated eight seats. The list was announced after a series of deliberations held between the leaders of the PAGD. Earlier, some leaders had shown strong resentment over the seat sharing arrangement for the DDC polls for the parties in the PAGD.The differences led to PDP patron Muzaffar Beigh resigning from the party he helped form since his wife Safeena Beigh was not given a ticket from Sangrama in North Kashmir.Also Read: PDP founder quits over DDC poll ticket, Mehbooba urges focus on ‘bigger’ causeThe alliance had nominated PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah to choose the candidates for the polls to be held in phases beginning November 28 and ending December 24.Despite the murmurs of dissent, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and NC president Farooq Abdullah have already ruled out any differences in PAGD over ticket distribution.Also Read: DDC polls: Ex-minister, ex-MLA among BJP’s second list of candidates“PAGD was formed solely to safeguard the identity of people of J&K, that’s been under constant attack since Aug 2019. To assume it was created for petty electoral gains or to further party interests is erroneous. We have a bigger cause to fight for than bicker over DDC elections,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples’ Conference, the CPI (M), Awami National Conference and Peoples Movement are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. Peoples Conference however, participated in the elections. Congress has also joined the alliance and leaders of the party have been attending its meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-included-in-pagd-s-2nd-list-of-candidates-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-rvndgcdauS9evK996aCJnM.html
16-11-2020||India||RJD to boycott swearing-in ceremony of Nitish Kumar as Bihar CM||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav will not attend the oath-taking ceremony of Bihar chief minister-designate Nitish Kumar today, the party announced. It has decided to boycott the swearing-in ceremony saying the mandate in the Bihar Assembly election is against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | Nitish Kumar’s new Cabinet: Blend of young, old faces likely“The RJD boycotts swearing-in ceremony. The mandate for change is against the NDA. The mandate was replaced with ‘Government Order’. Ask the unemployed, farmers, contract workers and teachers of Bihar what is going on with them. The public is agitated by the fraud of the NDA. We are the people’s representative and stand with the public,” the party said in a tweet on Monday.Kumar, meanwhile, will take oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth consecutive term in Patna at a ceremony today. It will be held at around 4:30 pm.In a meeting held on Sunday morning, National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders had chosen Nitish Kumar as the leader of the alliance’s legislature party.In the recently held assembly election, the NDA secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat Assembly. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who fought the election along with the Janata Dal (United), won 74 seats. The JD(U) secured 43 seats while eight were won by two other NDA constituents. The RJD, on the other hand, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while the Congress only won 19 of the 70 seats it had contested on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-to-boycott-swearing-in-ceremony-of-nitish-kumar-as-bihar-cm/story-RGf2rO1P8oPOBmHG1yiWgP.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Modi govt strongly opposes those who throttle freedom of press’, tweets Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday tweeted his greetings on National Press Day and hailed media’s role during the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is “committed” towards freedom of the Press, he said on Twitter, adding that it strongly opposes those who try to throttle the media. Also Read: Unregulated digital media can spark hate, terror: Govt to SC“Greetings on #NationalPressDay. Our media fraternity is working tirelessly towards strengthening the foundations of our great nation. Modi govt is committed towards the freedom of Press and strongly oppose those who throttle it. I applaud Media’s remarkable role during Covid-19,” he tweeted.The National Press Day is observed annually on November 16 to mark the day when the Press Council of India (PCI) was instituted in 1966. The day is the symbol of a free and responsible press in India and the PCI is a moral watchdog that ensures that journalists in the country remain unbiased and not driven by external factors.Also Read: ‘Desist from regulating electronic media’: Centre urges Supreme Court Vice president Venkaiah Naidu also tweeted his wishes on the occasion and pointed out that media played an important role in strengthening democracy.“My Greetings to all the media professionals on National Press Day. Media plays a key role in strengthening democracy and in informing & empowering the citizens. I laud the media persons for keeping the people informed continuously during the pandemic,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-strongly-opposes-those-who-throttle-freedom-of-press-tweets-amit-shah/story-PzOfAdhSYigQeN9FAGEKxJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Australia races to contain Adelaide virus outbreak||A sudden coronavirus cluster emerged in the Australian city of Adelaide on Monday after seven months without a significant outbreak there, with the virus again escaping from the country’s hotel quarantine system. South Australia state reported four cases had been detected in the city on Sunday, before the cluster grew sharply overnight to 17 people Monday -- the largest there since April.All but two of the 17 were members of the same large family, including one who was working in a hotel used to quarantine travellers returning from overseas. Fearful of case numbers spiralling, authorities snapped back a swathe of coronavirus restrictions and suspended international flights into Adelaide.“No effort will be spared to slow and stop the spread of the powerful cluster,” South Australia state Premier Steven Marshall told a press conference. Officials ordered hundreds of people to isolate, while closing linked schools and businesses.“The next 24 hours will be critical but we are not going to wait for the situation to deteriorate,” Marshall added.Read more | Australian high commissioner meets RSS chief Bhagwat, discusses Covid-19 reliefSouth Australia residents are being urged to wear masks, work from home and avoid non-essential travel. The Adelaide cases also prompted other states to immediately impose new restrictions on anyone travelling from South Australia. The country’s internal borders had been gradually reopening and were due to be almost fully reopened by Christmas. South Australia last detected a Covid-19 cluster outside border quarantine in August, when health authorities swiftly prevented the small handful of cases from spreading using similar measures.But there are fears the latest outbreak has the potential to infect high-risk populations, with a prison guard and aged-care workers reportedly among those testing positive. It comes just as Australians were breathing a collective sigh of relief after squashing a second-wave outbreak in Melbourne that originated from security bungles at hotel quarantine. Melbourne, which recorded thousands of cases and hundreds of deaths in recent months, has now gone more than two weeks without a single new case.Overall, Australia has been relatively successful in containing the virus, with just over 27,700 cases and 907 deaths recorded since the pandemic began.Watch: SpaceX, NASA launches first operational astronaut mission to space||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/australia-races-to-contain-adelaide-virus-outbreak/story-Xtnja3rsUn1ea7CjTqQh9L.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossier and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossierAfghanistan has joined India in dismissing Pakistan’s so-called dossier on external forces sponsoring terrorism, with Kabul saying Islamabad should allow a UN-appointed delegation to verify the claims.The Afghan foreign ministry said Pakistan should raise such issues through existing mechanisms such as the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and Solidarity (APAPPS). Read MoreIndia will miss the bus to economic development by not joining RCEP: Chinese state mediaIndia has committed a “strategic blunder” and “missed the bus” to long-term growth, Chinese state media has said about New Delhi’s decision not to join the China-led 15-country Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), signed on Sunday at an online ceremony hosted by this year’s ASEAN chair, Vietnam. Read More‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that coronavirus (Covid-19) infection peak has passed in the national Capital and that there will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. He also reiterated the importance of wearing masks in preventing the spread of the disease. Read MoreCovid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy todayHome secretary Ajay Bhalla will chair a crucial meeting with union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and the Delhi chief secretary on Monday to rework the containment strategy of Delhi, a day after home minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Delhi, which is facing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases every day, is going through its worst phase of the pandemic so far, and its Covid-19 management strategy is facing intense scrutiny. Read More‘He has a big say in Indian cricket’: Greg Chappell’s high-praise for India starFormer Australia batsman Greg Chappell, who also served as the head coach of India from 2005-07, said current Indian skipper Virat Kohli is ‘one of the most influential players in world cricket’ who is not afraid to express his opinions. “I think he’s certainly one of the best players and one of the most influential players in world cricket at the moment,” Chappel told ‘Sydney Morning Herald’ according to PTI. Read MoreRenault teases new sub-compact SUV for India, likely to be launched soonRenault is gearing up to bring in new models in India soon. The French carmaker has teased a glimpse of its new upcoming sub-compact SUV for the Indian market, likely to be called Kiger, on social media today. Renault had earlier hinted at the launch of a new sub-compact SUV in India early next year. However, it seems the unveiling of the SUV will take place some time later this year, before the official launch. Read MoreThe Crown: Emma Corrin, Josh O’Connor discovered unknown facts about Charles and DianaActors Emma Corrin and Josh O’Connor spoke to Hindustan Times about playing Prince Charles and Princess Diana in the fourth season of Netflix’s The Crown, what they discovered about their characters, and how they supported each other on set. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-india-afghanistan-rejects-pakistan-s-so-called-terror-dossier-and-all-the-latest-news/story-35B0w3DCNlfmON6hla5h6O.html
16-11-2020||India||SC issues notice to UP govt on plea against arrest of Kerala journalist on way to Hathras||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to Uttar Pradesh government and the state police seeking their response on a petition filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists, challenging the detention of Siddique Kappan. The Kerala journalist was arrested by Mathura Police last month while he was on his way to cover the Hathras gang-rape incident. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde posted the matter for hearing on Friday.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Union, sought interim bail for the journalist as he has been in jail since October 4.The bench said that it would first wish to hear the state and indicated that it may direct the matter to be sent to Allahabad high court.“We are trying to discourage Article 32 petitions (power of Supreme Court to provide relief for violation of fundamental rights). There is a spate of Article 32 petitions,” the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Sibal pointed out that this was the case of journalist under detention and similar petitions have been entertained in the past. The bench added, “We are not commenting on the merits of the case. We are aware of similar orders in the past and the vast powers that this Court possesses under Article 32. We want to discourage this trend.”Kappan is charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged links with banned outfit Popular Front of India (PFI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-up-govt-on-petition-challenging-detention-of-journalist-siddique-kappan/story-98dzIHLO7TpRgBikcFpyQM.html
16-11-2020||India||After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossier||Afghanistan has joined India in dismissing Pakistan’s so-called dossier on external forces sponsoring terrorism, with Kabul saying Islamabad should allow a UN-appointed delegation to verify the claims. The Afghan foreign ministry said Pakistan should raise such issues through existing mechanisms such as the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and Solidarity (APAPPS) ahead of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Kabul this week. India had rubbished Pakistan’s dossier on Indian sponsorship of terrorism on Sunday, saying it was a propaganda exercise that will find few takers as the world community is aware of Islamabad’s role in supporting terror. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and chief military spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar had released the dossier on Saturday along with they said were intelligence intercepts that purportedly showed the involvement of Indian intelligence operatives in acts of terrorism. They also claimed Afghan territory was being used for terror attacks against Pakistan. Also Read: ‘No credibility’, India trashes Pak’s claims of Delhi sponsoring terrorismThe Afghan foreign ministry said it “strongly rejects the allegations of the spokesman of the Pakistani Army claiming the use of Afghan territory against that country”. Afghanistan, as a major victim of terrorism, is committed to a “policy of combating all forms of terrorism, without discrimination, around the world and will never allow Afghan territory to be used for destructive activities against other countries”, the ministry said. The Afghan foreign ministry also said “there is absolutely no evidence that Malik (Feraydoon Khan) Mohmand, one of the tribal leaders of Nangarhar province, was involved in the terrorist attacks on the Peshawar Agricultural University”. Afghanistan reiterated its call for appointment of an international delegation by the UN Security Council in line with resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council in “connection with the fight against terrorism to clarify the facts about the terrorist incidents in Afghanistan and its causes and examine the claims” of the Pakistan government. Noting that Afghanistan is preparing for a visit by the Pakistan prime minister this week, the foreign ministry said it was expected “that Pakistan would raise issues of bilateral interest and debate through existing bilateral cooperation mechanisms” including APAPPS. The Afghan foreign ministry also took a tacit swipe at Pakistan over the issue of terrorists operating from Pakistani soil. It said the government and people of Afghanistan, as “the greatest victims of terrorism, will continue to coordinate global efforts to jointly fight terrorism, its sources of finance and equipment, their safe havens in the region”. The Afghan government’s most important foreign policy priority is that Afghanistan should play the role of a centre of regional and international cooperation, especially in the fight against terror, and a favourable role in the security and economic prosperity of the region, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-india-afghanistan-rejects-pakistan-s-so-called-terror-dossier/story-PBJLnyKxKfbJGHymRIY4cK.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 75 paramilitary doctors, 350 paramedics head to Delhi after Amit Shah’s meeting||Almost 75 additional doctors and around 350 paramedics are heading to Delhi after Union Home Minister Amit Shah directed paramilitary forces to arrange more doctors for Delhi to control the Covid-19 situation. Sources in Union Home Ministry claimed that around 75 doctors will be in Delhi from different parts of the country. These doctors will be in Delhi in the next few days.The move comes a day after a Covid-19 review meeting held at the Home Ministry.These doctors belong to various paramilitary forces like Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Assam Rifles, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and others.Also Read | ‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainDifferent paramilitary forces sent out an urgent message last night asking them to arrange more medical professionals as per directives.Official communication has also been marked to various units asking them to relieve extra doctors who will be deployed to manage the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, sources claimed.A top government official involved in the process of coordination to arrange doctors as per the decision of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, said “Total 75 doctors will be here in the next few days. Forces have already processed and suggested names and soon they will be in Delhi and deployed at different locations or hospitals in the national capital. Some may also be deployed at 10,000 bedded Sardar Patel Covid hospital in Delhi’s Chhatarpur,” the senior official claimed.Around 350 additional paramedics will also reach Delhi from various places like Jalandhar, Shimla, Lucknow, states of North-east and other parts.Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) which is taking care of the world’s largest Covid-19 hospital in Chhatarpur, Delhi will be sending almost 15 doctors and 70 paramedics. Similarly, SSB also sending around 12 doctors along with 70 paramedics.Sources also claimed almost a dozen doctors will be coming to Delhi from different paramilitary forces.Sources said that forces will try to avoid bringing in doctors from tense areas like Kashmir, Ladakh and others considering the current situation. Also, less number of doctors will be asked to be redeployed from the Red zone, sources claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-75-paramilitary-doctors-350-paramedics-head-to-delhi-after-amit-shah-s-meeting/story-h0ojco0crtagQYK12FpP6I.html
16-11-2020||India||Supreme Court hears plea seeking notice to Andhra CM for remarks against apex court judge||The Supreme Court on Monday took up petitions filed by two advocates - GS Mani and Sunil Kumar Singh - seeking order against Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy for making scandalous allegations against Justice NV Ramana, senior siting judge of the apex court. The case was to be heard by a three-judge bench headed by Justice UU Lalit. But he informed the petitioner lawyers that would be appropriate for another bench to hear the case. “As a lawyer I had represented these parties in litigation. Let the Registry be directed to list the petition before CJI for passing appropriate orders for listing the matter before a bench of which Justice Lalit is not a member,” Justice Lalit said.The petitioners had approached the top court against the action of Andhra chief minister for writing a letter to CJI on October 6 raising allegations against Justice Ramana of trying to interfere with criminal trials pending against him in a special court in Telangana.On October 10, Reddy’s principal advisor conducted a press conference revealing in public all contents of the letter. The petitioners claimed that the chief minister had misused his office to make politically motivated and scandalous charges against the judiciary that were baseless. Another petition by Singh sought a direction that showcause notice be issued to Reddy for his actions and sought a restraint against any further press conference against judges. The petitions were soon filed after the October 10 press conference and got listed today for the first time on Monday.Meanwhile, Attorney General KK Venugopal had recently refused to grant consent for initiating contempt against Jagan Reddy and his advisor Ajeya Kallam as the matter is pending consideration with CJI. Venugopal, however, held the conduct of the duo to be contumacious and called the timing of the letter “suspect” as it followed a direction passed by Justice Ramana on September 16 this year in a PIL proceeding directing fast-tracking of all criminal trials against sitting and former legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-hears-plea-seeking-notice-to-andhra-cm-for-remarks-against-apex-court-judge/story-hcCFUuwEpqQjzlRLOTx4OK.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar’s new Cabinet: Blend of young, old faces likely||The fate of Nitish Kumar, the chief of the ruling Janata Dal (United), has been settled, as he takes oath to be Bihar’s chief minister for the seventh time. Now, the suspense revolves around his new council of ministers. Several names are doing the rounds from JD (U)’s senior ally the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the two smaller partners – former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahani’s Vikassheel Insaan Party.Speculations are rife that up to 14 newly elected lawmakers from the JD (U) and the BJP could take oath and one each from HAM (S) and VIP on Monday evening. Some new faces are also likely to be inducted in the ministry. Shreyasi Singh, a national-level shooting champion, who is elected as a BJP member of the Bihar legislative assembly (MLA) from the Jamui seat, and the youngest daughter of late JD (U) leader Digvijay Singh, is one of the probable names being considered for a ministerial berth. Singh is likely to be accommodated by the BJP. Sunil Kumar, a former director-general of police (DGP), who had won from the Bhore assembly seat in Gopalganj district, is a likely contender from the JD (U)’s quota.The BJP may bag the key post of Speaker in the new 243-member Bihar legislative assembly because of the NDA’s wafer-thin majority. It will also give the BJP a ruse to protect the smaller parties such as the HAM (S) and the VIP, which are likely to be vulnerable due to alleged horse-trading by the main opposition, the Grand Alliance, or the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and the Left parties. Former minister Nand Kishore Yadav and ex-deputy Speaker Amarendra Pratap Singh are the probable names doing the rounds for the Speaker’s post.Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the NDA government at Raj Bhawan at 4.30pm on Monday. “BJP national president JP Nadda, Shah and the party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh will attend the oath-taking ceremony on Monday,” said Sanjay Mayunkh, the party’s national spokesperson. BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad is seen as the front-runner in the race to become deputy to CM Kumar, as his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi was pencilled in for a bigger role in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA at the Centre.“I will be taking the oath on Monday. In all likelihood, I will be working as deputy CM in the new government,” Prasad told media persons on Monday morning.Renu Kumari, a four-time MLA from Bettiah in West Champaran district, may also be elevated as deputy CM and is likely to bag a key portfolio in the new Cabinet. Prasad, a BJP MLA from Katihar in the Seemanchal region, became a front-runner in the deputy CM’s race on Sunday after Modi was drafted for a role in the Central government. Later, Modi tweeted that he had been fortunate to be richly rewarded by the BJP and its ideological mentor, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in his 40-year political life. He said he would like to serve the party as a worker and did not hanker after any post.The new cabinet is likely to be expanded in the coming months. The NDA has worked out a formula for the allocation of ministerial berths such as two posts for every seven assembly seats won by each ally. The JD (U), which has 43 MLAs to its kitty, will get a maximum of 14 ministerial berths following the application of that formula. The ceiling for the BJP, which has 74 legislators in its ranks, is 20. Both HAM (S) and VIP will have to settle for one ministerial berth each.Bijendra Prasad Yadav (former energy minister), Vijay Kumar Chaudhary (former Speaker), Shravan Kumar (former rural development minister), Ashok Choudhary (former building construction minister) are tipped to become a part of the new cabinet from the JD(U)’s quota. The BJP may allocate portfolios to Prem Kumar (former agriculture minister) and Vijay Kumar Sinha (former labour minister). The names of two former ministers from the BJP, Vinod Narayan Jha and Nitish Mishra, are also doing the rounds.VIP’s Sahni could be sworn in as minister in the new Bihar cabinet. Santosh Suman , the son of HAM(S) chief and ex-Bihar CM Manjhi, may also become a minister. Sahni had contested from the Simri-Bakhtiarpur assembly in Saharsa district, but lost the election. He may be inducted into the cabinet as a member of the Bihar legislative council (MLC) and could be accommodated from the Governor’s quota. “We hope the new Cabinet will be representative of all sections of Bihar’s society,” said Ashok Kumar Sinha, spokesperson of the state’s BJP unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-s-new-cabinet-blend-of-young-old-faces-likely/story-1o52p3OSWYppWy4aToHnNN.html
16-11-2020||India||Ahead of assembly polls, tasks cut out for BJP’s national team, friction in Kerala, Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s newly appointed state in-charges, appointed by party president JP Nadda have their task cut out for them ahead of the 2021 assembly polls in five states. The functionaries have the onerous task of building cohesion in at least two of the state units-- West Bengal and Kerala-- that are rife with factionalism and friction. The others states that will pick new assemblies are Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Assam. In Kerala and West Bengal where the party has been planning its electoral strategy for months; intra-party differences are threatening to throw a spanner in the works. Senior party functionaries who spoke on condition of anonymity said the national leadership has had to step in on several occasions to quell in-fighting, and with local body elections in Kerala a month away, there is fear that the skirmishes will impact the outcome. On Friday, Nadda appointed Bijayant Panda, national vice president as the in-charge for Assam; a former Lok Sabha MP, CP Radhakrishnan was given charge of Kerala; CT Ravi a national general secretary has been given charge of Tamil Nadu while Nirmal Kumar Surana, vice president of the Karnataka unit will look after Puducherry. National general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya will continue to look after West Bengal. KeralaIn Kerala, Radhakrishnan will have the task of bringing together the dissenting groups, which have made public their disagreements. Complaints against his style of functioning led the state unit president K Surendran being summoned to Delhi by Nadda and he also met Union home minister Amit Shah. “After (state) vice president Sobha Surendran made public her concerns, the state unit president was asked to set the house in order as it could have an adverse impact on the upcoming local body elections and then the assembly polls,” said a functionary in Delhi. Sobha Surendran has alleged that she was overlooked for the post of the general secretary and instead made the state unit’s vice president. “Several leaders were also upset that they were overlooked for appointments to the national team whereas relatively new to the party, Abdulla Kutty and Tom Vadakkan were accommodated as national vice president and national spokesperson,” the functionary said. The RSS has also cautioned the central leadership that the friction in the state unit could impact the performance in the local polls; in 2016 the BJP had won in 14 districts and emerged as the main opposition in one corporation and six municipalities. Local polls will be held in three-phases on December 8, 10 and 14. West Bengal In West Bengal, where the party is gearing up for a tough contest against the Mamata Banerjee government, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya is not unfamiliar with the turf war in the state unit. Several party workers in the state have complained to the party high command that those who joined from the TMC have been given plum positions. “The issue came to fore when after being dropped from the national team, Rahul Sinha posted his grievance in a video claiming that after 40 years in the BJP he was overlooked for Mukul Roy who switched sides from the TMC . The central leadership is also aware of the friction between state unit president Dilip Ghosh and some other leaders,” said a state functionary. Many leaders in the state have begun to pitch themselves as the chief ministerial candidate.. Political commentator Shirish Kashikar, however, said that the BJP’s strong point is tiding over internal differences by the time the party is in the poll mode. “In-fighting is natural in all parties, but the BJP has the ability to scotch differences. In Bihar for instance, they set asides all considerations to win the election and give Nitish Kumar the CM’s post on a platter. So Nadda’s message to the party units will be to join forces to win the elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-tasks-cut-out-for-bjp-s-national-team-friction-in-kerala-bengal/story-z7YdMYcsIwLF4F2KXN7OGN.html
16-11-2020||India||Bihar: Maoists blow up community hall in Gaya, demand Rs2 crore from JD(U) leader||Suspected Maoists blew up a newly constructed community hall in Bihar’s Gaya district late on Sunday night. Police said an armed squad of the CPI (Maoist) stormed into Bodhi-Bigha village in Dumaria police station area of Gaya district, about 119 km south of Patna, late Sunday night and planted dynamites that blew up the building. According to the villagers, the community hall, built with then JD(U) MLC Anuj Kumar’s fund at a cost of Rs20 lakh, had been on Maoists’ radar for a while. On March 27, 2019, Maoists had also blown up Singh’s house in Dumaria after he allegedly failed to return their Rs2 crore given in demonetised notes to exchange. Police sources said there were pamphlets at the site demanding Rs2 crore from Singh, purportedly from Maoists. The pamphlets claimed that Singh was a police informer who harassed common people and had repeatedly been warned. “Our fight is against elements like Anuj Singh who get huge [amounts of ] money from Maoists leaders on the pretext of giving contracts,” they said. While Singh said he had met chief minister Nitish Kumar and sought setting up of police pickets in Bodhi-Bigha in view of the Maoist threat, he refused to comment on the reported Rs2 crore demand from Maoists.Also read | Maoists, security forces exchange fire in Bihar’s JamuiRam Lagan Singh (64), a resident of Bodhi-Bigha village, said the incident occurred around 11.45pm. “The blast was so powerful that everything shook. We also heard slogans like ‘Lal Salam’ being shouted outside and we guessed it was the Maoists who had triggered the blast. So, we remained indoors. When we stepped out in the morning, we saw the community hall had been demolished,” he said. Another villager said dynamite had been used to blow up the building. Fearing a trap, police were yet to visit the spot located deep inside a Maoist zone. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra told HT, “The community hall building was inaugurated earlier, but there was no concrete plan to house a police camp. It was the villagers who suspected that a garrison could come up, which may have agitated the Maoists.” It must be noted that while inaugurating the hall right before the recent assembly elections, former chief minister and HAM president Jitan Ram Manjhi had assured that it would get a new police picket. Meanwhile, the police, in cooperation with the central forces, have launched a manhunt for Maoists across the jungles and hills of Dumaria, close to Aurangabad and Palamu (Jharkhand) district borders. Earlier in February this year, suspected Maoists blew up a government school building in Banke Bazar police station area in Gaya and left anti-NRC pamphlets. Hand-written pamphlets were recovered with slogans against “Brahminvadi, Hindutvavadi, fascist BJP government,” that questioned the “occupation” of school buildings by security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-maoists-blow-up-community-hall-in-gaya-demand-rs2-crore-from-jd-u-leader/story-hyzsG2Gt3PT2WiBnGAe0sN.html
16-11-2020||India||Goa woman murders husband’s aunts, leaves behind daughter as witness||A young woman brutally murdered her husband’s foster family, killing his two aunts -- Marta Clementina Lobo (64) and Vera Lobo (62) -- with the help of a hired killer on Sunday evening, the Goa police have said. Rovina Lobo (29) and her accomplice Subhan Rajyaballi (28) were arrested by the police in the wee hours of Monday morning after Rovina’s husband, Julio (32), who was out of the house at the time of the incident, complained to the police. Julio was brought up under the care of his aunts, Marta and Vera, both of whom were unmarried and Rovina joined the family in their house after her marriage to Julio. However, relations between her and his aunts quickly deteriorated amid allegations that she was being harassed by his aunts, which led her to plan the murder.The family was living in Siolim village in North Goa, while Julio’s parents are living in another house in the same village.“Rovina hired Subhan Rajyaballi (to commit the murder) as both the aunts were not on good terms with her for a long time. They committed the murder with sharp weapons,” Anjuna police inspector Suraj Gawas, said. Also Read: Goa CM Pramod Sawant pledges to cut coal handling at Mormugao port by 50%The duo was first battered with a pedestal fan then struck with a koita (billhook) until they passed away. The couple has two children -- a daughter aged seven and a son aged one-- with the elder of the two having witnessed the murders and reported it to her father when he returned home, leading to the complaint.The woman and her accomplice left the crime scene with her younger child, leaving the elder one behind. Both have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-woman-murders-husband-s-aunts-leaves-behind-daughter-as-witness/story-TLnBxFJ2F0yZCahkUakb3O.html
16-11-2020||India||Delhi’s minimum temp rises due to cloud cover, settles at 16 degrees celsius||The national capital on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, the highest since October 22, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials attributed the rise in the minimum temperature to the presence of clouds in the region under the influence of a western disturbance. Until now, Delhi had been witnessing a trend of low minimum temperatures this month due to the absence of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The maximum temperature is expected to settle at 26 degrees Celsius, the IMD said.The minimum temperature is likely to drop below 10 degrees Celsius by Friday, according to the IMD.“As the western disturbance withdraws from the region, the wind direction will again change to northwesterly. Cold winds from hilly regions, which have received a fresh spell of snowfall, will start blowing towards the national capital,” an IMD official said.Read more | Covid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy todayOn Sunday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, and a maximum temperature of 29.1 degrees Celsius. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 0.4 mm rainfall on Sunday. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road, Ridge, Jafarpur, Najafgarh and Pusa recorded 1.8 mm, 0.3 mm, 1.2 mm, 1 mm, 1 mm and 2.5 mm rainfall respectively. Fairly widespread rain was recorded in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and few parts of Uttar Pradesh, which should help improve the air quality, the IMD official said. Watch: Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-minimum-temp-rises-due-to-cloud-cover-settles-at-16-degrees-celsius/story-B23sRRmqfrwQLPi0L7O16O.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt deliberating on holding next Parliament session in January||With no respite in the rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the centre has taken a cautious approach and is likely to decide against holding the Parliament’s winter session this year.Sources in the government stated that currently, deliberations are on the decision to not hold the winter session. Whether to club the winter session and budget session or to just to hold the budget session directly next year is also under consideration, sources added. The secretariats of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have not begun preparing for the session yet.“The members are supposed to be informed 15 days in advance so that if there is a question hour, they can send in their questions in advance,” stated the source.The argument, to not hold the winter session this year has been given due to a rise in the number of cases. The cautious approach is needed as Parliament members come in close contact with officials, people and other members and are especially vulnerable to the infection, despite Covid-19 safety protocols being followed at Parliament House.Read more | Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter SessionThe winter session takes place in mid-November and continues till mid-December. However, the situation of Covid-19 spread in the national capital is making the government reluctant in having the session on time.“During the monsoon session, we had cases reaching 2,000 to 3,000, not more than that and yet we had to curtail the session. Now, the tally stands at 7,000 and above. The government work will not be hampered,” stated the source.“There were more than 30 MPs who were tested positive for Covid-19 during and at the beginning of the monsoon session. We ensured routine Covid tests to check anyone with infection,” stated the source.The sources claim that the next Parliament session, budget session, is likely to be called at the end of January 2021.Watch: Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-deliberating-on-holding-next-parliament-session-in-january/story-nt3R2C49UKYY9O6rMoHsUP.html
16-11-2020||India||Amid snowfall, portals of Kedarnath shrine close for winter season||Following all rituals and special prayers amid snowfall, the portals of the Kedarnath shrine closed for the winter season on Monday at 8:30 am in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. This year over 1,35,000 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand since yatra was allowed on July 1. On Monday morning, the shrine was opened at 3 am when the chief priest Shivshankar Ling performed the Samadhi Puja of Lord Kedar and the sanctum sanctorum was closed at 6:30 am. At 8:30 am the assembly hall and the main gate of the shrine were closed. Harish Gaur, media in-charge of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “This year, 1,35,023 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine since pilgrims were allowed to visit the shrine from July 1 following all safety protocols in view of Covid-19 epidemic. The deity will now stay in his winter abode of Ukhimath for the next six months and the palanquin left for the winter abode after closing of the shrine.”The palanquin with the deity will reach the winter abode of Onkareshwar temple on November 18 after which the prayers will be offered there. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inspected the ongoing reconstruction works in Kedarnath, like construction of Shankaracharya’s Samadhi Sthal, Aastha Path, Dhyan Caves and the bridge built in Kedarnath.Rawat informed Adityanath in detail about the ongoing reconstruction work in Kedarnath. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, construction works were done at a very fast pace in Kedarnath. Modern instruments were brought to Kedarnath by helicopter for construction works. The progress of the construction works was regularly monitored from Dehradun. Kedarnath will soon become a center of attraction for devotees of the country and the world in a new form. Along with the strengthening of the routes coming to Kedarnath, attention is also being paid to the development of infrastructure facilities at the shrine,” said Rawat.Yogi Adityanath said, “I got the privilege of offering prayers to Lord Kedarnath after around 11-12 years. After 2013 flash floods, the reconstruction work in the area is being carried out on a war footing. The Uttarakhand government has done an excellent job of rebuilding Kedarnath under the guidance of the Prime Minister and in restoring the faith of the devotees of the country and abroad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-snowfall-portals-of-kedarnath-shrine-close-for-winter-season/story-p2Udb5AdmBxtkufgOsWxpM.html
16-11-2020||India||Kolkata, Howrah see improvement in post-Diwali air largely due to ban on crackers||Kolkata and Howrah saw marked improvement in the post-Diwali air quality this year compared to 2019 following the ban on fire-crackers imposed by the Calcutta High Court. With fewer crackers this year, the noise level in the two cities was also much less compared to last year. Data available with the West Bengal Pollution Control Board revealed that while the level of pollutants had shot up nine to 13 times above the daily permissible limits in Kolkata on Diwali night earlier, this year it was around three times above the permissible limit. “The level of PM2.5 (pollutants which are at least 30 times finer than human hair) had shot up to 768 micrograms per metre cube around midnight on Diwali in 2019. This year it reached a peak of 185 micrograms per metre cube around 12 midnight. The daily permissible limit is 60 micrograms per metre cube,” said a senior official of the state pollution control board. ALSO READ | Kolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworksThe Calcutta HC had banned the use of fireworks during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja in November this year across the state. The Supreme Court has refused to reverse a ban on sale or use of firecrackers in West Bengal during the festive month of November, saying that preservation of life should be the top priority in a country faced with a pandemic. Similarly, in Howrah where air quality remains equally bad, pollution levels had shot up 11–15 times above the safe limits after Diwali last year. This year it has shot up around three to five times. “The post-Diwali air quality was much better this year compared to last year. This is despite the fact that Diwali was celebrated much later this year and the night temperature was much less compared to last year. The colder the night the higher would be the pollution as the pollutants get trapped close to the ground level,” said a senior official. Environment and health experts have warned that chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with severe infections and higher mortality. They feel that lungs compromised due to pollution could lead to complications like pneumonia during Covid-19. That fewer crackers were used this year following the HC ban was also evident from the fact that noise levels were also less this year. The average noise level was at least two decibels less this year in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-howrah-see-improvement-in-post-diwali-air-largely-due-to-ban-on-crackers/story-XvjUnHhb1T3rRUZati8QoI.html
16-11-2020||India||7 killed after vehicle falls in khud in Himachal Pradesh, PM Modi expresses grief||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed grief over the road accident in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district in which seven people lost their lives. Seven people were killed when a vehicle in which they were travelling fell into a khud in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district on Monday, police said. One person was also injured after the Mahindra pickup fell into Suketi Khud at Pulghrat near Mandi at around 2.30 am, they said. Six people died on the spot, while two injured were taken to a zonal hospital where one of them succumbed to his injuries, the police said.“Extremely pained after hearing the news of a road accident in Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The government is involved in relief and rescue operations. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased and wish the injured well soon,” PMO tweeted, quoting PM Modi. हिमाचल प्रदेश के मंडी में सड़क हादसे की खबर से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। सरकार राहत और बचाव कार्य में जुटी हुई है। इस दुर्घटना में मृतकों के परिजनों के प्रति गहरी संवेदना प्रकट करता हूं और घायलों के जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं : PM @narendramodiPresident Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the loss of lives and wished a speedy recovery to the injured. In a tweet, Kovind said: “I am deeply saddened to learn about the road accident in Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. Necessary steps are being taken by the local administration to help the affected people. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish a speedy recovery to the injured.”  हिमाचल प्रदेश के मंडी में हुई सड़क दुर्घटना के बारे में जानकर गहरा दुख हुआ है। स्थानीय प्रशासन द्वारा प्रभावित लोगों की मदद के लिए आवश्यक कदम उठाए जा रहे हैं। शोक संतप्त परिवारों के प्रति मेरी संवेदनाएँ। मैं घायलों के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूँ ।The police have registered a case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person) and 304 A (causing death by negligence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-loss-of-lives-due-to-road-accident-in-mandi/story-b3N888Gv9Wua6VvZYhsReM.html
16-11-2020||India||Kedarnath temple closes for winter||The sacred portals of the Himalayan shrine of Kedarnath were closed for the winter season on Monday amid a fresh spell of snowfall.The gates of the temple, which houses one of the 11 jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva and attracts devotees from across the world, were closed at 8:30 am after an elaborate ceremony.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, and officials of Devasthanam Board, among others, attended the ceremony.The two chief ministers arrived at the shrine on Sunday to offer prayers and take a look at the reconstruction projects underway at Kedarpuri.Snowfall accompanied by a drizzle began in Kedarnath on Sunday night and continued till the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-temple-closes-for-winter/story-9Qa0JaKUxesRxIEKidRLAI.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Jharkhand bans Chhath Puja in public water bodies||Jharkhand has banned rituals of Chhath Puja, one of the biggest community festivals of the state, in public ponds, rivers, lakes, dams and reservoirs. This has been done in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said the order issued by the state disaster management department on Sunday. The main rituals for Chhath Puja are to be performed on November 20 evening and November 21 morning this year. Every year, massive crowds gather at various water bodies across Jharkhand to worship the setting sun and then the rising sun next morning. Urban local bodies make arrangements for the puja by cleaning ghats, deploying security personnel and divers at water bodies, installing lights on roads and making arrangements for changing rooms and toilets at ghats every year. Ranchi Municipal Corporation has already started cleaning of ghats. Also read | JD(U) holds protest against Delhi’s Chhath Puja banHowever, in its order, the disaster management department said, “It is not possible to ensure the compliance of national directive of social distancing norm while performing Chhath Puja in waters of public ponds, lakes, rivers, dams and reservoirs...The ritual of holy bathing in common water bodies and standing in water is a matter of concern as it will amount to sharing of water, thus enhancing the chances of spread of infection besides causing contamination of the water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-jharkhand-bans-chhath-puja-in-public-water-bodies/story-rLdY8QqTC81GYxq6P0VNJN.html
16-11-2020||India||Amit Shah, Nadda to attend ceremony as Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM for 4th straight term||BJP president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the oath-taking ceremony of JD (U) chief and Bihar CM designate Nitish Kumar in Patna on Monday. The JD (U) chief will take oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth straight term today after a neck-to-neck contest to clinch the Bihar assembly polls, the results for which were declared late at night on November 10.On Sunday, Kumar met Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan to stake claim to form the government in the state after the NDA emerged victorious in the polls held for the 243 member Bihar assembly. The oath taking ceremony of the new cabinet is likely to be held at around 4.30 pm this afternoon.ALSO READ | JD(U) may get 12 ministerial berths, BJP 18: All eyes on Bihar cabinet formationIn a meeting held on Sunday morning, NDA leaders had chosen Nitish Kumar as the leader of the NDA legislature party securing his return as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth time.In another surprising development, Katihar MLA-- BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad will take over as the deputy chief minister instead of Sushil Kumar Modi who was at the helm during the earlier term. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav will not attend the oath-taking ceremony of Bihar CM designate Nitish Kumar to be held in Patna later today.ALSO READ | Tarkishore Prasad, frontrunner in race for Bihar deputy CM, is part of BJP’s Bengal plan. Here’s howThroughout a rigorous poll campaign amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the Bharatiya Janata Party had maintained that in the event of a victory for the NDA, incumbent Nitish Kumar would be the chief minister of Bihar. Kumar’s own party, the Janata Dal (United) however, did not put up a very good show in the battle for Bihar. In the 243-seat Bihar Legislative Assembly, the JD (U) just managed to win 43 seats, while 8 seats were won by two other NDA constituents. The BJP won on 74 seats helping the National Democratic Alliance secure a 125-seat majority in the assembly.After the results were declared, the RJD, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while the Congress won only 19 of the 70 seats it had been allotted to contest as part of the Grand Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-nadda-to-attend-ceremony-as-nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-4th-straight-term/story-bFVa4LNZnxTjBaqb5mGxBN.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi greets nation on ‘Bhai Dooj’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted the nation on the occasion of Bhai Dooj.In a tweet, Prime Minister Modi said: “Best wishes to all of you on the holy occasion of Bhai Dooj.”Bhai Dooj, the festival of a symbol of brother-sister love is being celebrated all over the country today.On this day, sisters pray for their brothers to have long and happy lives by performing Tika ceremony and brothers offer gifts to their sisters.Bhaiya Dooj is also known as Bhau Beej and Bhathru Dwithiya. As per Hindu traditions. it is believed that Goddess Yamuna fed her brother Yamraj on Kartik Dwitiya at her own home. Since then this day is known as Yama Dwitiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-nation-on-bhai-dooj/story-pax3G9RrloYh9zHrPRy89H.html
16-11-2020||India||Steep decline in daily Covid-19 numbers; recovery rate above 93%||The number of daily coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19) in India fell further to 30,548 on Monday, according to the Union health ministry update at 8 am. The nationwide tally stands at 8,845,127.There have been 435 fresh fatalities, which took the death toll up to 130,070, health ministry data showed.The number of active cases stayed below the five lakh-mark on Monday too. 8,249,579 patients have been discharged from the hospitals so far, Monday’s update showed.India has been recording a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases over the past weeks.On Monday morning, the ministry said that India continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population globally. “Fifteen states and union territories have cases per million lower than the national average,” it tweeted.Meanwhile, the testing of samples has been touching new heights. According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 12,56,98,525 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till November 15. “Of these 8,61,706 samples were tested yesterday,” it further said.National capital Delhi has been a particular area of concern for the government. On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situation and announced a slew of steps, including making available 300 additional ICU beds, double the number of daily RT-PCR tests and a house-to-house survey in the entire national capital.Shah also said some of the hospitals under the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.Doctors and paramedics of paramilitary forces will also be flown in to be deployed in the national capital to deal with the shortage of manpower, he added. The number of tests too will be doubled.Meanwhile, the health ministry said that India has been reporting less than 50,000 new daily cases of Covid-19 for more than eight days now - a trend which assumes wider significance as many countries in Europe and America continue to see a surge in their daily numbers.New recoveries outnumbering fresh Covid-19 cases every 24-hour cycle has also improved the recovery rate to 93.09 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-30-548-fresh-covid-19-cases-43-851-recoveries-in-24-hours-death-toll-at-130-070/story-VUR8vSI2gUxP7sjin7H8nO.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Vaccine frontrunners and other latest developments||The global pandemic continues to break records as the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed as many as 660,905 new infections worldwide in one day (on Saturday). As per John Hopkins University, the worldwide number of infections stands at 54,299,446 while 1,315,897 people have succumbed to the disease.Across the world, efforts are on to find a vaccine to stop the spread of the disease. According to WHO, more than 150 Covid-19 vaccine candidates from various pharmaceutical companies are presently in development, with around 44 in clinical trials and 11 undergoing late-stage testing.Here’s all you need to know about the vaccine frontrunners:Pfizer and BioNTechPfizer and its German partner BioNTech said last week that preliminary analysis showed their vaccine could prevent more than 90 per cent of people from getting Covid-19 in the phase III trials in which 43,000 people took part. Prof Ugur Sahin, co-founder and CEO of BioNTech, told the BBC that the goal was to deliver more than 300 million doses worldwide by next April, which “could allow us to only start to make an impact”.Moderna Inc.US drugmaker Moderna Inc is likely to release first interim analysis data on late-stage trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. Moderna Inc recently said preliminary data of its Phase III mRNA-1273 vaccine trials was being prepared for submission to the monitoring board, raising hopes that initial results would be released soon. In the trial 43,538 people participated. The company has also announced that it would seek emergency-use authorisation for its vaccine candidate in high-risk groups if interim assessment showed it to be atleast 70 per cent effective. The firm is eyeing to produce 20 million doses of its experimental vaccine by the end of the year.AstraZeneca-Oxford coronavirus vaccineSerum Institute of India, which is conducting Phase 2/3 trials of the Oxford University vaccine called Covishield said it was aiming to produce 100 million doses by December. Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said the Pune-based firm might get emergency-use authorization by December if late-stage trial data showed that the vaccine candidate provided effective protection from the virus. He added that preliminary results have shown that there were no immediate concerns pertaining to the Covishield vaccine.Read more | Delhi in battle mode to rein in Covid-19 waveSputnik V coronavirus vaccineRussia’s Sputnik-V vaccine, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, has arrived in India and trials will begin soon. In India, Dr Reddy’s will test the vaccine candidate on around 1,500 participants in a Phase 2/3 clinical trial across at least 10 sites as the vaccine was claimed to be 92 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19 in a trial which included 16,000 participants.Johnson and Johnson coronavirus vaccineJohnson & Johnson had halted its trials in October over safety concerns but is now spending about $604 million in expanding its deal with the US government to develop its single-shot JNJ-78436735 vaccine. A vaccine from a unit of Johnson & Johnson is set to move to the third phase of clinical trials in the UK that will test the safety and effectiveness of the shot. The testing round by Janssen Pharmaceutical will include 6,000 volunteers and take place across 17 sites, according to a statement. The firm has said that first batches of its candidate could be available as soon as January.Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-pandemic-vaccine-frontrunners-and-other-latest-developments/story-NuAs15YSdVT4TwB0aSZldM.html
16-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand logs 213 fresh Covid-19 infections, 5 more patients die||Uttarakhand added 213 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the state’s tally of total coronavirus cases to 68,215. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state taking the death toll to 1107.Out of 68,215 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 61,950 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in Uttarakhand to 90.82%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.80%. Also, 218 Covid-19 positive people recovered from the viral infection on Sunday.According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, a maximum of 80 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Three districts of Champawat, Rudraprayag and Tehri Garhwal did not report any infections on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 18,967 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (11,484), US Nagar (9,907) and Nainital (7,895). Uttarakhand currently has two containment zones in Dehradun and Almora district each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-logs-213-fresh-covid-19-infections-5-more-patients-die/story-LB3k9nfu3UgSKoJVeoVh4J.html
16-11-2020||India||Places of worship reopen in Maharashtra with strict Covid-19 protocols in place||Religious places across Maharashtra reopened on Monday after nearly eight months of closure due to the lockdown imposed in a bid to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The announcement to reopen religious places in Maharashtra was made by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday.Also Read: Maharashra looks to bring down Covid-19 case fatality rateThe prominent religious places in the state include Sai Baba temple in Shirdi, the Mahim Dargah and Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai and the Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune.The gates of the places of worship were opened after midnight for the management officials to clean and sanitise the premises ahead of its reopening for devotees to offer early morning prayers.“People have been waiting for over eight months. Government SOP and internal SOP of the dargah will be followed. We have put up boards with government and Dargah SOPs. Only those with face masks will be allowed inside the premises and their temperature will be recorded before entry,” Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said.“I feel fortunate that I visited the temple in the new year, after Diwali. I’m very happy. All Covid-19 precautionary measures are being taken here,” a devotee who visited the Siddhivinayak temple told news agency ANI.As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Maharashtra government, religious places located in the containment zones have not been allowed to open. Only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside places of worship, and they will have to enter in a staggered manner.Wearing a face mask is mandatory and the visitors are required to strictly follow the social distancing norms. The state government has also asked the management of these places to conduct thermal scanning and provide visitors with hand wash facility or sanitiser.Touching statues, holy books and idols is prohibited under the guidelines. Also, only recorded devotional music will be played. Choir or singing groups are not allowed.These SOPs have also empowered the local authorities to add directions to check the spread of the infection. Accordingly, the management of the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi said it will only allow visitors inside the premises after an online booking for a specific time slot.“We have made arrangements to control the crowd at the temple. People will be allotted time slots online for visit. Only 6,000 people will be allowed to enter the temple in a day. The temple will only remain open for 14 hours,” a representative of the temple added.Religious places across Maharashtra have remained shut since March this year, when the central government imposed a complete lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/places-of-worship-reopen-in-maharashtra-with-strict-covid-19-protocols-in-place/story-nhVTYJRTzQHjUzaq6xilKN.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 spike in Delhi may hit Parliament’s Winter Session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter SessionRising cases of Covid-19 infections in the Capital might cast a shadow on the upcoming winter session of Parliament, said two functionaries with knowledge of the developments. There is a possibility that the session, which normally begins in November and ends in December, may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. Read more British PM Boris Johnson self-isolates after Covid-19 contactBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson is self-isolating after coming into contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19, a fresh setback after infighting among his top advisers plunged Downing Street into chaos last week. Read more SpaceX launches 4 astronauts to space, kicking off regular crew flights from the USSpaceX launched four astronauts to the International Space Station on Sunday on the first full-fledged taxi flight for NASA by a private company. The Falcon rocket thundered into the night from Kennedy Space Center with three Americans and one Japanese, the second crew to be launched by SpaceX. Read more Lewis Hamilton: Dreamer, chaser, believerCar No.44 stopped in front of the board marked for the winner at parc ferme and the driver held his head. Lewis Hamilton lifted the helmet visor, wiped his moist eyes and climbed out of his black Mercedes to stand on it, soaking in the feeling as seven-time world champion. He had just equalled Michael Schumacher’s world record for most Formula 1 titles. Read more Yay or nay? Diwali 2020 looks of Kiara Advani, Alia Bhatt, Sara Ali Khan, Janhvi Kapoor, Ananya Panday, other divas in their 20sBe it designer kurta sets or lehengas printed with kids’ drawings, the 20-something brigade of Bollywood, including actors Kiara Advani, Alia Bhatt, Sara Ali Khan, Janhvi Kapoor, Ananya Panday, Tara Sutaria, Sanya Malhotra, Athiya Shetty and Sanjana Sanghi, went all out as they supported local brands yet killed Diwali 2020 fashion. Read moreThis lego stop motion clip of making a pizza may make your mouth water. WatchLego blocks are among the most fun things to play with when it comes to expressing one’s creative self. And this Reddit clip showing a pizza being made of legos is beyond an entertaining and satisfying watch. Chances are you’ll find it hard to differentiate between a real pizza and the lego one. Watch Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU bedsDelhi is in battle mode amid fresh wave of Covid-19 infections. Union Home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting on countering Covid spike on November 15. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Union & Delhi Health Ministers, Delhi l-G attended the meet. The decisions taken in the meeting included increasing testing, adding ICU beds and doctors. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-spike-in-delhi-may-hit-parliament-s-winter-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-h8sP6gYfaFDkibk6o1t65N.html
16-11-2020||India||Kanpur man returns home after spending 8 years in Pakistan jail on espionage charges||Shamsuddin, jailed in Pakistan on espionage charges, was waiting for eight years to meet his family. That wait finally came to an end on Sunday when the 70-year-old was brought back by authorities to his native place near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.A smiling Shamsuddin met his sobbing daughters, and his sister lost consciousness briefly seeing the 70-year-old after such a long time. There was a Diwali-like atmosphere in the entire locality where he lived.Shamsuddin had reached India via the Attari-Wagah border on October 26, but was serving the required quarantine period in Amritsar amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The Uttar Pradesh Police reached Kanpur with Shamsuddin at 9:45 am and handed him over to the family members after initial paperwork.“For us, this Diwali has become memorable. My daughter was also born on Diwali... Her prayers are over,” HT’s sister website Live Hindustan quoted Shamshuddin as saying.A shoemaker by profession, Shamsuddin was arrested in Pakistan in 2012. He spent eight long years in Pakistani prison after been convicted for espionage charge.He was also charged with possessing a fake passport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-man-returns-home-after-spending-8-years-in-pakistan-jail-on-espionage-charges/story-dmoSAf6sKY4gRuvnTR070J.html
16-11-2020||India||Lower air pollution, noise recorded in Chennai on Diwali compared to earlier years||Despite Tamil Nadu not banning firecrackers and restricting bursting of fireworks to 2-hours on Diwali day--which was flouted-- Chennai’s air pollution and noise has declined compared to 2019, according to observations made by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). As of November 14, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) labelled Chennai’s air quality as ‘satisfactory’ with prominent pollutants being PM 10, PM 2.5 and CO while Delhi was categorized as ‘severe’.Four parameters--PM10, PM2.5, SO2, and NO2-- are monitored to assess the air quality index or AQI. To study the ambient air quality and noise pollution levels, TNPCB manually monitored five locations in the city and has reported the AQI at Besant Nagar (62), T Nagar (72), Nungambakkam (59), Triplicane (107) and Sowcarpet (100). The considerable reduction of pollution level and the noise level are mainly due to the public co-operation following the Supreme Court’s guidelines, said a statement from TNPCB adding that awareness in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic could also be a factor. Studies have shown a link between poor air quality and lowered ability to recover from the coronavirus.According to their report, PM10 values were observed to be within the limits except in Triplicane and Sowcarpet where it was marginally higher and PM 2.5 were within limits. Gaseous pollutants SO2 and NO2 were also within prescribed standards. The survey was done from 6 am to 6 am in commercial and residential localities.In 2019, on Diwali which fell on October 27, the AQI was highest in Sowcarpet station at 119 and lowest in Nungambakkam station at 85. CPCB guidelines have also instructed authorities to conduct short term monitoring for 14 days (a week before and after Diwali) On a regular day on November 9, AQI was observed to be highest in T Nagar (65). In 2019, a week before Diwali on October 20, the highest value was recorded in the same location at 81.Noise levels which were monitored for 24-hours and measured in dB (A) Leq was reported as (78), T Nagar (78), Nungambakkam (71), Triplicane (75) and Sowcarpet (76). The noise level ranged from 54 dB(A) to 69 dB(A) pre- Diwali on November 9 and ranged from 71dB(A) to 78 dB(A) on Diwali this year which is found to be lower compared to the previous year, said a statement from TNPCB.On Diwali day on November 14, PM10 results ranged from 52 to 111 ug/m3 during against the prescribed standard of 100 ug/m3. PM2.5. results ranges from 32 to 59 microgram/m3 against the prescribed standard of 60 ug/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lower-air-pollution-noise-recorded-in-chennai-on-diwali-compared-to-earlier-years/story-7Xgvi8ZAr7QsJK88quwbiK.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi to unveil ‘Statue of Peace’ in Rajasthan today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil the “Statue of Peace” in Rajasthan’s Pali district via video-conferencing on Monday to mark the 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jain monk Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj.The 151-inch-tall statue is made of “ashtadhatu” (eight metals with copper being the major constituent) and is being installed at the Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Rajasthan’s Pali, an official statement said.The saint, who lived during 1870-1954, led an austere life, working selflessly and dedicatedly to spread the message of Lord Mahavira, it said.He also worked relentlessly for the welfare of the masses, spread of education and eradication of social evils, wrote inspiring literature (poetry, essays, devotional hymns and stavans) and gave active support to the freedom movement and the cause of the swadeshi, the statement said.With his inspiration, more than 50 educational institutions of eminence, including colleges, schools and study centres, are operational across several states, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-statue-of-peace-in-rajasthan-today/story-3Lav1Pj2ya7CzDZoOkyG6K.html
16-11-2020||India||SC to hear plea seeking removal of Andhra CM||The Supreme Court will today hear a PIL seeking the removal of YS Jaganmohan Reddy from the post of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister over his “scandalising” remarks against the second senior-most judge of the top court.A bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, will hear the public interest litigation that also sought an explanation from Reddy for writing a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde making “wild and reckless” allegations against Justice NV Ramana.The PIL, jointly filed by advocates GS Mani, Pradeep Kumar Yadav and SK Singh, contended that Jagan Mohan Reddy is facing more than 20 criminal cases including money laundering and corruption in the court which are very serious in nature.Reddy should be removed as the Chief Minister as he, in public and media, had levelled such kind of allegations against the second senior-most judge of the apex court, Justice NV Ramana, without any basis, the plea said. The plea said that appropriate action for his removal as the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh must be taken against him immediately by the top court.“In order to get personal gain from the court by abusing his power and post as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, he allegedly openly made false, scandalised remarks, vague, and political allegations against a sitting judge of the top court only to tarnish the image of the judiciary in the public mind,” the plea said.It also sought a detailed judicial enquiry, by constituting an internal committee headed by sitting or retired judges of Supreme Court or any authority including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), over the vague allegation made by Reddy against Justice Ramana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-removal-of-andhra-cm/story-Fw3sSSM6tOLOZdCCvafczL.html
16-11-2020||India||Strong political will, more public participation needed to enact firecracker ban||As a child, I was terrified of Holi, because people would rub our faces with car grease and toxic dyes. Today, we enjoy a greener Holi. We use colours mostly from natural sources. Even Holika Dahan stands reduced. Even in smaller towns, there is a shift. Bigger than Holi is how we celebrate Raksha Bandhan and Janmashtami. Almost nobody spends hours making sweets at home from lauki and makhana. Those hours of preparation are over. Infact, people- including me --don’t even eat that kind of sugar--it is unhealthy.So, what is it about Diwali celebrations that cannot be changed? If we don’t let our family and friends stain our faces with toxic pink dye anymore, why do we let anyone burn fireworks that scar our lungs and heart? Isn’t it the puja and the lights that are the heart of the festivities, not the fireworks?While some sections of the society are offended that fireworks are banned, I believe that it has also been particularly poorly handled by state governments. They could have banned fireworks at the start of the year and implemented the ban by intense public discussions, strict vigilance on trade. Traders might not have invested in the crackers, and eventually, the firecrackers won’t have been available in the market .Every state government must build consensus with influencers and religious bodies, and put in a tough ban several months ahead the coming year, so everyone can enjoy Diwali without either fireworks or feeling deprived.Keeping citizens safe is the fundamental role of any government.(The writer is Founder and Director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-political-will-more-public-participation-needed-to-enact-firecracker-ban/story-L3kual47WuC6f1kILW85LP.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi spells out India’s war strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s friends and detractors know that there is nothing casual about the man from Gujarat. He practises his speeches, measures his words, then articulates the message for maximum impact. Over the weekend, addressing the tri-services at historic Longewala, where a Punjab regiment company and Air Force Hunters destroyed 40 Pakistani tanks in the 1971 conflict, Modi spelt out the Indian war strategy and it was certainly not pacifist. He said that India is willing to understand or make the adversary understand but there will be fiery retaliation if the enemy tries to test its military might. Simply put, India is not seeking confrontation but will stand its ground in case it is confronted. In Modi’s speech there was a message for both domestic and international audience. He skipped the East Asia Summit to be with Indian troops on Diwali Day and deputed External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to speak in his stead.Modi’s stand has been consistent. For instance, during the Balakot strike on February 26, 2019, after the Pakistani propaganda machine started posting pictures of a captured and bleeding Wing Commander Abhinandan, Modi let it be known to Islamabad that India would launch a missile strike if any harm came to the Indian Air Force pilot. He asked Indian Prithvi Missiles to be deployed in the Rajasthan sector. Such was the impact of the message that MiG 21 Indian pilot was set free by the Pakistan government the very next day.In Longewal, like he has done previously, PM Modi criticised the expansionist policies of the present Chinese regime (although he did not name the country) by saying that it was a product of a 18th century twisted mindset and that India would firmly oppose it. This was a counter to the Chinese description of rapidly emerging QUAD grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia as a product of Cold War mindset.At Longewala, Modi again reiterated the Indian resolve to take the battle to the enemy or extinguish the threat to India at source. This new offensive-defensive doctrine of India has been accompanied by the building of airborne and expeditionary force projection capability, something that will ensure that future battles are not fought on Indian soil.Prime Minister Modi’s statement should not be seen in isolation but in the context of what his National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on banks of River Ganga at Rishikesh on October 22 and what External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at the East Asia Summit on Diwali day. The message from both was not sugar coated; it was an expression of what India expects from the neighbours in terms of (tamping down on) cross-border terrorism and (enhancing) freedom to navigate the South China Sea and resist any attempts to make it into Chinese pond. Without seeking any acrimony or confrontation with Beijing, what Jaishankar conveyed on Saturday was a reiteration of PM Modi’s conversation with the then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during the first summit meeting in 2014. At the time, Modi’s strong position alarmed some Indian mandarins but the PM has stayed true to that. It is another matter that Jaishankar was among the more moderate voices on the South China Sea at the East Asia Summit.While India and China are on track to disengage and de-escalate from East Ladakh to mutual satisfaction, New Delhi is neither over-negotiating with PLA to bring the Depsang bulge issue into the current resolution nor is it willing to cede an inch of territory from the friction points at Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and the finger 4 spur on the north banks of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-spells-out-india-s-war-strategy/story-jld07rXWIjYwCNIfpvCWYM.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Status not determined by posts’: Giriraj Singh to Sushil Kumar Modi||After Katihar MLA was on Sunday elected BJP’s leader in the Bihar assembly, Union Minister Giriraj Singh put out a tweet for Sushil Kumar Modi who was the leader of the party’s legislature party in the state before the just concluded assembly elections. “Respected Sushil ji, you are the leader, you had the post of Deputy Chief Minister, you will continue to remain the leader of BJP in the future as well, nobody’s status is determined by the post he holds,” Singh tweeted in HindiHe was responding to a tweet put out by Modi, who served as the deputy chief minister in Nitish Kumar’s last cabinet.“The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years that someone else might have not received it. I will discharge the responsibility that will be given to me. No one can take away the post of the worker,” Sushil Kumar Modi had tweeted.Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad was unanimously elected as the leader of the BJP party in Bihar.Earlier in the day, a meeting of the NDA was held where Nitish Kumar was named as the leader, paving the way for his return as chief minister for the fourth consecutive term.NDA secured a majority in the recently-concluded election to 243-member Bihar Assembly by winning 125 seats.Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar met Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan to stake claim to form NDA government. Later, he announced that the swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet will take place on Monday.“Oath taking ceremony to be held tomorrow afternoon around 4.30 pm,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-will-continue-to-remain-bjp-leader-in-future-as-well-giriraj-singh-to-sushil-modi/story-tMJ9fcXFJ2zu1xJgDDQRJJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Kolkata air quality turns poorer than that on Diwali evening||The Air quality in Kolkata turned poorer on Sunday evening from what it was 24 hours ago on the Kali puja and Diwali day, but it was still better when compared to that recorded a day after the festivals last year, an official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board said.The Air Quality Index (AQI) was higher than Saturday’s figure across the city. Though the air quality remained ‘poor’ in north Kolkata, it continued to be moderate elsewhere.The automated air monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University campus in congested north Kolkata recorded the AQI at 287 (PM 2.5) at 8 pm on Sunday while it was 226 at the same time on Saturday, the WBPCB official said.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’, while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.Also Read | Kolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworksOn Sunday, the AQI was 187 at Ballygunge in south Kolkata, 186 at Victoria in the central part of the city and 146 in east Kolkata’s Bidhan Nagar. On the Diwali evening on Saturday, the AQI at those three places were 142, 115 and 151 respectively.The AQI measured at Rabindra Bharati University was beyond 700 on the evenings of Kali Puja and Diwali evenings in 2019, the official said. However, the AQI elsewhere in the city had hovered between 300 and 500.Diwali is celebrated during the transition of two seasons - post-monsoon and pre-winter - when meteorological conditions do not support dilution and dispersion of pollutants due to low atmospheric boundary layer, low ventilation and low wind speed, the official said.In this transition phase, the ambient temperature, particularly at night, decreases and allows all pollutants to come close to ground level, especially in entire Indo-Gangetic plains, he said.The impact of bursting of firecrackers was alarming in 2019, and there was a blanket ban on fireworks this year. But lowering of night temperature was much significant, he said attributing the rise of the AQI to the night temperature conditions.The Calcutta High Court had last week ordered a blanket ban on the use of fireworks in West Bengal during Kali puja, Diwali, Chhath and other pujas during this festive season to curb pollution amid the COVID-19 pandemic.In the previous years, only firecrackers that emit over 90 decibels of sound were not allowed by the WBPCB, and there was no ban on fireworks that emit light.“Our control room is monitoring the situation 24x7 even today. We are collating figures. So far the situation remains largely under control,” he said.Environmentalist S M Ghosh said, “Thanks to the court order, public awareness and activities of the Kolkata Police, health experts and NGOs, air pollution is less.However, there should not be any laxity as AQI level in the ‘poor’ cause breathing problems to people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-air-quality-turns-poorer-than-that-on-diwali-evening/story-FkdOWLjL1woJ0hCsusa3rJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: ‘Prepared to deal with Covid-19 surge,’ says minister as temples set to reopen||After the Maharashtra government’s announcement to re-open places of worship from November 16, Maharashtra Cabinet Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday said that the state government is cautious about the surge in Covid-19 cases due to reopening, but it is ready to deal with it.“After eight months, the places of worship are going to reopen in Maharashtra, but we have also issued guidelines regarding social distancing and sanitisation. Hopefully, people will follow them. Maharashtra always has more cases but the government has controlled it with Maja kutumb, Maji zimmedari (My family, My Responsibility) campaign. Now if people don’t follow the instruction, the cases may increase again, but we have improved our health infrastructure and are prepared to deal with it,” he said.Religious places in Maharashtra will reopen on November 16 as per the instructions issued by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Taking about Karnataka government’s approval to establish Maratha Development Authority with Rs 50 crore fund, Malik said the reason behind the dispute with Karnataka is that Marathi speakers in the neighbouring state want to be part of Maharashtra.“Border dispute is an issue with Karnataka. Marathi speakers want to be part of Maharashtra. A Rs 50 crore fund is no redressal. The two governments should sit and talk,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-prepared-to-deal-with-covid-19-surge-says-minister-as-temples-set-to-reopen/story-rhWIcS9aALH5wkmGgcwUqK.html
16-11-2020||India||Religious places across Maharashtra to reopen today||Religious places across Maharashtra are reopening for devotees to offer prayers from Monday after several months of closure due to the lockdown imposed in a bid to control the Covid-19 pandemic.Maharashtra Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had on Saturday informed that all religious places including temples, shrines, churches, dargahs, etc in the state will be allowed to reopen for devotees from November 16.Notably, the prominent religious places across the state including Sai Baba temple in Shirdi, the Mahim Dargah in Mumbai and the Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune have been prepared for their reopening to the devotees.Also Read | No choir singing, touching of idols: Maharashtra issues SOPs as places of worship set to reopenThe gates of the places of worship were opened after midnight for the management officials to clean and sanitise the premises ahead of its reopening for devotees to offer early morning prayers.“After midnight, the doors of the Dargah Sharif were opened and the management officials entered the premises. After cleaning, the dargah will be opened for devotees for early morning Namaz,” Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said.Khandwani also urged the people to cooperate with the government and Dargah management to ensure people get to offer prayers without risking more exposure to Covid-19.“People have been waiting for over eight months. Government SOP and internal SOP of the dargah will be followed. We have put up boards with government and Dargah SOPs. Only those with facemasks will be allowed inside the premises and their temperature will be recorded before entry,” he said.The Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune has also carried out a complete sanitisation process for the temple premises and made arrangements for the adherence to Covid-19 protocol.Speaking to ANI, Sunil Rasne, deputy president of the temple trust said, “For now we will not be allowing devotees to wait outside or offer prasad and flowers here. They are only allowed to take darshan and leave the place immediately.”The management of the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi said it will only allow visitors inside the premises after an online booking for a specific time slot.“Devotees who want to visit will have to do online booking to get a time-slot for the ‘darshan’. Along with this, people will also have to show a Covid-negative RT-PCR result at the gate. Senior citizens, children and pregnant women will not be allowed to enter the temple,” a representative of the temple management said.“We have made arrangements to control the crowd at the temple. People will be allotted time slots online for visit. Only 6,000 people will be allowed to enter the temple in a day. The temple will only remain open for 14 hours,” the representative added.Religious places across the state have remained shut since March this year, when the Central government imposed a complete lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-across-maharashtra-to-reopen-today/story-9IDvE42vEUbmDHj4xdDOxN.html
16-11-2020||India||NIA wrongly names businessman in its list of most wanted||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was left red-faced recently when it released the name and photograph of a businessman, Mahesh Agarwal of Adhunik Group, which runs coal and steel plants, in its list of most wanted. And so, for almost nine months, the businessman whose companies do business in thousands of crores appeared in the “most wanted” section of the NIA’s website, usually reserved for global terrorists such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, and Hizbul Mujahideen leader Syed Salahuddin, their local cadres, and others accused of heinous crimes against the country. The agency had to take down Agarwal’s name from the section last month after the Jharkhand high court, earlier this year, asked it not to take any coercive action against him. Agarwal, managing director of Adhunik Power and Natural Resources Limited (APNRL), which runs a coal based transmission power unit in Jharkhand, was arraigned as an accused by NIA in a charge sheet filed on January 10 this year for allegedly funding the activities of a Maoist-backed group Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC). The case, which dates back to 2016, pertains to extortion by Naxal groups from businessmen, transporters and contractors in the coal-rich regions of Bihar and Jharkhand. TPC, a Maoist organisation was receiving money in the names of its leader, according to the charge sheet, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.The agency alleged in its supplementary charge sheet against Agarwal that on his direction, payment of Rs 200 per metric ton of coal was made to coal transporters against work orders for the purpose of paying to TPC operatives and village committees for smooth functioning of his business. On the basis of the charge sheet, a Special NIA court in Ranchi issued a non-bailable warrant against Agarwal on January 17 after which NIA put his name and photograph in the most wanted list on its website. Agarwal’s lawyer Nitesh Rana filed an interlocutory application in the Jharkhand HC that by putting his name in most wanted list, the NIA damaged his reputation. Rana said: “My client has been falsely implicated in the case. He was an NIA witness till last year. In fact, the agency approached Special court in Ranchi in March 2019 for recording his statement under section 164 of CrPC as a witness. However, all of sudden, he was arraigned as an accused this year despite the fact that his name was not there in the FIR.” Rana said that they had challenged the charge sheet but the agency still went ahead and included his name in its most wanted list. And there it stayed.NIA officer, Subodh Sharma, said in an affidavit filed before the HC on November 3 that the agency removed Agarwal’s name from the list on October 21. The agency, however, defended its charges against Agarwal. NIA officials declined comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-wrongly-names-businessman-in-its-list-of-most-wanted/story-dGXYPr1y8Epf4ond12vX6H.html
16-11-2020||India||Communist by faith, actor Soumitra Chatterjee was critical of BJP, Left and Congress||Though politicians from all spectrums, including top national leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), mourned his death on Sunday, legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee was a critic of the saffron force and believed that secular values in the country were getting eroded. He was equally critical of the Left parties and the Congress, if one goes by the last signed article he wrote before the Durga Puja. Often referred to as a renaissance man by Bengal’s intellectuals, Chatterjee was not a member of any political party but believed in communist ideology and occasionally wrote for the mouthpieces of the West Bengal CPI(M), including Ganashakti, a daily. His last article appeared in Ganashakti’s festive number published on the eve of Durga Puja. “I still believe that the Left path is the only alternative,” read the headline of the article in which the actor spoke about communalism, Ram Mandir, BJP, Congress and the Left parties. “I am surprised that the man during whose tenure Gujarat witnessed communal riots in 2002 is now ruling India. Indians are tolerating these people and voting them to power once again. I think the big reason is that people cannot find a powerful alternative. Or, they don’t know what to do,” Chatterjee wrote in the signed three-page article. He did not name anyone. Referring to construction of the new Ram Mandir, Chatterjee wrote, “So many people are dying during the pandemic and yet there is politics in the name of Ram. The funny part is that Ram, to whom a temple is being dedicated, is known to us since our childhood. He is popular for thousands of years. He is right before our eyes…” Writing a rather long portion on the cow vigilantes, the actor said, “How can someone put a diktat on what to eat?” Referring to demolition of the Babri Masjid, Chatterjee wrote, “I will always raise one question. Where were the political parties that could have stopped it? Speaking against the incident is not enough. People should have been brought together under their flags.” “The Congress ruled the country for 60 years. Many of its leaders are Rightists. Not openly but secretly. It is time to review the history,” wrote Chatterjee in the article. “It is my opinion that there are shortcomings in the evaluation of the Leftists as well. We had many differences with Gandhi and it still exists. But we cannot deny the honesty in his politics. How many politicians have that honesty today? This is making us rethink. The Leftists could have declared that Gandhi was the leader of the freedom movement but they had differences with him. Can’t this much be done?” Chatterjee wrote. BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said his father and Chatterjee’s father were friends and the two families lived at Krishnanagar in Nadia district where the actor spent his childhood. “I knew him all my life. The height he achieved with his multi-faceted talent put him in a class above the rest. How can the BJP not show him respect just because he believed in Left ideology? I am in the BJP but he freely discussed many current issues with me. We also had our differences. Some things are above politics,” said Majumdar. Chatterjee’s final journey to the crematorium on Sunday evening was marked by the presence of the state’s top Left leaders. CPI(M) state secretary Suryakanta Mishra, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and others walked in a procession led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee while a few thousand fans of the departed screen icon followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communist-by-faith-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-was-critical-of-bjp-left-and-congress/story-ijwKbkzPbPZGSNviV9jw3O.html
16-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi was picnicking while PM Modi focused on Bihar polls: RJD’s Shivanand Tiwary||In the first open attack against the Congress for its poor show in the Bihar assembly polls, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) national vice president Shivanand Tiwary on Sunday took aim at Rahul Gandhi for vacationing in Shimla amid the electoral battle even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a dozen rallies.Tiwary, an outspoken leader, also slammed the Congress as “a non-serious player”.Rahul Gandhi addressed only eight rallies throughout the three-week long poll campaign for the three-phase election, which ended on November 7. The Congress won only 19 seats out of 70 seats it contested. It has led to heartburn in the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) that the coalition lost out to the ruling NDA by a slender margin to reach the majority figure of 122 MLAs because of the grand old party’s low strike rate in winning seats. “Rahul Gandhi is much younger than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But Modi addressed more rallies than Gandhi. The Congress took as many as 70 seats in seat sharing but did not do 70 rallies. The party’s effort in the polls matching the number of seats it contested was totally lacking in Bihar this time. Gandhi was picnicking at his sister’s place in Shimla when elections were on. Is this the way a party is run? The Congress’s non-serious approach in running the party only gives room for making allegations that the national party is only helping the BJP,” he said. He also took potshots at the Congress leader for the party’s poor show in Uttar Pradesh assembly election in 2017 when Gandhi in alliance with Samajwadi Party( SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav had managed to win 54 seats out of 403 seats. The senior leader maintained the Congress top leadership was not adapting to changes or listening to even senior leaders for organisational overhaul highlighting how 23 senior party leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari had written to the party president Sonia Gandhi for bringing in sweeping changes. “But what happened? Nothing. There was no change in Congress’ way of functioning,” he said. Tiwary, who is former Rajya Sabha MP and former minister, also was unsparing about his attack against Priyanka Gandhi saying her focus in Uttar Pradesh as AICC general secretary has not cut much ice. “In the bye-election in four seats in UP recently, Congress candidates lost their deposits in four seats out of seven seats where polls were held. So how has Priyanka been able to shore up the party’s sagging poll fortunes in UP?” he asked. Despite his scathing criticism, Tiwary asserted his utterances against the Congress should not be perceived as that of a RJD national vice president’s alone but also as that of a senior politician of the state who has spent 50 years in politics for social justice, democratic values and civil rights. “We want the Congress to get stronger. Today, democracy is in danger especially the way civil liberties are being curbed and democratic voices are being suppressed in the country under the BJP rule. But I feel the Congress is not making any concerted effort in this direction. As a party, Congress must learn from the BJP of being accommodative towards allies like re-electing chief minister Nitish Kumar to the top post despite JD(U) winning only 43 seats and bringing on board smaller allies like VIP and HAM,” he said. He also said that even Bihar Congress leaders are now acknowledging there were big mistakes in candidate selection. “Congress leaders today staged dharna. A section of party leaders are now admitting it was wrong selection and faulty campaign that led to the party’s poor show,” Tiwary said. The RJD had been muted so far in blaming the Congress for the GA’s failure to reach the halfway mark with leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav saying all allies have worked collectively. But the CPI-ML (liberation), a major Left party in the state which won 12 seats as GA partner this time, has already put the Congress in the dock for the alliance’s debacle. “Congress had a low strike rate and it appears the party did not choose its candidates and carried the poll campaign as desired. The Congress must review its shortcomings,” said CPI ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattarcharya recently. The signs of internal wrangling in the GA are coming to the fore and the relations between RJD and Congress could now come under increasing strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-was-picnicking-while-pm-modi-focused-on-bihar-polls-rjd-s-shivanand-tiwary/story-4O0MPmHpTJZ63Bu8GzV7QI.html
16-11-2020||India||25 held as Centre cracks down on GST fraud||The government has launched a major drive against Goods and Services Tax (GST) fraud and other defaults worth over Rs4,500 crore, and has arrested more than two dozen fraudsters in just four days, including the son of a Maharashtra-based politician, promoters and chartered accountants, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said on Sunday.The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) crackdown on unscrupulous elements engaged in fake invoices to fraudulently avail themselves of GST input tax credit took place after a high-level meeting at the department of revenue on November 7, the officials said requesting anonymity.The simultaneous crackdown covered 28 cities: Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Ludhiana, Chennai, Nagpur, Kolkata, Gurugram, Jind, Ballabhgarh, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Bhilai, Jodhpur, Hyderabad, Mathura, Raipur, Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Patna, Imphal, Meerut, Guwahati, Pune, Siliguri, Bhopal and Bhubaneshwar.In the past four days, 25 people have been arrested, including two kingpins and two professionals, and some 350 cases have been booked for issuing fake invoices against 1,180 entities for availing and passing on the input tax credit (ITC) through fake invoices, non-existent or fly-by-night firms and circular trading, one of the officials cited above, working in the DGGI, said.The DGGI functions under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), an arm of the department of revenue in the Union finance ministry.Officials said while actual amount of fraud is still being ascertained, conservatively the estimated amount so far is in excess to Rs 4,500 crore.Giving details of the major cases, the first official said that the DGGI, Mumbai zone, has already arrested Sunil Gutte, son of a sitting MLA and sugar baron Ratnakar Gutte, along with his business associate Vijendra Ranka in a fake invoice scam worth Rs520 crore. HT reported it on November 12. “His company, Sunil Hi-tech Engineers Ltd, was engaged in availing and utilizing ITC based on bogus invoices, issued without any supply or receipt of goods or services,” the official said.The Mumbai zone has also booked another case against a company and their directors for passing on fake ITC amounting to Rs209 crore without supplying iron and steel articles. “It has also been found that they ran the racket of fake invoices for not only evading GST, but in a massive bank loan fraud of more than Rs2,500 crore,” he said.“Search and investigation are on to identify and apprehend the other persons who were involved in the racket and also the beneficiaries who have used the fake invoices to evade GST, income-tax, and do money laundering,” the second official said.“The drive against the tax evaders and ITC fraudsters, which started November 9, is expected to further intensify in the days to come and many more arrests will be done. Cases would also be investigated against the beneficiaries by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering,” the first official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-held-as-centre-cracks-down-on-gst-fraud/story-9cis5kZf4sGzmVcw8Wt9lM.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter Session||Rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the Capital might cast a shadow on the upcoming winter session of Parliament, said two functionaries with knowledge of the developments. There is a possibility that the session, which normally begins in November and ends in December, may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. A senior functionary privy to meetings said that there was concern among MPs, and given the spread of the virus in the Capital, it might be untenable to allow Parliament to function. “The monsoon session was held after much deliberation and detail to logistics, hundreds of tests were conducted on a daily basis on the premises; measures were put in place to ensure physical distancing, extensive sanitization was carried out and yet there were several cases of infection. Now, with the cases increasing in Delhi there is a suggestion from officials as well as some members of Parliament to reconsider holding the winter session,” said the functionary quoted above. To be sure, the issue is yet to be formally discussed between the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu; but the suggestion to defer the session has been conveyed to secretariat officials, said the functionary.The winter session would have been the second parliamentary session, after the monsoon session, to take place during the Covid-19 pandemic. The monsoon session had to be cut short by eight days after cases of Covid-19 infection were reported among MPs, Union ministers and the staff on Parliament duty. In all, at least 50 people connected to Parliament tested positive. On the day the monsoon session started (September 14), new cases in Delhi averaged 4,001. In the last week, the daily average stands at 6,670.A second official said there was no pressing matter to be taken up during the winter session, or any ordinances that would otherwise lapse. “There is a possibility of a short session as some officials have pointed out that the government has to seek Parliament’s nod for additional spending in some sectors in supplementary demand for grants. However, there is precedence of a obtaining a post-facto ratification,” said the second official. PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha general secretary, said as per convention, Parliament meets for three sessions in a year, but there is no rule specifying the number of days or the period during which Parliament should meet. “As per the Constitution the only requirement is that gap between two sessions should not be more than six months,” he said. Acharya also said the government could explore the opting of online sessions as Parliament proceedings are open and there is no secrecy involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spike-in-capital-may-hit-winter-session/story-1SPYdxfzHARvtpkCpT2I0O.html
