17-11-2020||India||BMC clamps restrictions on Chhath Puja in Mumbai, BJP cries foul||Amid fears of a second wave of Covid-19 in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has prohibited performing Chhath Puja at beaches, riverside and lakes Devotees wanting to perform Chhath Puja will now have to set up artificial ponds at their own cost and should ensure scrapping of the ponds too, the BMC said in a circular on Tuesday. It said that strict regimen of wearing masks, no overcrowding by devotees and social distancing will be ensured by the police deployed around artificial ponds.According to the circular, the permissions to perform Chhath Puja will be given at the ward-level. All 24 administrative wards will ensure that a medical team is set up near the artificial ponds to conduct Covid tests for devotees through antigen or RT-PCR kits. Police will also be deployed at places that have been prohibited for performing the rituals to ensure that there is no gathering of devotees.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have protested against the restrictions by the BMC alleging that they are discriminatory in nature. Vinod Mishra, BJP leader in the BMC, said, “Immersion of Ganesh idols were allowed at beaches and lakes this year. The Covid situation during that period was grave and now when it has improved, the civic body is imposing more restrictions. These guidelines are discriminatory and we condemn them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-clamps-restrictions-on-chhath-puja-in-mumbai-bjp-cries-foul/story-pkfXXVpi1WXIxJ1dYgXQwJ.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Stressful relations’: Jaishankar analyses China ties, then some advice||India-China relations have been disturbed by the unexplained violation of agreements on border management and troop deployments and Beijing needs to reflect on the world’s reaction to its actions, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. The current status of bilateral ties is a “cause for concern” because 45 years of peace and tranquillity on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) have been eroded by the developments of this year, including the Galwan Valley clash of June, Jaishankar said while participating in a virtual discussion with his Canadian counterpart François-Philippe Champagne. Champagne described Canada’s relations with China as “multi-dimensional and complex”, and said one of the biggest issues for Ottawa was the arbitrary detention by Beijing of two Canadian citizens for close to 700 days. “Coercive diplomacy” has no place in today’s world, and Canada will challenge China on issues such as human rights and the situations in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, while co-existing and cooperating in areas such as the Indo-Pacific, trade and climate change, Champagne said. Jaishankar said 45 years of peace on the LAC had made China one of India’s top trade partners and triggered growth in investments, tech tie-ups and tourism. “The last time somebody was killed [by violence] on that border was 1975, and in June 2020, it changed,” he said. “I think we are going through a period of stressful relations with China. My hope is that people at that end of the relationship understand the seriousness of what has happened,” he added. He suggested China needs to reflect on the world’s reaction to its actions. Though the rise of China is part of a global rebalancing, “it is the responsibility of the rising power to also consider how does the world react...It is not just enough to rise, I think it is enough to rise with a certain degree of care and consideration for the larger international system”, he said. Jaishankar said the two sides had agreements not to bring large number of forces to the border that were observed for 30 years. “If today, that is violated without explanation, with no justification offered to us, we have to ask ourselves, where is this going?” he asked.“There is cause for concern but it is in the nature of our job to try and work out solutions,” he said, against the backdrop of India and China failing to make headway in disengagement after several rounds of talks. The two ministers were participating in a discussion on the theme “Canada and India’s role in a post-Covid-19 world” organised by the think tanks Centre for International Governance Innovation and Gateway House. Jaishankar and Champagne spoke of the potential for India and Canada to cooperate for post-Covid-19 economic recovery, creating stable supply chains, and vaccine development and access. Champagne said India has a critical role in the manufacturing and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and the two countries can do more together in the Indo-Pacific region and for upholding a rules-based international order. Jaishankar noted Covid-19 has shaken up the world and India and Canada should focus on how they can shape the emerging order. India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat presents new opportunities for Canadian businesses and new areas for cooperation include digital technologies, space and clean energy, he said. Without naming the Khalistan movement, which was a major irritant in India-Canada ties during Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s first term, Jaishankar said: “Both nations have benefited from the talent and creativity of the human bridge. However, we have also seen the misuse of democratic freedoms by a small minority with medieval beliefs and a propensity to violence.” India-Canada trade is currently worth about $10 billion a year and Canadian investments in India total more than $60 billion. Among the major investors are Canadian pension funds, and 500 Canadian companies have investments in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-going-through-stressful-relations-with-china-says-jaishankar/story-1KfP9Mx388WUzcWuLGUqtL.html
17-11-2020||India||Indo-US ties will pick up, Joe Biden no stranger to India: S Jaishankar||The Indian government will face no problems in taking forward ties with the US under the Joe Biden administration because of the strong element of bipartisan support for the bilateral relationship, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. “I am very confident that we will pick up where we left off (with the Donald Trump administration), we have done that over the last four administrations,” Jaishankar said while participating in an online discussion organised by the think tanks Centre for International Governance Innovation and Gateway House. “I think that will be the case as well here and I say that because within the American politics, it’s not just that we deal with the administration of the day, we also tend to deal with the Congress. American politics by its nature has very strong elements of bipartisanship,” he said. President-elect Biden is “not a stranger to India or to the relationship” and India has dealt with him in his former roles as vice president in the Barack Obama administration and as ranking Democratic member and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Jaishankar said. “He (Biden) is very much part of this period when Indo-American relations underwent a radical transformation, which I reasonably date back to former President Bill Clinton’s visit to India in 2000,” he said. “You had four presidents and you really cannot find more dissimilar people – Clinton, George W Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump. But one issue and one relationship to which all of them were committed was the Indian relationship,” he added. There is a “very strong element of structural predictability and a certain ballast” in the India-US relationship, Jaishankar said, adding that both countries are natural partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-us-ties-will-pick-up-joe-biden-no-stranger-to-india-s-jaishankar/story-TVJTUS27KN3q6oadQjwjoO.html
17-11-2020||India||It’s turning out to be a lucky year for Sandeep!||Like every sector, ongoing pandemic has affected the entertainment industry too but still there are a few lucky ones for whom it did bring a positive change. Lucknow-based actor Sandeep Yadav feels it has been a blessed year for him in terms of work and self-growth. It started in March when he was seen in Anubhav Sinha’s ‘Thappad’ followed by Shoojit Sircar’s ‘Gulabo Sitabo’, OTT series ‘Hansmukh’ and ‘Ashram’. Sandeep has already shot for two films and is working on his third that will be ‘Satyamev Jayate-2.’ “Certainly, it has been luckiest year for me. My four major projects released this year and fortunately during the lockdown people had time to sit down and notice my work. In unlock phase while in Lucknow, I was offered a feature film. It has been an exciting phase in terms of getting good opportunities,” said the ‘Bhabhiji Ghar Par Hain actor.’ On personal too front he gained a lot. “I got a lot time to explore myself. I was never into finance planning but now, I have became more organised and well versed in such matters. Interestingly, I also got time to work on personal being and lost 15 kgs weight. After losing weight (from 80 kg) the roles I’m getting are very different even lesser than my real age. Makers are looking at me in varied roles.” Besides, his film ‘Uljhan’ directed by Amit Pant and shot in Lucknow last year became NFDC’s official entry to Cannes Film Festival this year. “I played an honest government officer who due to family pressure takes bribe and gets caught.” Giving an insight about his future projects he shares, “In Kunal Kohli’s ‘Lahore Confidential’ I play a RAW agent. In Faiz Anwar’s film ‘Stage Singer’ I have a negative role while in ‘Satyamev Jayate-2’ I’ll be seen in a negative character — a corrupt government employee. I’m also scheduled to shoot for a web-series with Arshad Warsi in December.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-turning-out-to-be-a-lucky-year-for-sandeep/story-50cB3NRYECb3MSFFQn2nzH.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Still a long way to go...’||Known for films like ‘Zameen,’ ‘My Wife’s Murder,’ ‘D-Day’ and shows like ‘Jai Hanuman’ and ‘Naagin,’ Varanasi-born actor and director Manish Khanna feels it has been a contented journey but still he has a long way to go. “Mine, has been an eventful career with a great mix of roles but still there many interesting characters out there waiting for me,” he said. Giving an insight on how things have changed in all these years in the industry, Manish said, “It’s a complete 360 degree turn that our industry has undergone. I’ve been here for almost 30 years now and in terms of content and stories we are living in the best era. It’s unbelievable that we could finally say no to those 100 dancers’ songs and overdramatised action films. I’m so glad that I’m able to work in this period where storytelling and good scripts are extremely essential.” When asked about his TV journey where he has been part of larger than life shows too, he was quick to revert. “TV too underwent change but then television caters vast audience which includes kids, elderly and youngsters. These fantasy shows are planned for a target audience especially kids who enjoy such mind-boggling tales. Like, we as kids used to love super hero comics so why not a TV show can be based on it,” said Manish who plays a ‘tantrik’ in upcoming fantasy drama ‘Brahmarakshas-2.’The versatile actor plans to shoot his directorial OTT series in Lucknow next month. “I have completed my college from Lucknow and have spent beautiful days in the city before shifting to Mumbai for my bread and better. I’ll always cherish those days and I always have this strong carving for Lakhnavi cuisine. I’m glad next month my work will take me to the city of Nawabs again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/still-a-long-way-to-go/story-FMwhBAyF44q6W6GWwN3GFM.html
17-11-2020||India||BSF officer arrested by CBI in Kolkata in cattle smuggling case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday evening arrested Satish Kumar, a senior Border Security Force (BSF) officer, in the cattle smuggling case in Bengal that the agency has been probing since 2018. Kumar was arrested in Kolkata after hours of interrogation. The officer is one of the prime accused named in the first information report (FIR). He was commandant in the South Bengal Frontier of the BSF and is now posted in Raipur in Chhattisgarh. His home in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, was raided in September, a senior BSF official of the South Bengal Frontier said on condition of anonymity. A house that he owns in the Salt Lake area in the eastern fringes of Kolkata was also sealed by the agency. The CBI is probing the alleged involvement of several BSF and Customs officials in the ongoing probe into cattle smuggling along the West Bengal-Bangladesh border. The illegal trade involved crores of rupees. A CBI officer said on condition of anonymity that according to the agency’s FIR more than 20,000 cows were seized by the BSF when Kumar was posted as commandant of the 36th Battalion from May 2016 to May 2017. However, neither was any smuggler arrested nor the vehicles used for ferrying the cattle seized, the FIR says. The case was registered in 2018 after a BSF commandant, who served in Bengal, was booked in Kerala. The probe revealed a nexus between government officers and cow traders. It is alleged that cattle seized by the BSF were auctioned within 24 hours with the help of some Customs officers so that cattle traders could buy these at very low price and legally sell them again. The CBI is probing charges that for every cow seized and sold through this nexus, BSF officials used to get Rs 2,000 and Custom officials used to get Rs 500, according to the CBI FIR that HT has seen. In addition, Customs officials used to allegedly get 10 per cent of the auction price as a bribe. CBI officers suspect that a large amount of money was sent to other states through hawala operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-officer-arrested-by-cbi-in-kolkata-in-cattle-smuggling-case/story-R6SO6NZ3xelf7JfnWq3qfO.html
17-11-2020||India||Telangana accepts Centre’s borrowing option-1 to meet GST shortfall||Telangana has accepted Centre’s borrowing proposal to meet GST revenue shortfall and will get Rs 2,380 crore through the special window. “The Government of Telangana has communicated its acceptance for Option-1 out of the two options suggested by the Ministry of Finance to meet the shortfall in revenue arising out of GST implementation. The state has now joined 22 other states and 3 Union Territories (Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry) who have opted for Option-1,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement.  The Centre has already borrowed Rs 18,000 crore on behalf of the states in three instalments and has passed it on to 22 states and 3 Union Territories on October 23, November 2 and November 9.   Now Telangana will receive funds raised through this window and the next instalment of borrowings is likely to be released on November 23, the ministry added. Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Government of India, under Aatmanirbhar Abhiyaan. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore.Also Read | GST law committee to consider legal provisions against fake invoices on WednesdayOn receipt of the choice of Option-1 from the Government of Telangana, the Government of India has today granted the State Government of Telangana additional borrowing permission of Rs 5,017 crore (0.5 per cent of Telangana’s GSDP), the Ministry said. States who have opted for Option-1 are – Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand, along with the three Union Territories of Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry. However, states like Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand are yet to opt for the borrowing plan proposed by the Centre saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall.Under the borrowing plan (Option-1), the Centre would borrow from market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore collection shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-accepts-centre-s-borrowing-option-1-to-meet-gst-shortfall/story-F4VRcTj5prLQ8t0XkH26WJ.html
17-11-2020||India||Storage of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine challenge for most nations; India examining possibilities: Govt||The cold-chain requirement for the anti-coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by Pfizer at a temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius poses a big challenge, but the government is examining the possibilities if at all the vaccine has to be obtained by India, it said on Tuesday.The government further said a national scheme on Covid-19 vaccine distribution is in its final stages of preparation.At a press briefing, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul, who also heads the National Task Force on Covid-19, said sufficient doses of the vaccine, as required for the Indian population, will not be available, but the government is looking at the possibilities and will work out a strategy for its procurement and distribution in case it gets the regulatory approvals.Paul, however, reminded that the arrival of the Pfizer vaccine in the country might take some months.“The arrangement of cold-chains for storing the vaccine developed by Pfizer at a low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius is a big challenge and it will not be easy for any nation. But then, if at all it has to be obtained, we are examining what we need to do...and will work out a strategy,” he said.As for both the vaccine candidates of Moderna and Pfizer, Paul said, “We are watching the developments. They have announced the preliminary results and have not got the regulatory approvals.” The official expressed hope on the success of the five vaccines that are under different phases of trial in the country. The doses of these vaccines will be available in sufficient numbers. Giving an update, he said the phase-3 trial of the Oxford vaccine of the Serum Institute is almost near completion, while the phase-3 clinical trial of the indigenously-developed vaccine candidate of the Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already started.Another indigenously-developed vaccine candidate of the Zydus Cadila has completed the phase-2 clinical trial, Paul said.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will soon start the combined phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in India. Also, the Biological E Limited has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE last week said their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19.  Moderna on Monday said the independent National Institutes of Health-appointed Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the Phase 3 study of mRNA-1273, its vaccine candidate against Covid-19, found it to have an efficacy of 94.5 per cent.Asked if the government is working on a draft scheme on Covid-19 vaccine distribution, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said one of the mandates of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 is to have a time-bound scheme to ensure the fulfilment of the commitment that the prime minister made to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, where he said the citizens will be inoculated as soon as the vaccine becomes available.“A document in this regard is in its final stages of preparation. We have shared it with the state governments and have taken their inputs. We are also in the process of finalising the database of the priority population groups, who will be administered the vaccine if and when it becomes available, and there also, we are in collaboration with the states and other central ministries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/storage-of-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine-challenge-for-most-nations-india-examining-possibilities-govt/story-nlF3R682pCxkzCqeyFwRYI.html
17-11-2020||India||Farooq, Omar Abdullah in self-isolation after secondary contact tests positive for Covid-19||National Conference (NC) leaders and father-son duo Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah went into self-isolation on Tuesday after one of their secondary contacts tested positive for Covid-19.The announcement was made by Omar Abdullah on Twitter, saying doctors had advised them self-isolation for a week, before undergoing a precautionary COVID test.“My father & I have been in contact with a person who was in turn staying with a relative who tested COVID positive. Based on medical advice, we will be self-isolating for a week before getting a precautionary COVID test,” the NC vice-president said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-omar-abdullah-in-self-isolation-after-secondary-contact-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-7J2rkh9GlTbVKqPCnhcVNO.html
17-11-2020||India||RTI activist RK Jain succumbs to Covid-19, other ailments||Noted activist RK Jain, who led a battle to penalise the political parties not responding to RTI queries, has succumbed to Covid-19 and other ailments, his family members said on Tuesday.Founder of the Centax Publications and editor of the Excise Law Times, Jain had complained against all the national parties that were not abiding by an order of the full bench of the Central Information Commission (CIC), which had brought them under the ambit of the Right to Information (RTI) Act.“First it was COVID, then non-COVID complications, which resulted in multiple organ failure on Monday evening,” Jain’s son Navneet told PTI.A full bench of the commission had brought six national parties -- Congress, BJP, NCP, CPI, CPI(M) and BSP -- under the ambit of the RTI Act on June 3, 2013 on the plea of another activist, Subhash Agrawal.But these parties did not adhere to the commission’s directives and respond to RTI applications filed by Jain and Agrawal.Jain (70) had filed a complaint against these parties with the CIC.Not getting a hearing, he had approached the Delhi High Court, which had directed the CIC to complete the hearing within six months, but the matter is still pending.Jain had also filed a number of RTI applications related to the excise and customs departments and contested these cases in the CIC.Agrawal and another activist, Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd), expressed grief over Jain’s sudden demise.Batra said it is a big casualty to the RTI community. Agrawal expressed shock and disbelief over the news.Former information commissioner Sridhar Acharyulu said it is a big loss to the transparency advocates’ community.“He was one of the few serious experts of the RTI Act. He had developed his own software to keep a track of his applications, appeals and complaints. Jain was an important contributor to information jurisprudence with some very important cases brought by him and in a number of others, he appeared,” he said.Jain was a strong supporter of bringing political parties under the ambit of the RTI Act but unfortunately, that case could not reach culmination, Acharyulu said.“Very sad to hear about his sad demise. A great fighter. Very outspoken and upfront without being abrasive or hurtful. We fought so many appeals and complaints together in the CIC and secured some important orders. Hearings used to be always followed by a meal at a dhaba in Bhikaji Cama Place. Will miss him as a great friend and advisor,” Hyderabad-based activist CJ Karira said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rti-activist-rk-jain-succumbs-to-covid-19-other-ailments/story-PXGUpzkcmRHdO0fHvOCI3K.html
17-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar draws RJD fire for appointing scam-tainted Mewalal Choudhary education minister||The main opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Tuesday attacked Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for appointing JD(U)’s Mewalal Choudhary as education minister three years after he was sacked from the party for alleged involvement in a corruption case when he headed the Bihar Agriculture University.Choudhary, the JD (U) MLA from Tarapur, was expelled from the party in 2017.“The corrupt JDU MLA Mewalal has been given a ministerial position by Nitish Kumar. This is the double standard of Nitish Kumar, the patron of 60 scams. This man can fall to the lowest level for a chair,” the RJD tweeted in Hindi.Choudhary was accused of irregularities in the appointment of assistant professors and junior scientists at the Bihar Agriculture University (BAU) in Bhagalpur when he was its vice-chancellor.According to sources, an FIR was lodged against him on February 20, 2017 with the Sabour police station in Bhagalpur on the directives of the then Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind, who set up a probe committee after several applicants alleged irregularities in appointments. Choudhary was booked under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine of forged document) and 120 (B) (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Three days after the FIR was lodged against him, Choudhary was expelled from the JD(U), party sources said.BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi, the then Opposition leader, had said, “We demand his immediate arrest. If he is not arrested, we will raise the issue in the House.”On August 22, 2017, the Patna high court granted Choudhary anticipatory bail. In January 2018, he was taken back into the JD (U).Choudhary was the founder V-C of the BAU from 2010 to mid-2015. BAU sources said the university had in 2011 issued an advertisement seeking applications for 281 posts of assistant professor-cum-junior scientist. The appointments were made against only 161 vacancies under general category in 2012. BAU is an autonomous institute under the Bihar government, established in 2010 under Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Choudhary joined the JD (U) in October 2015 after his stint as VC.Sujit Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Bhagalpur range) said till date police filed a charge sheet against only two persons in the case. Investigation is on and supplementary a charge sheet would be filed against more suspects.Meanwhile, former IPS officer Amitabh Kumar Das on Tuesday wrote a letter to the Director General of Police and sought a probe into the mysterious death of Mewala’s wife and former MLA Neeta Choudhary on June 2, 2019. Das said he suspected that Neeta might have known about corruption in the agriculture university.When contacted, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said he did not have any information on the entire episode.Choudhary remained combative. “The state government is looking into it and the IPS officer will be served legal notice,” he told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-draws-rjd-fire-for-appointing-scam-tainted-mewalal-choudhary-education-minister/story-JuQv2Xv1dZwhLEggnuvLGN.html
17-11-2020||India||Govt will leave no stone unturned to make India preferred global investment destination: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government will leave no stone unturned to make India a preferred global investment destination as he pitched for foreign investment to modernise urban centres, offering a business friendly climate and a huge market. As the nation rebuilds post pandemic, Modi said Covid-19 has given governments the chance to accelerate the “process of making cities more liveable for people”. “We are looking at a future where a major chunk of education, healthcare, shopping may happen online. Our cities need to be ready for the convergence of the physical and digital worlds,” he said in his speech at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. Noting that the Covid-19 pandemic has posed enormous challenges before the world, Modi said he thinks the historic reconstruction efforts after the two world wars can give “us several lessons”. Post world wars, the entire world worked on a new world order. New protocols were developed and world changed itself. “Covid-19 has also given us a similar opportunity to develop new protocols in every field. This opportunity should be grabbed by the world if we want to develop resilient systems for the future. We should think on post Covid requirements of the world. A good starting point would be the rejuvenation of our urban centres,” Modi said. Highlighting Indian cities have presented an extra-ordinary example during these tough times, Modi said: “There were world-wide incidents of resistance against the lockdown measures. However Indian cities meticulously followed these preventive measures. This is because, for us, the biggest building block of our cities was not concrete, but the community.” The prime minister said the pandemic has re-emphasised “that our biggest resource, as societies and as businesses, is our people”. The post-Covid world, he stressed, has to be built by nurturing this key and fundamental resource. The prime minister said it has been the endeavour in India to build urban centres, which have the amenities of a city but the spirit of a village. Pitching for foreign investment, he said India has exciting opportunities for investment in urbanisation, mobility, innovation and sustainable solution. These opportunities come along with a vibrant democracy, a business friendly climate, a huge market and a government which shall leave no stone unturned to make India a preferred global investment destination, he said. Modi further said India is well on its way towards urban transformation. “I have no doubt that with the help of all stakeholders, the civil society, academic institutions, industry and most importantly the citizens and communities, we will achieve the dream of resilient and prosperous global cities,” he said. In his address, Modi emphasised cities cannot prosper without availability of affordable housing, and talked about the ‘Housing for All’ programme launched by his government in 2015. “We will deliver more than one crore or 10 million houses to aspiring families in urban areas before the targeted deadline of 2022,” he said. He also told the gathering that looking at the conditions created by the pandemic, the government also introduced an affordable rental housing initiative. He also said the Real Estate Regulation Act has transformed the dynamics of the real estate sector. This has made it more customer-oriented and transparent, the prime minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-make-india-preferred-global-investment-destination-pm-modi/story-zhjLjfi11u0XNAsN8PVKmN.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Centre may not procure Pfizer shots at all||The Centre will deliberate if Pfizer vaccine against Covid-19, which needs a temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius, should be obtained at all. And the storage requirement is not the only roadblock the Covid-19 task force is worries about. The quantity in which they will be available would not be sufficient for Indian population, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul, who also heads the National Task Force on Covid-19, said. But if the vaccine gets regulatory approvals meanwhile, the government will work out a strategy for procurement and distribution, he said. Not only for India, the cold storage requirement of the PFizer vaccine will pose a challenge to many countries — an issue that is being highlighted by medical experts across the world. Both Moderna and Pfizer have announced the results of their initial trials and are awaiting regulatory approvals. India is pinning its hope on the five vaccines that are under different phases of trial in the country. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine update: Bharat Biotech begins phase 3 trials, Moderna says its candidate nearly 95% effectiveThe five candidates also include Russia’s Sputnik-V whose trials in India will start next week in collaboration with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, apart from Bharat Biotech’s indigenous COVAXIN and Serum Institutes Oxford vaccine Covishield. Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and another vaccine being developed by Biological E. Ltd alongside Baylor College of Medicine and Dynavax Technologies Corp are also on the list.Pfizer and BioNTech SE last week said their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. Moderna on Monday said its vaccine candidate against Covid-19, found it to have an efficacy of 94.5 per cent. Moderna’s vaccine has normal temperature requirement, unlike that of PFizer. Pfizer vaccine requires minus 70 degrees Celsius as it is based on a technology that uses synthetic mRNA to activate the immune system against the virus. The biggest hospitals in the United States have said they don;t have this storage capacity. The pharma company has said it will ship the vaccines using dry ice. The vaccine shots can be kept for five days at two to eight degrees.Hence, even if India plans to procure Pfizer vaccines, the quantity will be less.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-to-deliberate-if-pfizer-vaccine-should-be-obtained-at-all/story-TVYBCvLvCnFzUj8iXnbPqO.html
17-11-2020||India||WHO impressed with UP’s ‘exemplary’ Covid-19 management, claims Yogi govt||When the nation’s Capital is struggling to keep the number of Covid-19 cases under check, its neighbouring state Uttar Pradesh has garnered appreciation for its Covid-19 management strategy from the global health body, World Health Organization.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Yogi Adityanath government issued a statement by Roderico Ofrin, WHO Country Representative, as per which the state’s strategic response of boosting contact tracing efforts to mitigate coronavirus spread is exemplary. Ofrin in the statement appreciated the chief minister and the government of the state for tracing high-risk contacts and setting a good example for the rest of the country to follow, the government spokesperson said.The Uttar Pradesh government is on its toes due to the upcoming Chhath Puja, one of the state’s most important festival. The government has already issued alerts across all the districts for special precautions keeping in mind Covid-safety protocol, the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that this level of high-risk contact tracing of positive Covid-19 patients was achieved through 70,000 healthcare workers that worked across the state. WHO recognizes the significance of contact tracing in dealing with the pandemic and its spread and hence Ofrin asserted that well-trained frontline healthcare workers and systematic tracing and tracking of contacts is the key to implement successful surveillance to prevent the spread of the virus.“The WHO team provided technical support to the state government to boost contact tracing efforts and strengthen the capacity of field teams through training. Field monitors assessed the quality of contact tracing of 58,000 Covid-19 positive cases in 75 districts and found that 93 per cent of the high-risk contacts were traced and tested,” said Madhup Bajpai, regional team leader, Uttar Pradesh Region, WHO-NPSP (National Police Surveillance Project), as quoted by PTI.Uttar Pradesh recorded 1,455 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours taking the total state tally to 5,14,270 cases and the death toll jumped to 7,412 with 19 new fatalities, as per the officials.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-impressed-with-up-s-exemplary-covid-19-management-claims-yogi-govt/story-b3PlW3E6PGE7h8sYlUE5tK.html
17-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 10 mobile testing vans, double ICUs to add serious Covid fighting muscle to Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.10 mobile testing vans, double ICUs to add serious Covid fighting muscle to DelhiTo curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government will double the number of tests done with a focus on increasing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which gives more accurate results than rapid antigen tests that account for a bulk of Covid-19 testing in Delhi. Read moreUS Election 2020: Legal battles Trump may face after losing presidential privilegesWhile US President Donald Trump was impeached by House of Representatives on charges of abuse of power and obstructing Congress, he remained protected from any legal action in other cases, civil or criminal, due to the presidential privileges. Read moreCBI nabs UP junior engineer who allegedly sexually abused 50 kids for 10 yearsThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested a junior engineer of Uttar Pradesh irrigation department for allegedly sexually exploiting about 50 minor children for the last 10 years and selling videos and photographs of nefarious acts on the dark net to other paedophiles across the globe, officials said. Read more‘He played almost all matches, but form was not seen at all’: Aakash Chopra names RCB’s ‘biggest disappointment’ of IPL 2020Former India cricketer Aakash Chopra has pinpointed Australia’s Aaron Finch to be the ‘biggest disappointment’ for Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League 2020 season in the UAE. Finch was bought by RCB for Rs 4.4 crore at the auctions but he did not live up to the hype he had received before the start of the season. Read moreTaapsee Pannu: I was replaced because hero’s wife didn’t want me in the filmTaapsee Pannu is riding high on success of films such as Thappad, Mission Mangal and Badla, but there was a time when she was called a ‘bad luck charm’ and producers were shy of signing her. In a new interview, the actor has spoken about the negativity and misogyny she faced early in her career. Read moreSpotify is letting you save ₹429 annually on premium subscriptionSpotify has announced a new Premium subscription offer. As a part of it, users can pay ₹999 annually for ad-free music, which means 30% saving over the monthly subscription of ₹119 ( ₹1,428). This means by paying ₹999, you will be saving ₹429 yearly on the subscription. Read moreRenault to announce the name of its new sub-compact SUV for India tomorrowAfter dropping a teaser of its upcoming sub-compact SUV for the Indian market a day before, Renault has once again teased its new show car on social media today. he car maker has confirmed that the SUV’s name will officially be revealed tomorrow (November 18). Read moreNetflix India’s ‘dream of taking a picture with Virat Kohli’ finally comes true. Check out howVirat Kohli is presently serving a 14-day quarantine in Australia as him and the rest of the Team India members await the upcoming bilateral series, starting from November 27. Kohli took to Twitter just a few hours ago to share a picture of himself alongside text describing his “Quarantine diaries”. Read moreMalabar exercise: INS Vikramaditya, USS Nimitz, others participate in 2nd phaseThe second phase of the Malabar exercise began on Tuesday in the Northern Arabian Sea with the participation of Indian Navy aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the American aircraft carrier USS Nimitz along with other Indian, US, Australian and Japanese warships carrying out ‘Malabar-2020’ wargames. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-10-mobile-testing-vans-double-icus-to-add-serious-covid-fighting-muscle-to-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dc9HEd5FAPf5REzfP4RA6K.html
17-11-2020||India||Whenever you think of kickback in defence deal, think of Congress leaders: BJP’s Ravi Shankar Prasad||No deal without a deal and no contract without a cut has been the policy of Congress leaders, the BJP said on Tuesday, attacking the opposition party over reports of kickbacks allegedly received by its members in the AgustaWestland chopper deal.Demanding answers from the Congress leadership, senior BJP leader and Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged that from the Jeep scandal, the Bofors scam to the submarine scandal and several more, Congress leaders for their benefit made a “mockery” of national security. Citing a media report on the key accused in the chopper deal mentioning the names of senior Congress leaders like Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel, and Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri, he said, “Whenever you think of a kickback in a military deal, think of some Congress leaders.” “No defence deal without a loot, no defence deal without a kickback and no defence deal without some Congress leaders becoming beneficiary of it has been the go-to policy of Congress leaders,” the BJP leader said at a press conference. The Congress president and “the prince of the party” have to answer to the people, Prasad said.In 2010, there were talks of buying AgustaWestland helicopters for VVIPs like the president and the prime minister at a cost of Rs 3,600 crore, Prasad said. Two years later, media reports revealed that kickbacks had been given in the deal, the Union minister said.Though the Manmohan Singh-led UPA-2 government had ordered a CBI inquiry but no progress was made until the BJP-led NDA government was formed in May 2014. Thereafter, arrests were made in the case, Prasad said.Now, the key accused in the case, Rajiv Saxena, has mentioned the names of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri and son Bakul Nath, along with names of other Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel in his statements before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), he said.“The BJP demands that the Congress party not maintain silence on this grave issue. The nation is awake and listening,” Prasad said and asked “why do we always get names of Congress leaders whenever a defence deal is referred to an investigative agency”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whenever-you-think-of-kickback-in-defence-deal-think-of-congress-leaders-bjp-s-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-fzC0em0CoM3GpTojrN5u7J.html
17-11-2020||India||Amit Shah’s remarks on Gupkar alliance appropriate: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday termed Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remarks on the Gupkar alliance as appropriate and said after the abrogation of Article 370, a number of pro-people central laws came into force in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Shah on Tuesday termed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a conglomerate of political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, an “unholy global alliance” and alleged that it, along with the Congress, wants to take Jammu and Kashmir back to the era of terror and turmoil. The senior BJP leader in a series of tweets also asserted that Jammu and Kashmir has been and always be an integral part of India. The conglomerate of regional and national political parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Jammu and Kashmir was formed defending the restoration of the Article 370, scrapped last year. Welcoming Shah’s statements on the Gupkar alliance, BJP leader and Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told a press conference that his remarks are appropriate as PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti had made it clear that she will not raise the national flag until the separate flag of Jammu and Kashmir is restored. Prasad also claimed that NC leader Farooq Abdullah had once stated that he will seek China’s support for the restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre on August 5 last year had abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Unlike these leaders, the people of the Jammu and Kashmir have started benefitting from pro-people central laws that have been brought into force in the Union Territory after the abrogation of special status, Union minister Prasad said. Prasad citing various laws said that women were earlier deprived of property rights in Jammu and Kashmir if they married outside, and anti-corruption laws, reservation for disadvantaged sections of society and various other “humanist” central laws were not implemented in the region. On August 4 last year, a day before abrogation of Article 370 was announced, political parties in Kashmir, except the BJP, met at Abdullah’s residence on Gupkar Road in Srinagar. They had also issued a joint statement defending Article 370. The constituents of the conglomerate besides the NC and the PDP also include the CPI-M, the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference and the Awami National Conference. The Congress recently announced that it will have a seat-sharing arrangement with the PAGD for the forthcoming elections to District Development Councils in Jammu and Kashmir. Abdullah is the PAGD’s chairperson and PDP chief Mehbooba its vice-chairperson. Veteran CPI-M leader M Y Tarigami is the alliance’s convenor while People’s Conference leader Sajjad Gani Lone is its spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-s-remarks-on-gupkar-alliance-appropriate-bjp/story-Vs1s316VK5HjkdUAWSvLLK.html
17-11-2020||India||Uttrakhand police transfer rape, extortion cases involving BJP MLA to Pauri Garhwal from Dehradun||In a fresh development in the probe into extortion and rape cases involving BJP MLA from Dwarahat Mahesh Singh Negi, inspector general of police (Garhwal range) Abhinav Kumar on Tuesday transferred both the cases from Dehradun police to mahila thana in Pauri Garhwal district. The development came a day after the Dehradun police submitted the charge sheet against the 30-year-old woman in the extortion and blackmailing case in which she was accused by Negi’s wife of trying to extort ₹5 crore from him by blackmailing him with a threat to frame him in a rape case. The woman had accused Negi of raping her for several years and fathering her daughter after which Negi and his wife were then booked for rape and criminal intimidation. “We have transferred both the cases to mahila thana police in Pauri Garhwal district. It has been done to prevent allegations of not doing a fair and unbiased probe in both the cases,” said Kumar. The senior police officer said that the decision was also a result of a letter written by the Dehradun police to him citing the same aforementioned reason. “In September I received the letter from Dehradun police requesting the transferring of both the cases to a different district police citing allegations of not doing a fair probe. Apart from this I was also of the opinion that as both the cases are related to one matter, it should be probed by a single police officer unlike two different as was the case in Dehradun,” said Kumar. On Monday, the Dehradun police had also filed a charge sheet in the court against the woman in extortion and blackmailing case on Monday. But they withdrew it on Tuesday. “We had withdrawn it following some allegations that the action was to favour the complainant in the case which is not true. The charge sheet will be reviewed by the mahila thana police which will verify the evidence collected,” he said. Earlier on Tuesday, the opposition Congress accused the BJP government of trying to save Negi following reports of filing of charge sheet against the woman. “The development just shows that the police is working under the pressure of government by acting in favour of the rape accused MLA Negi,” said Garima Dasauni, Congress spokesperson in Uttarakhand. “It has also unmasked BJP which has taken no action against Negi so far despite several evidence of him raping the woman at several places. Their slogan of Beti Bachao Beto Padhao is just a farce,” said Dasauni. The BJP however, refuted the allegations and said there was no pressure on the police by the party or government. “We have always said that the law will take its own course and BJP will not interfere in it in any way. Whatever the probe results, BJP will accept it. Congress has a tendency to find negativity in everything,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttrakhand-police-transfer-rape-extortion-cases-involving-bjp-mla-to-pauri-garhwal-from-dehradun/story-Tr6cToMmFt5iV43SmKjjCN.html
17-11-2020||India||At Brics, PM Modi calls for holding countries backing terror guilty||As the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping adopted a new counter-terrorism strategy on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for countries that help and support terrorists to be held guilty. Participating in the virtual Brics Summit chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi called on members of the grouping to back a move by India and South Africa to secure exemption of Covid-19 vaccines from intellectual property agreements. Multilateralism, Modi said, is facing a crisis and questions are being raised about the functioning of global institutions since they haven’t kept pace with the times and are based on the mindset of 75 years ago. In a tacit reference to Pakistan-backed terrorism, Modi, who was speaking in Hindi, said: “Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing today. We must ensure that countries that help and support terrorists are also held guilty and this problem is dealt with in an organised manner.” He described the finalisation of the Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy as an “important achievement” and said India, as the chair of Brics from next year, will take this work forward. In a subsequent intervention, Modi suggested the national security advisers of Brics states should discuss the formulation of a counter-terrorism action plan. The Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which will allow member states to work out common measures and coordinate more closely at the UN and other forums and promote the implementation of UN’s global counter-terrorism strategy, was adopted at the conclusion of the summit. Also Read: Xi Jinping offers to cooperate with India, BRICS countries to develop Covid-19 vaccineModi’s remarks on terrorism were endorsed by Putin, who said some countries were like the “black sheep of the family” and the world cannot afford any complacency in dealing with problems such as terrorism and the pandemic. With a group of developing nations led by India and South Africa set to urge the World Trade Organization (WTO) this week to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines so that they become accessible to poor countries, Modi said: “India and South Africa have proposed that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments be exempted from intellectual property agreements. We hope that other Brics countries will support this.” Also Read: PM Modi to hold virtual summit with his Luxembourg counterpart on Nov 18He added that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to benefit humankind. Noting that significant geo-strategic changes taking place around the world will impact security, stability and growth, Modi said Brics will play an important role in tackling these issues. The multilateral system is going through a crisis and questions are being raised about the credibility of global institutions since they haven’t changed with the times and are operating with outdated mindsets, he said. Besides the UN Security Council, reforms are needed in the WTO, IMF and WHO, he added. The Brics countries, with 42% of the global population, will play a key role in post-Covid-19 economic recovery and there is scope to increase mutual trade, Modi said. India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, which aims to make the country self-reliant and resilient, can be a force multiplier for the post-Covid-19 economy and contribute to global supply chains, he added. This was the second time in a week that Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. The theme for the Brics Summit was “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth” and its agenda included global issues such as reforming the multilateral system and measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-brics-pm-modi-calls-for-holding-countries-backing-terror-guilty/story-VAGZxoB6qODcGtmo0GliqO.html
17-11-2020||India||PM Modi to hold virtual summit with his Luxembourg counterpart on Nov 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart from Luxembourg Xavier Bettel will hold a virtual summit on Thursday, covering the entire spectrum of bilateral relationship, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Tuesday said.The MEA said It will be the first stand-alone summit between India and Luxembourg in the past two decades.“The leaders will discuss the entire spectrum of bilateral relationship, including strengthening of India-Luxembourg cooperation in the post-Covid world. They will also exchange views on international and global issues of mutual interest,” it said.India and Luxembourg have continued to maintain high-level exchanges in the recent past. The two prime ministers have met previously on three occasions.Luxembourg is one of the most important financial centres globally. Several Indian companies have raised capital by issuing Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) at the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Several Luxembourg-based investment funds hold substantial banking and asset management market share in portfolio investments in India. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-his-luxembourg-counterpart-on-nov-18/story-98yBHa8miCmf8jSc5vOgMM.html
17-11-2020||India||Odisha CM announces free smartphones for all households in state’s naxal hotbed||Striving to transform the Naxal hotbed in the ‘cut-off area’ of Odisha’s Malkangiri district into one of the developed places of the state, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday said smartphones will be provided free of cost to all households in the region.He also called upon Left-wing extremists (LWE) to shun violence, return to the mainstream and become part of developmental activities taking place in the ‘cut-off area’, encircled by water on three sides and another connecting to dense forests in Andhra Pradesh.“The ‘cut-off area’ of Malkangiri always remains in my heart, and I will try my best to make it one of the developed areas in the state,” Patnaik said.There are 52 revenue villages in the area, now renamed as ‘Swabhimnan Anchal’ after the chief minister inaugurated the Gurupriya bridge connecting the region with the mainland.Patnaik also interacted with the people of the area through video-conferencing.He said the initiative will improve connectivity in the region and help students, and that four mobile phone towers have already been installed in the area, while another three with 4G network will be operational soon.Also Read | In Odisha, govt ITIs log highest ever enrolment amid Covid-19; pvt ones lag behind“A package of Rs 100 crore under SETU (Socio-Economic Transformation and Upliftment) programme for development of the area was announced in July 2018 during inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge. The amount has been increased to Rs 250 crore,” Patnaik said.Work for 3311 KV sub-stations will be completed soon, he said, adding, a total of Rs 100 crore will be spent for construction of concrete roads in all the villages and seven bridges in the area.A mega pipe water supply project at the cost of Rs 20 crore has also been initiated, while work for 250 tube wells is complete, the CM said.An amount of Rs 32 crore will be spent for 43 lift irrigation projects and 419 cluster deep borewells, which will provide irrigation to 1,700 hectares of land, Patnaik said.Noting that the Odisha government has laid emphasis on the socio-economic development of the area, he said specific measures have been taken for the benefit of the members of Mission Shakti, particularly through exposure visits.The chief minister said his government has also taken steps to set up a turmeric processing and branding unit in the region.Patnaik added that construction of 82 anganwadi centres and health sub-centres is underway and will be completed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-announces-free-smartphones-for-all-households-in-state-s-naxal-hotbed/story-bLPChsOIYSkUxgqcl1kPsM.html
17-11-2020||India||DRDO surface-to-air missile shoots down aerial target in latest test||The Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) quick-reaction surface-to-air missile (QRSAM) system on Tuesday shot down an aerial target from the Integrated Test Range at Chandipur off the Odisha coast, the defence ministry said in a statement. This was the second test of the QRSAM system in five days. The QRSAM test on November 13 achieved a direct hit while the second one on Tuesday proved the performance parameters of the warhead, the statement said. Both tests were carried out against the Banshee target drone that simulates an aircraft. Congratulating the DRDO for the back-to-back successful tests, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted, “First launch test on 13th Nov proved the Radar and Missile capabilities with direct hit. Today’s test demonstrated the warhead performance on proximity detection.” The DRDO has carried out a series of weapons tests during the last three months at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector.“The radars acquired the target from long range and tracked it till the mission computer automatically launched the missile. Continuous guidance was provided through radar data link. Missile entered the terminal active homing guidance and reached the target close enough for proximity operation of warhead activation,” the statement said. A variety of equipment was deployed to capture the flight data and verify the performance of the missile, officials said. The equipment included radars and telemetry and electro-optical sensors. The test was conducted in the deployment configuration of the weapon system consisting of the launcher, fully automated command and control system, surveillance system and multi-function radars. “The QRSAM weapon system, which can operate on the move, consists of all indigenously-developed subsystems. All objectives of the test were fully met. The launch was carried out in the presence of the users from Indian Army,” the defence ministry said. The key tests recently conducted by India include the supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) to target submarines at long ranges, a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750 km and the anti-radiation missile launch to take down enemy radars and surveillance systems. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In early September, the DRDO carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-maneuvering hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-surface-to-air-missile-shoots-down-aerial-target-in-latest-test/story-XjnHy11SCLkMO7hZ724eHL.html
17-11-2020||India||‘BJP rigs polls, be alert in 2022 polls’: Akhilesh Yadav to people||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged that the BJP rigs elections and urged people to stay vigilant in the 2022 assembly polls. He also accused the BJP of not letting free and fair polls happen. The SP chief’s statement has come in the wake of his party’s poor show in the bypolls to seven assembly seats in the state. The BJP had bagged six seats while the SP won one. He had earlier too accused the BJP of rigging elections. “The party (BJP) uses rigging as its weapon in elections. In 2022, you will have to cast your votes carefully. The victory of the Samajwadi Party is necessary to save democracy,” the former UP CM said addressing a delegation of weavers at the party’s headquarter here. He said the BJP was deliberately harassing weavers and did not want their progress and prosperity. The BJP government has targeted the weavers by scrapping the electricity rate scheme of 2006, he said, promising more facilities to them once his party comes to power in the state. He alleged that in the present regime, not a single unit of extra power was generated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rigs-polls-be-alert-in-2022-polls-akhilesh-yadav-to-people/story-1gWHeYnaH14vOq5lfqrC4J.html
17-11-2020||India||Narrow escape for 52 people on board TruJet flight at Chennai airport||A major aircraft accident was averted on Monday night after a TruJet aircraft landed on its belly at the Chennai international airport. The flight had been diverted to Chennai from its original route of Belgaum to Mysore, but failed to land safely. Officials at the Chennai airport said the incident took place at around 7.51pm when the diverted flight made an emergency landing in Chennai. “The flight was diverted to Chennai due to technical reasons,” the official said on condition of anonymity.“A TruJet aircraft (ATR-72) operating as 2T 543 is an ex-Jet Airways aircraft. It was operating from Belgaum and was on approach to Mysore. It, however, missed the approach and the pilot decided to divert to Chennai. It is suspected to be a landing gear issue due to which the aircraft made a hard landing at Chennai.”There were 46 passengers on onboard including one infant and five crew members.While the passengers and crew members were safely evacuated, main runway 07-25 was unavailable for flight operations for around 45 minutes. This led to flight diversions and delay. Also Read: IndiGo completes 1 lakh flight operations since March lockdown Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA, said the investigation in this matter has begun. “No injuries have been reported and the cause of the incident will be known once the investigation gets over.”Snehamoy Deb, an aviation geek, however, tweeted, “Pilot suspected landing gear issue got indication, made a low pass and declared emergency, after landing gear touched fuselage and veered on edge but didn’t leave the runway. Pax safely evacuated and the aircraft was towed back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narrow-escape-for-52-people-on-board-truejet-flight-at-chennai-airport/story-l8EDxm76c2DZNq8yr4yicO.html
17-11-2020||India||Kerala court rejects senior bureaucrat’s bail plea in gold smuggling case||A local court in Kochi on Tuesday rejected the bail petition of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary and senior IAS officer M Sivasankar who was arrested in the sensational gold smuggling case.Sivasankar was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on October 28. After rejecting the bail plea the additional sessions court remanded him in judicial custody till November 26. Earlier the court had granted permission to Customs to interrogate him in the jail. The ED has opposed his bail plea saying the investigation was at a crucial stage and bail to him at this juncture will affect the ongoing multi-agency probe. The court witnessed heated arguments for two days.On Monday Sivasankar had submitted an argument note in the court alleging that he was made an accused in the case after he refused to name political leaders as asked by the investigating agency. He also said he was made a political pawn in Centre-State tussle. The ED stoutly denied his charge and said he was using alibis to hide his role in the case. Being a senior official he should have been a role model for others but his actions were not in pursuant with his position, the ED said. The agency also claimed that he intervened to get the baggage that carried 30 kg smuggled gold cleared without Customs check. Sivasankar fell from grace after the smuggling case came to light in July. After main accused Swapna Suresh’s arrest from Bengaluru by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to her and travelled with her during some of the foreign trips. Investigators had also claimed that he was instrumental in getting Suresh a plum post in the state government-controlled Space Park and allegedly helped her take a flat outside the secretariat which was later used by smugglers. Sivasankar maintained that though Suresh was his friend he was not aware of her smuggling activities. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-rejects-senior-bureaucrat-s-bail-plea-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-jjohcUFIogG9jwmWI6OiFL.html
17-11-2020||India||Watch: Second phase of Malabar 2020 exercise kicks off in Arabian Sea||Navies of India, the United States of America, Japan and Australia carried out the second phase of Malabar 2020 exercise on Tuesday in the Western Indian Ocean Region . The second phase of Malabar naval drills will be conducted from November 17 to 20.The naval drills will involve the participation of Indian and American aircraft carriers. One of the major highlights of the four-day drill is participation of Indian Navy’s Vikramaditya carrier battle group and the US Navy’s Nimitz strike group.On Tuesday, Indian Navy aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the American aircraft carrier USS Nimitz along with other Indian, American, Australian and Japanese warships carried out Malabar-2020 wargames. A video of the activity was released on Twitter. The USS Nimitz is the world’s largest warship. #WATCH Indian Navy aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the American aircraft carrier USS Nimitz along with other Indian, American, Australian and Japanese warships carrying out 'Malabar-2020' wargames in the Western Indian Ocean Region today pic.twitter.com/k5IWRdw2HETwo aircraft carriers and a number of frontline warships, submarines and maritime reconnaissance aircraft were involved in the exercise, PTI reported on Tuesday citing officials,The first phase of the drills was carried out from November 3-6 in Bay of Bengal, which featured a number of complex drills including anti-air warfare and anti-submarine exercises. The mega naval exercise is being conducted at a time when India and China are locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh.The Malabar exercise began in 1992 as a bilateral drill between the Indian Navy and the US Navy in the Indian Ocean. In 2015, Japan became a permanent member of the exercise. The naval exercise is being conducted in a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ format in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-second-phase-of-malabar-2020-exercise-kicks-off-in-arabian-sea/story-NoVhiLQ1dq6YY6qvFEes1H.html
17-11-2020||India||Lakshmi Vilas Bank under moratorium, withdrawal capped at Rs 25,000||India on Tuesday placed private-sector lender Lakshmi Vilas Bank Limited under a moratorium till December 16 and has restricted withdrawals of more than Rs 25,000, according to a finance ministry statement. The moratorium has been imposed on the basis of application submitted by RBI under Sec 45 of BR Act. During the moratorium, the bank will not be allowed to make any payment worth more than Rs 25,000 to the depositor, without any written permission from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Under certain conditions such as to meet the cost of medical treatment of the depositor, payment of higher education fees and marriages, depositors will be allowed to withdraw more than Rs 25,000 with permission from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Finance Ministry said.“…hereby stays the commencement or continuance of all actions and proceedings against that banking company during the period of moratorium subject to the condition that such stay in any manner does not prejudice the exercise of the central government of its power….,” the statement read.“The financial position of The Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (the bank) has undergone a steady decline with the bank incurring continuous losses over the last three years, eroding its net-worth. In absence of any viable strategic plan, declining advances and mounting non-performing assets (NPAs), the losses are expected to continue. The bank has not been able to raise adequate capital to address issues around its negative net-worth and continuing losses,” the RBI said.Further, the RBI added that Lakshmi Vilas Bank is also experiencing continuous withdrawal of deposits and low levels of liquidity. It has also experienced serious governance issues and practices in the recent years which have led to deterioration in its performance. The bank was placed under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework in September 2019 considering the breach of PCA thresholds as on March 31, 2019.“After taking into consideration these developments, the Reserve Bank has come to the conclusion that in the absence of a credible revival plan, with a view to protect depositors’ interest and in the interest of financial and banking stability, there is no alternative but to apply to the Central Government for imposing a moratorium under section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, after considering the Reserve Bank’s request, the Central Government has imposed moratorium for thirty days effective from today,” the RBI said in a release.The troubles for Lakshmi Vilas Bank started in 2019 when the RBI rejected a proposal for its merger with shadow lender Indiabulls Housing Finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshmi-vilas/story-ZYdB4jVM9CC0G8Pu9v6ZRK.html
17-11-2020||India||UP engineer abused 50 kids for 10 years, filmed act and sold it; arrested||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested a junior engineer of Uttar Pradesh irrigation department for allegedly sexually exploiting about 50 minor children for the last 10 years and selling videos and photographs of nefarious acts on the dark net to other paedophiles across the globe, officials said.Rambhawan, the accused, is alleged to have preyed upon the children in the 5 to 16 years age group in the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur in the last 10 years mainly contacting and sharing child sexual abuse material (CSAM) with other paedophiles globally using dark net and cloud services abroad, they said.A resident of Chitrakoot district, Rambhawan was arrested from Banda and is likely to be produced before the competent court soon.During searches, the CBI seized eight mobile phones, around Rs 8 lakh in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge quantity of CSAM, officials said.Along with Rambhawan, an unknown number of other people are suspected to have been involved in the racket.“It was alleged that the accused were involved in sexual abuse of children in the Districts of Banda, Chitrakoot and the surrounding areas in Uttar Pradesh. Apart from the physical abuse of these children, the accused also allegedly recorded their acts using their mobile phones, laptops and other electronic devices. It was further alleged that these photographs and video films containing child sexual abuse material were published/transmitted by the accused using the facility of internet. It was also alleged that the accused used Darkweb for sale, transmission and sharing of such CSAM content with other individuals,” said RK Gaur, CBI Spokesperson.“The accused allegedly used these electronic items and gadgets to lure children falling in the age group of 5-16 years. The scrutiny of the emails of the accused has revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (both Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing child sexual abuse material”, Gaur said.Gaur also said that the accused allegedly created and shared a huge quantity of child sexual abusive material, over the years, through the internet using various social media platforms and websites over dark net, etc.An officer who did not want to be named said that the accused has disclosed during interrogation that he used to bribe the children with mobile phones and other electronic gadgets to buy their silence.The CBI has a Special Unit “Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/ Investigation (OCSAE)” for matters pertaining to online child sexual abuse and exploitation. Apart from receiving various references/information, the unit also investigates various offences relating to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-nabs-up-junior-engineer-who-allegedly-sexually-abused-50-kids-for-10-years/story-ZSOhDDlmhC6qDtM7Uzd3iJ.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19 showed our cities are vulnerable, says PM Modi at Bloomberg New Economy Forum||Addressing the Bloomberg New Economy Forum, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic showed the world that cities, which are also growth engines, are the most vulnerable. “Covid-19 has given us an opportunity to reset before restart. Things like community gatherings, sports activities, education & recreations are not the same as before. The biggest question before the entire world is how to restart. A good point to restart now will be rejuvenating urban centres,” PM Modi said.Talking about Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi said, “Lockdown faced resistance across the world. But Indian cities abided by lockdown rules as the building block of our cities are not concrete but community.” People migrate cities for work. But isn’t it time to make cities work for people, PM Modi said.“Can we not build sustainable cities? It has been our endeavour in India to build urban centres which have the amenities of cities but the spirit of villages. Technologies helped us continue our work during Covid-19 pandemic,” PM Modi said.Sustainable mobility is the key to set up resilient cities, Modi said as he talked about his government’s affordable housing and rental projects, apart from Digital India, Smart Cities projects.“If you are looking to investment in mobility, sustainability, India is the best place. And all these come with a vibrant democracy where the government will leave no stones unturned to make the country investment-friendly,” PM Modi said as he concluded his speech.The inaugural forum was held in Singapore, followed by a second edition in Beijing, covering issues such as global economic management, trade and investment, technology, urbanisation, capital markets, climate change and inclusion. Director-general of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair, former US President Bill Clinton, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres are some of the other speakers scheduled to address the forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-bloomberg-new-economy-forum-talks-about-covid-19-impact-on-businesses/story-B2NevUu0V5spuFfeUkLjUK.html
17-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit on November 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit, 2020 on November 19 via video conferencing.The Bengaluru Tech Summit is scheduled from November 19 to November 21. The summit is organised by the Government of Karnataka along with Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS), Karnataka government’s Vision Group on Information Technology, Biotechnology & StartUp, Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) and MM Activ Sci-Tech Communications, a press release said.The Bengaluru Tech Summit will see participation of Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Vice President of the Swiss Confederation Guy Parmelin and many other prominent international figures. Apart from them, thought leaders, industry captains, technocrats, researchers, innovators, investors, policy makers and educators from India and the world will also be participating in the summit.This year, the theme of the summit is ‘Next is Now’. The summit will deliberate on the key challenges emerging in the post Covid-19 pandemic world with focus on the impact of prominent technologies and innovations in the domains of ‘Information Technology and Electronics’ and ‘Biotechnology’, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-bengaluru-tech-summit-on-november-19/story-xEb63My9RwlJP6J40GoxiN.html
17-11-2020||India||Congress not part of Gupkar alliance: Surjewala||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said that the Congress party is not a part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). In a press statement on Tuesday, Surjewala hits out at Union home minister Amit Shah over asking Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi to clear their stand if they support the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration.Surjewala in the statement in Hindi said, “Congress party is not a part of Gupkar alliance or People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration.”Hitting out at the BJP government in the Centre, the Congress leader said, “To spread lies, fraud and creating new illusions have become the way of the Modi government. It’s a shame that Home Minister Amit Shah is keeping aside the responsibility of the national security and is making false, misleading and mischievous statements on Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh.”While asserting that Congress is fighting the DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir and said, “The Indian National Congress favours democratic elections in Jammu and Kashmir and for this purpose the Congress Party is contesting the District Development Council elections.... in a democratic manner.” आए दिन झूठ बोलना, कपट फैलाना व नए भ्रमजाल गढ़ना मोदी सरकार का चाल-चेहरा-चरित्र बन गया है।शर्म की बात है कि देश के गृहमंत्री श्री अमित शाह राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा की अपनी जिम्मेदारी दरकिनार कर जम्मू, कश्मीर व लद्दाख पर सरासर झूठी, भ्रामक व शरारतपूर्ण बयानबाजी कर रहे हैं!हमारा बयान-: pic.twitter.com/AsX67nFI03Earlier in the day, Amit Shah said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration wants foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir and asserted that Indian people will no longer tolerate an “unholy global gathbandhan” against national interest.Taking to Twitter, Shah asked Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi if they support the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration which, he said, insults India’s tricolour.“The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah tweeted. The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang ? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India.“Congress and the Gupkar Gang want to take J-K back to the era of terror and turmoil. They want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing Article 370. This is why they’re being rejected by the people everywhere,” he said in another tweet.“Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” Shah said.Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration will contest Dist Development Council (DDC) poll and will try to defeat those who have been forcefully implementing laws in Union Territory (UT).Read more | Indians will not tolerate any unholy ‘global gathbandhan’: Amit Shah on Gupkar alliance“Today Farooq Saab (Farooq Abdullah) called the meeting to give final touches to the seat-sharing, and by and large we are satisfied. In politics, there is nothing that is100 per cent satisfactory, but the peaceful environment in which the whole arrangement has been finalized, gives us hope that all the parties in the alliance of will try to defeat those who’ve been forcefully implementing Acts and laws in UT and policies which don’t seem to be in favour of people here,” said Mir after the meeting called at National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah’s residence in Srinagar.The mainstream parties, including the National Conference, PDP, Peoples Conference and CPI(M), formed the PAGD last month and are fighting the maiden DDC elections together.The DDC elections will be conducted in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases between November 28 and December 19, and the counting of votes will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-not-part-of-gupkar-alliance-surjewala/story-xAwVcecc8CU9URmFtKPQ7K.html
17-11-2020||India||Black particles, suspected to be coal, washes up on Goa’s beaches||An unusual black powder and chunks suspected to be coal particles have begun washing up along beaches in Goa leading to speculation that imported coal that is being handled at Mormugao Port was making its way to the state’s beaches. Two separate instances of the dark particles were found -- in South Goa along the Benaulim beach by fishermen and water sports operators as well as in Querim beach in North Goa by environmental campaigner Claude Alvares who held up chunks of a black solid that resembled coal. “We noticed it yesterday for the first time, the black particulate matter that was different from the tar balls,” Pele Fernandes, a water sports operator from Benaulim beach, said. “A few tourists were asking me what it is and I had to say I don’t know even though I suspected it was coal because I feared that they may not visit the beach again,” Fernandes said. Speaking of his find, the Director of Goa Foundation Claude Alvares said that the coal washing up along Goa’s beaches was “only because the loading and unloading operations at MPT are still very primitive.”The news comes even as protests across Goa have intensified against a railway line double tracking that is believed will only be used to transport more coal from the port to the hinterland.At its peak around 12-14 million metric tons of coal was imported from Indonesia and Australia via Mormugao Port which has since reduced to around 9-10 million metric tons of coal this year. The coal is loaded and unloaded from ships in the open air allowing coal dust to be carried away by the wind into the surrounding Vasco da Gama town and into the water bodies including the sea.Earlier, a study published in 2019 by researchers at IIT-Kharagpur and the National Institute of Oceanography in Goa who were studying the presence of mercury in the waters of Goa had found a “dark black powder from the adjacent beaches of the Mandovi river” in which the concentration of mercury in this black powder was found to be 200.5 ± 5.0 microgram per kg, which they said could explain the higher concentration of mercury in the waters of the Mandovi, which was similar to the concentration of mercury in the coal obtained from the Mormugao Port. “The physical appearance of the black powder looked very similar to that of the fine particles of coal. The scanning electron microscope images also support that the black powder was coal particles. However, further investigation is required to identify the sources of this fine black particle associated with high concentration of Hg,” the study noted. The Goa government has publicly pledged to reduce coal imports with chief minister Pramod Sawant assuring that the state will not be allowed to turn into a ‘coal hub’ for import of coal for steel industries in neighbouring states. “I assure you coal import and handling will drop by 50 per cent. We will reduce coal and are in the process of stopping it as soon as possible. We cannot stop it altogether. Industries are on (have been running) for 40 years,” Sawant had said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-particles-suspected-to-be-coal-washes-up-on-goa-s-beaches/story-da9tyj67kwUlfAlS1WJUoL.html
17-11-2020||India||Hold countries that support terror guilty, says PM Modi. Putin endorses him||As the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping adopted a new counter-terrorism strategy on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for countries that help and support terrorists to be held guilty.Participating in the virtual Brics Summit chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi also called on members of the grouping to back a move by India and South Africa to secure exemption of Covid-19 vaccines from intellectual property agreements.Multilateralism, Modi said, is facing a crisis and questions are being raised about the functioning of global institutions since they haven’t kept pace with the times and are based on the mindset of 75 years ago.In a tacit reference to Pakistan-backed terrorism, Modi, who was speaking in Hindi, said: “Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing today. We must ensure that countries that help and support terrorists are also held guilty and this problem is dealt with in an organised manner.”He described the finalisation of the Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy as an “important achievement” and said India, as the chair of Brics from next year, will take this work forward.In a subsequent intervention, Modi suggested the national security advisers of Brics states should discuss the formulation of a counter-terrorism action plan.The Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which will allow member states to work out common measures and coordinate more closely at the UN and other forums and promote the implementation of UN’s global counter-terrorism strategy, was adopted at the conclusion of the summit.Modi’s remarks on terrorism were endorsed by Putin, who said some countries were like the “black sheep of the family” and the world cannot afford any complacency in dealing with problems such as terrorism and the pandemic.With a group of developing nations led by India and South Africa set to urge the World Trade Organization (WTO) this week to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines so that they become accessible to poor countries, Modi said: “India and South Africa have proposed that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments be exempted from intellectual property agreements. We hope that other Brics countries will support this.”With a group of developing nations led by India and South Africa set to urge the World Trade Organization (WTO) this week to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines so that they become accessible to poor countries, Modi said: “India and South Africa have proposed that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments be exempted from intellectual property agreements. We hope that other Brics countries will support this.” He added that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to benefit humankind.Noting that significant geo-strategic changes taking place around the world will impact security, stability and growth, Modi said Brics will play an important role in tackling these issues. The multilateral system is going through a crisis and questions are being raised about the credibility of global institutions since they haven’t changed with the times and are operating with outdated mindsets, he said. Besides the UN Security Council, reforms are needed in the WTO, IMF and WHO, he added.The Brics countries, with 42% of the global population, will play a key role in post-Covid-19 economic recovery and there is scope to increase mutual trade, Modi said. India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, which aims to make the country self-reliant and resilient, can be a force multiplier for the post-Covid-19 economy and contribute to global supply chains, he added. This was the second time in a week that Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. The theme for the Brics Summit was “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth” and its agenda included global issues such as reforming the multilateral system and measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-countries-that-support-terror-guilty-says-pm-modi-putin-endorses-him/story-52GAfJ8jcvcb640GitU79H.html
17-11-2020||India||India may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, says Putin||India is set to join the list of nations who are likely to start producing Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19, Russian president Vladmir Putin said on Tuesday. China is also among the countries expected to take up Sputnik V’s production, Putin said. The Russian president has also proposed speeding up of creation of vaccine research centres in BRICS nations – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, news agency Reuters reported quoting TASS. Marking their feat in the league of nations to have come up with Covid-19 vaccines, Russia announced in August that it had registered the world’s first coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V -- named after the Soviet-era satellite. However, Russia registered the vaccine ahead of large-scale clinical trials.The nation had claimed that its vaccine is 92 per cent effective at protecting people from Covid-19 according to interim trial results. results are only the second from a late-stage human trial, following on swiftly from data released by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech, which said their shot was also more than 90 per cent effective. While successful vaccines are being eyed by nations across the globe, who have been dealt a blow by the coronavirus pandemic resulting in battered economies, unemployment across nations and over-burdened public health systems, in addition to disruption of daily life cycle, experts have raised their doubts about Russia’s vaccine trial, dubbing the design as sparse, making it hard to interpret the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-start-producing-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-says-putin/story-10ExOSDWxUAd5Ku0mQQCDI.html
17-11-2020||India||UP: 1 held after woman dies by suicide alleging police inaction in rape case||The Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly raping a 19-year-old law student in Bulandshahr a day after she allegedly died by suicide after accusing police of inaction in the case.Bulandshahr’s senior police superintendent, SK Singh, said Kamruddin was arrested from Faridabad on Tuesday morning and raids were on to arrest Abrar and Mobin, the co-accused. He added the investigating officer in the case, sub-inspector Vijay Rathi, has been suspended for failing to thoroughly investigate the case.“He [Rathi] largely remained dependent on mobile locations of the accused on the day of the crime which did not match with the details of the incident. He should have investigated it thoroughly before reaching a conclusion,” Singh said.Circle officer Atul Kumar said different teams were conducting raids in neighbouring villages to arrest the other two accused and hoped that they would be held soon. He said the student’s body was buried after a post-mortem examination amid tight security.Singh earlier said the woman first lodged a complaint of kidnapping, a threat to life, and also recorded a statement in the presence of a magistrate. He added therefore a final report was submitted in the case accordingly.Singh said the woman later lodged another complaint against the accused on October 24, saying one of them telephoned her and thereafter took her to the home of a co-accused, where the three men allegedly raped her. He added during the investigation, the mobile phone location of Kamruddin, a neighbour of the woman, was found in Faridabad at the time of the alleged crime. Singh said he made no call on the woman’s phone. The locations of Abrar and Mobin were found to be in his village and in Aligarh.The woman’s father alleged Kamruddin tried to rape his daughter on October 3 and later apologised to her on phone and on October 16 in person. He alleged Kamruddin, Abrar and Mobin then raped her and they lodged a police complaint on October 24 but no action was taken.In a note purportedly written by the woman, she said she was ending her life to make people believe she was raped. Kamruddin, his friend, Abrar, from a neighbouring village and Mobin, who is from Aligarh district, have been accused of raping her in the note and ruining her life, career and forcing her to kill herself.The woman’s father accused the police of doing nothing when the accused would taunt his daughter. “My daughter was under depression. The accused often taunted her that nothing will happen to them because they can spend money.” The father said he tried his best to convince his daughter to forget everything like a bad dream but she was deeply hurt. “I have lost my daughter and she will never return.” He recalled how his daughter would call Rathi to inquire about the developments in the case and how every time she received only hollow assurances.“She was completely broken and chose to end her life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-1-held-after-woman-dies-by-suicide-alleging-police-inaction-in-rape-case/story-RgqDiqddVcE4qAPrw2kZVJ.html
17-11-2020||India||Rajnath Singh congratulates DRDO for 2 successful test trials of Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for two successful test trials of Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile.“Congratulations to @DRDO_India for two back to back successful test trials of Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile. First launch test on 13th Nov proved the Radar and Missile capabilities with direct hit. Today’s test demonstrated the warhead performance on proximity detection,” Singh tweeted. Congratulations to @DRDO_India for two back to back successful test trials of Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile.First launch test on 13th Nov proved the Radar and Missile capabilities with direct hit.Today’s test demonstrated the warhead performance on proximity detectionIndia has successfully testfired the Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile air defence system.The missile system secured a direct hit on its target during the trial.Earlier on November 13, Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile (QRSAM) System achieved a major milestone by a direct hit on to a Banshee Pilotless target aircraft at medium range and medium altitude. The missile has been developed as part of air defence system of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-congratulates-drdo-for-2-successful-test-trials-of-quick-reaction-surface-to-air-missile/story-R41yt6nb28nfxzRU81Q6KP.html
17-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: Ex-Union minister Jaysingrao Gaikwad Patil quits BJP||Former Union minister and three-time Parliament member Jaysingrao Gaikwad Patil, 71, quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday after he was denied a ticket for Maharashtra legislative council elections being held on December 1.A prominent Maratha leader from central Maharashtra, Patil represented Aurangabad graduates’ constituency in the council from 1990 to 1998. He was a minister in the Shiv Sena-BJP government from 1995 to 1999. Patil was later elected as Parliament member from Beed and served as a minister in Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government. He quit the BJP and joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 2004 and was elected as a Parliament member that year for the third time. He returned to the BJP in 2010.Also read | ‘Those who oppose BJP’s ideology are labelled corrupt and anti-national’: Omar Abdullah“I have been asking for organisational responsibility for more than 10 years, but to no avail. I was fed up with the treatment meted out to me by the party leadership and decided to quit the party. I have not decided to join any party as of now, but my only aim is to defeat the BJP candidate in the graduates’ constituency. I am supporting NCP candidate Satish Chavan to ensure that he is elected at least by 15,000 votes,” said Patil.A BJP leader called Patil a spent force, who has no base in Marathwada. “The graduates’ constituency needs concentrated efforts of building support among voters for three to four years before elections. He was lacking on that front too. He may join the NCP, but will hardly prove beneficial there too,” the leader said, requesting anonymity.Former minister Eknath Khadse earlier quit the BJP to join the NCP last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-ex-union-minister-jaysingrao-gaikwad-patil-quits-bjp/story-T336BC5dzIxRHkF7oGx4KI.html
17-11-2020||India||AgustaWestland case: No defence deal complete without kickbacks during Congress tenure, says Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at the Congress on Tuesday and said no defence deals were completed during their tenure without kickbacks. “There used to be a paint company Jenson and Nicholson that used a tag line, whenever you think of colour think of us... in the Congress’ case it is modified to whenever you think of kickback in a military deal or a defence think of some Congress leaders,” the minister said. “No defence deal without loot, no defence deal without a kickback and no defence deal without some Congress leaders benefitting has been the go-to policy of Congress leaders,” he said addressing the media.Also Read: AgustaWestland case: Delhi HC directs authorities to return passport of Rajiv SaxenaThe minister’s comments came in the wake of a news report that Rajiv Saxena, a chartered accountant and key accused in the Rs3,000-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case has allegedly made references to Bakul Nath and Ratul Puri, the son and nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, and Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel during his interrogation. Addressing the media, Prasad said the Congress should clarify their stand on the names of the leaders in AgustaWestland VVIP choppers scam. “The BJP demands that the Congress should not maintain silence. Congress president, its senior leaders and the former president of the party should tell the country what they have to say about the fact that so many leaders have been named in the statement,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agustawestland-case-no-defence-deal-complete-without-kickbacks-during-congress-tenure-says-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-V8J2HiV5pZYe17aUjc3oqN.html
17-11-2020||India||We have electoral arrangement, don’t fully endorse Gupkar agenda: Congress||Following sharp criticism by the BJP for joining the Gupkar Alliance, the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Congress said Tuesday that it has entered into seat sharing arrangements for the upcoming district development council (DDC) polls and doesn’t “fully endorse” the agenda of Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). Ahead of the DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir, the BJP has launched a scathing attack on the Gupkar alliance and said that its only agenda was to bring back Article 370. The Congress has hit back on Tuesday and accused the BJP of double standards.“Till the time BJP was sharing power with the PDP and Sajad Lone, it was all fine and they were nationalists. Congress has only entered into seat sharing arrangement with Gupkar Alliance and that doesn’t mean Congress has become part of their agenda,” said Ravinder Sharma, chief spokesperson of the Congress in J&K.Sharma also said that the Congress has rejected any statement that goes against the nation and sentiment of the people.“We don’t fully endorse their agenda but there are certain common issues. We stand for restoration of statehood and protection of land and jobs. We have just entered into an electoral arrangement with them. Why did BJP enter into alliance with PDP and NC and not to forget these parties had been demanding more than Article 370 (autonomy and self rule),” he said. Sharma said that the Congress party also endorses constitutional safeguards but their broader contours and forms can be discussed with sections of society that were denied justice over the years. “We are in favour of justice for Valmikis, Gurkhas and West Pakistan refugees living here for over 70 years,” he added. Sharma also said that the participation of the Gupkar constituents in the DC polls should be welcomed.“We should welcome that they (Gupkar constituents) are contesting the elections, which in turn defeats Pakistan’s proxy war and other ulterior motives in J&K,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-have-electoral-arrangement-don-t-fully-endorse-gupkar-agenda-congress/story-L1VMsxLLsvAkGu9ubUEUPP.html
17-11-2020||India||Assam: Bodoland Territorial Council elections to be held in two phases in December||Elections to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam, which were postponed in April this year due to Covid-19, will be held in December in two phases, an official announcement stated on Tuesday. According to a notification by state election commissioner Alok Kumar, polling to the 40 constituencies in BTC, which governs the four districts of Kokrajhar, Udalguri, Baksa and Chirang, will be held on December 7 and December 10. Counting of votes for both the phases will be held on December 12. In the first phase, polling would be held in constituencies falling in Udalguri and Baksa districts and in the second phase, voting would take place in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts. Re-poll, if any, would happen on December 8 and December 11, for both the phases. The notification mentioned that polling would be held by following the broad guidelines for conduct of elections during Covid-19 issued by the Election Commission of India. Also read | In Assam, ruling BPF’s working president quits party; likely to join BJPElections to BTC, which was ruled by Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state, was scheduled in April this year, but the entire region was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Campaigning is underway in the four districts with large political rallies being held daily. Despite being coalition partners in the state government, Bharatiya Janata Party and BPF are contesting the elections independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bodoland-territorial-council-elections-to-be-held-in-two-phases-in-december/story-P5B0AQVZ2BoKj6LwBPiF9L.html
17-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Shiv Sena remains a Hindutva party, says Sanjay Raut and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena remains a Hindutva party, will not play Hindutva politics: Sanjay RautMaharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday insisted it remains a Hindutva party, which will stand up for the ideology whenever required. Read morePoll bugle of apolitical outfits worries mainstream parties in KeralaIn the midst of local body elections, considered a semi-final clash before the assembly polls, due in six months, rise of many apolitical outfits worries mainstream political parties in Kerala. Read moreUS expands safety probe into nearly 159,000 Tesla vehiclesThe US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said on Monday it was expanding a probe into nearly 159,000 Tesla Model S and Model X vehicles, upgrading it to an engineering analysis, a step required before it can seek to compel recalls. Read moreChunks of cliff collapse in Spanish island, scary moment captured on camera. WatchOf all the shocking videos available on the Internet, this video of a cliff collapsing on a beach in La Gomera, one of the islands in Spain’s Canary Islands, is swiftly going viral. The clip, shared by President of the Canary Islands, Ángel Víctor Torres shows the collapse captured on camera by an eye-witness. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Virat is worth two players, as batsman and captain,’ Glenn McGrath says Kohli’s absence will ‘impact series’Before the Indian team travelled to Australia for the upcoming series, the BCCI announced that captain Virat Kohli has been granted a paternal leave following the first Test which begins from 17th December. It meant that Kohli will only play the pink-ball Test in Adelaide but will miss remainder of the series. Read moreSara Ali Khan brooding over mamma’s boy Ibrahim Ali Khan in this post-Diwali photoshoot is all elder siblings everWhile Diwali is two days old, nawabi princess Sara Ali Khan’s pictures dripping with sartorial elegance and different poses in the festive outfit are brand new. Flooding the Internet with a royal family photoshoot featuring her alongside actor-mother Amrita Singh and brother Ibrahim Ali Khan, the Coolie No.1 star’s evident insecurity for mommy’s love set all elder siblings relating. Read moreCovid-19: CM Kejriwal says Delhi govt may shut markets emerging as hotspotsChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Delhi government may temporarily shut markets in view of Covid-19. Kejriwal said his government has sought power from the Centre to impose lockdown in some markets. Delhi CM added that these are the market areas which may emerge as Covid hotspots. The move, however, would need approval of LG Anil Baijal who is the chairperson of DDMA. Thanking the central government, Kejriwal said that the Centre and all agencies are making ‘double efforts’ to control the Covid situation in Delhi. The national capital has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October end. Last week, daily rise crossed 8,000-mark while the city recorded the highest deaths in over five months. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-shiv-sena-remains-a-hindutva-party-says-sanjay-raut-and-all-the-latest-news/story-V8cFBwrqKSghx5T7wqTFAK.html
17-11-2020||India||Bhima Koregaon case: HC asks Maharashtra government to provide Varavara Rao’s medical report to his wife||The Bombay high court has directed Maharashtra to provide details of the examination conducted by the doctors of Nanavati Hospital through video consultation on 81-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao to his wife. The latter has petitioned the court to shift the Bhima Koregaon accused from Taloja jail to Nanavati Hospital. The directions were issued after senior counsel Indira Jaising informed the court that the report provided to them on Tuesday afternoon was incomplete and did not have any details of the tests done on Rao. Jaising added that the one page report provided by the state through WhatsApp had no information regarding dementia and the urinary tract infection which Rao is suffering from. A division bench of justices S S Shinde and Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the plea filed by Rao’s wife P Hemlatha, was informed by Jaising that the state had failed to comply with the court orders passed last week. The court had directed the doctors of Nanavati Hospital, who had previously treated Rao in July while he was admitted there, to conduct a check-up of Rao through video consultation and submit a report on his condition to the court as well as the petitioner and the NIA. Also read | NPRD appeals NHRC’s to intervene for basic amenities to jailed octagenarian activist Stan SwamyJaising submitted that though the tests to be done had to be read in conjunction with the July report, the current report had no mention about Rao’s co-morbidities. She added that the latest report also lacked Rao’s neurology and urology report. Jaising submitted that the state was resorting to delaying tactics and the report submitted on Tuesday was an eyewash. She added that Rao’s condition was critical and he needed to be shifted to the hospital where the doctors could physically assess his condition and conduct all the requisite tests in one go. Saying that Rao’s wife had come to know of his deteriorating health, her petition had sought shifting him to Nanavati Hospital. She had also sought constitution of a medical board to independently examine Rao’s condition. Hemlatha also prayed for the release of Rao on grounds of failing health. The court has directed the state to provide a detailed report to it as well as the petitioner and posted hearing for 11am on Wednesday. Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family had alleged that he was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. The family had then issued a statement, saying, “He was not normal at the time of discharge...later on June 2 it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of conspiracy by the police. June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in the NIA special sessions court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26.” Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after voices were raised from various quarters Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. Later he was shifted to St George’s Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19.The National Human Rights Commission also intervened and issued notices to the Maharashtra government, asking it to ensure Rao is taken care of and adequate medical facilities are arranged. It had also asked for a report on his health.The commission had observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty bound to provide the same to a prisoner as well. Maharashtra state was directed to constitute a medical board to examine Rao’s health, provide him the best possible treatment and bear the cost for the same. Rao was then moved to Nanavati Hospital for treatment. He was shifted back to Taloja jail on August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-case-hc-asks-maharashtra-government-to-provide-varavara-rao-s-medical-report-to-his-wife/story-nf4lOq6xgFpCaVnQGC8cSI.html
17-11-2020||India||Terrorism, Covid-19 vaccine, self-reliant India: What PM Modi said at 12th Brics summit 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed a virtual summit of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping focussing on economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic.At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi is participating in the virtual Brics summit with the theme “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. The summit’s agenda includes intra-Brics cooperation, key global issues such as reforming the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, counter-terrorism cooperation, trade, health and energy, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted.This is the second time Modi and Xi are on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May.Here are the latest updates:> “We all are passengers in the same boat and the wind is rough,” Jinping said.> Chinese president Xi Jinping is addressing the summit now. > There is always a black sheep in the family, Russian president Vladimir Putin said commenting on Modi’s remark on terrorism.> During its leadership of Brics, India will promote digital health and traditional medicine among Brics countries, Modi said.> In his address, PM Modi briefly talked about the concept of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’.> Due to the strength of India’s pharma sector, we were able to provide medicines to over 150 countries during Covid-lockdown era, PM Modi said adding that India’s vaccine production and delivery ability will help mankind in the same way.> Lauding Russia’s leadership, Modi said several initiatives were taken to improve people-to-people connections such as Brics film festival, meetings of young scientists etc> We have to ensure that the countries that support the terrorists are held accountable and this problem is tackled in an organised manner, PM Modi said.> Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing today, said PM Modi.> Reforms are required in IMF, WTO, WHO, PM Modi said.> Questions are being raised on the effectiveness of global institutions. The main reason is because they have not changed with time, PM Modi said.> India is a firm supporter of multilateralism. We have been firmly committed to the values of the United Nations, PM Modi said.>  This is the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. India has been a core supporter of multi-laterism & in Indian tradition, the entire world is considered a family. Our commitment towards UN’s values has been paramount, PM Modi said.> The theme of this BRICS Summit is Global Stability, Shared Security and Innovative Growth is not just contemporary but also futuristic. The world is seeing major geostrategic changes, effects of which will continue on stability, security and growth: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-address-12th-brics-summit-2020-live-updates/story-J46tXAxLU4W7R95Tuk4oWO.html
17-11-2020||India||As cases surge, Hindu Rao hospital likely to be made Covid-19 facility again||Civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital is likely to be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility again, in the wake of a massive surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital in the last several days, sources said on Tuesday.The 980-bed hospital, which is the largest municipal hospital in Delhi, was designated as a coronavirus facility on June 14, when the city was under the first wave of the spread of the infection. However, on October 13 it was removed from the list of such facilities, in view of its low occupancy.With the capital city now under the third wave of the spread of Covid-19, the hospital is likely to be converted into a dedicated facility once again, sources said. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday afternoon inspected the hospital and took stock of the situation there.Read more | Covid-19: Delhi looks to withdraw relaxation on wedding attendees, shut markets emerging as hotspotsThe Centre after a high-level meeting here recently had announced a slew of steps, including making available 300 additional ICU beds, doubling the number of daily RT-PCR tests and a house-to-house survey in the national capital, to check the spiralling numbers of cases in Delhi.Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that some of the hospitals under the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The National Centre for Disease Control, in a report drafted recently, had warned that Delhi needed to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases per day, taking into account winter-related respiratory problems, a large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.Delhi recorded 3,797 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.89 lakh, even as 99 new fatalities pushed the toll to 7,713, authorities said. The highest single-day spike till date here -- 8,593 cases -- was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were also recorded. Delhi has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on Wednesday. On Thursday, 104 deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-surge-hindu-rao-hospital-likely-to-be-made-covid-19-facility-again/story-5WBbBsCnMBcKRptLp7lL7N.html
17-11-2020||India||In Odisha, govt ITIs log highest ever enrolment amid Covid-19; pvt ones lag behind||For the first time in more than a decade, government ITIs in Odisha have reported less than 5 per cent vacancy among the 18,000-odd seats that were advertised in the current academic session boosting the state government’s mission of “Skilled in Odisha”.Officials in the Skill Development and Technical Education department said in 2020-21 academic year, around 96 per cent of the 18,258 seats in 49 government ITIs have been filled up till now, the highest so far. The figure is likely to improve further as spot admissions are scheduled to continue till November 20. In comparison, the 490-odd private ITIs in the state have 66 per cent of the 77,184 seats going vacant with many of the private ITIs reporting 90-95 per cent vacancy.Officials said the dwindling vacancies in the government ITIs are a far cry from what it was 5 years ago when around 6700 seats remained vacant. “We never had it so good. Had the Covid pandemic not happened, we would have filled up all the seats this year. The increased enrolment is a testament of the quality of education and placement opportunities being provided in government ITIs. Government ITIs have now better infrastructure in terms of labs and well-qualified teachers. The buildings no longer look drab and the ITI students have their own uniform designed by National Institute of Fashion Design,” said Reghu G, director of department of technical education and training.Though the uptick in government ITI admission has been happening due to the improved quality of education and infrastructure, the placing of 7 government ITIs from the state among the 100 top ITIs of the country in the list drawn up by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship recently may have been a factor in pushing the enrolment despite the pandemic-induced slowdown. Apart from the 7 government ITIs, 4 private ITIs of Odisha too featured in the top 100 ITI list.Rashmita Panda, chief executive of Odisha Skill Development Authority, that provides all-round direction to various skill development initiatives of the state government, said counselling in high schools by government ITIs may have been one reason in the surge of admission. “Teachers from many of the government ITIs go to local schools to motivate the students to join ITI. While governments ITIs have been canvassing in schools to get newer students, private ITIs have not been that aggressive. Another programme named Sudakshya that made ITI education free for girls too has pushed enrolment of girls from 6 per cent 3 years ago to 18 per cent now. All the ITIs barring five have separate hostels for girl students,” said Panda. Scholarships for children of construction workers also led to increase in enrolment.The buzz around the government ITIs began in 2016 when the government started Skilled in Odisha Mission to provide skilled hands to the manufacturing ecosystem of the country. “ITIs in Odisha had not many takers as students enrolled in ITIs if they could not do anything worthwhile after college. There was an information asymmetry. Though people in a few districts knew there is an ITI around, most people – parents, teachers, district officials had no idea what happened in there. Empowering the ITIs and unleashing their true potential made common sense,” said Ajay Panda, deputy director of DTET.To build up the brand ITI, the government signed up with Tata Strive, a Mumbai-based Trust to impart training on communication and other life skill to the students for increasing employability. More than 200 teachers from 49 government ITIs were sent to ITEEs in Singapore for training on knowledge, skills, innovations and best practices. Temasek Foundation International supported this training programme.While persuading teenagers in villages and towns to enroll in ITIs was one part of the task, increased placement through central placement cell as well as at the level of individual ITIs, has also been a factor. Of all the students who are passing out of government ITIs, anything between 17-18 per cent are managing to get placed. Individual ITIs like Berhampur ITI are reporting even higher placement. This year despite the pandemic-induced slowdown, 1346 students have been placed in different companies. To encourage entrepreneurship among the students, the government has started Nano-Unicorn funding under which each of the selected student gets Rs 1 lakh assistance to start their own project which they have to return without any interestOwners of private ITI said the fall in enrolment in non-government ITIs was due to faulty policies of government than anything else. “Though Covid has taken a toll on admission this year, the government has refused to extend the benefits of Sudakshya scheme to girl students of private ITIs. Had that happened, many girl students who wanted to take admission could have taken admission in our ITIs. Besides, there is much uncertainty over the examination as the final exam scheduled in July has not happened due to Covid,” said Arun Kumar Nayak, president of State Pvt ITI Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-govt-itis-log-highest-ever-enrolment-amid-covid-19-pvt-ones-lag-behind/story-HBB0SsS1tvWjF4oy1uEyzI.html
17-11-2020||India||Trade unions call nationwide strike on Nov 26; support next week’s farmers’ agitation||Ten central trade unions on Tuesday said they are going ahead with their planned nationwide general strike on November 26 and also announced their support to a two-day farmers’ agitation next week.The meeting of the Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) and Sectoral Independent Federations and Associations was held virtually on November 16, 2020.Unions expressed satisfaction over the tremendous response being received from workers and the people at large throughout the country to the ongoing campaign for the countrywide general strike on November 26, 2020, a joint forum statement said. The forum consists of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC).The preparatory campaign for the general strike against “the anti-people, anti-worker, anti-national and destructive policies of the BJP government led by Modi has been going on with great enthusiasm all over the country”, the statement said. Read more | 41 trains cancelled, 11 short-terminated over farmers’ protest in PunjabJoint conventions, posters, leaflets jointly as well as independently by the central trade unions and their affiliated trade unions are being held at state, district and local levels as well as at the sectoral level. The strike notices have been served, it said adding that in addition to workers, people from all walks of life and all sections of the society, viz, students, youth, women, peasants have been coming forward extending their whole-hearted support to the call of general strike on November 26. The meeting welcomed the whole-hearted support extended by the united platform of the peasants’ organisations, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), to the general strike by the workers. “It is heartening that the peasants, who are already in the midst of struggle against the draconian farm laws passed by the Modi govt, support the workers fighting against the anti-worker measures of this government,” it added.The Joint Platform and Sectoral Federations and Associations, which has been extending active solidarity and support to the struggles of the peasantry and agricultural workers from the very beginning, has reiterated its active support to the countrywide protest actions and march to Delhi on 26-27 November 2020 announced by the AIKSCC. The charter of demands of the general strike by CTUs and federations and associations includes the demand to scrap the draconian farm laws. Along with the demands directly related to the workers, the trade unions have also been campaigning on this demand, it added. Meanwhile, the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has also stated that power engineers across the country will protest on November 26 against the privatisation policies of the central government. The AIPEF is demanding to scrap of Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and standard bidding document (SBD) for the privatisation of electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-call-nationwide-strike-on-nov-26-support-next-week-s-farmers-agitation/story-ho4Jm2VYaVfdulfBDChMwJ.html
17-11-2020||India||Indian envoy discusses bilateral relations with Japan Upper House President Santo Akiko||Indian Ambassador to Japan Sanjay Kumar Verma on November 11 discussed about the ever-growing bilateral relations between the two countries with Santo Akiko, President, House of Councillors (Upper House) in Japan’s National Diet, informed the Embassy of India in Japan on Tuesday.In a tweet, Verma said he had attended a Japanese Sencha Tea ceremony at the invitation of Akiko.“On 11th Nov’20, Ambassador Sanjay Kumar Verma attended Japanese Sencha Tea Ceremony on invitation of Her Excellency SANTO Akiko, President,House of Councillors(Upper House)National Diet of Japan. On sidelines of event Amb discussed abt India & India-Japan evergrowing relations,” tweeted India in Japan.Currently, the navies of India and Japan, along with the United States and Australia, are set to take part in the second phase of Exercise Malabar that is scheduled to take place from November 17 to 20 in the Indian Ocean region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-envoy-discusses-bilateral-relations-with-japan-upper-house-president-santo-akiko/story-d2cHMlPEiUf269UN7MyIyM.html
17-11-2020||India||Effects of Diwali, Durga Puja and elections on Covid-19 outbreak may be visible soon, says govt||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that Centre is taking urgent actions to control Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi by taking number of measures like increasing overall beds including ICU beds, double testing to 1-1.2 lakh per day, enforce quarantine of contacts, enforce containment zone SOPs among others.Moving swiftly, health ministry has announced that manpower in the national capital will be increased to inspect nearly 4,000 containment areas in Delhi following the government-induced Standard Operating Procedures. Niti Aayog’s Dr VK Paul said that the limit of ICU beds will be increased from 3500 ICU beds to 6000 ICU beds in next few days. Also read: India records more daily Covid-19 recoveries than new cases for 6 successive weeksIndicating heightened social interaction amid disease outbreak, the officials also added that effects of elections, Durga Puja, Diwali may be seen in coming weeks. “We have to keep watching new cases very carefully,” the officials said in the press briefing. The health ministry officials said that October trend was marked with record high Covid-19 tally and while Delhi has reported fewer cases in the last 48 hours, a conclusion cannot be derived yet. “Average daily test trajectory was increased after June in Delhi. Number of Covid-19 cases declined in mid-August. Since October number of cases are at a record high. Fewer cases have been detected in the last 48 hours but we can’t come to a conclusion now,” Union health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. India on Tuesday logged 29,163 fresh infection of Covid-19, pushing the cumulative tally to 88,74,290. The death toll rose to 1,30,519 after 449 new casualties were recorded in the last 24 hours. India’s number of new coronavirus infections reported in a day dropped below 30,000 after four months. The last time India reported less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases was on July 15.As of Tuesday, India has recorded more daily recoveries from Covid-19 than daily new cases for six successive weeks, according to the government data.Also read | Conduct targeted Covid-19 testing at large gatherings: Centre“India has continued the unbroken trend of the daily new recoveries outpacing the daily new additions for the 44th day. A total number of 43,851 Covid-19 patients recovered on Monday against just 30,548 newly detected cases. This translates to a net reduction of 13,303 in the active caseload which now stands at 465,478,” said the health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urgent-actions-being-taken-to-control-covid-19-outbreak-in-delhi-says-health-ministry/story-zz0hMVVoDVGj9VLDOykDRO.html
17-11-2020||India||Car rams into AAP leader’s Uttarakhand home, guard posted there shoots at driver||A private security guard posted at an Aam Aadmi Party leader’s residence opened fire on the driver of a car that rammed into the AAP leader’s house in US Nagar district on Monday evening. The injured driver was rushed to the hospital where he is being treated. According to the police, the private security guard at AAP leader Deepak Bali’s residence shot at the car driver, injuring him when he rammed his car into the house, breaking the main gate. “CCTV footage shows that a car came straight and rammed into my residence after breaking the main gate. The driver in an attempt to flee took the car in reverse gear. This incident stunned my private guard and he tried to stop him while going back, but the driver refused. I failed to understand what the car driver’s motive was. Police are investigating the case,” Deepak Bali, AAP leader and a local businessman in Kashipur, said. Satish Kapri, senior sub-inspector at Kashipur police station said Bali’s private security guard Bhupendra was stunned by the sudden incident and tried to stop the car’s driver. Kapri said when the car driver refused to stop, the security guard opened fire on him. “The car driver sustained injuries due to the shrapnel from of the gunfire. Later, his relatives admitted him to a private hospital in Kashipur. He was identified as Harpreet Singh alias Hairy of Choi village in Ramnagar area of Nainital district. He is out of danger,” he said. “We are investigating the incident from every angle but prima facie, it seems just an accident. The accused claimed that he was returning to his home but on the way, he took a wrong turn and his car rammed into the AAP leader’s residential premises.” Kapri said, “We have taken CCTV footage of the incident into our possession and recorded the statements of Bali, the accused and guard. No complaint from either side has been received so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/car-rams-into-aap-leader-s-uttarakhand-home-guard-posted-there-shoots-at-driver/story-Rmtyiekf5e6Flm4DBzMcvL.html
17-11-2020||India||Odisha BJP member claims Sambit Patra made Puri famous, stirs hornets’ nest||A BJP member’s claim that Odisha’s pilgrim town of Puri became famous only after the party’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra contested the Lok Sabha election from the constituency sparked outrage and spurred both the ruling BJD and the opposition Congress to attack her.Lekhashree Samantasinghar, one of the BJP spokespersons in Odisha who was addressing party workers at an event in the Pipli area of Puri district on Monday, said people used to think that Puri is in Kolkata but they came to know about the town being in Odisha only after Sambit Patra contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Puri. Patra lost the election to BJD’s Pinaki Mishra.Soon after a video clip of her statement went viral on social media, both BJD and Congress leaders trained their guns on her. Niranjan Patnaik, Congress chief in Odisha said Samantasinghar’s remark reeked of BJP’s arrogance. “Not just have they insulted the abode of Lord Jagannath, but it seems the BJP leaders have started imagining themselves as God,” he said.Senior BJD leader Arup Patnaik said Samantsinghar has probably gone insane. “As the son of Delanga (in Puri district), I take strong objection to her remarks that people did not know about Puri before Sambit Patra’s arrival as a candidate in the 2019 polls. I condemn this as an individual from Puri District. It’s outrageous for me and many others to see the lady making disparaging remarks on our Jagannath Dham. We Odias have become a soft target,” said Patnaik.BJD MP Amar Patnaik said the BJP spokesperson’s statement was an insult to Odisha and the land of Jagannath, the Lord of the Universe. “Even a 3-year-old child knows where Puri is, the humble abode of Lord Jagannath. Make no mistake, he is the lord of Kolkata as well,” he said.Faced with the blowback, the BJP launched a firefighting operation to defend Samantsinghar. Samir Mohanty, head of the BJP unit in Odisha said Samantsinghar was being quoted out of context.“She spoke about Puri in the context of Vocal for Local issue. While Pipili is known for its applique work, there are other products in the districts that need to be popularised. All that she meant was that Sambit Patra would take the lead in popularising those products,” Mohanty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjp-member-claims-sambit-patra-made-puri-famous-stirs-hornets-nest/story-TzMXFEA0NOrdkCKoBT6uyM.html
17-11-2020||India||New education policy aims at making India a global knowledge superpower: Venkaiah Naidu||The New Education Policy (NEP) aims at making India a global knowledge superpower and underlined the need for the country to once again become a Vishwa Guru (global teacher) in the field of education, Vice president Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday.The ancient education system in the country used to focus on developing holistic and well-rounded personalities and taught people to live in harmony with nature and respect all, he said.“Our education was practical, wholesome, and complementary to life. In fact, education was seen as a continuous process of learning,” Naidu said, addressing virtually the 13th convocation of National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Agartala from here.“The New Education Policy is underpinned by the same vision. It aims at making India a global knowledge super-power and seeks to bring a paradigm shift in the entire education system,” he said.Urging the higher education institutions and universities to make India a thriving hub of knowledge and innovation, Naidu advised them to take up cutting edge research in various fields, establish synergy with industries and other similar institutions and turn our campuses into exciting centres of creativity and research.Read more | PM Modi appreciates inputs given by citizens for ‘Mann ki Baat’Recalling the advice of former president late A P J Abdul Kalam to the youth to dream big, the Vice-President asked the students to set a goal and strive hard to achieve it. He opined that it was time for the universities, IITs, NITs and other higher education institutions to fully reorient their teaching methods and equip the teachers with new pedagogical skills in tune with the 21st-century requirements. Naidu urged the corporate sector to identify key research projects in various sectors and fund them under CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives. Noting that about 65 per cent of the countrys population comprised youth, Naidu called for fully channeling their energies and creating the right ecosystem for promoting entrepreneurship among them.He lauded NIT Agartala for being ranked within 100 best engineering institutions under the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-aims-at-making-india-a-global-knowledge-superpower-venkaiah-naidu/story-frQyX7EMCmqvt84bXp9X4J.html
17-11-2020||India||Meet Bihar’s new ministers: Nitish keeps home; JD(U) gets education, health goes to BJP||A day after 14 ministers of the new Bihar cabinet took oath, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced the portfolios. This is the first time Bihar will have two deputy chief ministers. The new government in Bihar has fourteen ministers -- seven from the BJP, five from the JD(U) and one each from the HAM and VIP.Nitish Kumar has kept the home portfolio for himself, apart from general administration, vigilance, election and several other departments which have not yet been distributed. Finance, commercial taxes, environment and forest, information technology, disaster management and urban development will be handled by deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad.The other deputy CM — Renu Devi — will head panchayati raj, backward caste uplift, extremely backward class welfare and industry.Former Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary (JD-U) has got the portfolios of rural engineering, rural development, water resources, information and public relations, parliamentary affairs.BJP’s Bijendra Prasad Yadav will be the minister of energy, prohibition, planning, food and consumer affairs.Mewalal Choudhary (JD-U) will be the new education minister and BJP’s Shiela Kumari will be the transport minister.Jitan Ram Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman has got the portfolio of minor irrigation and SC/ST welfare.Vikassheel Insaan Party’s Mukesh Sahni will be the minister for animal husbandry and fisheries.Mangal Pandey (BJP) is the minister for health, road, art and culture.Agriculture, cooperatives and sugar cane will be handled by BJP’s Amrendra Pratap Singh. Rampreet Paswan will be the new public health engineering minister. BJP’s Jivesh Misra will handle the tourism, mines and labour portfolios and Ram Surat Rai will be the new revenue and law minister. In its first meeting on Tuesday, the new cabinet gave its nod to a five-day session of the bicameral Bihar legislature from November 23 to November 27. Members of the newly constituted 17th assembly will be administered the oath during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-bihar-s-new-ministers-nitish-keeps-home-jd-u-gets-education-health-goes-to-bjp/story-zrJpnhy8GKoFeITw8ugnWI.html
17-11-2020||India||PM Modi appreciates inputs given by citizens for ‘Mann ki Baat’||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appreciated inputs from the citizens for his monthly radio programme, Mann ki Baat, which is scheduled to be aired on November 29 and urged people to keep sharing their thoughts with him. “Every #MannKiBaat we celebrate the accomplishments of outstanding people, working for societal good. But, for every one example shared, there are many I am unable to share due to paucity of time. But, I do read many of the inputs and they are truly valuable,” the PM tweeted.He further added, “This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800.” This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800.https://t.co/hjRNQEKcDv“Mann ki Baat” is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month. Last month, the PM spoke about the important role played by Kashmir’s Pulwama in fulfilling a large share of India’s pencil needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-appreciates-inputs-given-by-citizens-for-mann-ki-baat/story-Js0PunJUedPdAh3R0lit2K.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Those who oppose BJP’s ideology are labelled corrupt and anti-national’: Omar Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Tuesday slammed Union home minister Amit Shah for calling the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) ‘Gupkar Gang’. He said that anyone who opposes the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ideology is labelled corrupt and anti-national.“We are not a “gang” Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought & continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment,” Omar said on Twitter.In a series of tweets, Shah had on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the newly-formed PAGD by saying that either the alliance gets with the national mood or else people will sink it. The home minister had accused the alliance of insulting India’s Tricolour and that it was trying to bring back the era of terror and turmoil in Jammu and Kashmir.“Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled “corrupt & anti-national”,” Omar, also vice president of the National Conference, said in a subsequent tweet.Omar said BJP’s failed agenda to have a free run in the upcoming local body elections in the state is the root cause of the frustration behind Shah’s remarks. “I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon’ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” Omar added.Not only Omar, but Shah’s recent comments on the alliance did not go down well with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti, who reacted sharply as well.“Old habits die hard. Earlier BJPs narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out,” Mufti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-oppose-bjp-s-ideology-are-labelled-corrupt-and-anti-national-omar-abdullah/story-x6dXrHKGhdzOmxz9I7UuIN.html
17-11-2020||India||Citing illegal encroachments, Assam student body starts indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland||Several organisations in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district have started an indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland from Tuesday citing alleged illegal encroachments by the neighbouring state. Led by Karbi Students Association (KSA), the organisations blocked NH 39 from 8am. Several trucks carrying goods and other commercial vehicles have been stranded because of the blockade. There are allegations that Nagaland authorities have issued land certificates to people in areas falling in the Daldali forest reserve under Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) in Assam. Authorities in Assam also allege that border pillars demarcating the 512 km-long boundary between the two states have been removed by people from Nagaland in order to encroach on Assam territory. “Encroachment of Assam territory has been going on for many years, but the state government has failed to stop it. Hence, we have decided to impose the indefinite economic blockade against it,” KSA president Bijoy Bey told journalists on Sunday. “We demand that both the state governments talk and find a permanent solution to the border dispute. Houses constructed on Assam soil should be vacated, land certificates issued by Nagaland government should be cancelled and border pillars should be reinstalled in the original spots,” he added. District police officials said that though the protesters have blocked movement of commercial vehicles, private vehicles have been allowed to ply without restrictions. No violence was reported from the protest sites. “Normal movement of private vehicles hasn’t been affected and protesters have blocked vehicles carrying goods. Border disputes between both the states can be resolved only by the Centre or through the Supreme Court where a case is pending. Our job is to maintain peace and ensure law and order,” said Debojit Deuri, superintendent of police, Karbi Anglong. On Monday, members of Assam’s Adivasi Students Union (ASU) had blocked the road leading to Nagaland’s Mokokchung alleging encroachment by the Naga side. The blockade was lifted in the evening. Assam’s leading student body, All Assam Students Union (AASU), had on Sunday threatened to block roads to Nagaland in protest against alleged encroachment of Dissoi Valley reserve forest in Assam’s Jorhat district. The present border row between the two states comes on the heels of a month-long dispute between Assam and Mizoram which resulted in two road blockades. The situation along the Assam-Mizoram boundary is now returning to normal following intervention of the union home ministry. Nagaland and Assam share a 434 km boundary and a dispute that’s going on for over five decades. Nagaland has been claiming some portions of Assam as theirs while the latter has accused it of encroaching thousands of hectares of its land. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. There have been several violent clashes on the issue. Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in alleged attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985 and 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citing-illegal-encroachments-assam-student-body-starts-indefinite-economic-blockade-of-nagaland/story-Zkinwbxcdsm80V52M4M3dM.html
17-11-2020||India||Allahabad MP Rita Bahuguna’s granddaughter dies of burns||The granddaughter of Allahabad MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi has died of burns received during bursting of crackers, a close aide of the BJP leader said on Tuesday. She was six-year-old. The MP’s aide said Kiya died around 2 am on Tuesday at the city hospital where she was admitted following the incident on Monday afternoon. He said the Bahuguna’s granddaughter was bursting crackers with a couple of other children when the accident took place. A spokesman said the MP’s son Mayank was in Lucknow at the time of the incident and had booked an air ambulance to take Kiya to Delhi for treatment. Kiya was to be taken to Delhi on Tuesday. Kiya will be cremated at Allahabad’s Daraganj on his father’s arrival from Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-mp-rita-bahuguna-s-granddaughter-dies-of-burns/story-7pdbBlcj3jrQOVMWIbKHcM.html
17-11-2020||India||Former Himachal Pradesh assembly speaker Tulsi Ram passes away at 78||Former Himachal Pradesh assembly speaker and senior BJP leader Tulsi Ram passed away at Palampur following a prolonged illness, a party spokesman said on Tuesday. He was 78. Tulsi Ram breathed his last at Palampur in Kangra district on Monday night, the spokesman said.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, speaker Vipin Parmar and BJP state president Suresh Kashyap condoled the death of Tulsi Ram. हिमाचल प्रदेश विधानसभा के पूर्व अध्यक्ष पंडित तुलसी राम जी के निधन का दुखद समाचार प्राप्त हुआ।ईश्वर दिवंगत आत्मा को शांति तथा शोकग्रस्त परिवार को इस दुःख को सहन करने की शक्ति प्रदान करें। pic.twitter.com/EafWGnAL7kTulsi Ram was the speaker of the Himachal Pradesh assembly from 2007 to 2012 and was elected MLA thrice in 1990, 1998 and 2007 from the Bharmour assembly constituency. He was a great statesman who worked tirelessly for the cause of vulnerable sections of society, the chief minister said. Tulsi Ram’s contributions for the development of the Bharmour assembly constituency were immense and he would always be remembered, Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-himachal-pradesh-assembly-speaker-tulsi-ram-passes-away-at-78/story-h0Cnu37a4zzlcszNoaRZfJ.html
17-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi, President Xi Jinping to join Brics summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same platform for the second time in a week when leaders of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping join a virtual summit on Tuesday to focus on economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi will participate in the virtual Brics summit with the theme “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. The summit’s agenda includes intra-Brics cooperation, key global issues such as reforming the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, counter-terrorism cooperation, trade, health and energy, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted. This will be the second time Modi and Xi will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. Also Read: PM Modi to attend BRICS summit: All you need to know about the 5-nation blocOn November 10, Modi and Xi participated in the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), also hosted by Russia. In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Modi had urged SCO members to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries while implementing connectivity projects. He also took a swipe at Pakistan, saying it was unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to violate the SCO charter by raising bilateral issues. Russia had subsequently backed India’s position on this matter. The top leadership of India and China are expected to be on the same online platform during five meetings this month. Besides the SCO summit on November 10, the East Asia summit on November 14 and the Brics summit on November 17, the two countries will also participate in the G20 summit during November 21-22 and the SCO council of heads of government meeting on November 30. In 2021, India will take over as chair of Brics for the third time since the grouping’s inception and host the next summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-president-xi-jinping-to-join-brics-summit-today/story-d6cB5JYw2BBPBVJWYyxjMO.html
17-11-2020||India||Pakistan becomes ‘Pavlovian’ whenever India is mentioned: India at UNGA||India has slammed Pakistan for making “irrelevant and irresponsible” remarks in the UN, saying the general assembly is a forum for serious debate, not frivolous allegations.India’s permanent representative to the UN ambassador T S Tirumurti said this on Monday while speaking in the UN general assembly on ‘question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the security council’.Pakistan’s ambassador to the UN Munir Akram, in his speech, made references to the Line of Control as he voiced opposition to India’s UNSC membership.“I do not wish to waste the time of this assembly by responding to the irrelevant and irresponsible remarks made by the representative of Pakistan, which becomes ‘Pavlovian’ whenever India is mentioned,” the Indian envoy said, referring to Islamabad’s automatic or predictable reactions in the past.Read more | India’s candidate elected to key UN committee in closely contested race“This is a forum for serious debate, not frivolous allegations,” Tirumurti said.  At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the general assembly of the United Nations. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. India, Brazil, South Africa, Germany and Japan are strong contenders for permanent membership of the UNSC which has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-becomes-pavlovian-whenever-india-is-mentioned-india-at-unga/story-FCaQELgSsJT1HVrCf1OyUL.html
17-11-2020||India||20 Uttarakhand PAC personnel test Covid-19 positive after returning from Bihar poll duty||Twenty personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) who returned from Bihar election duty a week ago, have tested Covid-19 positive in Rudrapur area of US Nagar of the state. They have been admitted to a Covid Care Hospital in Rudrapur, officials said . “A company of our battalion was sent to Bihar for election duty in October. When the personnel returned from duty, their samples were collected and sent for Covid-19 testing. Twenty police personnel out of 100 have tested Covid-19 positive. They have been admitted in a Covid Care Centre in Rudrapur,” Dadan Pal, commandant 31st battalion of PAC in Rudrapur, said. Five companies of PAC and Indian reserve battalion (IRB) were sent for assembly election duty to Bihar. A company of the 31st battalion PAC returned to Rudrapur after election duty. Its personnel were medically examined in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and samples were collected on November 11. “All personnel were quarantined in barracks after their samples were collected by health officials. As so far 20 security personnel have tested positive, contact tracing has begun and samples of the families of those who tested positive, are being collected for testing as a precautionary measure and to avoid the spread of the infection further,” Pal said. Rudrapur is the base of the PAC 31st and 46th battalions for years. Both battalions have good records in curbing terrorism in erstwhile UP, in maintaining law and order in the state and other states, and extending their services in disaster management, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-uttarakhand-pac-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-after-returning-from-bihar-poll-duty/story-Pt3xQoYoE1uZh23G2UkVnI.html
17-11-2020||India||‘How successful is Mission Shakti?’: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra questions Yogi govt on women’s safety||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of women’s safety, saying will Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath answer how successful is his ‘Mission Shakti’ as news reports on crimes against women show they are “not safe” in the state at all. Chief Minister Adityanath last month launched ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign focusing on ensuring the safety and dignity of women and girls, with a stern warning that perpetrators of crimes against females will be dealt with an iron hand. Attacking the government, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, “Will the Chief Minister of UP bother to tell how successful is his Mission Shakti?” “Because news reports on crimes against women from UP are saying that UP is not safe for women at all. In many places, girls committed suicide because their pleas were not heard,” the Congress general secretary in-charge UP said. The Congress has been attacking the UP government over the state of law and order, alleging that criminal activities are rampant, a claim denied by the Adityanath dispensation. PTI ASK CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-successful-is-mission-shakti-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-questions-yogi-govt-on-women-s-safety/story-L721LKnA2h33RrdtErFxMI.html
17-11-2020||India||NPRD appeals NHRC’s to intervene for basic amenities to jailed octagenarian activist Stan Swamy||The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) has sought the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) intervention to provide reasonable accommodation and assistive aids like straws and sippers to tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who is lodged in the Taloja Jail in Maharashtra.Eighty-three-year-old Swamy, a jesuit priest, was arrested for his alleged role inciting mob violence in Koregaon Bhima near Pune in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018.Swamy, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, recently filed an application before a special court, seeking that he be allowed to use a straw and sipper.In a petition to chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, H L Dattu, NPRD general secretary Muralidharan sought the commission’s “immediate intervention” to ensure that Swamy is provided with requisite age and disability appropriate accommodation, assistive aids including straws and sippers, and human care assistance as required.“Given this condition (tremor in both hands etc.) he has been using a sipper as also a straw for intake of water and fluids. He was carrying these essentials  (straw and sipper) with him when he was arrested by the NIA. The NIA refused to hand them back and the jail authorities refused to provide him these inexpensive but essential assistive items. He has trouble eating because of the tremors,” Muralidharan said.Also Read |  Bhima-Koregaon case: NIA court rejects Father Stan Swamy’s plea for interim bail“He is unable to take bath, bring water or wash clothes on his own. Stan also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aid for both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past and hence may not be in a position to go through a strenuous schedule as demanded in the jail. He used to take daily steam inhalations too,” Muralidharan said in the letter.The NPRD general secretary also urged the NHRC to send a team to inspect the Taloja jail and take note of the accessibility of the prison premises and the services being provided to Swamy.“In case these provisions cannot be made within the jail premises and an accessible environment cannot be provided, we request that the commission issue directions to see that he may be immediately shifted to a hospital where adequate facilities would be available,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nprd-appeals-nhrc-s-to-intervene-for-basic-amenities-to-jailed-octagenarian-activist-stan-swamy/story-rr9ffM4O2NBdtR3tT4fwDN.html
17-11-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal seeks power from Centre to impose lockdown in markets with potential to be Covid-19 hotspots||Amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought power from the Centre to impose lockdown in those markets which may emerge as Covid-19 hotspots, and decided to withdraw an order allowing 200 guests to attend wedding functions.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has sent a proposal to Lt Governor Anil Baijal to allow only 50 people to attend wedding ceremonies against the earlier limit of 200. “As per directions and guidelines of the Centre, 200 participants were earlier allowed in wedding ceremonies due to decreasing number of coronavirus cases. “Now, a proposal has been sent to LG Baijal for his approval to withdraw the previous order and bring the number of guests for wedding ceremonies back to 50 from 200,” he said. The chief minister said the Centre and all agencies are making “double efforts” to control the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. “We are sending a proposal to the Centre to give power to the Delhi government to impose lockdown in market areas which may emerge as Covid-19 hotspots,” the chief minister said. During Diwali, it was seen many that people were not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms due to which the coronavirus spread very much, he said. “I hope the crowd in the markets will thin out and there will be no need to lock them down. “However, if violations of mask wearing and social distancing are witnessed and there is chance of these markets becoming local coronavirus hotspots, these could be shut down as a preventive measure for some days, said Kejriwal. On Monday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said there was no chance of reimposition of lockdown in the national capital since the third wave of the coronavirus has peaked out in the city. Jain had also said the virus cannot be contained through lockdown and that people should protect themselves by wearing face masks. During the media briefing on Tuesday, Kejriwal thanked the central government for helping people of Delhi in “such difficult times” and appealed to Delhiites with folded hands to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. The chief minister said availability of Covid-19 beds in government and private hospitals was satisfactory and thanked the Centre for its promise to arrange 750 ICU beds at a DRDO facility. “All the stakeholders, including the Delhi government, the Centre and various agencies are making double efforts to bring Covid-19 under control, but people need to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” he said.Also Read | ‘Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi falls to 13%’, says health minister Satyendar Jain “All this is being done for you and your family. So I appeal to you, please, please, please wear face masks and follow social distancing,” the chief minister said. The coronavirus does not differentiate between the rich and the poor and it can infect anyone, but some people think they may not contract the virus, he added. Delhi has witnessed a spurt in novel coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on Wednesday. On Thursday, 104 coronavirus-related deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city. On Monday, Delhi recorded 3,797 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.89 lakh, even as 99 new fatalities pushed the toll to 7,713. These relatively low number of fresh cases came out of the 29,871 tests conducted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-seeks-power-from-centre-to-impose-lockdown-in-markets-with-potential-to-be-covid-19-hotspots/story-rPnfTpQHOLAFqocxFKHBZM.html
17-11-2020||India||Air quality improves in 4 out of 5 Uttarakhand cities this Diwali compared to last year||After monitoring the air quality index of major cities in the state, the Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board’s data shows that air quality improved in four out of five cities in the state on Diwali this year compared to last year. Only the capital city of Dehradun reported a dip of 14.2% in air quality index this year. The pollution control board monitored air quality during Diwali in five major cities of Dehradun, Rishikesh, Kashipur, Haridwar and Haldwani. The board monitored indices like PM 2.5, PM 10, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. SP Subudhi, member secretary of the Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board said, “Except Dehradun, all other cities have shown improvement in air quality this year on Diwali when compared to last year, even if it was marginal. In Dehradun, the air quality dipped by 14.2% with an increase in PM 2.5 and PM 10. From our analysis, we understand that the increase in the level of air pollution in Dehradun is due to the bursting of crackers.” The data released by the pollution control board states that this year the air quality improved by 39% in Rishikesh, 15.4% in Kashipur and around 2% in Haldwani and Haridwar compared to last year on Diwali day. “The improvement of air quality in other cities shows the seriousness of citizens towards an important issue like air pollution. In Haridwar, levels of only PM 10 had increased this year, which can be traced to dust from road construction and development activities underway in the area,” added Subudhi. According to records, the cumulative air quality index of all five cities this year was registered to be 296 (poor category) compared to 326 last year, with an improvement of around 9.5%. In Dehradun, the two-hour limit fixed by the Uttarakhand government for the bursting of firecrackers on Diwali went up in smoke, with people bursting crackers from evening till the wee hours of Sunday. In an order issued on November 11, the state government had allowed sale and bursting of only green crackers from 8 pm to 10 pm in six cities -- Dehradun, Haridwar, Kashipur, Rudrapur, Rishikesh and Haldwani. It has allowed bursting of green crackers from 6 am to 8 am on Chhat Puja on November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-improves-in-4-out-of-5-uttarakhand-cities-this-diwali-compared-to-last-year/story-LDzp21XBYsqfgkDJsI8PJM.html
17-11-2020||India||Trivendra Singh Rawat, Yogi Adityanath visit Badrinath temple||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath visited the Badrinath temple on Tuesday.The two chief ministers were supposed to visit the temple on Monday after attending the portal closing ceremony at the Kedarnath shrine. However, the visit had to be put off due to heavy snowfall at Kedarnath.Rawat and Adityanath spent the night at Gauchar and reached Badrinath in a helicopter around 9.30 am, Dharmadhikari of Badrinath temple Bhuvan Chandra Uniyal said.Traditional musical instruments of Uttarakhand were played to welcome Adityanath, he said.Accompanied by Rawat all along, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister spent around 15 minutes at the Himalayan shrine and prayed for everyone’s happiness by chanting the Vedic hymn “Sarve bhavantu sukhinah”.After offering prayers, the two chief ministers left for the foundation stone laying ceremony of a guest house being built by the Uttar Pradesh government in Badrinath.The guest house will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 11 crore in traditional Garhwali style using eco-friendly technology. It will have 40 rooms.Later, Rawat and Adityanath visited the last Indian village on the India-China border and spoke to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel deployed there.Both Rawat and Adityanath have their ancestral villages in Pauri district of Uttarakhand. PTI CORR ALM DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trivendra-singh-rawat-yogi-adityanath-visit-badrinath-temple/story-77gmK2GLEjxHrm15ghpRHJ.html
17-11-2020||India||Indians will not tolerate any unholy ‘global gathbandhan’: Shah on Gupkar alliance||Union home minister Amit Shah onTuesday lashed out at political parties in Kashmir that have come together under the umbrella of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and said by supporting the restoration of Article 370 in the Union Territory, they want to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribals. In a series of tweets, Shah said the Gupkar alliance, a coalition of political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, is a “global gathbandhan against national interest.”“The Gupkar gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar gang also insults India’s tricolour. Do Sonia ji and Rahul ji support such moves of the Gupkar gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah tweeted.Also read | First it was ‘tukde tukde’, now it’s ‘Gupkar ’: Mehbooba Mufti’s reply to Amit Shah’s ‘gang’ jibeHis comments come in the backdrop of reports that the PAGD would push for restoration of Article 370 even eliciting the support of China. Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti was quoted to have said that she would unfurl the national flag in J&K only when the erstwhile state’s flag is restored. The PAGD, an alliance of seven parties, will jointly contest against the BJP in the upcoming district development council elections in the UT.Training his guns at the alliance, Shah said, “Congress and Gupkar gang want to take J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil. They want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing Article 370. This is why they’re being rejected by people everywhere.”In a separate tweet, he said J&K has been, is, and will always remain an integral part of India. “...Indian people will no longer tolerate any unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” Shah tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it.The alliance members, however, alleged that the BJP which was expecting a walkover in the local polls is upset by the prospect of an alliance taking it on. Reacting to Shah’s tweets, Mufti tweeted, “Old habits die hard. Earlier BJPs narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out.” Old habits die hard. Earlier BJPs narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out https://t.co/LoODFZuPmdFormer chief minister of J&K and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah also commented on Shah’s post and said only in J&K can leaders be detained and called anti-national for participating in elections and supporting the democratic process. “...The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled “corrupt & anti-national”,” he tweeted. Abdullah also said, the alliance is not “gang” but a “legitimate political alliance”. “I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon’ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” Abdullah tweeted. I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon’ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them. https://t.co/OrLBPAIFVnOn Tuesday, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also asked the Congress to clarify its stand on the issue of restoration of Article 370. He said Article 370, that gave the erstwhile state a special status barred women who married non-state subject holders from passing on their ancestral property to their children. He said the laws were against exploitation of children, prohibition of manual scavenging, reservation in jobs and educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-will-not-tolerate-any-unholy-global-gathbandhan-shah-on-gupkar-alliance/story-p65rOJKCzAXhjjWK2eqQdM.html
17-11-2020||India||First it was ‘tukde tukde’, now it’s ‘Gupkar’: Mehbooba Mufti’s reply to Amit Shah’s ‘gang’ jibe||Peoples Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti, who is also the deputy chairman of newly formed People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, took on Union home minister Amit Shah for calling the alliance a gang, which is “anti-national”.“BJPs stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours and political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now. Love jihad, tukde tukde and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of like rising unemployment and inflation,” Mufti tweeted. Old habits die hard. Earlier BJPs narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out https://t.co/LoODFZuPmdAhead of the second phase of J&K district development council elections, the BJP has sharpened its attack on Gupkar alliance — the umbrella of several regional political parties with a demand to restore the special status of erstwhile state J&K. Asserting that the alliance can’t be called a gang, Mufti wrote, “Old habits die hard. Earlier, BJP’s narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty and they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out.”“Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front,” Mehbooba added.On Monday, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked Congress to clarify its stand on Article 370. Any party can form an alliance with any party but BJP can always question the agenda of the parties, the minister had said referring to Farooq Abdullah’s alleged remark that with China’s help, Article 370 would be restored in J&K. Farooq Abdullah is the chairman of Gupkar alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-it-was-tukde-tukde-now-it-s-gupkar-mehbooba-mufti-s-reply-to-amit-shah-s-gang-jibe/story-puNtfCIxXs6vHSgre1FzBP.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Some parties run offices from home and become family parties’: Nadda’s swipe at Cong||BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday said the people of Bihar have rejected ‘goonda raj’ and voted for development.“The people of Bihar gave their “stamp of approval” to the development agenda of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. They strongly supported Narendra Modi’s policy of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ (with all, development for all),” he said.Inaugurating six party offices in Odisha, Nadda said, “BJP gives priority to even the construction of party offices. Some parties run offices from home. Thus, they become a family party. For us, our party is our family, while some others use their family as the party.”The new offices inaugurated by Nadda are located in Angul, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar, Baripada in Mayurbhanj district, Sundergarh and Bargarh. Then BJP chief Amit Shah had laid the foundation stone for the party offices on April 5, 2018.Work for six other new party offices in Odisha will start soon, Nadda announced.Stating that the BJP prepared an ambitious plan to construct 700 party offices across the country after Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014, Nadda said 400 of them are ready, while work is in progress for 200 others and the process of land acquisition is on for the rest.“The party office is a proper place for imparting informal training to the party cadres... It functions as a source of major inspiration,” he said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-parties-run-offices-from-home-and-become-family-parties-nadda-s-swipe-at-cong/story-xAOZUn8sAicLx9gkiob6yM.html
17-11-2020||India||Class 8 student kills minor friend for not giving him mobile to play games||A minor was sent to a juvenile home for killing another minor friend in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan. The boy was allegedly killed since he refused to give his mobile phone to the accused to play games. The incident occurred in Bheem village of the district on November 9 and the body of the victim was recovered on November 11. Police said the boy accused of murder is a student of class VIII and is a resident of Beawar area of Ajmer. He has been staying at his grandparent’s house at Jaitpur village in Rajsamand for the last few years. On November 9, he asked his 16-year old friend for his mobile phone to play games, but was denied. Upset with the denial, he took him to the nearby forest on the following evening on the pretext of playing and hit him with a stone to death. The villagers spotted the body and informed the police. Also Read: 4 arrested as rape accused sets survivor afire in RajasthanDuring the interrogation, it was found that the victim had sold his old mobile phone to the accused for Rs 1500 and bought himself a new mobile phone. The accused asked for his new mobile phone to play games after the old phone suddenly stopped working within a few days of its purchase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-8-student-kills-minor-friend-for-not-giving-him-mobile-to-play-games/story-98zk1ikV3rjmynhfkdqBUI.html
17-11-2020||India||New Bihar govt holds first cabinet meet, approves 5-day legislature session||In its first meeting on Tuesday, the new cabinet headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar gave its nod to a five-day session of the bicameral Bihar legislature from November 23.The state cabinet approved the Parliamentary Affairs Department’s proposal to convene the first session of the 17th assembly and 196th session of the legislative council from November 23 to November 27, minister Amarendra Pratap Singh of the BJP said.Asked about the delay in the distribution of portfolios, he said it is the prerogative of the chief minister.The cabinet also authorised the chief minister to approve the draft of the governor’s speech to be made during the joint sitting of both the Houses.Members of the newly-constituted 17th assembly will be administered the oath during the session.The speaker of the assembly will also be elected during the session.The Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar has fourteen other ministers -- seven from the BJP, five from the JD(U) and one each from the HAM and VIP.BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were made the two deputy chief ministers. PTI AR SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-bihar-govt-holds-first-cabinet-meet-approves-5-day-legislature-session/story-LpXsoqWkFUjwwSJlHJzs2O.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19 positivity rate in India at 7.01 per cent, says Health ministry||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said the total number of tests in India now stands at 12,65,42,907 with a cumulative coronavirus positivity rate at 7.01 per cent.As many as 29,163 new Covid-19 infections have been reported in the last 24 hours, which is less than 30,000 cases for the second consecutive day, indicating the wide adoption of Covid appropriate behaviour among the citizens, the ministry said in a statement.“The number of active cases currently stands at 4,53,401, about 5.11 per cent of all cumulative count. As many as 82,90,370 recoveries have been reported so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.42 per cent. About 72.87 per cent of the recovered cases in the last 24 hours were from ten states/union territories, while 75.14 per cent of the new cases were also from these states and UTs,” it added.The MoHFW said Kerala saw the greatest number of recoveries as 6,567 confirmed cases tested negative and West Bengal registered 4,376 daily recoveries, while Delhi recorded 3,560. “78.40 per cent of the 449 new deaths are concentrated in ten States/UTs. More than a fifth, 22.76 per cent of new fatalities reported are from Delhi which reported 99 deaths. Maharashtra reported 60 fatalities, followed by West Bengal (53),” it added.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-india-at-7-01-per-cent-says-health-ministry/story-TXfiHipTD7Z1DhfAGWBK1J.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Congress, Gupkar Gang want to take J&K back to era of terror’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday hit out at newly-formed People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and said either the alliance gets with the national mood or else people will sink it.Mocking the PAGD by calling it ‘Gupkar Gang’, Shah said in a series of tweets that the alliance is against national interest. He also said that the Jammu and Kashmir will always be an integral part of India.“Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” Shah said in one of the tweets. Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it.The home minister said PAGD was trying to go global and seek intervention in Jammu and Kashmir from foreign forces. “The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir,” Shah said. He also dragged Congress in his attack as he questioned what the grand old party’s stand was. “The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang ? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah asked. Congress, after attending Gupkar alliance meeting a few days ago, had announced that it supports the alliance and will fight the BJP on all fronts in the upcoming council polls in Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it.The PAGD is a political alliance between multiple regional political parties of Jammu and Kashmir and has vowed to restore Article 370 in the state.Shah accused them of trying to bring back the era of terror in Jammu and Kashmir. “Congress and the Gupkar Gang want to take J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil. They want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing Article 370. This is why they’re being rejected by the people everywhere,” Shah wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-gupkar-gang-want-to-take-j-k-back-to-era-of-terror-amit-shah/story-lQbtkunQ5EWEROvYLq94dJ.html
17-11-2020||India||5-year imprisonment, non-bailable offence: Madhya Pradesh to bring law against forced inter-faith marriages||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday said the state government was making preparations to introduce a law against forced inter-faith marriages in the next Assembly session.The legislation, Mishra said, will be called the ‘Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020’. If passed, it will perhaps be the first such law in the country.“Making preparations to introduce Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, in Assembly. It will provide for five years of rigorous imprisonment. We’re also proposing that such crimes be declared a cognisable and non-bailable offence,” news agency ANI quoted Mishra as saying.“There will be provision to declare marriages taking place forcefully, out of fraud or by tempting someone for religious conversion as null and void. Those assisting in committing this crime will also be considered a party to it,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader further said. There will be provision to declare marriages taking place forcefully, out of fraud or by tempting someone, for religious conversion, null and void. Those assisting in committing this crime will also be considered a party to the crime: Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra https://t.co/zubI4ePO6kMishra added that under the proposed law, the parents/siblings of a person who has been forcibly converted will have to mandatorily file a complaint for action. “Religious leader who is converting the person will have to inform the District Magistrate one month in advance. We’ll introduce this bill in the next session,” he said.Earlier this month, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, too, had backed a potential law against forced inter-faith marriages, saying his government would bring a strict law to counter the alleged practice.Such marriages are called ‘love jihad’ by right-wing activists to describe, what they allege, are instances of Muslim youths, pretending to be in love with Hindu girls and, upon marriage, forcibly converting them to Islam. The demand for a strict law against this alleged practice picked up steam after the murder last month of Nikita Tomar in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh.In the wake of the incident, several BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka had suggested they would bring laws to curb such instances.However, earlier this year, the central government, where, just like the aforementioned states, the BJP is in power, had rejected the idea, saying that neither was such a term defined in law nor had any such case been reported by any of the central agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-year-imprisonment-non-bailable-offence-madhya-pradesh-to-bring-law-against-forced-inter-faith-marriages/story-JWG6DxoI8sbg7X3i7JC29L.html
17-11-2020||India||IRCTC cancels Lucknow-Delhi and Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express||The Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has decided to cancel the operations of both Lucknow-Delhi and Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express due to low occupancy.The Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express will remain cancelled from November 23 and Ahmedabad-Mumbai will remain cancelled from November 24.“The management has decided to cancel all departures of IRCTC Tejas trains due to low occupancy levels resulting from coronavirus(Covid-19) pandemic,” a statement issued by the railway company said.The company will review its decision after seeing the occupancy level of other trains of Indian Railways operating in both these routes, the statement added.The Lucknow-Delhi-Lucknow Tejas Express was started by the IRCTC on October 4, 2019, and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai-Ahmedabad on January 19 this year. However, the trains were not operating since March 19 this year due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express resumed operations from October 17 and only 25 to 40 percent out of the total 736 seats were occupied as against 50-80 percent before the spread of coronavirus.IRCTC, a subsidiary of the Indian Railways, is the first corporate entity to run the Tejas Express services, according to Mint. The entity had released guidelines for how these trains were to function-- every alternate seat on the two trains will be kept vacant to ensure social distancing and passengers will be thermally screened before entering the coach and not allowed to exchange their seats once seated -- the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-cancels-lucknow-delhi-and-mumbai-ahmedabad-tejas-express/story-VUz9ttKZ1TlxnBJsiIDppI.html
17-11-2020||India||India not ‘expansionist’, believes in welfare of world: Nitin Gadkari||Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said India is not an “expansionist” country and it only believes in the welfare of the world.Addressing an event in Pune via video-conferencing, Gadkari said to achieve self-reliance, there is a need for knowledge, entrepreneurship, science, technology, research and successful practices.“...while taking the country on the path of development, we need to emphasise on scientific advancement.We need to acquire the number one position on the basis of knowledge to make our country a world power,” he said.“But while doing this, we are not expansionist. There are some countries, which are driven by expansionist desires, but we believe in the welfare of the world. We believe in ‘Vasudev Kutumbakam (the world is one family),” said Gadkari.He said the speech given by Swami Vivekanand in Chicago is our inspiration.Stressing the need to make education available for everyone, he said “it should reach the last man standing”.“But, at the same time, we need to ensure that quality education is provided,” he added. Gadkari said knowledge -as power- should not be the only goal and thrust should be given on imparting value-based education to create ideal citizens.To become “atmanirbhar” (self-reliant), there is a need to lower imports and increase exports, said Gadkari, who is also the minister for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).“In my department, I am collating the information about things that are imported. I appeal to everyone that we need to produce import-substitute things,” he said.Speaking about self-reliance in education, Gadkari said universities should be upgraded in the country so that people will not need to go abroad for education.“We have all the capabilities to create world-class universities and we can do that, the only thing needed is willpower and ambition,” he said.The minister rued the fact that the pace of development of people working selflessly in elevating the standards of education is slow, but on the other hand, those who have done commercialisation of education, their pace of progress is faster.“The pace of the progress of people who have done commercialisation is equal to (that of) bullet train, but those who are doing selfless work in education, they are moving at the pace of a passenger train,” he said.The event was organised by the Maharashtra Education Society, which runs several educational institutions in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-expansionist-believes-in-welfare-of-world-nitin-gadkari/story-JeJaiATZGH77Zp5OeRUggK.html
17-11-2020||India||Ex-Union minister Jaysingrao Gaikwad Patil resigns from BJP||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Jaysingrao Gaikwad Patil resigned from the party on Tuesday.He sent his resignation letter to Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil in the morning.“I am willing to work for the party, but the party is not giving me chance, hence I took this step,” Gaikwad Patil, who lives in Aurangabad, told PTI over phone.In his letter to Chandrakant Patil, he said he was resigning from the state BJP unit and also from the primary membership of the party.The veteran leader said he earlier served as a minister at the Centre as well as in in Maharashtra.“I don’t want to be a member of Parliament or member of the Legislative Assembly now. I wish to work for strengthening the party and I am asking for such responsibility since a decade. But still, the party didnt give me a chance,” he claimed.“The party doesn’t want those who have made efforts to raise the party in the state,” he further claimed.When contacted, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-union-minister-jaysingrao-gaikwad-patil-resigns-from-bjp/story-rxkbscYijH6LmVVczDtP4I.html
17-11-2020||India||Congress panel meeting today to discuss organisational matters||A special committee of the Congress formed to assist party chief Sonia Gandhi on operational matters is expected to meet later Tuesday to discuss organisational issues amid rumblings over its dismal show in the Bihar elections. The six-member panel was formed by Gandhi in August this year as part of the party reshuffle carried out after a group of 23 leaders wrote a letter to her seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul. The panel comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala. The meeting will be held through video-conferencing at 5pm. While Patel is in the intensive care unit of the Medanta hospital in Gurugram after having tested positive for Covid-19, Venugopal, whose mother passed away recently, is likely to join the meeting. The Congress president and Rahul Gandhi are not attending the meeting. A panel member said Bihar is not on the agenda as the committee is likely to discuss organisational matters and also review the progress on the party’s nationwide signature campaign against the three new farm laws enacted by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government recently. The Congress had launched a two-month-long nationwide agitation against the government over the farm laws from September 24 onwards. The party had also then said that it will collect 20 million signatures from protesting farmers against the legislations to be submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, had been passed by both the Houses of Parliament. It was widely expected that the meeting will discuss the Bihar poll outcome after the Congress’ dismal show triggered a war of words within the party. While senior leader and former union minister Kapil Sibal had asked the leadership if it the Bihar loss was “business as usual”, he was countered by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot who claimed that his remarks have “hurt the sentiments” of workers and reminding him that the party had been through crisis several times in the past. The Congress party’s performance has widely been held responsible for the failure of the ‘mahagathbandhan’ to oust the National Democratic Alliance government in the recent assembly elections in Bihar. It has also prompted renewed calls within the party for introspection and course correction. Sibal, a former union minister and one of the 23 signatories to a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August this year seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul, questioned the leadership in the wake of the Bihar debacle. “We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual,” he tweeted. Sibal further said he was “compelled to speak publicly” as there is “no forum in the party to discuss party issues” and insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections. Gehlot countered Sibal with a series of tweets and defended the leadership, saying there are various reasons for electoral setbacks and that the Congress will come out stronger from the present crisis as had happened in the past as well. “There was no need for Mr Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country,” he said. “Congress has seen various crises, including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in 1996, but every time, we came out stronger due to our ideology, programmes, policies and firm belief in party leadership,” the Rajasthan chief minister added. The Congress proved to be the weakest link in the ‘mahagathbandhan’, winning just 19 of the 70 seats it contested. While the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) won 75 seats and emerged as the single largest party in the 243-assembly, the Left parties bagged 16 of the 29 they fought as part of the Grand Alliance. “We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too. There are various reasons for electoral losses. But each time rank and file of the Congress party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises,” Gehlot said. “Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development,” he added. Sibal also came under attack from Youth Congress president Srinivas BV. “When Congress wins elections, Rahulji never gets the credit. And we lose, he is made responsible. I want to ask those who are raising questions today what is their contribution to the party?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-panel-meeting-today-to-discuss-organisational-matters/story-VWEdlbqw1OjYwMBHaaVTkM.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Shiv Sena will always come forward wielding sword of Hindutva when country calls’: Sanjay Raut||The war of words between two former allies - Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - continues. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said that his party will come wielding the sword of Hindutva whenever the country needs it.Raut also said that his party was and will always be Hindutvawadi. “We don’t need to get our Hindutva certified from any party. We were, we are and we will always be Hindutvawadi. We don’t play Hindutva politics like them. Whenever the country needs us, Shiv Sena will always come forward wielding the sword of Hindutva,” the Shiv Sena leader said, as quoted by ANI.This isn’t the first time Raut has hit out at the BJP on Hindutava. After the Maharashtra government announced the reopening of religious places in the state from November 16, the BJP had called the move a victory of Hindutva.“This is not a victory or defeat of anybody,” Raut had said on Sunday. The Shiv Sena leader slammed the party by reminding them that they were shut down on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions.“The lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the decision to shut the temples was also taken by him. So there is no reason for BJP to take credit for the victory of Hindutva in this matter. I believe that the Prime Minister will have to tell the meaning of victory and defeat to such people,” he added.Raut had also pushed for the SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) announced by the Centre to be followed firmly as places of worship reopen. “The SOPs drafted by the government need to be followed strictly. There is no need to take credit. It was God’s will that people stay at home, and now it is God’s will that places of worship reopen with precautions,” Raut said.All the religious places in Maharashtra reopened for devotees from Monday after being shut for several months due coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-will-always-come-forward-wielding-sword-of-hindutava-when-country-calls-sanjay-raut/story-t66nM3cPAuLegqNM4v8QqM.html
17-11-2020||India||5 from a Raipur family found dead in Chhattisgarh||Five members of a single family were found dead in a house in outskirts of Raipur city on Tuesday morning, officials said. Their bodies have been sent for post-mortem. “We have found five bodies in a house in Kendri village under Abhanpur police station. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and a team of FSL rushed to the spot,” said superintendent of police (SP) Raipur, Ajay Yadav. Meanwhile, state home minister, Tamradhwaj Sahu, has ordered an inquiry in the incident and expressed his condolences over the deaths. Also Read: District judge in Chhattisgarh allegedly dies by suicide“The circumstantial evidences suggests that the head of the family Kamlesh Sahu died by suicide after killing other four members of the family including his wife, mother and two kids,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-from-a-raipur-family-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh/story-FYFpQ9Spmw7dDsvTUmX9aI.html
17-11-2020||India||Goa’s famous annual feast of St Francis Xavier to go ‘online’ this year amid Covid-19||For the first time in living memory, there will be no congregations for the feast of revered saint Francis Xavier in Goa on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, Church authorities have announced. The feast of the 16th century Spanish Jesuit who is revered as Goencho Saib (Lord of Goa) in Goa, where his sacred relics remain is celebrated annually on December 3, and draws thousands of devotees from across the state and beyond. “While people from every nook and corner of Goa would traditionally converge at Old Goa for the Saibachem Novena and Fest, Covid-19 has reversed the tide this year and the liturgy will now be celebrated in every parish, chapel and institution in Goa, in India and all over the world,” Fr Patricio Fernandes the Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus where the feast is celebrated, has said. Instead the Masses will be telecast live for those wishing to attend in a virtual mode. Veneration of the relics will however be allowed and has already begun. “Since it’s not possible to congregate because of MHA restrictions, veneration of the Relic will be allowed… The MHA guidelines also do not allow garlands, candles, water bottles, touching and kissing of statues, holy water fonts, etc.. Dress code will be implemented while entering the premises,” the church said in a statement. Trial runs for the entry and facilitation of devotees have already been conducted. Despite the Ministry of Home Affairs and the state government permitting the reopening of places of religious worship from July onwards, Churches in Goa have begun reopening only from October onwards with many yet to reopen owing to the risks associated with large gatherings that usually accompany religious ceremonies. “We need to recognise in all these realities a God-given opportunity to reflect deeply on the way we relate with God, with fellow human beings and with nature,” Goa Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrão said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-famous-annual-feast-of-st-francis-xavier-to-go-online-this-year-amid-covid-19/story-H3KBpy22t0ztcVxzScf6RO.html
17-11-2020||India||PM Modi to address 3rd Annual Bloomberg New Economy Forum today||Prime minister Narendra Modi will deliver an address at the third Annual Bloomberg New Economy Forum on Tuesday at 6:30 pm. Established in 2018 by Michael Bloomberg, the Bloomberg New Economy Forum seeks to build a community of leaders to engage in discussions leading to actionable solutions about the critical challenges facing a world economy. This year, the forum will witness conversations centered on refueling the economy and charting a course for the future, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The inaugural forum was held in Singapore, followed by a second edition in Beijing, covering issues such as global economic management, trade and investment, technology, urbanisation, capital markets, climate change and inclusion. Director-general of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair, former US President Bill Clinton, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres are some of the other speakers scheduled to address the forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-3rd-annual-bloomberg-new-economy-forum-today/story-PjSBgkedQ9eGRriAyev2RK.html
17-11-2020||India||RJD leader who criticised Rahul Gandhi has a theory why Sushil Modi isn’t Dy CM||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Shivanand Tiwari on Tuesday said that Sushil Kumar Modi was “cut off” from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) because he was not letting other leaders rise and was hungry for media attention.“Sushil Modi’s role had become less of BJP’s and more of Nitish Kumar’s associate. I think that’s why BJP cut him off this time. He wasn’t allowing other BJP leaders to rise. He used to speak on all topics daily and couldn’t live without appearing in newspaper/TV,” Tiwari told news agency ANI.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sushil Modi was dropped from Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet and replaced as deputy chief minister by his party, after having served at the post since 2005. Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi have been chosen as the deputy CMs for the state.“I have no animosity with him, he is like my younger brother. But his personality used to reflect a lack of depth. I think this is the reason BJP leadership did not give him a post in the state cabinet this time,” Shivanand Tiwari added.The Rashtriya Janata Dal leader had set up a huge controversy this week when he appeared to blame the Congress for the grand alliance’s defeat in the just-concluded Bihar elections. Tiwari had targeted Rahul Gandhi who he had claimed had adopted a hands-off approach and addressed just three public meetings in the run-up to the election. His party later distanced itself from the criticism of the Congress, the RJD’s alliance partner for many years, insisting that Tiwari had expressed a personal view, which did not reflect the party’s assessment.NDA secured a majority in the election to the 243-member Bihar Assembly by winning 125 seats out of which BJP won 74 seats and the JD(U) won 43 seats. On Monday, JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda, took oath as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-cut-off-as-he-wasn-t-allowing-other-bjp-leaders-to-rise-rjd-s-shivanand-tiwari/story-TdAFrnbV4lcYAm940og1hL.html
17-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP to protest ban on Chhath Puja outside Delhi CM’s residence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP to protest govt ban on Chhath Puja outside Delhi CM Kejriwal’s residenceThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold a protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Tuesday to oppose his government’s ban on Chhath Mahaparva. Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP’s media in-charge, said Dinesh Pratap Singh and Kaushal Mishra will lead the party’s supporters, who will gather near Chandgiram Akhara and march towards Kejriwal’s house. Read more PM Modi to attend BRICS summit: All you need to know about the 5-nation blocPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday attend the 12th BRICS summit, which will take place virtually due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The summit will bring together PM Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping for the second time in seven days, amid the ongoing Indo-China standoff in Ladakh, after last week’s Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit. Read moreIndia vs Australia - ‘No doubt, he’s got the potential to lead India’: Australia keeper Alex Carey heaps praise on ‘future captain’ Shreyas IyerAhead of the six-match limited-overs series between India and Australia, which will also mark the return of Team India in international cricket after a gap of more than 7 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Australia wicket-keeper batsman Alex Carey said he had ‘no doubt’ in his mind that in Iyer, India have found a future leader. Read moreNASA’s Curiosity rover clicked a selfie: Check it outEveryone is waiting for NASA’s 2020 mission which is going to bring the Perseverance rover and the Ingenuity helicopter to Mars. The new instruments and their abilities, as BGR writes, will be crucial in revealing new details about the Red Planet. However, while we wait for this, there is already a rover in Mars that has been cruising around for the last eight years. Read moreSonu Nigam doesn’t want son Neevan to become a singer: ‘At least not in this country. I have already got him out of India’Singer Sonu Nigam has said that he doesn’t want his son Neevan to become a singer and has also ‘got him out of India’. Sonu says that Neevan is interested in gaming and lives in UAE. In a recent interview, Sonu said that he doesn’t want his son to work as a singer in India. He has previously expressed his disappointment at the music industry in the country and the hegemony of one giant music label. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan reminisces yesteryear fashion of teaming bell bottoms with flared sleevesRemember watching Sholay and going gaga over style icon, Amitabh Bachchan’s hippie fashion statement in bell bottom pants? That swagger fashion game made Big B a ‘Shehenshah’ back then and even now with a perfect blend of classic, contemporary and quirky. Read moreWatch: Trump claims credit after Moderna claims its vaccine is 94.5% effectiveUS biotech firm Moderna announced its experimental Covid-19 vaccine was almost 95% effective. Moderna became the second US company in a week to report results that far exceed expectations. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-to-protest-ban-on-chhath-puja-outside-delhi-cm-s-residence-and-all-the-latest-news/story-f9BGxIINXHQg89EC0K0ElL.html
17-11-2020||India||Man held for trying to sell leopard hide in Bhubaneswar, 15th such seizure this year||The Special Task Force of the Odisha CID on Tuesday arrested a man while he was trying to sell a leopard hide to another person in Bhubaneswar adding one more case to the rising number of trade in wildlife derivatives in the state.STF Deputy Inspector General of Police, Jainarayan Pankaj, said the cops had arrested a driver named Prasant Nayak while he was trying to sell the leopard skin to a person at Baramunda in the city. The STF seized the leopard hide from the side box of his motorcycle. Nayak hailed from Karanjia area, not very far from the Similipal Tiger Reserve in Mayurbhanj district that has a sizeable population of leopards.Leopards enjoy the same level of protection as tigers under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, but they are regularly poached for their skins and other body parts. Leopard skins are used for home decoration or to make luxury carpets.Data compiled by the forest department and STF officials showed that 2020 has turned out to be the worst-possible year for leopards with at least 15 seizures of hides from poachers across the state. In June this year, STF officials had seized 4 leopard skins in two separate cases and arrested several people including a college lecturer who was out to make quick money.Similarly, in Nuapada district, a mother and her minor son were arrested in September this year while trying to sell a leopard hide, its head as well as boar meat. The same month, 3 leopard skins were sized by forest officials in Nabarangpur district.Wildlife activists alleged that though the forest department has been seizing 8 to 9 leopard hides every year, this year the numbers have gone up due to seizures made by STF. “Poachers have become fearless due to weak investigation by law enforcement agencies. The number of poaching cases may be higher as many have gone unreported,” alleged Biswajit Mohanty, secretary of the Wildlife Society of Orissa. According to WSO, more than 160 leopards have been poached in the last 10 years.Raising concerns over the leopard skin trade in the state, the National Tiger Conservation Authority last year had sent a notice to the Chief Wildlife Warden of Odisha seeking action taken for the protection of leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-trying-to-sell-leopard-hide-in-bhubaneswar-15th-such-seizure-this-year/story-39l3RpMnlQFSx7gZscWsHM.html
17-11-2020||India||Bihar: With new faces in Cabinet, BJP keeps focus on young blood||The new-look Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) team in chief minister Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar at the cost of the party veterans is the continuation of its strategy since the 2019 national polls of focussing on a younger leadership. The process began with the appointment of Sanjay Jaiswal as the state party chief.Ahead of the October-November elections, the BJP began strengthening the party at the grassroots level with younger faces. According to Jaiswal, the average age of the party’s chiefs at the grassroots level is under 40 and at the level of districts less than 50.“There was a growing demand to make the process of the generational shift in the party forward if it [BJP] were to have any realistic chance in the only state [Bihar] in the Hindi belt where the BJP has struggled despite a strong organisational base largely due to leadership vacuum. It is also quite natural for a party like BJP to increase its strength,” said a BJP leader, who did not want to be named.Also read | After Bihar, it is now focus Bengal and Tamil Nadu for the BJPThe expected anti-incumbency factor against Kumar made sure that the change happened.Analyst NK Choudhary said the BJP is working as per its plan to gradually increase its hold on Bihar and the new-look BJP team in the Nitish cabinet is a pointer in that direction.Nitish Kumar took oath as the 37th chief minister of Bihar on Monday.Two BJP leaders, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, were sworn in as deputy chief ministers and 14 other ministers took oath, five from the Janata Dal (United), seven from the BJP, and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-with-new-faces-in-cabinet-bjp-keeps-focus-on-young-blood/story-PFZNy3kx2MH0JDOjzc4PDJ.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi falls to 13%’, says health minister Satyendar Jain||‘In the midst of growing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi, there is a glimmer of hope. Its health minister Satyendra Jain said on Tuesday that the national capital’s positivity rate has dropped to 13 per cent, according to news agency ANI.Last week, the positivity rate was 15.33 per cent, Delhi’s highest in 140 days.“From here, we’ll definitely see a downtrend,” Jain told ANI, adding that the third wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in the city.Delhi has been reeling under the third wave of Covid-19 since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak began. On November 11, the daily number of infections crossed the 8,000-mark. During the third wave of Covid-19, more than 100 fatalities were being reported.The cases have now started to fall. On Monday, Delhi reported 3,797 confirmed cases of infection.Attributing the spurt of cases to people from outside states getting themselves tested for Covid-19 in the city, Jain said, “Almost 25-30% outsiders are getting their tests done in Delhi.”“There are many patients who are from outside but they get tests conducted here using Delhi address. We can’t refuse anyone for tests. It resulted in an increase in numbers,” Jain said.He also said that the government has reserved 16,500 beds for Covid-19 patients and currently there are around 8,000 beds available.As of Monday evening, Delhi has more than 4.89 lakh cases. While 99 fresh fatalities due to the Covid-19 infection pushed the death toll to 7,713.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-falls-to-13-says-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-Tv7UosxCRQBHS9UBOf7n2N.html
17-11-2020||India||Prayagraj MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s grandchild dies of burn injuries||Prayagraj MP and former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s granddaughter died due to serious burn injuries sustained during Diwali celebrations late on Monday night. The six-year-old girl sustained burns at her maternal grandparents’ home on Monday afternoon while she was playing with other children of the house on the roof. She was rushed to a private hospital with around 60 per cent burns. The child was due to be shifted to Delhi in an air ambulance on Tuesday morning but succumbed to her injuries at around 2 am, informed Abhishek Shukla, Joshi’s media coordinator.According to reports, Joshi had come to her ancestral home in Civil Lines with her husband PC Joshi to celebrate Diwali. Her daughter-in-law Richa and granddaughter were also visiting her parents’ house located at Ponappa road when the incident took place. “The child was playing with Diwali’s earthen lamps on the roof with other children in the afternoon when somehow her clothes caught fire. By the time, the elders could rush and douse the flames; she had sustained 60 per cent burns. She was immediately rushed to a private hospital where her treatment began. But she could not be saved,” Shukla said.The MP had spoken to defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and UP CM Yogi Adityanath to get the child airlifted to Delhi for treatment but she died before this could be implemented. The child was Rita Joshi’s only son Mayank’s only daughter. Mayank is expected to arrive in Prayagraj on Tuesday afternoon from Delhi where he had rushed to make arrangements for the treatment. After he arrives, the last rites will be performed at Daraganj Ghat, Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagraj-mp-rita-bahuguna-joshi-s-grandchild-dies-of-burn-injuries/story-zhmWJHuCelcPSlu9GwXLvN.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Inhuman act hidden for political gains’: Rahul Gandhi on Bihar girl’s death||In a veiled attack at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that an “inhuman” act was allegedly kept under wraps for electoral gains in the Assembly polls.“Whose crime is more dangerous? Who did this inhuman act? or Who hid it for electoral gains so as to lay the foundation of his false ‘Sushashan’ (good governance) on this misrule?” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi while sharing a media report about a girl from Vaishali district who died allegedly due to the carelessness of the administration.The former Congress chief was referring to an incident where a 20-year-old girl, who was undergoing treatment at the Patna Medical College and Hospital after being allegedly set ablaze by two men who attempted to molest her, succumbed to her injuries on Sunday.The girl’s family members staged a protest at Patna’s Kargil Chowk demanding the arrest of suspects involved in the incident. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inhuman-act-hidden-for-political-gains-rahul-gandhi-on-bihar-girl-s-death/story-jdf0BlR2SDwf30NeOlHtgM.html
17-11-2020||India||NCLT cannot examine validity of actions taken under MPID Act: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court, last week, struck down a National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) order in January 2019 de-freezing a company’s bank account attached in connection with the National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) case. It said the NCLT has no jurisdiction to examine the validity of actions taken under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments), or MPID Act.“...it is only the Designated Court constituted under the MPID Act that will have exclusive jurisdiction...” said a bench of justices SC Gupte and justice Madhav Jamdar.The NCLT had de-freezed the bank account of Dunar Foods Ltd. The Mumbai police’s Economic Offences Wing had attached the account in connection with the NSEL case. The State Bank of India had initiated proceedings against the company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, for a defaulting on a debt of Rs758.73 crore.Deputy collector, a competent authority under the MPID Act, moved the high court challenging the NCLT order, saying the tribunal has no jurisdiction to order the de-freezing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nclt-cannot-examine-validity-of-actions-taken-under-mpid-act-bombay-high-court/story-h0Qj2y86KS4ADX5fRxvTvM.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Electricity model’: AAP’s Raghav Chadha to arrive in Goa today for debate with BJP minister||After Goa Power Minister Nilesh Cabral challenged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s model of electricity, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha on Tuesday will arrive in the coastal state, hoping that the former would let him know the time and venue for the debate.Also Read | Not interested in debate with one who’s not connected with power issue: Goa minister on AAP challenge“Goa Power Minister had challenged the Kejriwal model of electricity and wished to conduct a public debate. I will be arriving in Goa by 2pm today, he should let me know the time and venue for the debate. I really hope and wish, he will come and participate in the debate,” Chadha told ANI.The AAP legislator alleged that the BJP High Command has reprimanded Goa leadership and asked them not to indulge in such public debate.“BJP high command has reprimanded Goa leadership and asked them not to indulge in such public debate. I hope Goa Minister understands that this debate will only benefit Goans. Hope BJP high command’s diktats to Goa Chief Minister will be disregarded and public debate will happen,” he added. On Monday, Chadha had challenged Cabral for a debate over the electricity models of Delhi and Goa. Responding to which, Cabral had said he is ready to debate with “like-minded people”, but not the “one who’s not connected” with the issue.”I don’t have any problem in debating with the like-minded people who understand the power problems of Delhi and Goa. I don’t seek to debate with one who’s not connected to it. Delhi power minister is welcome for the debate. I haven’t challenged anybody,” Cabral had said. The spat began on Twitter last Wednesday after Delhi Chief Minister responded to a news portal’s tweet citing Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, a BJP member, as saying that “Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal should first fix issues of pollution in his area before getting worried about Goa.”There has been an ongoing feud in Goa between the ruling BJP and Kejriwal’s AAP over environmental issues, especially the railway “double-tracking project” inside the protected forest areas. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electricity-model-aap-s-raghav-chadha-to-arrive-in-goa-today-for-debate-with-bjp-minister/story-7NhWSNIKJdD5HL1lpyXMDL.html
17-11-2020||India||Delhi overtakes Maharashtra in daily Covid-19 count: List of states with high caseload||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is on the rise in many states even as the total cases reported in India in 24 hours have seen a decline this week. On Tuesday, the daily tally dropped below 30,000 - first time in four months - taking India’s total virus caseload to 88.74 lakh, according to the health ministry dashboard. As many as 1,30,519 people have died due to the disease.Also Read: Coronavirus curbs return across United StatesNew Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Kerala are among the states that have recorded a spike in the coronavirus cases.Here is a list of those states where Covid-19 cases have gone up:New DelhiAs many as 3,797 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours, taking the total count of cases to 4,89,202. With 99 deaths being reported in a day, the toll due to the disease reached 7,713. According to Delhi health department, 3,560 people recovered in 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 4,41,361.West BengalAccording to the state health department, West Bengal’s Covid-19 death toll jumped to 7,714 with 53 fresh fatalities in a day. As many as 3,012 fresh cases pushed the tally to 4,34,563.Also Read: Covid-19: Pfizer, Moderna plan to supply millions of vaccine dosesMaharashtraMaharashtra, the worst-affected state in the country, reported 2,535 new Covid-19 cases, 3,001 recoveries and 60 deaths on Monday. There are 84,386 active cases in the state and 16,18,380 patients have recovered so far. The death toll in the state is at 46,034. According to a report by the Municipal Corporation Greater Mumbai, the city reported 409 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 2,70,113.KarnatakaKarnataka reported 1,157 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 8,62,804. With 12 more persons losing their lives due to the pandemic, the death toll increased to 11,541. A total of 2,188 persons have been discharged in the last 24 hours and the total number of active cases stands at 26,103. KeralaAs many as 2,710 fresh cases of Covid-19, 6,567 recoveries and 19 deaths were reported in Kerala on Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The state has 70,925 active cases and as many 6,567 patients under treatment have recovered from the disease.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-daily-covid-19-toll-overtakes-maharashtra-coronavirus-on-the-rise-in-these-states/story-VCKN15G4RrD4bqLxMNH0PP.html
17-11-2020||India||BJP to contest all 117 seats in 2022 Punjab assembly polls||Nearly two months after BJP’s long-term ally in Punjab Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) broke away from the NDA over the contentious farm laws, party general secretary Tarun Chugh announced that the Bharatiya Janata Party will contest all 117 Assembly constituencies in the 2022 state polls on its own, mounting a major challenge for the Congress party and Captain Amarinder Singh’s government. “BJP is strengthening its organisation on a war footing to contest all 117 Assembly seats in Punjab,” Chugh said.Why did SAD leave the NDA? In September, SAD went against the NDA over three new agriculture sector reform laws enacted - Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Later, SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal also resigned from the Union cabinet. What is the history of SAD’s alliance with the BJP? BJP’s alliance with SAD in Punjab dates back to 1992. As per the seat-sharing formula settled between the allies over the years, the SAD being the senior partner used to contest on around 94 seats and the BJP on 23. Out of the 13 Lok Sabha seats in Punjab, SAD used to field candidates in 10 constituencies and the BJP on three. In 2017 Assembly polls, Congress won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after 10 years. The SAD-BJP performed poorly in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as they won 2 seats each while Congress bagged 8 seats in Punjab. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-contest-all-117-seats-in-2022-punjab-assembly-polls/story-zbfsBdyXKmZ7fTDTHyK4VL.html
17-11-2020||India||Three killed, 15 injured in bus accident in Odisha’s Rayagada district||At least three people were killed and more than 15 others injured as the bus in which they were travelling overturned in the southern Odisha district of Rayagada late on Monday night.Officials said the bus was on its way to Cuttack city from Laxmipur in Koraput when the driver lost control of the vehicle at Hajaridanga village in Bissamcuttack area of Rayagada district at about 10.30 pm. The vehicle skidded off the road and turned turtle on roadside farmland.The driver and helper of the bus and a passenger died in the accident, Rayagada district collector Pramod Behera said.Police and fire service vehicles arrived at the accident site and rescued the injured. They were taken to the Bissamcuttack Christian Hospital. One of the injured, who was critical was transferred to Visakhapatnam for further treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-killed-15-injured-in-bus-accident-in-odisha-s-rayagada-district/story-RsAqK8NryXvO0ZpYGbsI4N.html
17-11-2020||India||Indian students contributed USD 7.6 billion to US economy last year||Indian students contributed USD 7.6 billion to the US economy in the academic year 2019-20, even though there was a 4.4 per cent drop in the total number of Indian students, according to a report. China remained the largest source of international students in the US, with the number of Chinese students in the country increasing for the 16th consecutive year. There were over 372,000 Chinese students in the US during 2019-20 year, said the report “Opens Doors 2020.” India remained the second largest source of international students, despite a 4.4 per cent decline to 193,124 students, it said. According to the report, released by the US Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and the Institute of International Education (IIE), for the fifth consecutive year the United States hosted more than 1 million international students (1,075,496) in an academic year. Despite a slight decline (1.8 per cent) in the number of international students in the United States during the 2019-20 academic year, this group still represents 5.5 per cent of all students in US higher education system. According to the US Department of Commerce, international students contributed USD 44 billion to the US economy in 2019, including USD 7,69 billion from Indian students. “We are encouraged to see a fifth year of more than 1 million international students in the United States before the pandemic,” said Marie Royce, Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. “International student mobility is as important today as ever, and we believe the United States is the best destination for students to study and earn their degrees. Education is a pathway to a greater future and international educational exchange has the power to transform students’ trajectories,” Royce said. Among the top 20 places of origin, the largest percentage increases were students from Bangladesh (+ seven percent), Brazil (+ four percent) and Nigeria (+ three percent). Saudi Arabia saw the largest percentage decrease (- 17 percent) primarily due to changes in its government’s scholarship program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-students-contributed-usd-7-6-billion-to-us-economy-last-year/story-dMvImlNrkZ7ptdiZgwnRiM.html
17-11-2020||India||Allow coaching classes to reopen: Owners urge Maharashtra government||With the Maharashtra government allowing different sectors to reopen amid the Covid-19 pandemic, coaching class owners are now hoping that classes will be allowed to reopen with all safety precautions in place. Sachin Karnavat, president of the Maharashtra Class Owners Association, which has nearly 1 lakh classes under its ambit, said, “So far there is no clarity on when coaching classes will be allowed to reopen. We are waiting for the government’s decision in this regard. Recently, a few class owners have met ministers in the state government urging them to restart classes. Class owners have promised to follow all the safety norms like practicing physical distancing, sanitising premises etc,” Karnavat said. After the state government released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for schools first in September and then revised them this month, class owners had hoped that similar SOPs will be released for coaching classes. “The government has not considered coaching classes while making SOPs. The coaching class industry is too big to be ignored this way,” said Bandopant Bhuyar, president, Coaching Classes Teachers Association. Akash Singh, an owner of a coaching class in Malad said, “Students are eagerly waiting for classes to open. Not all teaching can happen online especially for students of Class 12 where we need to give them personal attention. We request the government to open coaching classes as soon as possible.” An official from the state education department said, “The state government will decide on reopening of classes and as and when it happens the department shall release guidelines and SOPs in this regard.”Coaching classes in the state have been closed since March. While some centres are conducting online classes many others are also supplementing them with notes, study material etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-coaching-classes-to-reopen-owners-urge-maharashtra-government/story-fLMINk7Fl7UogW16HHjCoO.html
17-11-2020||India||Day after touching ‘historic low’, India’s Covid-19 daily count falls further to 29,163||India on Tuesday recorded 29,163 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The countrywide tally now stands at 88,74,290, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases continue to stay below the five lakh-mark and the number of patients discharged patients has reached 82,90,370.The country recorded 449 new fatalities due to Covid-19 which pushed the death toll to 1,30,519, according to health ministry.The number of daily cases has been declining for six consecutive weeks, and Monday’s figure of 30,548 was a “historic low”, the health ministry said. A tweet from the ministry’s official handle presented a graph of the number of daily cases from August to November 16 which shows the cases rising till mid-September and then falling down. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/A0soSCxqhEThe single-day peak in coronavirus cases was reported on September 17 with 97,984 fresh cases of Covid-19 and since then India has been witnessing a decline in the caseload.Also, the trend of daily Covid-19 recoveries outpacing the daily infections continued for the 44th day on Monday when the country recorded 30,548 cases of the infection. The number of recovered patients stood at 43,851.Meanwhile, the Centre has formed multi-disciplinary teams to visit all private hospitals in Delhi to check the status of compliance of various directions issued by Union Health Ministry for testing and treating Covid-19 patients.The teams have been asked to start their visit immediately and submit reports within two days along with specific details, according to the Union home ministry. The Centre has devised a strategy to check the spread of the disease in the national capital, which has seen an alarming rise in the number of daily cases of Covid-19.There is more good news on the vaccine front as US-based biotechnology firm Moderna Inc on Monday said its vaccine candidate has been found to be 94.5 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. The announcement was based on phase 3 trials.This comes just a week after Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE announced that their vaccine candidate was more than 90 per cent effective in preventing the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-touching-historic-low-india-s-covid-19-daily-count-falls-further-to-29-163/story-XXqByto7FKc8vL2b9qvbgL.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Passengers test positive, India-Oman flight seats cut by half||Oman has cut by half the number of total seats to and from India, which means that under the air bubble agreement, its seats have been cut from 10,000 to 5,000. The move was necessitated after a few passengers tested Covid-19 positive on landing in Oman and has been implemented from November 9.Moreover, while Air India will be operating with 5,000 seats, IndiGo, GoAir and SpiceJet have been asked to stop their flight operations to and from Oman. A senior ministry official confirmed the development. “Civil Aviation Authority of Oman had sent an email to the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on October 29, informing it that the capacity of the air bubble agreement will be limited to 5,000 seats per week for the airlines of each country with effect from November 9. Accordingly, MoCA allocated Air India group (includes Air India Express) 5,000 seats from the said date, every week ,” said the official.Also read | Govt says domestic airlines can operate 60% of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights till February 24 next year Top sources from the ministry also pointed out that the passenger load anyway failed to touch its maximum limit (of 10,000) on either side.A DGCA official said on condition of anonymity that while India can operate flights to the Sultanate from any of its cities, the Omani airlines have given rights to operate flights only to 11 destinations in India. “Oman Air and Salam Air will continue to operate flights between Oman and India as part of the air bubble agreement,” said the DGCA official. Recently, Hong Kong had banned Air India flights from Mumbai till Hong Kong for the fourth time, after few passengers on its flight in October tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival. Previous bans were on the airline’s Delhi-Hong Kong flights from September 20 to October 3, August 18 to August 31 and October 17 to October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-passengers-test-positive-india-oman-flight-seats-cut-by-half/story-DXbgWtn1nllBUfVWyjHvVM.html
17-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Study says 43% children have antibodies for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.43% of children have antibodies for Covid-19: StudyChildren have a distinct immune response to the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to adults, a new research has found. The study was part of a research to understand the ravaging effects of the Covid-19. Only five per cent of adults have these antibodies, as compared to 43 per cent of children, the research showed. Read moreCovid-19 situation in Delhi unprecedented, says Niti Aayog but govt won’t impose lockdownDelhi contributed the most to the country’s fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the last week. Currently, the national capital has over four lakh cases of Covid-19. It recorded a single-day spike of 8,500 cases and overall 51,000 cases last week. Read moreThis Australia tour will be tough for Cheteshwar Pujara: Glenn McGrathFor once, India hold the bragging rights ahead of the Australia Tests. And having won their first Test series Down Under on the previous tour in 2018-19, Glenn McGrath feels India hold “no fear coming to Australia like they used to.” Read moreElon Musk fortune jumps $15 billion on Tesla’s S&P inclusionElon Musk, 49, is poised to become the world’s third-richest person, leapfrogging Mark Zuckerberg, after his net worth swelled by more than $15 billion in extended trading. His wealth has jumped $90 billion this year, the biggest gain on the ranking of the world’s 500 richest people. Read moreHis Dark Materials season 2 review: HBO epic gives up on philosophising, embraces action and adventureAfter a full season of almost putting one to sleep with heavy dialogues and dull expositioning, HBO’s His Dark Materials, thankfully, appears to have given up on the shallow philosophising. Philip Pullman, on whose works the series is based, intended for his alien world and its conflicts to mirror our own. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: Renowned chef Cyrus Todiwala’s culinary journey, his restaurant Café Spice Namaste’s closing and possible revival amid coronavirus pandemicIf you watch food shows on TV --- or if you are a dedicated foodie – then you will know who Cyrus Todiwala is. Even if you missed The Spicemen, the show he co-anchored with a Scottish sardarji in a kilt, the chances are you have read his cookbooks. Read moreRedditors asked about weirdest compliments they’ve got. Replies are interestingWho doesn’t like receiving compliments? Just a few sweet words can easily brighten up someone’s day and put a smile on their face. However, a compliment which is confusing can leave you thinking about it for quite a long time. This Reddit post is dedicated to those strange compliments. Read moreBaby’s alleged kidnapping from hospital caught on cameraA baby was allegedly kidnapped from a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore. The incident reportedly took place at the Maharaja Yeshwantrao hospital. The victim was born on November 15 and allegedly kidnapped by a woman masquerading as a nurse in the evening on the same day. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-study-says-43-children-have-antibodies-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-vpOi9fWO6DWDFtevqZ4MOL.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Bharat Biotech begins phase 3 trials, Moderna says its candidate nearly 95% effective||A worldwide search for a vaccine to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues, even as the number of cases globally, due to the pandemic, currently stands at more than 55 million including more than 1.3 million people who have succumbed to the virus, as per a tally maintained by worldometers.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest updates on a coronavirus vaccine, India’s Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited has started phase 3 trials of its vaccine candidate. America’s Moderna, meanwhile, claimed its vaccine candidate has been found to be 94.5% effective.Here are the latest updates on the coronavirus vaccine development front:(1.) Bharat Biotech on Monday started phase 3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate, COVAXIN. Phase 3 trials will involve 26,000 volunteers and will be conducted in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is the largest clinical trial for a Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India as well as the country’s first phase 3 efficacy study of a vaccine candidate. Bharat Biotech is developing COVAXIN in collaboration with ICMR and National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Also Read | Covid-19: Bharat Biotech begins Phase 3 trials of Covaxin in India(2.) Also on Monday, US biotech firm Moderna released early results from a clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, mRNA-1273. The vaccine candidate, Moderna said, was found to be 94.5% effective. However, in what could be a potential hurdle for India, mRNA candidates need extremely cold environment for storage and transport. Last week, after Pfizer announced its candidate was 90% effective, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director, Dr Randeep Guleria had said, “Pfizer vaccine has to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius which is a challenge for developing countries like India.”Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine 90% effective in Phase 3 trial, says US pharma giant Pfizer(3.) Johnson and Johnson, another US biotech firm working on a potential Covid-19 vaccine, has launched a second global phase 3 vaccine trial, besides an existing one. This latest trial has been named ENSEMBLE 2 and differs from other trials, including J&J’s own existing trial, in that it will explore a 2-dose regimen; most other trials are based on a 1-dose regimen. ENSEMBLE 2 will enrol up to 30,000 participants in the US, the UK, France, Germany, South Africa, Spain, Belgium, Colombia and the Philippines.(4.) India is reportedly in talks with various firms over their potential vaccine candidates. Government officials are said to be in talks with firms like Moderna, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila over the progress of the trials of their respective vaccine candidates, vaccine efficacy, safety, regulatory approvals etc.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-bharat-biotech-begins-phase-3-trials-moderna-says-its-candidate-nearly-95-effective/story-V6t0a5QyQRZiHYh8aOx8RL.html
17-11-2020||India||ICAR looks at bringing agri-education in sync with National Education Policy||Courses offered by agriculture varsities will have a more flexible structure and these institutions will be encouraged to become inter-disciplinary as the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) is working to bring farm education in line with the vision of the National Education Policy (NEP) unveiled by the Centre.The ICAR has formed a six-member committee headed by Dr Tej Pratap, Vice Chancellor of the G B Pant University of Agriculture in Uttarakhand to suggest ways in which agricultural institutions can be nurtured in the spirit of the NEP.“Agricultural education is a state subject. Therefore, the recommendations and road map will be prepared in view of this. The aim is to bring agricultural education to a zone where it can address contemporary and future needs,” said a government official.Apart from making the course structure more flexible, more inter-disciplinary activity and providing impetus to research are the areas that the committee is looking at.Dr R C Agarwal, Deputy Director General (Education) at ICAR, who is the convenor of the committee, when contacted, confirmed that the panel was looking at ways to bring agri-education in sync with the spirit of the NEP.Significantly, the NEP also envisages that the professional councils, such as the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) will act as Professional Standard Setting Bodies (PSSBs) and shall be member of the General Education Council (GEC) to frame expected learning outcomes for higher education.The ICAR-Agricultural University (AU) system through its network of 74 universities offers degree courses at the undergraduate level in 11 disciplines. The PG programmes in 96 disciplines and Ph.D. programmes in 73 disciplines make it multi-disciplinary as desired by NEP, said the official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icar-looks-at-bringing-agri-education-in-sync-with-national-education-policy/story-NKyTiyTmBzJC1wLrUVsCqI.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19: India records more daily recoveries than new cases for 6 successive weeks||India has recorded more daily recoveries from Covid-19 than daily new cases for six successive weeks, shows government data. “India has continued the unbroken trend of the daily new recoveries outpacing the daily new additions for the 44th day. A total number of 43,851 Covid-19 patients recovered on Monday against just 30,548 newly detected cases. This translates to a net reduction of 13,303 in the active caseload which now stands at 465,478,” said the health ministry statement.Also, decline in daily new Covid-19 cases continues in the country. “Daily new cases numbering 30,548 is a historic low that assumes significance, given many countries in Europe and America are experiencing a continuous steep rise in daily new cases. The government’s efforts to continue to maintain high levels of comprehensive testing have resulted in bringing down the net positivity to sustained low levels,” said the health ministry.Also read | Conduct targeted Covid-19 testing at large gatherings: CentreThe cumulative positivity rate of the past three weeks has also shown a decline with the positivity rate going down from 7.61% around end of October to the current 7.04%.The recovery rate has further improved to 93.27%. The total recovered cases as on date stand at 8,249,579. Also, 78.59% of the recovered cases reported on Monday are from 10 states and Union Territories (UTs). Delhi saw the greatest number of recoveries as 7,606 confirmed cases recovered. Kerala registered 6,684 daily recoveries while West Bengal followed by reporting 4,480 new recoveries.The other states in the list are Maharashtra (3,063), Tamil Nadu (2,520), Karnataka (2,363), Andhra Pradesh (2,140), Haryana (1,930), Rajasthan (1,890), and Uttar Pradesh (1,783).About 77% of the new cases have also been reported from 10 states and UTs. Kerala recorded 4,581 new cases. Delhi, which saw a surge in new cases over the last few days, reported 3,235 new cases on Monday, followed closely by West Bengal reporting 3,053 new cases.The maximum number of deaths due to Covid-19 is also reported from 10 states, with Delhi reporting most deaths (about a fifth of total new deaths) in a single day, followed by Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-records-more-daily-recoveries-than-new-cases-for-6-successive-weeks/story-5GpY1pXzXisfjqFuiEg3zL.html
17-11-2020||India||Air quality improves over NW India, winter chill to set in||Light snowfall and rain is likely over the Western Himalayas, including Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and upper reaches of Uttarakhand between November 18 and 20 under the influence of a western disturbance which brought widespread rain and snow to the region on Sunday. This will lead to a gradual fall in minimum temperatures across northwest India by 2 to 4 degree C this week according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Due to widespread rain and strong winds on Sunday in the northwestern region, air quality has improved to “satisfactory” category in Alwar, Ambala, Amritsar, Baghpat, Ballabgarh, Hapur, Hisar, Karnal, Panipat today. Delhi and Noida recorded “moderate” air quality. Also read | Winter is here: Delhi records season’s lowest maximum temperature“We are seeing substantial improvement in air quality across the northwest region due to favourable meteorological conditions which has helped in dispersing Diwali pollution,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division.The impact of the WD has started reducing. It is presently lying as a cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan and neighborhood.“There was snowfall at many places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and over Uttarakhand on Sunday. Rain and thundershowers occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and some places over north Rajasthan. Today the winds are easterly but they will shift to north-westerly from Tuesday. So cold winds will be blowing from the Western Himalayas where snowfall has just happened. We are expecting minimum temperature to drop under 10 degree C in the next couple of days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The change in wind direction to northwesterly will lead to a fall in minimum temperature on Wednesday temporarily. The minimum temperature is likely to rise again as a fresh feeble western disturbance is likely to impact the region on November 18.“A feeble WD is again likely to impact higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on November 18. So, the minimum temperature will drop on November 16 and 17 but rise again on November 18 before falling substantially after that. The current active western disturbance coincided with Diwali which brought great relief from air pollution to the entire northwest India,” added RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-improves-over-nw-india-winter-chill-to-set-in/story-JUwgC2K5qi0gSCERDgh1FN.html
17-11-2020||India||Deadline set for digital media firms to reduce foreign investment||News websites and other digital platforms providing news and current affairs with foreign investment beyond the permitted 26% of equity have been given till October 21 to reduce this, according to a notice by the information and broadcasting ministry. They, and other entities with foreign investment even up to the permitted limit have been asked by the ministry to provide details of their ownership patterns within a month. The norms also apply to entities involved in uploading or streaming of news and current affairs through digital platforms. The details on ownership sought to include names and addresses of promoters, directors, significant beneficial owners, and shareholders. The companies have been asked to provide confirmation on compliance with pricing, documentation and reporting requirements under the FDI Policy, Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019 and Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019. “The decision to keep it to 26% is also linked to concerns about the kind of content including on various digital media including social media. There is a view that there is need to ensure that the control on media should not be entirely in foreign hands. It can be a perceptional matter. However, as such details are not a secret, I don’t see any problem with entities sharing it,” former I&B secretary Uday Kumar Varma said. The ministry has also sought the Permanent Account Number and the latest audited or unaudited profit and loss statement and balance sheet along with the auditor report. Every entity has to comply with the requirements related to the citizenship of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officers. The ministry has also asked the entities to obtain security clearance for all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year. Where FDI is involved, often security clearances are required, so I do not see anything different here, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-set-for-digital-media-firms-to-reduce-foreign-investment/story-jjL985MpaRMD6i03ifZnrI.html
17-11-2020||India||Govt considering a code of conduct for TV channels, says Javadekar||The government is thinking of developing a common code of conduct for TV channels while also considering giving enhanced powers to the Press Council of India (PCI), information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday.Javadekar also asserted that government felt that it should not step into the regulatory domain and self-regulation by those in the profession was the ideal system, although, in the case of so-called over the top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, the government has effectively rejected any effort at self-regulation. Speaking at an event organized by the PCI on the occasion of National Press Day, Javadekar said that while the Press Council oversees the print domain there was no similar system for the electronic media.“There is no system like the Press Council for TV channels so there should be a system of self-regulation. An organization has been formed which is headed by Justice Sikri which even gives punishment and asks channels to apologise if required. However, many channels are not even members of this system and we can’t leave things like that,” Javadekar said.The I&B minister said that many people were suggesting a common code of conduct for all TV channels. “We have not taken a final decision but are definitely discussing it,” the minister said. Complaints related to content are presently handled by the News Broadcasters Standards Authority which is headed by Justice (retd) A K Sikri.Javadekar said that there was a demand to also increase the powers of the PCI. “Some people are demanding that there should be more power to Press Council. This is being considered,” the minister said.The minister’s comments come days after the government brought digital media and OTT platforms under the I&B ministry’s purview. Rules for these are yet to be released, though. There have been demands in the past that the Press Council of India be converted into a Media Council with digital and even electronic platforms under its ambit.For OTT platforms there is neither a platform like the PCI not a self-regulatory mechanism, Javdekar said. “There can be good films, bad ones and very bad ones on these platforms. That is why, what can be done there? People are giving suggestions and we are looking into all of them. These are the challenges.Interestingly, in January 2019, the main OTT platforms cam together and signed a self-regulatory code but the government has refused to sign off on this. Speaking on the issue of TRP manipulation, an issue that came to fore with the arrest of TV anchor Arnab Goswami, Javadekar said while the government is reluctant to enter this domain, it has set up a committee to look into the issue. “To check the possibility of any TRP manipulation and address the issue, we have formed a committee which will give its report very soon,” he said.The event also saw messages from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi being read out or aired. All of these emphasized on the importance of a free media while also lauding the work done by journalists to spread awareness about Covid-19.In his written message, which was read out at the event, President Ram Nath Kovind said media persons were among front-line corona warriors, playing a major role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the pandemic.The vice president,in a video message, said the press in India has always been at the vanguard of protecting and strengthening the foundations of democracy.He said that any attack on the freedom of the press is detrimental to national interests and should be opposed. “Democracy cannot survive without a free and fearless press. Therefore, any attack on the freedom of the press is detrimental to national interests and should be opposed by one and all,” Naidu said.The prime minister also lauded the media for doing an exceptional service by spreading awareness against Covid-19 and said that it has acted as a valuable stakeholder in helping government in its initiatives. His message was read out by PCI Chairman C K Prasad.Modi said that at a time the world is up against an unprecedented crisis in the form of Covid-19, the nation’s fight against the pandemic is powered by the restraint and resolve of its 130 crore citizens.“In such a scenario, the media has been continuously doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against the Covid pandemic. In a post-Covid world, India is marching ahead with its resolve to build a strong and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. Media is giving our resolve the shape of a big campaign and carrying forward the message of ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considering-a-code-of-conduct-for-tv-channels-says-javadekar/story-nnwfOS8atblXmoHxWd3AaP.html
17-11-2020||India||Indian govt in talks with Moderna for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate||Indian government is in dialogue with US biotech giant Moderna, regarding initial successful development of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, which the drugmaker on Monday announced had achieved 94.5 per cent efficacy in phase 3 trials. “The government is in dialogue with both domestic and international vaccine manufacturers. Not only with Moderna--the government is also in communication with Pfizer, Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila for their Covid-19 vaccine candidate in terms of safety, immunogenicity and efficacy,” a senior government official said:The pharma giant Moderna announced on Monday that its coronavirus vaccine was 94.5 per cent effective, based on early results from its large ongoing study. “The NIH-appointed Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the Phase 3 study of mRNA-1273, its vaccine candidate against Covid-19, has informed Moderna that the trial has met the statistical criteria pre-specified in the study protocol for efficacy, with a vaccine efficacy of 94.5 per cent,” Moderna said in a statement.This announcement follows that by US giant Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech last week that their vaccine was found to be more than 90 per cent effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-govt-in-talks-with-moderna-for-its-covid-19-vaccine-candidate/story-HNL19m1mZfKWtVudLUHnPM.html
17-11-2020||India||Second phase of Malabar exercise kicks off today||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on Tuesday at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials said on Monday. The second phase of Malabar naval drills — to be conducted from November 17 to 20 — will be more elaborate and complex than the first one as it will involve the participation of Indian and American aircraft carriers. “Phase 2 of Exercise Malabar 2020 will witness joint operations centered around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarines and aircraft of the participating navies, would be engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days,” an Indian Navy spokesperson said. The exercise is being conducted at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector and talks to reduce military pensions remain deadlocked. Watch: Malabar exercise that upsets China is a tectonic shift in power balance | AnalysisThe first phase of the exercise was held in Bay of Bengal from November 3 -6. The exercise is being conducted in a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ format in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second phase of the drills will include cross-deck flying operations and advanced air defence exercises by INS Vikramaditya’s MiG-29K fighters and USS Nimitz’s F-18 fighters and E2C Hawkeye aircraft, the officials said. The drill will cover advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, and weapon firing to “further enhance inter-operability and synergy between the four friendly navies,” the spokesperson said. The Indian warships taking part in the exercise include indigenous destroyers INS Kolkata and INS Chennai, stealth frigate INS Talwar, fleet support ship INS Deepak and integral helicopters. Rear Admiral Krishna Swaminathan, Flag Officer Commanding, Western Fleet, will be leading the Indian Navy during the exercise, which will also feature the indigenously-built submarine INS Khanderi and P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft. The USS Nimitz will be accompanied by cruiser USS Princeton and destroyer USS Sterett, with US Navy’s P-8A maritime reconnaissance aircraft also taking part in the drills. Her Majesty’s Australian Ship (HMAS) Ballarat (long-range frigate) with its integral MH-60 helicopter will also take part in the exercise. The Indian Navy statement said the Japanese navy would be taking part in the drills, without giving out the details of its participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-phase-of-malabar-exercise-kicks-off-today/story-bvpK1XJv6g6ISTrf610eFO.html
17-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar chief minister for seventh time||Nitish Kumar took oath as the 37th chief minister of Bihar on Monday at a simple ceremony in Patna’s Raj Bhavan that was attended by Union minister Amit Shah, Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda and other leaders.Two BJP leaders, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, were sworn in as deputy chief ministers and 14 other ministers took oath, five from the Janata Dal (United), seven from the BJP, and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP). This is Kumar’s fourth consecutive term as chief minister and comes after the National Democratic Alliance secured a narrow majority in the recently concluded state elections even though his JD(U) crashed to its worst performance in 15 years.Kumar said based on the public’s decision, NDA once again formed the government. “We will work together and serve the people. Yes it’s a new team but every time there is a new element. We will endeavour to deliver the responsibility entrusted to us,” added the 69-year-old leader.Also Read: In 2-line tweet, Prashant Kishor throws many punches at ex-boss Nitish KumarHe was congratulated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was widely credited with shoring up the NDA’s poll prospects in Bihar. “The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar,” he said. The newly formed Bihar cabinet will meet on Tuesday. A special session of the state legislative Assembly is likely to be held on November 23, news agency ANI reported. As per rules, a maximum of 36 ministers can be appointed in the 243-member Bihar assembly.Prasad and Devi were administered oath after the chief minister and both were seated beside Kumar on the dais. They replaced Sushil Modi, who was deputy CM for 11 years and attended Monday’s ceremony. “It’s a big responsibility and I am extremely thankful to my party leaders for giving me this opportunity,” said Devi, the first woman deputy CM of Bihar.Prasad is a four-time MLA from Katihar who became a minister for the first time. Devi, a former BJP national vice-president and four-term MLA from Bettiah, previously served as a minister of art, culture and sports from 2005 to 2009 under Kumar. The main opposition party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), boycotted the swearing-in ceremony and said the mandate was against the NDA. But party leader Tejashwi Yadav later congratulated Kumar. “I hope that instead of the ambition of the chair, he (Kumar) will prioritise the wishes of the people,” he said.Other prominent faces from the JD(U) inducted as ministers are former speaker, Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, Mewalal Choudhary and Sheela Kumari. From the BJP, former health minister Mangal Pandey, former deputy speaker Amarendra Pratap Singh, Rampreet Paswan, Jivesh Kumar and Ramsurat Kumar were sworn in as ministers. Paswan and Jibesh took oath in Maithili. The Mithilanchal region comprising Dabhanga and Madhubani, where the NDA won 17 of 20 assembly seats, got three new faces. NDA won 26 out of 37 in Mithilanchal. Also Read: Top BJP leaders congratulate Nitish Kumar after he takes oath as Bihar CM for record 7th timeSantosh Kumar Suman, son of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahani, chief of VIP, also took oath. Sahni had lost the polls but his party won four seats and was seen as having netted a chunk of backward community votes.Kumar, on his part, sought to steer clear of the speculations around his former deputy, saying “This is the BJP’s decision. You should pose your questions to the BJP leadership”.Four of the 14 ministers are from upper caste communities, three are Dalits and the remaining from other backward classes (OBC) and extremely backward classes (EBC).Two ministers belong to the Yadav caste, traditionally the support base of the RJD. There are two women, Devi and Kumari, who made a successful electoral debut from Phulpharas in Madhubani district.The NDA won 125 seats in the 243-member assembly against 110 by the opposition Grand Alliance. The RJD was the single-largest party with 75 seats, followed by BJP with 74, JD(U) with 43 and Congress with 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-chief-minister-for-seventh-time/story-xuz82f7pp88MTD4uWGOxtM.html
17-11-2020||India||CBI files three cases of alleged land grabbing in J-K||The CBI has filed three cases in connection with the alleged grabbing of land in Jammu & Kashmir in collusion with government officials, officials said on Monday. The first is related to the alleged land grabbing in Jammu and Samba districts. “...the officers/officials of the revenue department of Jammu district had conferred undue benefits upon the illegal occupants of the state land by intentionally ignoring the laid down provisions of the Roshni Act, thereby conferring ownership rights wrongfully to selective undeserving persons,” CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said.The second case pertains to a businessman from Gandhinagar in Jammu and unidentified officials of the revenue department, Jammu Development Authority, who had allegedly entered conferred the former with ownership rights on a land in village Deeli Tehsil. A senior IAS officer, now a secretary in the central government, and another officer working in the electricity department are also under the scanner, officials said. Another case is from Samba district where revenue officials allegedly conferred undue pecuniary benefits on the illegal occupants of state land, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-three-cases-of-alleged-land-grabbing-in-j-k/story-lG0Z6a4gxz4XQksqQxZzaI.html
17-11-2020||India||Brics Summit: Narendra Modi, Xi Jinping to share platform again||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same platform within a week when leaders of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping convene for a virtual summit on Tuesday to focus on economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi will join the virtual Brics Summit on the theme “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. The summit, being held against the backdrop of the pandemic, will discuss intra-Brics cooperation and key global issues such as reforming the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, and cooperation in counterterrorism, trade, health and energy. This will be the second time Modi and Xi will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. On November 10, Modi and Xi participated in the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), also hosted by Russia. In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Modi had urged SCO members to respect the territorial integrity of countries while implementing connectivity projects. The top leadership of India and China are expected to be on the same online platform during five meetings this month. Besides the SCO Summit on November 10, the East Asia Summit on November 14 and the Brics Summit on November 17, the two countries will also participate in the G20 Summit during November 21-22 and the SCO council of heads of government meeting on November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-summit-narendra-modi-xi-jinping-to-share-platform-again/story-FmqGpkFkZh7FtRjpYNvw1J.html
17-11-2020||India||China-Pakistan CPEC project has long road ahead as Beijing puts hold on projects||The Covid-19 pandemic, ongoing political unrest and foreign debt limits have resulted in a slowing of Chinese investments in Pakistan as Beijing has put a hold on projects that are part of the USD 62 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, whose government is criticised for being under military control, is also facing flak in his country for not prioritising and expediting big-ticket Chinese infrastructure investments, Asia Times reported.In 2018, Khan had put on hold several CPEC projects suspecting corruption by the previous government. However, two years later, several of his Cabinet members were named in big corruption scandals involving the country’s power sector. About one-third of Pakistan’s power companies are involved in Chinese projects under the CPEC.The 278-page inquiry report, compiled by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP) and presented to Khan in April, unearthed alleged irregularities worth over USD 1.8 billion in subsidies given to 16 independent power producers (IPPs) including those belonging to Khan’s advisors Razak Dawood and Nadeem Baber, Asia Times said.The SCEP had also investigated the profits earned by the Chinese power companies.The report revealed that Huang Shandong Ruyi Pakistan Ltd (HSR) and Port Qasim Electric Power Co Ltd (PQEPCL) were together overpaid by 483.6 billion rupees (USD 3 billion).The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of 11 opposition parties, has demanded the Imran Khan-led government to speed up the Chinese-funded projects, especially the motorway and railway modernisation plans that have had almost no progress in the last five months.The PDM has also demanded the removal of CPEC Authority’s chairman, retired Lieutenant General Asim Saleem Bajwa, until he comes clear of his personal and his family business assets in the US.Recently, a local media had exposed Bajwa’s several offshore businesses, including more than 100 companies and franchises in the US, UAE and Canada in which his family are involved.In 2019, the Prime Minister had promulgated an ordinance to establish a CPEC Authority (CPECA) ahead of his visit to China and appointed a former lieutenant general as its chairperson. Earlier, the Planning and Development Ministry used to oversee the CPEC projects.Planning Ministry sources told Asia Times that CPECA was forced upon the government by China, which wanted the army to be directly involved in the CPEC portfolio as Beijing was reportedly irked with Khan’s slow movement on the wider scheme.The sources further said that the recent revelations of Bajwa’s offshore assets had shocked China as it had wished to work with the Pakistan military to prevent private corruption.Following the revelations, Chinese President Xi Jinping’s scheduled visit to Pakistan in September was postponed citing Covid-19 as the official reason.Asia Times has reported that the CPEC Authority Ordinance gives immunity to the CPECA’s chairperson and staff from all legal proceedings against them, hence, protecting them from the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) and police to institute cases.“The CPECA’s legality issue, chairperson’s immunity from legal proceedings and the controversies of overseas family businesses surrounding the authority’s incumbent chairperson gave a bad impression and must be resolved to improve the efficiency of CPECA,” Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed, a Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz leader and chairman of the Pak-China Institute think tank told Asia Times.He further said that the PDM has concerns about the CPECA’s immunity clause.While attributing the delay of the CPEC project to coronavirus pandemic, he said, “Additionally, the new Chinese Ambassador, Nong Rong comes with a strong economic background which should give impetus to CPEC.”He further said that the PDM protests will not affect the CPEC’s progress.“Pressures are emanating from the West and Western institutions - primarily in Washington - against the CPEC but Pakistan has demonstrated willingness, readiness and ability to withstand these pressures,” he added.As in recent weeks Chinese workers and engineers working in Balochistan and Sindh have been targeted and killed, the cost of providing around-the-clock security to Chinese nationals is raising the price of the projects at a time Pakistan’s economy is faltering badly, Asia Times said.Meanwhile, Pakistan had requested a 1 per cent interest rate on the Chinese loan for the ML-1 rail project. China is, however, reluctant to heed to the request and instead used “delaying tactics” to pressurise Islamabad to continue accepting the high rate of interest.Khan and Bajwa now reportedly plan to take the issue to Chinese President Xi Jinping, who they believe can dictate terms on China Development Bank and Export-Import Bank of China loans, in hopes that an agreement can be reached on the rail line, Asia Times said.The review meeting of CPEC’s Joint Coordination Committee (JCC), which is held every month, is unlikely to finalise the ML-1 project in the upcoming meeting despite Pakistan Railways Minister Shaikh Rasheed Ahmad emphasising that the project is ready.Asia Times further reported that the Greater Peshawar Mass Transit Project, Swat Express Way Phase-II and Peshawar-DI Khan Motorway, all nominally under the CPEC, have likewise been delayed and are not on the agenda of the next JCC meeting.Citing local media reports, Asia Times quoted Jeremy Garlick, an assistant professor at the Jan Masaryk Centre of International Studies at the Prague University of Economics and Business, as saying that Beijing was using delaying tactics on the ML-1 as it doesn’t want to end up with a bad deal on its hands.“Beijing doesn’t want to say no to ML-1. It wants to appear committed in Pakistan, but at the same time it is aware of the risky environment for Chinese investments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pakistan-cpec-project-has-long-road-ahead-as-beijing-puts-hold-on-projects/story-vTWomwV7sqMy1qD0V6AofO.html
17-11-2020||India||Amid war of words among party leaders, Congress’ Special Committee to meet today||After facing defeat in Bihar assembly elections and by-elections, a meeting of the special committee to assist Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi is going to take place on Tuesday.According to information received from sources, there will be a meeting at 5 pm through video conferencing but its agenda is not clear.This meeting is taking place at a time when the issue of review in Congress has been emerging after the defeat in the elections. Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 Congress leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi a few months ago to demand reforms in the party, has demanded a fresh review of the defeat, after which he has come under fire from fellow Congress leaders.From Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary, Congress leaders are targeting Sibal for raising questions.Amidst all this, the meeting of Sonia Gandhi’s advisory committee is giving rise to a lot of speculation. In August, a Special Committee was formed to assist the interim president of the Congress, Sonia Gandhi on organisational and operational matters.Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal, AK Antony, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, Randeep Surjewala are its members. The important thing is that due to ill health, Ahmed Patel is admitted to the hospital. Despite this, questions are being raised about whether a new storm is coming inside the Congress.The Congress is being blamed for the defeat of the Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) in the recently concluded Bihar elections. In the Mahagathbandhan, the success rate of RJD and the Left parties was more than 50 per cent whereas the Congress could win only 19 seats out of 70 seats it contested.Congress got only nine seats out of 28 in Madhya Pradesh by-election. The Congress could not win a single seat in the by-elections in two assembly seats in Karnataka and eight assembly seats in Gujarat. Congress performance was also disappointing in UP where Priyanka Gandhi is in-charge.RJD leaders have also raised questions over Congress party’s attitude towards Bihar Assembly polls. RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari has taken on the party leadership saying that they didn’t pay heed to the campaign as many senior leaders like Priyanka Gandhi, former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and even Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi didn’t turn up for the poll campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-war-of-words-among-party-leaders-congress-special-committee-to-meet-today/story-hiT5a61B0I46YQo3Q8wf7O.html
17-11-2020||India||Not interested in debate with one who’s not connected with power issue: Goa minister on AAP challenge||After Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha challenged Goa Power Minister Nilesh Cabral for a debate over the electricity models of both the states on Monday, Cabral said he is ready to debate with “like-minded people”, but not the “one who’s not connected” with the issue.“I don’t have any problem in debating with the like-minded people who understand the power problems of Delhi and Goa. I don’t seek to debate with one who’s not connected to it. Delhi power minister is welcome for the debate. I haven’t challenged anybody,” said Cabral.Earlier today, Chadha said he is ready to have a debate with Cabral over the Delhi electricity model as compared to the Goa one, but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command is not giving permission.“I informed Goa power minister that I will be debating with him on the topic of Kejriwal electricity model vs Goa electricity model of the BJP and I will reach Goa by 2 pm on November 17. But now he seems to be running away from the debate,” said Chadha.“BJP high command is not giving permission to Goa Power Minister Cabral for the debate, which was originally his idea. I now urge BJP high command as well as Mr Cabral to readily accept this challenge and let me know the venue and time of this debate,” he added.Earlier, a war of words took place on social media between the chief ministers of Delhi and Goa on November 11-12, with Arvind Kejriwal accusing his Goan counterpart of ignoring local voices under “the Centre’s diktat”, in return being accused by Dr Pramod Sawant of doing “divisive politics”.The spat began on Twitter last Wednesday after Delhi Chief Minister responded to a news portal’s tweet citing Sawant, a BJP member, as saying that “Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should first fix issues of pollution in his area before getting worried about Goa.”There has been an ongoing feud in Goa between the ruling BJP and Kejriwal’s AAP over environmental issues, especially the railway “double-tracking project” inside the protected forest areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-interested-in-debate-with-one-who-s-not-connected-with-power-issue-goa-minister-on-aap-challenge/story-V2ioLp4OdcrSGQkWhrcJpO.html
17-11-2020||India||Why blaming Congress in Bihar is a red herring||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Mahagathbandhan (MGB) failed to get a majority in Bihar despite getting almost identical vote share as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state. Multiple theories have been given from within the MGB fold to explain the loss. In its first press conference after the results, the MGB leadership accused the Election Commission of India (ECI) of having cancelled postal ballots which were in its favour in various assembly constituencies (ACs). However, it did not provide details of such cancellations. ECI has dismissed such allegations. Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India Marxist-Leninist (Liberation), said that the MGB would have performed better had the Left parties been given more tickets than the Congress. The seat distribution within the MGB was 144, 70 and 29 for the RJD, Congress and the Left. In an interview to ANI, senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari took potshots at Rahul Gandhi , blaming the Congress for the MGB’s performance.An HT analysis suggests that the real picture could be far more complicated.Has the Congress really underperformed in Bihar? The Congress managed to win 19 out of the 70 ACs it contested in these elections. In 2015, it won 27 out of the 41 it had contested. Compared to 2015, 2020 looks like an underperformance. However, the 2020 numbers need to be seen in the context that it was the Congress’s second best performance, both in terms of seats and strike rates, in the state since 1995. When seen from the historical perspective, it can be said that both the 2015 and 2020 performances of the Congress were more a function of the alliances it entered into rather than its actual support. Any political party rooted in Bihar, the RJD included, would have known the Congress’s actual strength before sealing the alliance. So, why did the RJD entertain the Congress at all? That leads to another question. Why were the elections so close in Bihar this time? The simple answer to this question is a fragmentation of the NDA’s upper caste support base. The CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey for Bihar – it got the seat shares wrong, but its vote share predictions of 39%-36% for MGB-NDA were not very off the mark – shows that the NDA’s support among upper caste voters was perhaps the lowest since the 2005 October assembly elections in the state.Findings of the 2020 Lokniti post-poll survey show that the NDA had a support of 52%, 51%, 55% and 59% among Brahmins, Bhumihars, Rajputs and other upper castes in the state. The weighted average is likely to be less than 55%. The 2015 post-poll survey by Lokniti found more than 80% upper caste support for the NDA. This number was 65% and 56% in the October-2005 and 2010 assembly elections.Lokniti findings also show that the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) was the main factor for the fragmentation in the NDA’s upper caste support base in these elections. Congress is the RJD’s upper caste appeasement agent in Bihar It is among the anti-NDA upper caste voters that the Congress was the most effective in the 2015 elections. Information collected by the Trivedi Centre for Political Data at Ashoka University shows that 17 out of the 41 candidates fielded by the Congress in the 2015 polls were from the upper castes. This number was just 8 out of 101 for the RJD. 13 of Congress’s upper caste candidates won in the 2015 polls compared to just five on the RJD’s ticket. Things did not change much in 2020. 29 out of the 70 candidates fielded by the Congress were from the upper castes. The RJD fielded just 23 in the 144 ACs it contested. The Congress’s role as an upper caste party in the alliance becomes clearer when one looks at the share of upper caste candidates among non-Muslims and non- Scheduled Caste (SC)/non-Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates. This number was 81% in 2015 and 66% in 2020. While most parties field SC/ST candidates from reserved constituencies, Muslims are mostly fielded from ACs where they are in significant numbers.Obviously, if the RJD had a wider support beyond Yadavs and Muslims, then it would not need the upper castes and the Congress.  Would it have helped if the Left had a bigger share in the alliance? The Left parties, especially the CPI(ML), said that giving more seats to the Left parties instead of the Congress would have helped the MGB improve its performance in the assembly. Is there merit in such assertions? The strength of the combined Left block has risen to the highest since 1995 assembly elections. Many, including this author, have argued that the Left was more successful in championing the economic justice rhetoric of the MGB. However, an analysis of 2010 and 2015 election results shows that the MGB seat distribution in 2020 did follow some logic. Left parties have had a much higher vote share in the 29 ACs they contested this time than the 214 they did not contest this time. This means that the Left parties were given ACs where they have had some historical traction. A pre-2010 comparison is not possible because AC boundaries changed after the 2008 delimitation. What the Congress needs to realise? While it is unfair to blame the Congress for the MGB’s poor showing, it does not make the former any less irrelevant in the state’s politics. If the Congress intends to revive itself as an upper caste party in the state — the purpose it has served in the 2015 and 2020 polls — then its central leadership would do well to cultivate a set of local leaders who acknowledge this realpolitik requirement and plan accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-blaming-congress-in-bihar-is-a-red-herring/story-dOiCBmGpEzSF1xDk7J9JLL.html
17-11-2020||India||A tipping point in the fight against Covid-19||Ten days ago we had no Covid-19 vaccines. Now we have two, the latest from Moderna (after the one from Pfizer/BioNTech). Sure, the first statement may be a bit of an exaggeration — there were 12 vaccines in late stage trials, some with more than an even chance of succeeding and what we were witnessing is just that. The two that have cleared the first hurdle — an adequate success rate in an interim analysis of early results — are both messenger RNA or mRNA vaccines, which use a genetic messenger code to instruct the body’s own cells to make a protein found on the shell of the SARS-CoV 2 virus that causes Covid-19, thereby provoking an immune reaction, resulting in protection from the virus. There’s every chance that another candidate, perhaps the one being developed by Johnson & Johnson or AstraZeneca/Oxford could join the ones from Pfizer and Moderna before the end of the year (to end 2020 with three successful vaccines would be something). And there is every chance that both will be approved for use and available, at least to those whose needs are the highest, before the end of the year. Wider commercial availability will follow next year, perhaps by early spring. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayPfizer will make 50 million doses available this year (once approved) and Moderna, 20 million. Both are two-dose vaccines which means 25 million and 10 million people, respectively, can be vaccinated. Next year, Pfizer plans to boost production up to 1.3 billion units, and Moderna up to between 500 million and a billion. That should be enough to vaccinate around 15% of the world’s population, which is a start. The other successful vaccines will add to the number. It’s entirely possible that if two more vaccines are successful, around 40% of the world’s population could get a vaccine next year. But that’s on paper, because supply won’t just be a function of availability — it will be driven by pre-existing deals between countries and vaccine makers. The US, for instance, has deals with both Pfizer and Moderna. The UK has a deal with Pfizer and five other vaccine makers, in all accounting for 350 million doses. Its population is 66 million, so even if some vaccines entail multiple doses, its population is covered. The country was scrambling to strike a deal with Moderna before the company announced the interim analysis of the preliminary results of its Phase 3 clinical trials. And the EU has deals with both Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech. Pharma analytics company Airfinity said in September that rich countries accounted for at least 50% of the 5.3 billion doses for which deals had been struck at the time. That number is likely to increase. Indeed, the announcements by Pfizer and Moderna are both likely to result in some frenzied deal-striking — and they should. A vaccine is the best investment a country can make at this point in time. The origins of the ongoing global economic crisis are not really economic, several experts have said (correctly) that a vaccine is the best stimulus/cure for an ailing economy. Now comes the tough part of managing the acquisition, logistics, and administration of the vaccine -- and there too Moderna had some good news; its vaccine lasts longer in the refrigerator than previously believed (it still needs to be frozen), and even lasts 12 hours at room temperature. Also Read: Moderna says its Covid-19 vaccine is nearly 95% effectiveBut what of the science behind the results announced by Moderna on Monday and Pfizer/BioNTech last week? Both involved waiting for a certain number of test subjects (some were given the vaccine and others a placebo) to get infected -- and then see who got what. In Pfizer’s case, based on 94 people who got infected, and in Moderna’s case, based on 95, the vaccines were found to be over 90% and 94.5% effective. While there is safety data to be reviewed, and the studies themselves (both clinical trials cover tens of thousands of subjects) will have to run their course, it is unlikely that these results will change. I believe this is a tipping point in the fight against the virus -- it reduces, by a significant amount, the uncertainty surrounding a vaccine, and offers a tentative timeline on when one could be available commercially. Government and public health responses may have faltered in the face of Covid-19, but the pace and progress of the scientific response to the pandemic has been revolutionary and unprecedented. It is, like many other things that have come before, another triumph of human ingenuity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-tipping-point-in-the-fight-against-covid-19/story-ZgabeoGzBV1Wc1yMuLaOWK.html
17-11-2020||India||Bru migrants’ resettlement in Tripura runs into opposition from locals||Protesting against the Centre’s decision of rehabilitating over 32,000 Bru migrants in Tripura, two local organizations started indefinite strike from Monday at Kanchanpur sub division in North district, nearly 180 kilometres from Agartala.Police said that no untoward incident was reported.The local organizations - Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention under the banner ‘Joint Action Committee’ (JAC) had earlier organised a series of protests against resettlement of the Brus only in this sub division. “We were given assurance earlier that maximum 1,500 families would be given settlement here. But now, we heard that they are planning to give place to 6,000 families. If this happens, the demography and environment of the subdivision will be effected. We can’t accept that,” chairman of JAC Dr. Zairemthiama Pachuau told mediapersons. Over 32,000 Bru migrants have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions in Tripura’s North District for over two decades after they fled Mizoram following an ethnic clash in 1997. In January this year, the Centre signed an agreement with governments of Tripura and Mizoram and the Bru migrants for their permanent settlement in Tripura. The Centre also announced a Rs. 600 crore package for their resettlement. According to government officials, 15 different spots areas have been identified in different districts including the North district for their resettlement. The Mizoram Bru Displaced Peoples’ Forum (MBDPF) recently demanded the state government issue permanent resident and Scheduled Tribe certificates to them as part of their resettlement.MBDPF general secretary Bruno Msha said,” We have nothing to say about their movement. We believe that the state government will take necessary action in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bru-migrants-resettlement-in-tripura-runs-into-opposition-from-locals/story-73T0D5EWuo4qkCgdz7zZ6N.html
17-11-2020||India||Supreme Court discourages use of Article 32 in scribe case||The Supreme Court said on Monday it was trying to discourage the use of a provision that allows incarcerated people to directly approach the top court against violation of their fundamental rights as it felt that high courts were well-equipped to deal with such matters.In a case pertaining to Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, who is facing charges of sedition and offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and who is being probed by the Uttar Pradesh police for alleged links with banned outfit Popular Front of India (PFI), the SC said it was trying to discourage the use of Article 32. Article 32 of the Constitution allows any citizen to approach the Supreme Court against the breach of any fundamental right.Kappan was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras to report the death of a 19-year-old Dalit girl after she was gang-raped.The bench headed by the CJI issued notice to the UP government on a petition filed on behalf of Kappan by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and posted the matter for hearing on Friday. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for KUWJ, sought interim bail for Kappan, but the bench wished to hear the state first before passing any order.Also Read: UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plotThe SC bench told Sibal of its reservation to entertain the petition, saying that such petitions should be filed before high courts. “We are trying to discourage Article 32 petitions. Of late, we find a spate of Article 32 petitions.”Sibal mentioned the fact that the court was granting bail in Article 32 petitions and in this case, too, an extraordinary situation arose due to the arrest of a journalist. The bench said: “We are not commenting on the merits of the case. We are aware of similar orders in the past and the vast powers that this Court possesses under Article 32. We want to discourage this trend.” Although notice was issued, the bench told Sibal that it was keen on ordering the petition to be heard by the Allahabad high court.In another case, involving Sameet Thakkar, a resident of Nagpur who is currently under arrest in multiple criminal cases for his tweets on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the SC decline to entertain a petition under Article 32. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, who appeared for Thakkar, pointed out that while all offences were bailable, his client was being arrested in one case after another.The bench of CJI Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Jethmalani to approach the Bombay high court. The bench said: “High Court can also uphold your fundamental rights and grant you bail. Why are you coming under Article 32?”Jethmalani pointed out that the facts of the case were “shocking” as was under arrest for three weeks, with the police treating him inhumanly by producing him in court with a rope around his neck. The bench replied: “We are quite immune from shocks. What makes you think that we approve of all this. We are only saying go to the High Court. You can point all this out to the High Court too.”The Maharashtra government, represented by advocate Rahul Chitnis, informed the court that the petitioner’s custodial interrogation was over and the state would not oppose his bail plea. The bench held: “The petitioner seeks permission to withdraw the writ petition with liberty to move before the appropriate forum.” A magistrate’s court in Mumbai later granted bail to Thakkar in one of the three cases registered against him for allegedly tweeting “objectionable” content against Thackeray and his son Aaditya Thackeray.Thakkar was granted a cash bail of Rs 25,000 by the magistrate’s court in Bandra, said his lawyer Abad Ponda. He secured bail in a case registered against him at the BKC Cyber Cell police station in Mumbai following his tweet against the Thackerays earlier this year.Two more FIRs were registered against him for the same tweets, one in Nagpur, and another in the VP Road police station, also in Mumbai.Ponda said Thakkar will be released from jail following the bail order since he had already secured similar relief in the other two cases.Thakkar was arrested by the Mumbai Police in October this year after he failed to appear before the VP Road and BKC police stations to record his statement, despite a Bombay HC order directing him to do so.(With PTI inputs from Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-discourages-use-of-article-32-in-scribe-case/story-vTALfDmd21QyPxuR0HgBiJ.html
17-11-2020||India||‘Don’t implement tourism policy’, industry bodies tell Goa govt||Goa’s leading industry bodies have written to the state government asking it not to implement the recently approved Goa Tourism Policy and seeking that the board as envisioned by the policy be not constituted. Expressing their dissatisfaction with the policy drawn by consultancy firm KPMG, the heads of the three associations - the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa and the Goa Chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry -have asked the government to cease and desist from acting on the policy. “After a series of joint meetings (we) are writing this letter to express our dissatisfaction about the Goa Tourism Policy 2020 and the structure of the Goa Tourism Board as per what was received by us,” the letter written by Manoj Caculo (GCCI president), Nilesh Shah (TTAG president) and Blaise Costa Bir, (CII president), said. “It must therefore be of utmost importance that the Policy is formulated comprehensively and The Goa Tourism Board has a balanced representation of all key stakeholders in the trade, to facilitate sound decision making for the betterment of the tourism sector in the State of Goa” the joint letter states asking the Chief Minister to “make sure that no immediate decisions are taken for the long term while the Board is in the process of being formulated and to defer the proposed decision of the State Tourism Department for floating a tender for appointing of a PR agency to promote its activities and provide assistance at trade fairs.” “We can work together to ensure that a well-structured Tourism Board is formulated that can help take informed decisions for the betterment of the tourism sector in Goa,” the industry honchos have said. The Goa Tourism Policy was finalised after many delays by the Goa cabinet at the end of October. KPMG billed the Goa government upwards of Rs 5-crore to draft the policy. But opposition members as well as some members of the ruling BJP have alleged that the money has been ‘wasted’ as the policy has made ‘vague’ and ‘generic’ recommendations for which an expensive consultant need not have been hired..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-implement-tourism-policy-industry-bodies-tell-goa-govt/story-9aSZ6NDLs3SlVir4963zlI.html
17-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Just how bad is the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in Delhi? And how does it compare with what the US and Europe are going through right now?The trajectory of Covid-19 in Delhi is different from that of any other Indian state or Union territory. No other Indian region has seen a clear second wave (many have just seen the end of the first). Delhi hasn’t just seen, but also seen off a second and is now in its third — although, as I’ve pointed out in this column, the peak of the curve of the first wave was too sharp (which is rare), and poor testing strategy may have been responsible for the optics of the entire second wave.Still, on paper, Delhi is now seeing its third wave, and like the ongoing third wave in the US and the second wave in Europe, it is bad.To return to the original question, how bad? A measure of new cases per million — both daily and a seven-day average — provides the answer.This number has steadily increased (barring blips caused by lower testing) as shown in the accompanying graphic. The first wave peaked in late June and then fell off sharply — too sharply, perhaps. The second wave started in late August, peaked in mid-September, and then fell off, and the third wave started in mid-October.Since November 3, the number of daily cases per million of population in the Capital has been in excess of 300 (barring November 15, when it was low on account of a national holiday on Saturday). This column is being written before the day’s numbers are out but it is Monday’s too will be low, on account of low testing on Sunday. The 7-day average has been in excess of 300 since November 6 and was at 370.5 on November 14. It’s important to note that while many states and Union territories report their Covid numbers late in the day, Delhi reports its earlier — but its numbers are the previous day’s.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Delhi cases-per-million number is comparable to that in Europe and the US. The latter’s is higher, in the mid-400s, but the former’s is currently just around where the Delhi number is. And their trajectory looks the same too. Delhi, then, is an outlier whose coronavirus disease trajectory is completely different from the national trend.Some of Delhi’s current problems can be attributed to its botched approach to testing. In late June, as the first wave roared through it, Delhi decided to accelerate and expand its testing through the use of rapid antigen tests. These are unreliable, returning false negatives 50% of the time (this means they identify infected people as uninfected). Every region that uses such tests has seen an immediate improvement (a fall) in its positivity rate (proportion of people testing positive to those tested), which tells the story. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have almost exclusively depended on such tests and their respective Covid dashboards, too, tell the same story.Over the past month, Delhi has increased its testing capacity for the reliable RT-PCR test, but at a peak of around 20,000 a day last week, these still accounted for just a third of the total tests carried out in the Capital.This has interfered with the accuracy and representativeness of Delhi’s positivity rate — Dispatch 156 on September 12 explained how rapid antigen tests, while useful in certain contexts, can do this when used indiscriminately, the way Delhi, UP and Bihar have done — presenting and perhaps amplifying a false sense of safety and security. In contrast, Tamil Nadu, used only RT-PCR tests and its positivity rate saw an extremely long plateau before dipping.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAnd this misplaced sense of safety and security manifested itself in several ways. Checks at airports of incoming passengers became lax; containment zones were honoured more in the breach than in the observance; and citizens started behaving as if they had nothing to fear. A final caveat: Delhi’s overall cases-to-date-per-million number is magnified by its lower population when compared to other states (it’s the same reason Goa tops the cases-to-date-per-million chart, and Ladakh comes second) but the number is bad by any measure. Delhi is seventh on the list of states and Union territories in terms of case numbers. And only Maharashtra and Kerala have more active cases than the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-rBWzmWCcol98FQ1yNoNfRI.html
17-11-2020||India||Coronavirus: India in talks with global vaccine manufacturers||India is in talks with Pfizer, Moderna and other manufacturers for a possible deal to purchase a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine as rising infections pose a challenge to the country’s health authorities, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.The officials working for the Union government maintained that all vaccines will be considered for uptake, and Pfizer as well as Moderna’s announcements that their vaccine candidates were 90% and 94.5% successful, respectively, in phase 3 clinical trials prompted India to recalibrate its options.A senior official of the Centre’s team of experts on the vaccine said, “We are mindful of the prices, the cost factor is a profound concern to us”. Last month, Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech said their vaccine would be priced at $19.50 a dose, a steep difference from the Oxford AstraZeneca candidate that is expected to carry a price tag of below two dollars apiece. Moderna, the other front runner, has pegged its doses between $32 and $37 a dose.Also Read| Covid-19: Bharat Biotech begins Phase 3 trials of Covaxin in IndiaTo be sure, two officials from the expert group insisted that no agreement has been made with Pfizer or Moderna or even for Moscow’s Sputnik V so far but talks are on with all possible candidates.“We are in touch with all manufacturers, both domestic and international. To provide access to vaccine to our people at the earliest, we have to keep in mind the entire landscape. While Indian vaccines are promising, some other candidates are ahead in the race. We are closely watching all developments. But affordability is critical and important,’’ said a member of the group. Another member said recent news of the EU striking a deal with Pfizer and BioNTech for securing 200 million doses but at a lower price than the US has also caught the group’s attention and a bargain is not being ruled out.“We will secure vaccines from every possible source. While our own vaccines are still in the race, some vaccines are near the finishing line. If we want quick procurements, we have no option but to negotiate with them.” Also Read: A tipping point in the fight against Covid-19The central government has so far earmarked ₹50,000 crore — from its own resources — for the Covid-19 vaccine programme. The Oxford AstraZeneca candidate would fit the bill perfectly.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, chairman of the expert group, said, “We are keeping an open watch on vaccine developments nationally and internationally, with the goal of ensuring that we have access to a safe and effective vaccine at the earliest to the maximum possible people.’’ “We can expect a vaccine early 2021 — the first quarter of the year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-talks-with-global-vaccine-manufacturers/story-x6zIq39RaXAk7USxPKmN4O.html
17-11-2020||India||Temperatures to dip in northwestern India, says IMD||Widespread snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and the upper reaches of Uttarakhand on Sunday will lead to a fall in the minimum temperature by around two-four degrees Celsius over northwestern India from Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As a result of the western disturbance (WD) that brought rain and snow, most parts of northwest India saw a significant improvement in air quality that settled in the “moderate” and satisfactory” category in several places; it is unusual in mid-November and that too immediately after Diwali celebrations. “There was snowfall at many places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and over Uttarakhand. Rain and thundershowers occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and some places over north Rajasthan. Today, the winds are easterly but they will shift to north-westerly from tomorrow (Tuesday). So cold winds will be blowing from the Western Himalayas where snowfall has just happened. We are expecting minimum temperature to drop under 10 degrees Celsius in the next couple of days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The lowest minimum temperature recorded over northwest India was 11.2 degrees Celsius — in Bhatinda. As the western disturbance is still impacting the region and winds are easterly, several places recorded above normal minimum temperatures on Monday. Minimum temperatures are likely to fall gradually by 2-4 degrees Celsius over Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar, West Bengal and Sikkim during the next four-five days. Due to rain and snow in most parts of northwestern India, Diwali pollution dispersed rapidly. On Monday afternoon, Agra, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwadi and Faridabad, among others — all of which recorded “severe” air quality on Diwali day — settled at “moderate” category air. Ambala, Alwar, Bhatinda, Ballabgarh. Chandigarh and Meerut, all in northwest India, recorded “satisfactory” air quality on Monday. “Air quality across northwest India has improved due to rain and thundershowers....Though wind direction will change to northwesterly, wind speed will not reduce completely,” explained Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division. A fresh western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from November 18. “A feeble WD is again likely to impact higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on November 18. So the minimum temperature will drop on November 16 and 17 but rise again on 18 before falling substantially after that. The current active WD coincided with Diwali, which brought great relief from air pollution to the entire northwest India,” added RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperatures-to-dip-in-north-india/story-TJS31J2ZLqa6MV2KIj72nI.html
17-11-2020||India||Rajya Sabha may hold only two sessions in a year for the fourth time||If the Rajya Sabha does not convene for the winter session on account of the coronavirus pandemic, then 2020 will be the fourth such year when the house has met only twice in a year instead of the conventional practice of having three sittings.No decision has been taken so far on the schedule for the winter session that is held between November and December, but the rising cases of coronavirus infections in the Capital will be a critical factor to consider the plausibility of convening Parliament, persons aware of the details said on Monday.In the past Rajya Sabha did not convene for the winter session four times since 1952, according to information provided by officials aware of the details. In 1975, 1979 and 1984 there was no winter session for the upper house. In 1952, the first session was held on May 13 and a second session was held in the winter.In 2008, the house met for two sessions, but these were held in four parts, which covered the budget session, the winter season and the monsoon session. Also Read| Covid-19: Govt deliberating on holding next Parliament session in JanuaryThere is no rule laid down in the Constitution to specify the number of times Parliament should meet in a year, but it stipulates that the gap between two sessions should not be more than six months.As per convention, the upper house of Parliament like the Lok Sabha meets for three sessions a year, the budget session, the monsoon session and the winter session. However for seven years, in 1961, 1962, 1964, 1976, 1977, 1980, 1985, the upper house had six sessions.For 31 years, the house met during four sessions held annually while for 27 years it met for the current practice of three sessions a year, said an official aware of the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-may-hold-only-two-sessions-in-a-year-for-the-fourth-time/story-d8hZ6G9XPMDJ1HSWQzKgfO.html
17-11-2020||India||India favours bilateral free trade agreements over China-led RCEP||India consciously rejected the China-centric Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) in favour of beneficial trade agreements with key economies such as the US and the European Union (EU), where Indian products and services are competitive, three officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. The Narendra Modi government frustrated Chinese designs of using RCEP to get unfettered access to the vast Indian market at the cost of India’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), farmers and start-ups, officials from three ministries said on condition of anonymity. While RCEP states resorted to the unusual step of adopting a separate ministers’ declaration on India’s future participation in the trade deal when the agreement was signed on Sunday, people familiar with developments said there is no fresh effort underway from Asean or New Delhi in this regard. The people said Japan, which consistently pushed for India’s inclusion in RCEP to ensure a balanced outcome, led the drafting of the ministers’ declaration that acknowledged India’s strategic importance in creating “a region of even deeper and expanded value chains”. One of the people said: “Japan will continue to play a leading role in India’s future participation in RCEP.”One of the three officials with direct knowledge of the matter said: “It is widely known that RCEP is not lucrative enough without India. But India cannot engage with any trade bloc led by China, which is globally notorious as an aggressor. Besides, it is a direct threat to India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.” The 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea signed the world’s biggest free trade deal at a virtual ceremony hosted by Vietnam on Sunday. More than a year before the signing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi signalled India’s decision not to join RCEP, telling a summit in Bangkok in 2019: “When I measure the RCEP agreement with respect to the interests of all Indians, I do not get a positive answer. Therefore, neither the Talisman of Gandhiji nor my own conscience permits me to join RCEP.” China’s official Xinhua news agency said on Monday that India had committed a “strategic blunder” and “missed the bus” to long-term growth by not signing the deal. Also Read: RCEP deal that India didn’t join stands signed now. What’s next?“The Chinese outburst shows how India has frustrated Beijing’s design to invade the Indian market,” a second official said. “India will avoid joining agreements, which are in reality free trade agreements (FTAs) by stealth with countries like China,” said the official directly involved in trade matters. “Unlike previous governments, the Modi government will not succumb to global pressures and sign uneven, biased and useless agreements,” a third official said. The government has initiated a comprehensive review of all FTAs as most of them are “heavily tilted against” India. “India’s trade deficit with RCEP states increased from $7 billion in 2004 to $78 billion in 2014. India’s deficit with China is more than $50 billion. India’s domestic industry is still reeling from dumping and cheap imports,” the third official said. India eliminated tariffs on 74% lines under Asean, but richer countries such as Indonesia eliminated tariffs on only 50% lines for India, and Vietnam on 69%. This led to significant trade distortions, the third official said. “Therefore, to sign RCEP, India needs to first resolve issues in previous FTAs, and second, to ensure balanced, fair and beneficial framework in RCEP,” he added.While delivering a lecture on Monday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar referred to similar concerns without naming RCEP. He said the effect of trade agreements signed since India’s economic reforms of 1991 had “been to de-industrialise some sectors”. “The consequences of future ones would lock us into global commitments, many of them not to our advantage. Those who argue stressing openness and efficiency do not present the full picture. This is equally a world of non-tariff barriers of subsidies and state capitalism. Without exaggeration, what we will be deciding now will determine whether India will become a first-class industrial power or not,” Jaishankar said. However, a joint statement by leaders of the 15 RCEP states said they “would highly value India’s role in RCEP and reiterate that the RCEP remains open to India”. India’s accession will be welcome in view of “its strategic importance as a regional partner in creating deeper and expanded regional value chains”, the statement added. A diplomat from an Asean nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “It costs nothing to keep the door open for India and we believe, with time, it will be India’s decision [whether to join RCEP].” Also Read| India will miss the bus to economic development by not joining RCEP: Chinese state mediaRam Singh, professor at the Delhi School of Economics (DSE), said India’s decision against signing the RCEP agreement was “practical and prudent” in terms of economic and geo-political circumstances. “The deal would have brought down import duties on 80-90% goods. These provisions will lead to flooding of Indian markets with cheap goods, particularly from China, harming our industries in the process. Issues like lack of framework for addressing trade deficit and opening of services also rendered the agreement less attractive for India,” he said. “India is the third biggest economy in the RCEP region. So access to Indian market is important for the RCEP countries. India can also gain from participation, but only if we join the grouping after addressing constraints on competitiveness of our industry and agriculture sector,” he added. Experts said while RCEP was not suited for India in its present form, New Delhi can explore other options in Europe, America and Africa. Adil Zaidi, partner and leader, Economic Development Advisory at consultancy firm EY India, said, “India will have to play to its strengths and negotiate trade agreements with existing consumption hubs in America and Europe as well as with emerging ones in Africa. It is equally important to monitor imports from alternate routes under Asean, SAFTA and other FTAs.” “With GoI’s [Government of India] focus on ‘Atamanirbhar Bharat’, it is important for India to consolidate the demand and drive factors of production in favour of domestic manufacturing. Thus, India needs to prepare itself to not only cater to domestic demand but also to improve exports,” Zaidi said. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said the RCEP deal was not favourable for India, particularly for its farming community. “RCEP was politically sensitive issue since access to India’s dairy market would have been available to these countries upon signing. The dairy market in India is highly unorganised and does not have the depth to compete with corporates of other countries.” “Further, greater access to India’s service sector was negotiated without any success and the government was also worried about the FTAs leading to trade deficits. All these issues lead to India pulling out of RCEP,” he said. He, however, said India cannot keep itself aloof from global markets. “In order to succeed in the mission of making India a manufacturing powerhouse under its Athmanirbhar Bharat programme, FTAs would be an important cog in the wheel, else global companies would choose countries which have favourable treaties giving access to many economies for their operations,” Vijayasarathy said. “FTAs are definitely double-edged; they would increase the export demand but at the same time it would challenge the domestic industries. The domestic industry has to mature to take on the global competition,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-favours-bilateral-free-trade-agreements-over-china-led-rcep/story-fpBmI5hxfIxZLubDLqsznL.html
17-11-2020||India||1st woman dy CM, RSS veteran to be the second-in-command in Bihar||Tarkishore Prasad, a 64-year-old legislator from Katihar district and Renu Devi, a former minister and four-time MLA from Bettiah, took oath on Monday as deputy chief ministers of Bihar. They replaced veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sushil Kumar Modi, who was deputy CM of the state for 11 years. Prasad, who was also elected leader of the BJP legislature party on Sunday, started his political career as a student leader in the anti-Emergency movement and has deep ties with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fount of the BJP. He hails from the Vaishya community, and first won assembly elections in 2005, and has remained unbeaten since.“This is a big responsibility and we will all work with our leadership for the betterment of Bihar and for the development of the people of the state,” Prasad said.Also Read: Top BJP leaders congratulate Nitish Kumar after he takes oath as Bihar CM for record 7th timeDevi, 61, started her political journey as a worker with the Durga Vahini, the women’s wing of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Hailing from the Noniya caste under the Extremely Backward Class (EBC) community, Devi – the first woman deputy CM of the state - attributed her success to god and the people of Bettiah. “Barely six years after the marriage in 1973, my husband passed away. It was sheer courage, conviction and determination bestowed by Almighty, support by the family and love and respect given by BJP that life has come full circle for me,” said Devi. “It’s a big responsibility and I extremely thankful to my party leaders for giving me this opportunity,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-woman-dy-cm-rss-veteran-to-be-the-second-in-command-in-bihar/story-VsbXVKK8ZAQubTcRDaEjxO.html
17-11-2020||India||Bihar debacle reignites calls for introspection in Congress||Questions are being asked of the Congress following its dismal show in the Bihar assembly elections with senior leader Kapil Sibal asking the leadership if it is “business as usual” and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot responding to him., claiming the remark has “hurt the sentiments” of party workers and reminding him that the party had been through similar crises several times in the past. The Congress party’s performance is seen in some quarters as being responsible for the failure of the Mahagathbandhan (MGB) or grand alliance to oust the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the just-concluded assembly elections in Bihar. It has also prompted renewed calls within the party for introspection and course correction. Sibal, a former union minister and one of the 23 signatories to a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August this year seeking internal elections and an organisational overhaul, questioned the leadership in the wake of the Bihar debacle. “We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual,” he tweeted. Sibal further said he was “compelled to speak publicly” as there is “no forum in the party to discuss party issues” and insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections. Indeed, after the August letter, the party sort of rallied behind the existing leadership, and none of the sought-for changes have materialised. Gehlot countered Sibal with a series of tweets and defended the leadership, saying there are various reasons for electoral setbacks and that the Congress will come out stronger from the present crisis as had happened in the past as well. “There was no need for Mr Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in media; this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country,” he said. “Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in 1996 -- but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programmes, policies and firm belief in party leadership,” the Rajasthan chief minister added. The Congress won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar; its partner, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) won 75 seats and emerged as the single largest party in the 243-assembly; and the Left parties won 16 of the 29 they fought as part of the grand alliance. Also Read: Top BJP leaders congratulate Nitish Kumar after he takes oath as Bihar CM for record 7th time“We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji (Sonia Gandhi), we shall overcome this time too. There are various reasons for electoral losses. But each time rank and file of the Congress party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises,” Gehlot said. While the Congress officially maintained silence on Sibal’s remarks, another “dissenter” or letter-writer Vivek Tankha came out in support of the former union minister. “Kapil ji is an iconic lawyer & hard core congress personality. Together & individually we have fought countless battles and continue to fight against BJP shenanigans. For our democracy to survive Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late,” he tweeted. The party’s Lok Sabha member Karti P Chidambaram also backed Sibal and said it is time for introspection and consultation in the organisation. “It’s time we introspect, ideate, consult and act,” said Karti, son of former union minister P Chidambaram, in a tweet. The Lok Sabha MP from Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu also tagged a tweet by Sibal on his remarks about the Bihar elections. But Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary launched an indirect attack on Sibal, saying that he has been inactive in Delhi politics for some time despite being a Member of Parliament (MP) from the national capital in the past. “Sibal ji, Delhi is capital of India. You have been an MP from here, also, a union minister. But for some time you have been inactive in Delhi politics. Let’s together fight Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” he tweeted in Hindi. A Congress functionary said senior party leaders will meet soon to discuss the Bihar poll outcome and one such meeting could even take place on Tuesday. Earlier, Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and general secretary Tariq Anwar too called for “deep introspection” following the party’s abysmal performance in the Bihar polls but maintained that there was no need for Sibal to make any remarks that would benefit the Bharatiya Janata Party “This is about Bihar elections and Mr Sibal should understand that. Keeping the critical timing in mind, he should not make any statement that will benefit the BJP,” he said. Also Read: Nitish says he’ll miss Sushil Modi, points to BJP for answersAnwar also defended Rahul Gandhi, saying the leader of a national party cannot be expected to devote time and energy to a state poll like the leader of a regional outfit. He was reacting to remarks by senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari’s remarks that the Congress had “shackled” the MGB and that Rahul Gandhi was “picnicking” with his sister Priyanka Gandhi in Shimla when campaigning was at its peak in Bihar. “First of all, Shivanand Tiwari is not an authorized spokesperson for the RJD. Also, he should realise that Congress is a national party while the RJD is a regional entity. The leader of a national party cannot be expected to devote time to a state election like a regional leader would,” Anwar said. His comments need to be seen in the context of Prime Minister Narendra Modi being the star campaigner for the BJP and the NDA in the Bihar election. Still, in an interview on November 15, Anwar admitted that his party’s poor show was the reason that the MGB could not form the government in Bihar. “We must accept the truth. Because of the poor performance of the Congress, Bihar has been deprived of a MGB government. The Congress must introspect as to where it faltered,” he said. The Congress also hit back at Tiwari for levelling “baseless allegations” against the party, calling him a “turncoat” and claiming that his “loyalty” appears to be with his former party, the Janata Dal (United). “Shivanand Tiwari has changed parties several times. He was an MP from JD(U). It is not surprising that his loyalty still seems to be with JD(U),” said Congress party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil in a statement. The RJD also distanced itself from Tiwari’s remarks. “It is his personal opinion and not the party’s stand. There is a proper time and place for any analysis, which will be done to identify where we lacked in cooperation and synergy,” RJD leader Manoj Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-debacle-reignites-calls-for-introspection-in-congress/story-LdsE4TNiV7ZRIxutoI8NTI.html
17-11-2020||India||Protestors file review petition against Supreme Court’s Shaheen Bagh order||A group of 12 protestors who took part in the Shaheen Bagh protests have approached the Supreme Court against the October 7 decision of the apex court terming any protest held outside designated places to be illegal and giving a free hand to the police for clearing such protests.The review petition under Article 137 of the Constitution was filed on November 5 by advocate Kabir Dixit and has raised five grounds to challenge the decision rendered by a three-judge bench headed by justice SK Kaul.The judgment under challenge had held, “We have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.” By this standard, the Shaheen Bagh protests were illegal as the protest at Shaheen Bagh had blocked one of the key thoroughfares to Noida.The main ground for review was based on the vast powers the judgment conferred on police, leaving scope for its abuse. The petition said, “Prima facie the order under review appears to be giving way to an unrestricted sanction to the police to take action by misusing these observations…. Such observations may prove to be a license in the hands of the police to commit atrocities on legitimate voice of protest, especially protestors coming from vulnerable sections of the social strata.”The review petitioners further argued that the judgment of the top court would lead to a situation where the administration would never engage in dialogue with people, protesting against a government action or policy, but would instead take action against them including their prosecution.Stating that right to dissent and protest were essential facets of Article 19 of the Constitution, the petition stated, “The order takes away the constitutional protection guaranteed to peaceful protestors….to put any curbs on this freedom to show dissent (towards government policies, legislations and other acts and omissions) leaves the citizens with no resort whatsoever to voice their concerns.”The observation of the court that protests could be held at ‘designated places alone’ went against the five-judge bench decision of the Supreme Court in Himat Lal Shah case decided in September 1972 which upheld the right of a citizen to hold public meetings on public streets. The petitioners complained that before altering this principle, the apex bench did not hear the protestors.The apex court ruling came in the context of the protests held against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA conducted at South Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area that began on December 15, 2019 and got dismantled following the lockdown imposed by the Central government on March 24 in view of the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The protests threw traffic out of gear prompting one Amit Sahni, a resident of Delhi to file a public interest litigation (PIL) before the apex court. He wanted the blockade to be lifted and traffic to resume along this stretch. This resulted in the October 7 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protestors-file-review-petition-against-sc-s-shaheen-bagh-order/story-RE43LFJhxfzPzHcEX6v2LI.html
17-11-2020||India||Malabar exercise that upsets China is a tectonic shift in power balance | Analysis||Warships of four major Indo-Pacific democracies - the United States, Japan, Australia and India - will manoeuvre together in the Malabar naval exercise off the Goa coast on Tuesday, the second round of the war games by the QUAD countries over the last month that marks the evolution of the informal ‘QUAD’ partnership into a potential strategic alliance.India had invited Australia to this year’s war games for the first time in more than a decade, a move that has angered President Xi Jinping’s Communist Party of China government to an extent that its mouthpiece, China Daily chided the Australian government for “aggressively sending warships to China’s doorsteps” as part of Exercise Malabar. India and Australia, however, stayed firm, a sharp contrast from 2007 when several countries that had participated in the naval exercise eventually backed down in face of China’s protests.But President Xi’s aggressive approach has united the member countries of the four-nation alliance. For years, he had been pushing Japan over his claim to the Senkaku islands, threatening Australia with a trade war and talking nuke missiles to the US navy that made its presence felt in the South China Sea. China crossed the line with New Delhi this year when PLA soldiers attempted to seize control of Indian territory in Ladakh, setting up a face-off at the border that has stretched for more than six months in Ladakh and is expected to continue into next year.Also Watch l Malabar Exercise 2020: Navies of India, US, Japan & Australia in action Beijing’s approach in Ladakh has convinced India that it needs to be prepared for similar Chinese aggression in the high seas. People familiar with the matter said the government has already asked the Indian Navy to start prepping to counter the PLA Navy and change its orientation from diplomacy to deployment. The focus should be on the navy developing the capacity to be deployed from the Gulf of Eden to the Malacca Strait, and beyond.This year’s Malabar exercise - that mirrors the deepening strategic ties within QUAD - is one step. That is why, a national security planner said, the presence of the USS Nimitz strike group and India’s INS Vikramaditya at the exercise reflects the determination of the four countries to draw red lines for China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy.“It is a tectonic shift in the regional power balance,” he said.It was in this context that Australia’s Defence Minister Linda Reynolds recently described the naval manoeuvres not only as a demonstration of the strategic trust the four democracies held in each other but also “strengthened our collective ability to contribute to regional security”.Australia’s participation in the Malabar war games is considered significant given its geopolitical role in the Indo-Pacific region. Besides, Canberra is an advanced NATO alliance nation and has a military collaboration with the US and strategic security relations with Japan.Officials said the four-nation alliance could be expected to expand to other countries in one form or the other. For one, France is showing keen interest in QUAD’s move to secure sea lanes and freedom of navigation from the Gulf of Aden to western coast of the US.The barrage of commentaries in the Chinese communist party’s many mouthpieces that have attacked New Delhi’s invitation to Australia reflect the unease at the joint military drills.“Despite the drill jointly participated by India, the US, Australia and Japan, experts noted that such an ill-intentioned attempt to corner China is a hollow bluff, and China will not be disrupted by India’s irrationality or US interference,” the Global Times, a tabloid run by the communist party’s lead mouthpiece China Daily, asserted. It has also reported on the possibility of Germany’s interest in getting involved in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/round-2-of-malabar-war-games-tomorrow-it-represents-a-tectonic-shift-opinion/story-twV1VmPrB56FXLQfP8j27O.html
17-11-2020||India||SC judge UU Lalit recuses himself from hearing pleas against Andhra Pradesh CM||Supreme Court judge U U Lalit on Monday recused himself from hearing pleas seeking action against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy for levelling allegations against the judiciary.“I have difficulties. As a lawyer I had represented one of the parties. I will pass an order for it to be listed before a Bench without me,” Justice Lalit said.A bench comprising justices Lalit, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat was to hear three petitions seeking various reliefs against Reddy.The pleas alleged that Reddy not only wrote a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde levelling allegations against the judiciary but also held a press conference in which false statements were made.In an unprecedented move, the Andhra Pradesh chief minister had on October 6 written to the CJI alleging that the Andhra Pradesh High Court was being used to “destabilise and topple my democratically elected government”.The three separate petitions were filed by advocates G S Mani, Sunil Kumar Singh and Anti-Corruption Council of India Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-uu-lalit-recuses-himself-from-hearing-pleas-against-andhra-pradesh-cm/story-T7rp61J4xInCAQGw6H7hdL.html
17-11-2020||India||After Uttar Pradesh, Haryana now considers law against ‘forced inter-religious marriages’||A day after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi said the state government will bring a strict law to curb incidents of “love jihad”, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said the same will be done in Haryana as well. “A law against love jihad is being considered in Haryana,” Vij tweeted in Hindi on Sunday.  हरियाणा में लव जेहाद के खिलाफ कानून बनाने पर विचार किया जा रहा है ।Addressing election rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath on Saturday referred to the recent Allahabad high court ruling which said conversion just for the sake of marriage is not valid and said the government is working towards bring a law to stop forced conversions. “I warn those who conceal identity and play with the respect of our sisters. If you don’t mend your ways, your ‘Ram Naam Satya’ journey will begin,” Adityanath said.“The Allahabad high court has said that for marriages, changing religion isn’t necessary. The government too has decided to check ‘love jihad’ with all its might. An effective law would be made that would ensure that those who cheat gullible women by hiding their identity would be effectively dealt with,” the CM said. “Love Jihad” is a term used by right-wing workers to describe interfaith relationships between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February this year, the government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.Last week, a 21-year-old college student, Nikita, was shot dead in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh by a man. The victim’s family has alleged that the man was pressuring her to convert to Islam in order to marry him. Some Hindu outfits have alleged that the woman’s murder is a case of “love jihad”.Last year, the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission submitted a report to Adityanath, suggesting “a new law to check forcible religious conversions.”(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uttar-pradesh-haryana-now-considers-law-against-love-jihad/story-91UEqkkrpd2ZiV204rZr3I.html
17-11-2020||India||Government bringing strict law against ‘forced inter-religious marriages’, warns Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday issued a warning against “love jihad” and said the government is working to bring a strict law to curb incidents of ‘love jihad’. Referring to the order of the Allahabad high court which said religious conversion is not necessary for marriage, the Chief Minister said, “I warn those who conceal identity and play with the respect of our sisters. If you don’t mend your ways, your ‘Ram Naam Satya’ journey will begin.” #WATCH Allahabad HC said religious conversion isn't necessary for marriage. Govt will also work to curb 'Love-Jihad', we'll make a law. I warn those who conceal identity & play with our sisters' respect, if you don't mend your ways your 'Ram naam satya' journey will begin: UP CM pic.twitter.com/7Ddhz15inS“Love jihad” is a term coined by a few Hindu groups to describe what they believe a conspiracy of Muslim men to force or trick Hindu women to convert and marry.The Allahabad High Court has recently dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple who sought police protection. In this case, the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just before the marriage. The court said that religious conversion just for the purpose of marriage is not acceptable. Taking a leaf out of the verdict, Adityanath on Saturday said the government is taking concerted efforts to legally stop such cases of forceful conversions. The Uttar Pradesh government has been mulling an ordinance against “love jihad” for a long time, reports said. “Taking a serious note of such incidents [of forceful conversion and cruelty], the CM has directed that a concrete strategy be made to control such incidents. It has often been seen that this is being done in an organised manner. If required, an ordinance can be brought for it,” an official earlier told PTI.Last year, the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission submitted a report to Adityanath, suggesting “a new law to check forcible religious conversions.” Kanpur Police had also set up a special investigation team to look into “love jihad” cases. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-bringing-strict-law-against-love-jihad-warns-yogi-adityanath/story-5SyUbzLJsZ542DJtN9o59J.html
