18-11-2020||India||Twitter apologises to House panel for Ladakh map error||Social media company Twitter has furnished a written apology to a joint parliamentary panel for wrongly mapping Ladakh as a part of China, days after the committee’s members slammed the microblogging site and said publishing the incorrect map amounted to an act of treason.Twitter has promised to rectify the error by the end of this month. An affidavit to the joint parliamentary committee on the data protection bill signed by Twitter Inc’s chief privacy officer Damien Karien offered an apology for the wrong geo-tagging of India’s map, panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Wednesday.“Twitter has now given us a written apology on an affidavit for Ladakh being shown in China,” Lekhi said, “They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020.” Speaking to HT, Lekhi said, “People of India and the Government of India take issues related to national security very seriously. While some in the Gupkar alliance may have different dreams, the people of this country and the government of this country won’t allow them to fructify because we are committed to the protection of the integrity and assets of this country, both physical as well as digital.”Her reference was to the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a group of seven political parties in Jammu & Kashmir that want the restoration of the region’s special status, revoked last year. The alliance has come under fire from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which has accused it of working against national interest. Last month, a journalist started a live Twitter broadcast from a memorial in Leh and realised that the location said People’s Republic of China. That prompted the secretary of the ministry of electronics and information technology to write to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to express the government’s disapproval.Twitter India representatives offered to apologise over the incident before the panel last month but when they said the issue had been resolved keeping in mind India’s sensitivity, members of the panel took exception. Lekhi and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader Bhartuhari Mahtab firmly maintained that it was not just about sensitivities but more to do with India’s sovereignty and integrity. The lawmakers insisted on receiving affidavits from companies participating in the proceedings on the proposed law as that would render the replies legally binding. “These are foreign companies talking about a proposed Indian law. That is the reason we sought affidavits as their replies would be legally binding,” said a member of the panel. Twitter didn’t confirm if it had apologised in writing but said on Wednesday, “Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Twitter remains committed to serving and protecting the public conversation and partnering with the Government of India.”Apart from Twitter, Amazon, Google, Facebook and other companies were also asked to submit affidavits with their written replies on the bill. Twitter and most of the other companies have submitted their replies. Over the next two days, the panel will meet representatives of Visa, Mastercard, Paypal and other key payment gateway service providers over the data bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-apologises-to-house-panel-for-ladakh-map-error/story-lMVdBs1GDbiBC5KOIzaoLJ.html
18-11-2020||India||UP child molester used new gadgets to lure victims from poor families: CBI||LUCKNOW/KANPUR An Uttar Pradesh government employee, who is facing charges of sexually abusing 50 children for a decade, used to allegedly target poor families because the victims could be lured with gadgets and electronics, said senior Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials on Wednesday.Ram Bhavan Singh, a suspended junior engineer in the state irrigation department posted in Chitrakoot , was arrested by CBI from Banda district on Monday. If found guilty, he faces life imprisonment. He is facing charges under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly sexually exploiting children between 5 and 16, for a decade and selling videos and photographs of sexual abuse on the dark web to paedophiles across the world.The CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of child sexual abuse materials (CSAM), officials said. During examination of the phones and laptop, investigators gathered 66 videos and 610 photographs of children, said a CBI official on condition of anonymity. A second CBI official said Singh targeted children of street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers and domestic helps who worked at his two-room rented house in Chitrakoot, where he lived for 10 years. The children hailed from Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts, the official added. “During interrogation, the accused revealed that he targeted children who could easily be lured with money, electronic gadgets, eatables or any other thing they were deprived of. Ram Bhawan believed that he could easily handle the families,” the second official stated. The official said on two occasions in the past 10 years, the children complained about him to their parents, but Singh allegedly hushed up the matter by paying money to the poor parents. The official also explained that Singh hailed from Banda, was posted in neighbouring Chitrakoot district for 11 years and had several relatives from Hamirpur -- three districts where the majority of his alleged victims were from.Singh was produced in a Pocso court in Banda on Wednesday and the court decided to hear the CBI’s plea seeking five-day custody on Thursday. The CBI needs his custody remand in connection with the ongoing physical verification of his alleged victims in three districts of the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.The remand application was filed in the court of additional district judge (five) Rizwan Ahmad on Wednesday.CBI counsel Manoj Kumar, Ram Sufal Singh and Jai Prakash Sahu said the agency needed the remand to complete the probe. Singh's counsel Arvind Singh Chandel opposed the plea and said he was not aware of the case fully, nor was he given any documents. The court granted him a day to study the documents. Outside the court, a large crowd gathered to catch a glimpse of the accused. Married for 18 years, Singh allegedly trapped the children by showering affection on them, said a third CBI official. “His relatives could not assess his ulterior motive, thinking he was making up for being childless. Apart from the videos and pictures, the CBI found a number of compact discs and video-making equipment,” added the official. Singh came on the radar of the CBI’s Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE) unit after the agency busted the location of uploading child pornography recently. “A scrutiny of emails of the accused revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing CSAM,” said a fourth agency official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-child-molester-used-new-gadgets-to-lure-victims-from-poor-families-cbi/story-7d8BAppMePlLzs7T2V3fhN.html
18-11-2020||India||Jagannath temple administration pitches for mid-December reopening||The managing committee of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri on Wednesday requested the Odisha government to allow it to re-open its doors to devotees in mid-December.The temple has been closed to devotees since March 20 following the Covid-19 outbreak and the Rath Yatra was held in June without the presence of any devotees following a last minute order by the Supreme Court. The Nagarjuna Vesha, another important festival of the temple that was last held 26 years ago and is scheduled to be held on November 27, is being planned without devotees.Ajay Kumar Jena, Administrator (development) of Jagannath Temple Administration said the managing committee has recommended opening the temple doors in mid-December after the holy Kartika month ends. “A majority of individuals and organisations had opined for keeping the temple shut for devotees till November 30, the last day of Kartik month. So the managing committee recommended opening by mid-December. It’s up to the government to take a decision,” he said.The temple management’s recommendation came as BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, who had unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Puri Lok Sabha seat last year, requested the Odisha government to open the temple for devotees following all SOP. “Let there be no distance between the Lord and his devotees,” he said.Officials said the long closure of the temple has affected its earnings while expenditure has gone up. An annual budget of Rs 154 crore was passed by the temple body at a meeting chaired by Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingh Deb on Tuesday.If the government heeds the request of the Jagannath temple managing committee , it could pave the way for opening of hundreds of other temples in the state. Since November 11, priests of these temples have been protesting the government decision of keeping the temple doors shut by banging gongs and bells.Covid-19 cases in Odisha have fallen sharply in November with daily positivity rates going below 2 though the case fatality rates have gone up over last week. According to the government’s projections, Odisha Covid-19 tally is expected to rise to 3.18 lakh by November 30 and active cases reduce to 7,951 by then. On Wednesday, Odisha posted more than 3 lakh recoveries. Meanwhile, a Public Interest Litigation has been filed in Orissa High Court challenging the State government’s decision to ban the community celebration of Chhath Puja in the state. A person from Brajarajnagar in Jharsuguda district filed the case after the district administration of Jharsuguda banned large congregations of public and mass bathing at river ghats during Chhath Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-administration-pitches-for-mid-december-reopening/story-xEvk1JnQkLX4N8ZTIJg0tM.html
18-11-2020||India||‘We don’t vote, but hear our voices’, Assam children tell parties ahead of polls||As a resident of Majuli, the world’s largest river island, 16-year-old Kuldeep Narayan Bora has seen the devastation erosion can wreck on people living there. Now the teenager wants those in power to know about the issue and find a permanent solution.“I have seen my friends lose their homes to erosion. They were forced to live in tents for months along with their cattle. I want the government to give proper compensation to those affected,” said the Class 10 student who wants to become an audio engineer.Kuldeep is not alone. Ten other children like him from all over Assam are at present gathered in Guwahati to draft a manifesto, which will include problems faced by children and suggest recommendations.The children will meet Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on November 20 on the occasion of World Children’s Day and hand over their manifesto to him. They will also meet leaders of political parties so that their recommendations are included in manifestoes of parties for the assembly polls due in March-April next year.The effort is part of a campaign called NINEISMINE by PRATYeK, a Delhi-based organization, which recognizes children as primary stakeholders of society and help them know their rights so that they can engage with policy makers to ensure inclusion and implementation of issues concerning children.Rahul Barman, 17, from Tamulmur in Baksa district wants clean classrooms, toilets and drinking water in all schools. Rimjhim Saikia, 13, who is differently abled, wants special schools and special buses for those like her.“My parents work in a tea garden. But their wages are very low and it’s not enough to provide for the entire family. I want the government to set up a factory near my place where my parents can work and earn a decent amount,” said Aditya Kanu, 15, from Derby tea estate in Cachar district.Tulsimoni Ramchiary, 14, lost her mother few days after her birth and her father left her soon after. She wants government to ensure every girl gets equal opportunities in every field.“We are not old enough to vote now, but we will be able to do so in few years. Our problems don’t get highlighted or get sidelined. Through this manifesto, we want to bring them to the notice of those who matter and make them accountable,” said Rahul.Over 4,000 children from across Assam participated in the effort supported by UNICEF. Besides preparing the manifesto, the children, some of whom have come to Guwahati for the first time, are also learning skills like public speaking, audio and video recording etc. during their stay.“This is an initiative where young people advocate for changes based on their ambitions, ideas and dreams centered around their own experiences and situations,” said Steve Rocha, director, PRATYeK.“Our aim is also to keep government accountable to their promises and try and influence policies. Since Assam is heading for elections, we decided to let the children prepare a manifesto and hand it over to political parties before they (the parties) frame their own manifestoes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-vote-but-hear-our-voices-assam-children-tell-parties-ahead-of-polls/story-xoTDET7ac2vMQVDs3MLvyM.html
18-11-2020||India||‘What is the meaning of their silence?’ BJP asks Cong to respond to allegations in AgustaWestland scam||The BJP on Wednesday hit out at the Congress for its “silence” over allegations of involvement of its top leaders in the AgustaWestland kickback probe and took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, saying he tweets on all sort of issues but has not responded to these grave charges. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore demanded that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son answer about the allegations levelled against their party leaders. “What do they have to tell about the names of their party leaders being mentioned in the scam? What is the meaning of their silence?” he asked. The BJP has targeted the Congress citing a reported statement of Rajiv Saxena, a key accused in the case, to the Enforcement Directorate in which, it is claimed, he had mentioned the names of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri and son Bakul Nath, along with Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel. Khurshid had said that he cannot respond to the BJP’s claim until he knows the context in which his name has been mentioned by the accused. Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, Rathore said he had often attacked the Modi government over the Rafale fighter aircraft deal despite the Supreme Court giving a clean chit to it but has not spoken a word about the investigation into the alleged corruption in the purchase of the VVIP choppers. The CBI had begun probing the AgustaWestland deal when the UPA government was in power after an investigation in Italy suggested kickbacks in the transaction. Rathore said the then defence minister A K Antony had acknowledged in Parliament that corruption had occurred in the deal. “Scam was the priority” in defence deals when the Congress was in power, he alleged. “People of the country will never forgive the Congress for its corruption in defence deals,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Rathore also attacked the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal over alleged violence against BJP workers in the state. PTI KR RT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-meaning-of-their-silence-bjp-asks-cong-to-respond-to-allegations-in-agustawestland-scam/story-h0tpZssFv1jULNuSSy5vPI.html
18-11-2020||India||Two men from Kerala arrested with 3 kg gold in north Bengal||Two men from Kerala were arrested and gold worth Rs 2 crore were seized from them by officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Siliguri in north Bengal on Tuesday, officials said Wednesday. The arrested men, identified as Yusuf and Midlaj, were sent to 15-day judicial custody by a local court on Wednesday. DRI officers seized 30 gold biscuits, weighing about three kilos, from them after intercepting a luxury car they were travelling in, said a DRI lawyer who did not want to be identified. The seizure comes a week after 130 gold bars weighing 21.57 kg were seized near the Bengal-Bihar border. In the November 10 incident, three men were arrested. In both cases, the gold were being smuggled out of Assam and the Siliguri corridor in Darjeeling district was used as the transit route. According to the DRI lawyer mentioned earlier, around 60 kg of gold have been seized from Siliguri since January and more than 20 people have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-from-kerala-arrested-with-3-kg-gold-in-north-bengal/story-dSHokFHqrnbzjVpYLdqS7L.html
18-11-2020||India||BS Yediyurappa meets JP Nadda but gets no date for cabinet expansion||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on a day-long visit to New Delhi met BJP president JP Nadda but returned with no clear indication on when the much delayed cabinet expansion would take place. “I have informed about the need for cabinet expansion at the earliest. He (Nadda) said that he would discuss and get back in two-three days,” Yediyurappa said after his meeting with Nadda.He was accompanied by deputy CM Govind Karjol.With the bypolls for RR Nagar and Sira over, there has been mounting pressure on Yediyurappa to expand the cabinet. Several former Congress and JD (S) legislators who had crossed over to the BJP and helped it to form government after toppling the coalition government are hoping for ministerial berths. Among them are MTB Nagaraj, AH Vishwanath, R Shankar and Munirathna.The cabinet expansion exercise is an unenviable task for Yediyurappa with ‘loyalist’ BJP MLAs who are upset at being ignored also waiting to be inducted in the council of minsters. Several of them like Umesh Katti, Raju Gowda, Murugesh Nirani, Renukacharya, Thippeswamy and others have publicly declared that they are in the running to become ministers. Asked whether it would be a mere cabinet expansion or restructuring too with some ministers being dropped and others inducted, Yediyurappa said ‘We will have to wait and see what the party high command directs us to do.”Karnataka can have a maximum of 34 ministers including the CM and currently there are seven vacancies. Last week, Yediyurappa had said that the cabinet expansion was postponed further as the party high command was busy with ministry formation in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-meets-jp-nadda-but-gets-no-date-for-cabinet-expansion/story-9G5Y0N3XFXkxQqpcMpFirI.html
18-11-2020||India||Shocker from Telangana, 40 monkeys allegedly poisoned to death||Miscreants killed around 40 monkeys, including some baby simians, by allegedly poisoning them in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district, police said on Wednesday. The highly decomposed carcasses of the monkeys were found stuffed in gunny bags in the bushes on a hillock behind an electric substation at Sanigapuram village close to Mahabubabad town. Some local villagers who noticed the carcasses after a foul stench, immediately informed the police and the forest authorities. Mahabubabad (Rural) sub-inspector of police Ch Ramesh Babu told Hindustan Times that the incident might have happened around five to six days ago, but came to light only on Wednesday. “It is not only tragic but a dastardly act. We have booked a case under Section 429 (killing and poisoning of animals) of Indian Penal Code, apart from Section 11 (l) of the Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals Act, 1960,” Ramesh Babu said. District forest officer Poloju Krishnamachary said it was shocking to find so many monkeys being killed. “We have never come across such an incident,” he said. The forest officials suspect that it could be the handiwork of some locals, who could not bear the money menace. “We are making inquiries in the surrounding villages as well. We are trying to trace the miscreants with the help of the police. Investigation is on,” the DFO said, adding that the decomposed carcasses of the monkeys were cremated later in the afternoon. He said inquiries by the police revealed that some animal catchers from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district had come to Mahabubabad some time ago and their involvement also could not be ruled out. “Generally, these animal catchers use tranquilisers to sedate the wild animals, take them and leave them in forests. Maybe, they had used an overdose of sedation that led to the death of so many monkeys,” the forest official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocker-from-telangana-40-monkeys-allegedly-poisoned-to-death/story-DJbb7QBqTgIzG5kSExaIiM.html
18-11-2020||India||Sudarshan TV allowed to telecast remaining episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ but with modifications||The ministry of information and broadcasting has filed an affidavit on Wednesday stating that Sudharshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’ is against good tastes and decency. It also attacks religious communities and contains defamatory, deliberate and obscene half truths. The ministry has also cautioned the channel that strict penal action would be taken against it if any violation of any programme code is found in future. The ministry said the channel should review the content of the future episodes of the programme ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’. The television channel has so far aired four episodes on September 11, 12, 13 and 14 and there are around six more episodes left to be telecast. Also Read: Supreme Court roasts Sudarshan TV for ‘insidious’ show on UPSC examLawyer Firoz Iqbal Khan filed a petition against the programme in the trailer of which editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News Suresh Chavhanke said there will be big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service. On September 15, the Supreme Court restrained the channel fro airing the remaining episodes. On September 23, the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that it has prima facie found violation of the programme code by Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ show and has issued a notice to the channel.An inter-ministerial group viewed all the episodes of the programme and recommended Centre to send a show cause notice to the channel. Replying to the showcause notice, the channel sent a 950-page justification urging the ministry to protect media freedom. It had also said that regular guests and panelists of the channel were receiving death threats. In August, a group of students from Jamia Millia Islamia University had filed a petition following which the Delhi high court stayed the broadcast of the show. It was a pre-telecast ban. The Supreme Court had sought Centre’s input and the ministry at that time gave a go-ahead to broadcast the show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-s-bindas-bol-attacks-religious-communities-says-centre/story-RYEYJSOimVtFUuTDzJR6QK.html
18-11-2020||India||DGCA will take ‘some time’ before deciding on Boeing 737 MAX planes||Aviation watchdog DGCA will study FAA’s decision and take “some time” before taking a final call on allowing Boeing 737 MAX planes to fly again in the Indian skies. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the US on Wednesday paved the way for the MAX aircraft to return to commercial service after a comprehensive and methodical safety review process that stretched for 20 months. In the wake of two fatal crashes involving MAX planes, these aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. Joining many other regulators worldwide, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) grounded MAX aircraft in March last year.Also Read: DGCA to take part in Boeing’s pilot training plan for new 737 Max When asked about the next step after FAA cleared the path for resumption of Boeing 737 MAX flights, a senior DGCA official told PTI that the regulator would “study and react. It will take some time.” Only two Indian carriers -- SpiceJet and now-shuttered Jet Airways -- were operating MAX aircraft before they were grounded on safety concerns. SpiceJet has a fleet of 13 such planes that were grounded in March 2019. In 2016-17, SpiceJet had placed an order for up to 205 MAX aircraft. A SpiceJet spokesperson did not offer any immediate comment on FAA’s approval for the MAX planes. While announcing the latest September quarter results on November 11, SpiceJet said it was continuing to incur various costs related to 13 grounded MAX planes. “Despite its inability to undertake revenue operations, the company continues to incur various costs with respect to these aircraft,” the airline said in a regulatory filing on November 11. Citing the costs and the uncertainty in timing of these planes returning to operations, SpiceJet had also said that it has “initiated the process of claims on the aircraft manufacturer towards cost and losses, which are currently under discussion”. MAX planes are fuel-efficient and would help in reducing operational costs. In addition to rescinding the order that grounded the MAX planes, FAA on Wednesday published an Airworthiness Directive specifying design changes that must be made before the aircraft returns to service, issued a Continued Airworthiness Notification to the International Community (CANIC), and published the MAX training requirements. “These actions do not allow the MAX to return immediately to the skies. The FAA must approve 737 MAX pilot training program revisions for each US airline operating the MAX and will retain its authority to issue airworthiness certificates and export certificates of airworthiness for all new 737 MAX aircraft manufactured since the FAA issued the grounding order,” the US watchdog said in a statement.Also Read: India grounds Boeing 737-Max planes, govt-airlines meet underway According to FAA, the design and certification of this aircraft included an unprecedented level of collaborative and independent reviews by aviation authorities around the world. “Those regulators have indicated that Boeing’s design changes, together with the changes to crew procedures and training enhancements, will give them the confidence to validate the aircraft as safe to fly in their respective countries and regions. “Following the return to service, the FAA will continue to work closely with our foreign civil aviation partners to evaluate any potential additional enhancements for the aircraft,” it noted. In a statement, Boeing said FAA has rescinded the order that halted commercial operations of Boeing 737-8s and 737-9s. The move will allow airlines that are under the FAA’s jurisdiction, including those in the US, to take the steps necessary to resume service and Boeing to begin making deliveries, it added. In March 2019, a MAX plane operated by Ethiopian Airlines crashed near Addis Ababa, killing 157 people, including four Indians. In October 2018, a Lion Air-operated 737 Max crashed, leaving 180 people dead in Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-will-take-some-time-before-deciding-on-boeing-737-max-planes/story-rFrZdD8kosjRhGEFSjyrKP.html
18-11-2020||India||12 civilians injured in grenade attack in south Kashmir’s Pulwama||Twelve civilians were injured when militants hurled a grenade at a CRPF bunker in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district Wednesday evening. The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road causing injuries to locals.A police spokesman said militants tossed a grenade on a CRPF bunker at main market Kakapora in Pulwama.“Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists had hurled a grenade upon a bunker of 41 battalion CRPF at main town Kakapora of Pulwama. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. In this incident 12 civilians received injuries,” the spokesman said.He said senior officers reached the spot to investigate the matter.All the injured civilians were taken to district hospital Pulwama for treatment where their condition is stated to be stable.The police spokesman said that they have registered a case and the investigation into the terror crime is in progress . “The area has been cordoned and search in the area is going on,” he said.So far no group has claimed responsibility for the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-south-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-vx0hEJJnF7LmeykbjQPSqM.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit on November 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate Karnataka’s flagship annual technology event - Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020 (BTS2020) - on Thursday via video-conferencing.The event is to take place from November 19 to 21.It is being organised by the government of Karnataka along with Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society, the state government’s Vision Group on information technology, biotechnology and startup, and Software Technology Parks of India.“We have made elaborate arrangements to make BTS a grand success as the event sessions are going 100 per cent virtual,” Deputy Chief Minister and the Minister for IT, BT and S&T C N Ashwath Narayan said after visiting the BTS2020 facilitating centre set up here.Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Vice-President of Switzerland Guy Parmelin would be among those addressing the virtual event.Over 25 nations are participating in the 23rd edition of the event along with thought leaders, industry captains, technocrats, researchers, innovators, investors, policy- makers and educators from India and different parts of the world, the officials said.“The event will have the participation of more than 200 Indian companies setting up their virtual exhibition, more than 4,000 delegates, 270 speakers, around 75 panel discussions and more than 50,000 participants every day,” an official statement said.This year, the theme of the summit is ‘Next is Now.’ The summit would deliberate on key challenges emerging in the post-pandemic world with a focus on the impact of prominent technologies and innovations on the domains of information technology and electronics and biotechnology.Some of the key focus areas of the summit are aerospace and defence technologies, healthcare, future of work, startup for public good, electronics and semi-conductor, reimagining digital health and “Covid-19 Pandemic Preparedness”, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-bengaluru-tech-summit-on-november-19/story-FE8xNetGrqtuz6kRuezCGP.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 72 students in Haryana test positive for coronavirus; state won’t shut all schools and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.72 students in Haryana test Covid-19 positive; State won’t shut all schoolsOnly the schools where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected will remain shut for two weeks, Haryana’s education minister Kanwar Pal said after 72 students of 12 government schools in Haryana’s Rewari tested positive for Covid-19. The testing was done on a random basis as movement has gone up during the festive season. Read More‘Committed to partnering with the Government of India’: Twitter in its apology noteIn a written apology to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China, Twitter on Wednesday said that it was committed to serving the public and earning and maintaining their trust.“Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Read MoreUS Navy plans to revive formation focused on Indian and Pacific oceansThe US Navy plans to revive a tactical formation that will focus on the Indian and Pacific Oceans and work with partners such as India and Singapore to cope with potential contingencies, a top American naval defence official has said. Read MoreLeonid meteor shower to reach peak today: When and where to watchThe Leonid meteor shower which usually takes place in mid-November every year is expected to grace Mumbai’s skies past November 18 midnight. People living in areas with low pollution levels will be able to witness Leonid’s grandeur with their naked eyes. Read More‘Read, and re-read his list of big scalps in IPL 2020’: Mohammed Kaif wants R Ashwin to be in India T20I teamRavichandran Ashwin had a good IPL in the UAE, where he picked up 13 wickets in 15 games for Delhi Capitals and conceded at an economy rate of 7.66. Ashwin got the wickets of some big players which included the likes of Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli. Read MoreGeorge Clooney gave $1 million in cash to 14 of his closest friends after Gravity became a blockbuster: ‘Without them I don’t have any of this’Actor George Clooney took care of his closest friends after he came into a truckload of cash. He gifted 14 of his friends $1 million each after his film Gravity became a runaway box office hit.He said in a recent interview that he had just met his future wife Amal at the time, and didn’t really have anyone but his friends to thank for his success. And so he came up with the plan to invite them over to his house, express his gratitude and hand them bags full of cash. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-72-students-in-haryana-test-positive-for-coronavirus-state-won-t-shut-all-schools-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5SlYQTdwJKGEkOwMZKxMqK.html
18-11-2020||India||RCEP would have hurt India’s economy, FTA with EU not easy: S Jaishankar||India did not join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade deal because it would have had “negative consequences” though the country is interested in a “fair and balanced” free trade pact with the European Union (EU), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. New Delhi had indicated its concerns with RCEP at the East Asia Summit a year ago because a number of key concerns had not been addressed during the prolonged negotiations for the trade deal, Jaishankar said during an online conversation on India-EU relations organised by the Centre for European Policy Studies. “We took a call given that the way (RCEP) is currently, that it is not in our interest to enter this agreement as it would have fairly immediate negative consequences for our own economy,” he said, adding this wasn’t India’s “generic position on trade”. The 10 member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea signed RCEP on Sunday. Japan led the drafting of a ministers’ declaration that left the door open for India to join the world’s largest trading bloc, covering nearly a third of the global economy, at a later stage. Referring to a long-delayed proposal for a free trade agreement (FTA) with EU, Jaishankar said the Indian government had spoken of the need to resume negotiations on this. India, he added, wants a “fair and balanced FTA” with EU. “I recognise that an FTA with Europe is not an easy negotiation. In the world, it must be the most difficult negotiation because it’s a very high standard FTA,” he said. He noted the two sides were looking at various proposals, including a separate agreement on investments or an “early harvest” deal. Jaishankar also highlighted the importance attached by India to mobility agreements with European states to facilitate the movement of skilled professionals. There are about 34 million people of Indian-origin across the world, including almost nine million in West Asia, he pointed out. India wants to ensure mobility or migration is legal to prevent any exploitation of workers, and mobility agreements allow countries to “work out the rules of the game” and eradicate “bad practices”, he said. Jaishankar also spoke of the urgent need to reform the UN, saying: “It’s common sense – after all, in our life, what is it which is 75 years old which you are still using? Everything requires some kind of refreshing (and) updating and we can’t let the interests of one or two countries which want to freeze one moment of history for their perpetual gain to continue.” He added, “The longer we let this stalemate, this gridlock continue – frankly, it’s harming the UN. I don’t think the UN is coming out of this well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rcep-would-have-hurt-india-s-economy-fta-with-eu-not-easy-s-jaishankar/story-jLOwniuthmH8CpYR0CQsoL.html
18-11-2020||India||Hotels must have one isolation room, Goa to issue new SOP||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said the government is coming up with a new SOP for hotels as there will be no restrictions for tourists coming in the state. “We are in the process of issuing guidelines for hotels, which will make it mandatory for them to reserve one room as an isolation room on their property,” state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday. Any guest who tests positive for coronavirus, but is asymptomatic, can be put up in the isolation room on hotel premises, he stated.Rane was holding a press conference after a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant.A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is to be developed to ensure all patients, whether mild, moderate or severe, get oxygen on a timely basis, the Health Minister is quoted to have said after the meeting. He added that Anaesthesia technicians are being trained and will be deployed to monitor oxygen supply to patients either in the ward or remotely. Also Read | Goa govt to issue new SOP for hotels amid tourist season, says state health ministerMaintaining that no preferential treatment would be given to anyone, Rane said, hospital beds will be made available to all patients in need.He said nodal officers at Covid-19 hospitals are the final authority on discharging patients.The government has notified GMCH, District Hospital and ESI Hospital, both in Margao, and Sub-District hospital at Ponda as Covid-19 treatment facilitiesThe state health minister assured that the coastal state will not seal its borders to keep out tourists.Rane further said that constant monitoring of patients in home isolation has brought down the Covid-19 mortality rate in the state. “We don’t get patients in a breathless stage any more, as we are monitoring their health in home isolation,” he said.According to the Government of Goa’s online portal, the state currently has 1383 active cases of coronavirus, 667 people have succumbed to it and a total of 44132 have recovered, bringing the total to 46182.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-must-have-one-isolation-room-goa-to-issue-new-sop/story-NK4Y139QYcTRPoCROeUoZM.html
18-11-2020||India||Andhra govt rejects local body poll schedule, sets up face off with SEC||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday rejected the proposal of the state election commission (SEC) to conduct elections to urban and rural local bodies in the state in February citing the possibility of spread of Covid-19. Chief secretary Neelam Sawhney wrote to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar saying there was no possibility of conducting elections to local bodies at this stage, when the state was witnessing high number of active Covid-19 cases and the spread to rural areas had been a matter of grave concern. Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday announced that elections to gram panchayats, block parishads, zilla parishads and municipalities would be held in February, since the intensity of Covid-19 had come down in the state due to effective measures taken by the state government. He pointed out that elections were being held in various other states without any hassles and even in Telangana, elections were being held to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. “Holding elections is a constitutional necessity. It is also required to secure funds from the Centre under finance commission guidelines for the development of panchayat raj bodies,” he said. The chief secretary, however, dismissed Ramesh Kumar’s argument. “The fact of the matter is that the entire district administration including the police continue to be actively involved in the Covid-19 containment measures,” she said. She also pointed out that it was not correct to compare the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh with other states, where elections were being conducted, as various states have followed different strategies to deal with the pandemic and have been affected differently. “Hence, we may not let down our guard particularly as the Government of India has warned the states to be wary of the cold/winter months. We cannot afford to have another surge having already lost 6,890 human lives,” the chief secretary said. She suggested that as and when the situation becomes conducive for the conduct of elections to local bodies, the state government would immediately inform the SEC regarding its preparedness.Sawhney also found fault with the SEC for deciding to hold a video conference with the district collectors on the conduct of elections in February. “It is not necessary at present to review the preparedness for conduct of elections,” the chief secretary added. Following the letter from the chief secretary, Ramesh Kumar went to Raj Bhavan to take up the matter with Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan. “The SEC complained to the Governor about lack of cooperation from the state government in the smooth conduct of elections to local bodies,” an official in the SEC familiar with the development said. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government has been in confrontation with the SEC, ever since the latter abruptly postponed the process of elections to local bodies in March amid Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister directly accused Ramesh Kumar of postponing the elections in collusion with Chandrababu Naidu because both belonged to the same caste. On April 10, the Jagan government removed Ramesh Kumar from the SEC post through an ordinance reducing the tenure of the SEC from five to three years and appointed a retired judge in his place. Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the high court, which struck down the same on May 29. The state government moved the SC challenging the high court order and after prolonged hearings, the SC upheld the high court judgment on July 31 and asked the government to reinstate Ramesh Kumar as the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-rejects-local-body-poll-schedule-sets-up-face-off-with-sec/story-7zypm8pnf70B7j61JsHhhP.html
18-11-2020||India||Bengaluru riots: NIA conducts searches at 43 locations||Two days after former Bengaluru mayor Sampath Raj was arrested in a case related to communal riots in the city, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searched at 43 locations, including at four offices of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of Popular Front of India (PFI). The violence took place on August 11. “The cases pertain to large scale rioting armed with lethal weapons causing injuries to police personnel, destruction of public and private property including DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations buildings and public and private vehicles. The riot led to fear and panic in the nearby areas and was intended to cause terror in the society,” the NIA said in a statement. So far, 124 accused have been arrested in the D J Halli police station case and 169 in the KG Halli police station case.During the searches, incriminating material relating to the SDPI and the PFI and weapons such as swords, knives, iron rods were seized, NIA said. On August 11, an angry mob enraged over an alleged insult to the prophet had burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations apart from the house of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. In the subsequent police firing three people were killed. More than 377 people were arrested for the violence and a preliminary charge sheet filed by the police in the case said that intra-party rivalry within Congress was one of the key reasons for riots. Former mayor Sampath Raj and Congress corporator Abdul Zakir were named among the key accused in the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-riots-nia-conducts-searches-at-43-locations/story-pebR3iaUZJYKnHJ6FTNDdJ.html
18-11-2020||India||12 injured as militants throw grenade at security personnel in J-K’s Pulwama||Twelve civilians sustained injuries in a grenade attack by militants on a team of security force personnel in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said.The incident took place in the Kakapora area of Pulwama, a police official said.He said the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road.Twelve civilians sustained splinter injuries in the explosion, the official said, adding they were taken to a nearby hospital.The area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attackers, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-injured-as-militants-throw-grenade-at-security-personnel-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-jRRIPKjE0xvxgEmE97uppN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Outsiders are bringing bad name to Bhojpuri industry’||Bhojpuri actor Ritu Singh says that it’s the people outside the industry who are responsible for bringing a bad name to the regional industry. “People who make musical videos for YouTube make vulgar content with double meaning lyrics, cuss words and cheap picturisation for instant fame. Since the videos are in Bhojpuri language it reflects badly on our industry,” she said. The actor is in Lucknow for the mahurat shot of her Bhojpuri film ‘Bablu Sang Babli’ that will be shot for over a month. “I try my best to stay away from vulgarity and choose projects that are clean and family oriented. Film makers are also focusing on making good cinema as Bhojpuri film industry ‘kafi badnaam ho gai hai’. On OTT too we have a lot of vulgar adult content but sadly our industry is looked down upon,” said Ritu who hails from Gorakhpur. Talking about her role she said, “I play struggling artiste Babli who hails from a small town and has a dream of becoming a heroine. It’s a comedy that will show the problems faced by aspiring actors including auditions, casting couch, nepotism, groupism, harassment and the struggling to survive in a new city.” The film is being directed by Lucknowite Deepak Singh. Film’s male lead Gaurav hails from Bhagalpur, Bihar. “Before this I have shot for four films in Lucknow. Last month I shot for ‘Hello Papa’ at a resort on Rae Bareili road. I have done 26 Bhojpuri films so far.” The film also stars Sanjay Pandey, Nandani Pandey, Manmohan Tiwari and Vinod Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/outsiders-are-bringing-bad-name-to-bhojpuri-industry/story-nfLIyaNi5CdOf1LmI94gIO.html
18-11-2020||India||‘I want to do notable roles’||Actor Ishtiyak Khan, known for his roles in ‘Phas Gaye Re Obama,’ ‘Tamasha,’ never thought his love for music would land him into acting. “I was musically trained and used to play music in street dramas in Panna, Bundelkhand. One day the main lead in the play didn’t turn up and things changed for me as I knew all the dialogues and scenes. And after joining theatre in Bhopal and completing an acting course from National School of Drama, I reached Mumbai in search of better prospects,” said the ‘Anaarkali of Aarah’ actor.  Khan feels that for any actor, the right break and a turning point is very essential. “My break was with RGV’s ‘Agyaat’ followed by ‘Phas Gaye…’ where my out-of-the-ordinary English-teacher role made the industry take notice. Also, its memes and short videos became instant hits. But my real turning point came with ‘Anaarkali…’, where I got a character that had multiple shades other than comedy, as I too was keen to try something different.” The diligent actor shot for a series of films including the upcoming Ajay Devgn starrer, ‘Maidaan’, in UP. After rave reviews for his latest release dark comedy ‘Ludo’ Khan waits for his film ‘Shadow of Othello’ to stream on OTT soon, where he plays the lead also he is busy wrapping another feature film in Badlapur. “I’m glad my latest character of a police officer went down well with the audience and I enjoyed playing it too. Otherwise, as an actor, I wish to entertain people always and continue doing notable roles across mediums,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-want-to-do-notable-roles/story-dit55HbWooukbOBCBwhUmJ.html
18-11-2020||India||72 students in Haryana test Covid-19 positive; State won’t shut all schools||Only the schools where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected will remain shut for two weeks, Haryana’s education minister Kanwar Pal said after 72 students of 12 government schools in Haryana’s Rewari tested positive for Covid-19. The testing was done on a random basis as movement has gone up during the festive season. “Due to the festive season, there is movement and people are meeting each other so we tested students of 12 schools. We will continue testing students to curb the Covid-19 spread,” Rewari’s nodal officer said.Most of these schools reopened on November 2. But the state government will not shut all schools, education minister said. Random testing at schools will continue. “The schools where Covid-19 cases were reported have been closed for two weeks. Wearing of masks and social distancing norms to be strictly followed. The whole system cannot remain shut due to Covid-19,” the minister said.Early this month, Andhra Pradesh reported a huge number of cases after the schools reopened on November 2. As many as 262 students and about 160 teachers tested positive between November 2 and Novembet 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72-students-in-haryana-test-covid-19-positive-state-won-t-shut-all-schools/story-Pfo0DKETt2I8tD1LNQcPIP.html
18-11-2020||India||Leonid meteor shower to reach peak today: When and where to watch||The Leonid meteor shower which usually takes place in mid-November every year is expected to grace Mumbai’s skies past November 18 midnight. People living in areas with low pollution levels will be able to witness Leonid’s grandeur with their naked eyes. The shower occurs when planet Earth crosses the orbital path of Comet 55P/Tempel-Tuttle. After the cometary debris enters Earth’s atmosphere and vaporises, one gets to witness the Leonid meteor shower, which peaked yesterday morning. What is the Leonid Meteor showerThe meteor shower that happens at the forefront of the Leo Constellation is known as the Leonid meteor shower. It is one of the most popular meteor showers in the world. 100-200 meteors become visible across the vast skies every year during this shower, with 15-20 meteors raining down on earth every hour. Once in every 33 years the Leonid meteor shower peaks into a meteor storm, the last one to grace earth took place in 1999.Best places to watch the meteor showerParks are usually the best places to watch a meteor shower and winter nights are the best time. The constellations start to look clear and beautiful and celestial bodies become easier to recognize. 10-15 meteors can be seen every hour once the shower reaches its peak. According to the Weather Channel, the whole of India, with the exception of Tamil Nadu and Kerala where widespread rain is expected, will have clear skies to enjoy the celestial marvel.When it comes to meteor showers the darker the sky the better the sight. In cities like Mumbai only 3-4 really bright meteors will be visible but in far-off areas like Karjat and Neral, the skies will be darker and 30-40 meteors per hour will be visible. Remote locations with little pollution are ideally suited for stargazing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leonid-meteor-shower-to-reach-peak-today-when-and-where-to-watch/story-9sdywA2ErHm5nIQSgYfHwI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Committed to partnering with the Government of India’: Twitter in its apology note||In a written apology to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China, Twitter on Wednesday said that it was committed to serving the public and earning and maintaining their trust.“Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Twitter remains committed to serving and protecting the public conversation and partnering with the Government of India,” Twitter Spokesperson said.According to Parliamentary panel’s chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, Twitter’s deposition has come in form of an affidavit signed by Damien Karien, Chief Privacy Officer of Twitter Inc. The social media giant has promised to correct the error by the month-end, Lekhi said.“They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020,” she said, according to news agency PTI.Twitter had shown Leh, the largest town of the Union Territory of Ladakh, as part of China during a live broadcast last month. The Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill expressed its disapproval of the “misrepresentation of the map of India”, saying it amounted to treason and had sought an explanation by the US-based parent of the social media platform.Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), wrote a strongly-worded letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and asked for respect to the country’s sensitivities, PTI sources in the ministry said. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved.“In the last few weeks, we have worked towards resolving the geo-tag issue in a manner wherein Leh as well as other cities in the Union Territory of Ladakh will now accurately show with their respective city name, state and country,” PTI quoted Twitter in its report. “In addition to this, we are also reviewing the geo-tag for various other cities in Jammu and Kashmir. This work is already in progress and we are targeting November 30, 2020 to complete this exercise,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-partnering-with-the-government-of-india-twitter-in-its-apology-note/story-taldBwSqqGwk47pwBOvBpN.html
18-11-2020||India||Mewalal Choudhary doesn’t even know National Anthem, accuses RJD; posts video||A day after raking up the corruption charge against Bihar’s new education minister Mewalal Choudhary, the Rashtriya Janata Dal on Wednesday posted an old video of Choudhary singing Jana Gana Mana in what appears to be a school event. In the video, Choudhary could be seen singing the National Anthem, but he forgets words in between. “Bihar Education Minister Mevalal Chaudhary, accused of several corruption cases, does not even know the national anthem. Do you have any shame left, Nitish Kumar ji? Where have you sunk your conscience?” the RJD tweeted. भ्रष्टाचार के अनेक मामलों के आरोपी बिहार के शिक्षा मंत्री मेवालाल चौधरी को राष्ट्रगान भी नहीं आता।नीतीश कुमार जी शर्म बची है क्या? अंतरात्मा कहाँ डुबा दी? pic.twitter.com/vHYZ8oRUVZIn 2017, Choudhary was sacked from JD(U) for his alleged involvement in a corruption case when he headed the Bihar Agriculture University. “The corrupt JDU MLA Mewalal has been given a ministerial position by Nitish Kumar. This is the double standard of Nitish Kumar, the patron of 60 scams. This man can fall to the lowest level for a chair,” the RJD had tweeted on Tuesday.According to sources, an FIR was lodged against him on February 20, 2017 with the Sabour police station in Bhagalpur on the directives of the then Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind, who set up a probe committee after several applicants alleged irregularities in appointments. Choudhary was booked under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine of forged document) and 120 (B) (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) & Election Watch has revealed that not only Choudhary, eight ministers of Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet, including Mewalal, have declared criminal cases including six with declared serious criminal cases against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-tweets-old-video-of-mewalal-choudhary-singing-national-anthem/story-nZPcvwQR7mwrqGFClrT40M.html
18-11-2020||India||Telangana poll body stops TRS’ cash relief plan for Hyderabad flood victims||The Telangana state election commission on Wednesday stalled the distribution of Rs 10,000 in cash to the families affected by last month’s heavy rains and floods in Hyderabad, in view of the model code of conduct coming into force for the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to be held on December 1. The distribution of cash to the flood victims has triggered a controversy with the opposition parties – Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party alleging that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi was “bribing” the voters of Hyderabad on the pretext of flood relief. SEC secretary M Ashok Kumar wrote to state principal secretary (municipal administration and urban development) stating that since the model code of conduct had come into force for the GHMC elections with immediate effect, the authorities must stop distribution of cash through Mee Seva centres (government-authorised online service centres). The SEC official said the flood relief distribution could be done after the model code of conduct comes to an end. The SEC order came hours after a 70-year old woman died of suffocation while she was standing in a queue before Mee Seva centre at Neknampura under Golkonda police station limits. Early this month, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered distribution of Rs 10,000 in cash to each of the families affected by recent heavy rains and floods in Hyderabad. The chief minister released Rs 550 crore towards this cash distribution scheme and offered to release more based on the requirement. Initially, the cash distribution was done by local TRS leaders who went door to door to pay the money. But the government was forced to stop it following complaints of largescale corruption in cash distribution. There were allegations that the TRS leaders made big money by knocking away part of the cash to be distributed among the flood victims. Later, the government asked the people to register names online at Mee Seva Centres so that the cash could be transferred directly into the accounts of eligible individuals. But this led to further chaos, as thousands of people thronged the Mee Seva centres to submit their claims. Serpentine queues were witnessed at several places, as beneficiaries threw to wind the social distancing norms. There were near stampede situations at some places as the police had tough time in controlling the crowds. The registration process continued till the SEC issued orders asking the authorities to stop the process in view of the model code of conduct. Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri parliamentarian A Revanth Reddy alleged that the decision of the TRS government to distribute cash to the people to garner their votes in the GHMC elections has led to the chaos. “The TRS leaders were only interested in distributing money among the voters, rather than streamlining the flood relief works. The authorities have failed to anticipate the crowds at the Mee Seva centres,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-poll-body-stops-trs-cash-relief-plan-for-hyderabad-flood-victims/story-FCftIPwPffISUkMzxRpwdK.html
18-11-2020||India||BRICS calls for fair and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines||Ahead of the WTO taking up a proposal by India and South Africa to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping has said it will work for “fair, equitable and affordable” distribution of vaccines. During the Brics Summit on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called on the grouping to back the move by India and South Africa to secure exemption from intellectual property agreements for vaccines. The proposal is already facing opposition from developed countries, including the US and European Union (EU) member states. The Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Council of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is expected to the take up the proposal for patent protection waivers on Friday, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The Moscow Declaration adopted at the conclusion of the Brics Summit said the members of the grouping “will work to ensure that, when [the vaccine is] available, it is disseminated in a fair, equitable and affordable basis”. The declaration didn’t make any direct reference to the proposal by India and South Africa. The declaration recognised the importance of “extensive immunisation” in preventing, containing and stopping the transmission of the Coronavirus, and supported cooperative approaches to expedite research, development and production of vaccine and therapeutics. Participating in an online discussion on Tuesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said India will do everything possible to make vaccines affordable and accessible to people around the world. The proposal submitted by India and South Africa to the TRIPS Council on October 2 stated that it is “important for WTO members to work together to ensure that intellectual property rights such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information do not create barriers to the timely access to affordable medical products including vaccines and medicines or to scaling-up of research, development, manufacturing and supply of medical products essential to combat Covid-19”. “As new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are significant concerns how these will be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable price to meet global demand,” the proposal further said, adding developing countries could face difficulties in using flexibilities under TRIPS. Among the Brics states, Russia has approved a vaccine though experts say this has been done without adequate testing, and China has granted emergency approval to three vaccines, including one meant only for military personnel. India has three vaccines that are in human trials. Despite the currently strained India-China ties, Chinese President Xi Jinping too offered to work with India on vaccines during the Brics Summit. “Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on phase-III clinical trials of vaccines and we are prepared to cooperate with South Africa and India as well,” he said. Developing countries are looking to India’s extensive vaccine manufacturing and distribution capacities for help and the government organised a special briefing for the diplomatic corps on November 6 to discuss potential collaboration on vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-calls-for-fair-and-equitable-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccines/story-LrQk6mXrjIc3QhVcyaCtoO.html
18-11-2020||India||Day after Bulandshahr rape victim’s death, her family gets security cover||The family members and the village of a teenage rape victim who girl died Tuesday after allegedly being set ablaze by the rapist’s family in the Jahangirabad area of UP’s Bulandshahr district, have been provided security, officials said Wednesday.The girl was allegedly set on fire by the accused’s family after they failed to convince her family to opt for a compromise in the rape case, officials said.Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said that security was provided to the girl’s family as they feared a threat to their lives from supporters of the accused. The police have arrested five out of the seven persons named by the girl’s family in their complaint. Raids were on to arrest the remaining two, he added. The police had registered a case of murder against seven family members of the rape accused and their supporters on the complaint of the girl’s family on Tuesday evening.The district magistrate said immediate compensation of Rs 3.75 lakh was paid to the family under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and further compensation would be released as per the law.Kumar and senior superintendent of police S K Singh visited the aggrieved family on Wednesday. Kumar said the family demanded adequate security and requested for arrangements to bring the body to the village for the last rites.The DM said officials were in touch with authorities at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi where the girl died during treatment on Tuesday evening.“An ambulance has been kept ready in the hospital to bring the body to the village immediately after the post-mortem examination,” said Kumar.He further said the SSP had made “adequate” security arrangements for the last rites.Three of the accused were arrested on Tuesday and two on Wednesday.An orchard caretaker had allegedly raped the girl on August 15 and the police had arrested him the same day. His family members were pressuring the girl’s family for a compromise ever since. The uncle of the jailed rape accused reportedly set the girl afire on Tuesday morning after they failed to convince the family for a compromise. The girl succumbed to burns on late Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-bulandshahr-rape-victim-s-death-her-family-gets-security-cover/story-LD6fAKdMgueQ3IAailoBmN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘BJP working on ground to defeat Mamata Banerjee, over 83% polling booths already covered’: Dilip Ghosh||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) has expanded its presence to over 83 per cent of polling booths in West Bengal and is relentlessly working on the ground to defeat the Mamata Banerjee-led the All India Trinamool Congress(TMC)in the upcoming assembly polls, with Amit Shah and J P Nadda galvanising the rank and file with their regular visits, party state president Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday.The BJP has kick-started its campaign for the assembly elections slated for early next year and is challenging the Trinamool Congress at the hustings with the new slogan of “Ei baar Bangla, parle samla (Now it’s Bengal’s turn, hold on to it if you can)”, Ghosh told PTI, referring to the recent victory of the National Democratic Alliance(NDA) in Bihar polls.In the upcoming election in West Bengal it will be a direct fight between the BJP and the TMC, he said, dubbing both the Left parties and the Congress as spent forces.Hinting at defections of TMC leaders to his party ahead of the polls, Ghosh said that even leaders of the Mamata Banerjee-led party are feeling suffocated and looking for “oxygen of freedom”, whereas the BJP is a democratic party with “a number of oxygen cylinders”. Ghosh said that for effective management of the party’s campaign, the BJP has divided the state in five zones -- Medinipur, north Bengal, Kolkata, Nabadwip and Rahr Bongo, on the basis of local issues and their characteristics.The party has expanded its footprint in the state and now has presence in over 65,000 (or over 83 per cent) polling booths out of the total 78,000, he said. National party leaders, including J P Nadda and Amit Shah, will visit the state every month. “Amit Shah-ji is expected to visit the state every month and his presence will boost the morale of party workers,” he added. Though the BJP has a marginal presence in the Assembly, it has emerged as the main challenger to the TMC in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, pushing aside the Left parties and the Congress. It won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state, only four less that the TMC’s 22. The party has now focused on winning the state from the TMC. Election to the 294-member state assembly is scheduled to be held in the first half of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-working-on-ground-to-defeat-mamata-banerjee-over-83-polling-booths-already-covered-dilip-ghosh/story-nHQ4X4EfEtorbgKEmDRauL.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Elections during my term will be held on time,’ says Sunil Arora||After conducting Bihar assembly election amid Covid-19 pandemic, the election commission is now busy in its internal exercises for the assembly election slated to be held in early 2021. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora’s term is till April 13, 2021. “Whichever election falls before that shall be held on time,” Arora said in an interview to PTI. Elections are due in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry in May and June next year.The commission never rests, the CEC said adding that conducting elections is a continuous process. Holding Bihar election amid the pandemic was a challenge which the Election Commission faced with flying colours. The EC’s decidion to not postponed the elections was courted with doubts and apprehension.“This time, a major component as added to it -- it should also be a safe election. Safe for the electors, safe for the polling officials, safe for all concerned. Maybe proving is not the right nuance. Yes, Election Commission can rise to any challenge and it did rise up to the challenge of Covid-19... Of course, critics may remain, and should also remain as they are also a part of the system,” Arora said.The commission had taken a variety of measures such as reducing the number of voters per polling station from 1,500 to 1,000 to ensure distancing. This meant an addition of 33,000 polling stations. Bihar this time had 1.06 lakh polling stations, which also prolonged the counting process. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-during-my-term-will-be-held-on-time-says-sunil-arora/story-1iYyk8qNADB21TPLymabIP.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Diverse, vibrant, intellectual’: President Kovind at JNU’s annual convocation||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday addressed the 4th annual convocation of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) through a video message and hailed the University for producing many eminent personalities. He told students that they were privileged to be a part of one of the most diverse, vibrant and intellectual communities and added that they were lucky to be guided by some of the greatest minds.“From among the over 80,000 former students of JNU, many have been making their impact in India and abroad through contribution in the Civil Services, academia, politics, social work, science and technology, media and communications, fine arts and business-leadership,” the president said.He referred to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and minister of external affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, both former students of JNU, in his speech. “It must be a matter of pride for students of the University that India’s Finance Minister @nsitharaman and Minister of External Affairs @DrSJaishankar are former students of JNU,” the president said.The president also congratulated the University for receiving the highest National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation status this year.“It gives me pleasure to note that JNU has received the highest-ranking grade from National Assessment and Accreditation Council. It is consistently ranked number 2 among all the Universities under the National Institutional Ranking Framework of the Government of India,” he said.Universities like JNU should be at the forefront of developing specific hand-holding mechanisms and promoting innovation among students, the president said, encouraging students to create an “original body of knowledge which is utilised for dealing with contemporary global challenges”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diverse-vibrant-intellectual-president-kovind-addresses-4th-annual-convocation-of-jnu/story-7D8wpgNpcLY1Hg1yGP60QO.html
18-11-2020||India||Delhi HC junks plea against Chhath Puja ban, puts right to health first||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea which had challenged the Delhi government’s decision of banning Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While dismissing the plea, a bench 0f Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad, remarked that “it appears the petitioner is not alive to Covid-19 situation in Delhi” and “any such permission if granted would necessarily result in such function turning into a super spreader”.“The right to health must be respected first. The person has to live to be able to practice any religion,” the bench while hearing a plea by Durga Jan Seva Trust, challenging the November 10 order of chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to not allow any gathering in public places for Chhath Puja on November 20.The petition had also sought permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people for Chhath Puja.However, this did not go down well with the court which remarked, “Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons.” It said that the authorities have passed the order after considering the spread of infection in Delhi and the petition was meritless.“In today’s day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality,” the court said while noting that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city.“The infection rate is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593… the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-junks-plea-against-chhath-puja-ban-puts-right-to-health-first/story-nNgzOvyEHC6MC64PcbEVvK.html
18-11-2020||India||BJP’s national leaders to oversee upcoming local elections in several states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is pulling out all the stops for the upcoming local elections and has deputed its senior leaders to oversee preparations for them in Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir. Local elections will also be held in Kerala in December though the party is yet to announce the in-charge for them.On Wednesday, BJP’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav was in Hyderabad to hold the first round of meetings to steer the party‘s campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. Yadav, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, was in charge of the recently concluded assembly elections in Bihar, where the party won 72 seats and retained power with its National Democratic Alliance allies.Apart from Yadav, junior finance minister Anurag Thakur has also been deputed to oversee the local polls in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read: Ahead of 2021 West Bengal polls, BJP tasks top office-bearers to submit ‘ground report’ on strategy needed to winThe appointments of senior leaders such as Yadav, who was earlier also in-charge of the Gujarat elections, and Thakur is seen as an indication of the BJP’s determination to expand its footprint to the regions where it is still not considered a key player. Thakur will be assisted by former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain and lawmaker Sanjay Bhatia.“These elections are crucial because these are regions where the party hopes to establish itself as a serious contender,” said a party functionary, who did not wish to be named.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections will be held on December 1. The BJP, which is in a celebratory mood after winning the bypoll to Telangana’s Dubbak assembly constituency, is hoping to carve out space for itself in the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)’s bastion.Yadav said the party is serious about contesting the local elections as it wants to strengthen its presence on the ground.“Telangana is a state where the BJP will form the government. The TRS has misruled the state and people are looking for a change. There are about 27 assembly constituencies and four Lok Sabha constituencies that fall under the... [Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation] and we want to give a good governance model to the people. By giving good governance at the local body level, democracy becomes effective at the grassroots level,” he said.The BJP last month contested the local body elections in Ladakh, where it failed to maintain its previous record. In 2015, the BJP won 18 out of the 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. It retained only 15 of these in 2020. The Congress improved its tally by winning nine seats, four more than the previous election.The local body elections in Jammu & Kashmir later this month are being held after the nullification of Article 370. They are crucial for the party as it will be up against a coalition of seven regional parties known as the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).According to a second party functionary, the BJP wants to spare no effort to emerge as the single largest party as it wants to be seen as the “only credible option”.“The narrative peddled by the regional parties has to change. They have been part of the democratic space and yet speak the language of secession or treating Jammu & Kashmir as separate from the rest of India, which is unacceptable,” said the second functionary.On Tuesday, Union home minister Amit Shah lashed out at the PAGD for allegedly seeking help from other counties to restore Article 370 that gave the erstwhile state special status.Political commentator Sandeep Shastri said the BJP’s strategy of having senior leaders helm local elections is a reflection of the fact that the party is geared 24X7 to challenge its opponents.“The distinction is clear. While the opposition seems to have lost the appetite to win, the BJP has the hunger to come to power at all levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-national-leaders-to-oversee-upcoming-local-elections-in-several-states/story-P98oJFbPIjIWV4YeblmgEO.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Twitter has apologised in writing for ‘Ladakh in China’ error,’ says Meenakshi Lekhi||Social media giant Twitter has apologised in writing to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China and has promised to correct the error by the month-end, the committee’s chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Wednesday. Twitter’s deposition has come in form of an affidavit signed by Damien Karien, Chief Privacy Officer of Twitter Inc, for wrong geo-tagging of India’s map, Lekhi told PTI.Also Read: Twitter lands in hot water after J-K displayed as territory of China Last month, the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill had come down heavily on Twitter for showing Ladakh as part of China, saying it amounted to treason and had sought an explanation by the US-based parent of the social media platform in form of an affidavit. Appearing before the panel, chaired by Lekhi, representatives of Twitter India had “begged apology”, but they were told by the members that it was a criminal offence that questioned the sovereignty of the country and an affidavit must be submitted by Twitter Inc, not by its ‘marketing arm’ Twitter India. “Twitter has now given us a written apology on an affidavit for Ladakh being shown in China,” Lekhi said. “They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020,” she added. Twitter had come under heavy criticism and faced a backlash from social media users after its geotagging feature displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, the People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh.Also Read: Geotagging issue resolved, says Twitter after J-K shown as part of China The Indian government on October 22 had warned Twitter about its location setting that showed Leh in China, saying any disrespect towards the country’s sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable. In a strongly-worded letter, Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the country’s sensitivities, sources in the ministry had said. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved. In its affidavit submitted before the parliamentary panel, Twitter is believed to have said the issue was “caused due to a software error combined with imperfect data resulting in an incorrect geo-tag”. “In the last few weeks, we have worked towards resolving the geo-tag issue in a manner wherein Leh as well as other cities in the Union Territory of Ladakh will now accurately show with their respective city name, state and country. “In addition to this, we are also reviewing the geo-tag for various other cities in Jammu and Kashmir. This work is already in progress and we are targeting November 30, 2020 to complete this exercise,” it added. Twitter further said it wanted to reiterate that India was a priority market and it was committed to partnering with the Government of India and MeitY to serve the public conversation and communities on the micro-blogging site. “Our team in India will continue to engage with the Ministry for any follow-up discussions. We would also like to apologise for any sentiments that were hurt because of this error,” it added. On October 28, Twitter’s India representatives were questioned for more than two hours by the panel members, mainly on Ladakh being shown as part of China on the Twitter app. “The committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate,” Lekhi had said after the meeting. Twitter was also asked about its banning policy, while some members also raised questions about Twitter’s transparency policy and its actions during elections, especially vis-a-vis their policies in other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-apologised-in-writing-for-ladakh-in-china-error-meenakshi-lekhi/story-PDj4qY2yRpuHDiux6Rp7AN.html
18-11-2020||India||Former Kerala minister arrested from hospital in flyover graft case||The Kerala vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday arrested former public works department minister V K Ebrahim Kunju in connection with alleged irregularities in the construction of a flyover in Kochi. Kunju (68), a Muslim MLA MLA from Kalamssery in Ernakulam district was arrested from a hospital after vigilance officials met the doctors treating him. For now, he will remain in hospital, officials said.Earlier In the morning, investigators raided his house in Aluva in Kochi. Kunju was earlier booked by the vigilance department after serious irregularities were found in the construction of the Palarivattom flyover. The flyover which was completed in 2016 was built at a cost of Rs 47.7 crore on National Highway 66 Bypass. It was closed for traffic in May after cracks appeared in some of the pillars and girders. Later engineering experts from IIT-Madras found that its design was faulty and low-quality materials were used to build the 750-metre long bridge. The government then approached Metro Man E Sreedharan and he also favoured demolition of the flyover to build a new one. Now the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation is rebuilding the flyover under the supervision of Sreedharan. A case was registered by the vigilance department which arrested former PWD secretary TO Sooraj and three others in August in connection with alleged irregularities. After his arrest Sooraj, a controversial IAS officer, said he was made a scapegoat. Though Kunju was interrogated a couple of times he was let off. Sooraj is now out on bail.The three others who were arrested along with Sooraj were Sumii Goyal, maging director of construction firm RDS Projects Ltd, Benny Paul of Kitco, technical consultant and P D Thankacchan of GM of Roads and Birdges Development Corporation of Kerala Kunju’s arrest on Wednesday has kicked off a controversy. The opposition Congress and Muslim League said it was politically motivated and was intended to distract attention from the gold smuggling and drug cases. “It was a politically motivated move. The government which is neck deep in corruption wanted to save its face somehow,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.But CPI(M) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the arrest was a natural process after the investigation. He denied opposition charge that it was a politically motivated move in the midst of local body polls.Interestingly state secretary of ruling CPI(M) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was forced to proceed on leave last week after his son was allegedly involved in Bengaluru drug haul while Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar continues to be in jail in connection with the gold smuggling case. The faulty flyover also triggered a blame game between the opposition UDF and ruling LDF (Left Democratic Front). The ruling coalition said the previous government was responsible for the mess but the UDF claimed the present dispensation had given the fitness certificate and inaugurated the flyover with much fanfare. “When we left the power only 60 per cent of the work was over and rest 40 was done during the present regime. The arrest of Kunju was intended to save the face of the rotten government,” said Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty. He said the party will rally behind Kunju who is the second MLA to be arrested recently after M C Kamaruddin, a lawmaker from north Keralaiwho was sent to jail in connection with an alleged jewellery fund embezzlement case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-minister-arrested-from-hospital-in-flyover-graft-case/story-hwn9Obz4pjShnduF7s7zcK.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ comment, Yediyurappa says ‘Marathis belong to us too’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Marathis belong to us too’: Yediyurappa on Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ commentStoking the 70-year-long border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka over areas like Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani, Mahrashtra deputy chief minister and Karnataka chief minister locked horns on Wednesday. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was first to begin as he broached the issue, paying tributes to Balasaheb Thackeray. Read moreIndian-American Arun Majumdar may find place in Biden’s ‘diverse cabinet’As president-elect Joe Biden along with vice president-elect Kamala Harris aim to make a “diverse cabinet”, media reports suggest that Arun Majumdar could be a part of the administration’s cabinet. Read moreShakib Al Hasan threatened case: Bangladesh Home Minister says strong action will be taken - ReportBangladesh’s Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan has said that strong action will be taken against the person who had allegedly issued death threats to Bangladeshi all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan for inaugurating a Kali puja pandal in Kolkata. Read moreRenault reveals showcar version of sub-compact SUV Kiger, India launch soonRenault has officially named its upcoming sub-compact SUV as Kiger and is preparing it to enter the lucrative but closely-contested segment which features the likes of Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, Hyundai Venue, Mahindra XUV300, the newly-launched Sonet from Kia and Urban Cruiser from Toyota as well as the upcoming Nissan Magnite. Read moreStep inside Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri’s luxurious Delhi home which is filled with photos of kids Aryan, AbRam, SuhanaActor Shah Rukh Khan and his interior designer wife Gauri Khan are opening the doors to the Delhi home for a lucky winner of a contest. Gauri, in partnership with a travel brand, is letting fans get a peek inside her home in the city’s Panchsheel Park. Read more‘Butterfly baby’: Dad uses sweet pillow trick to wake up kid. WatchCue your “awws” because this is a video which will make you say the word several times as it’s absolutely adorable. It captures a heartwarming moment between a dad and his kid. Shared on Instagram, the video shows the father using an unusual pillow trick to wake up his sleepy toddler. Watch Watch: After polls, protests erupt in Gilgit-Baltistan against Imran Khan’s PTIMassive protests have broken out in Gilgit-Baltistan region against Imran Khan’s party PTI over alleged rigging of polls. Major opposition parties including the Pakistan People’s Party led by Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and & the PML-N of former PM Nawaz Sharif have been protesting against the government over the issue. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-ajit-pawar-s-united-maharashtra-comment-yediyurappa-says-marathis-belong-to-us-too-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lGA4vUMgTEwOtQVJXhVVMO.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh starts process of framing rules to implement PESA Act||The Chhattisgarh government has started the process to frame the rules to implement the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 or PESA Act. Chhattisgarh’s panchayat and rural development minister TS Singhdeo on Wednesday met tribal leaders and other representatives of panchayats in Kanker district to discuss framing of rules for PESA Act. Singhdeo told HT that after consultation, the rules will be tabled in the assembly in the budget or monsoon session for notification. Since the PESA Act was passed, six states – Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat – have made rules while Chhattisgarh , Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand have yet to do so for implementation of the Act. “The Cabinet’s consent will be taken before the notification by state assembly,” said Singhdeo . “ The rules will focus on empowering gram sabhas. Secondly, their ‘cultural identity’ will be protected through these rules. The management of gramb sabha for mining consultation etc; will also be taken under consideration...The idea is to strengthen gram sabhas through these rules,” he said.Activists and tribal leaders believe that it is welcome step by the state government and the rules should be framed as soon as possible. “Not having exclusive rules for PESA in the state is like having a boat without rudder. The excuse that necessary legislative action has been incorporated to implement PESA is a half-truth. Having separate legislative tool to monitor, supervise and execute provisions of PESA is a must. However, those states which drafted the PESA rules have also watered down the spirit by adding several absurd clauses,” Vijendra Ajnabi, a member of Chhattisgarh Van Adhikar Manch, said. The convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan , Alok Shukla, said PESA Act was enacted to empower the gram sabha, but sadly even after 25 years, its rules were yet to be made. “Because of this , continuous violation of this law is being done across the state and country. Till now, only six states have made rules and Chhattisgarh government starting the process is a welcome step. Although the law is in force, the administration has been misusing it, citing the absence of rules...This Act is about decentralisation of power but nobody wants the gram sabha to be empowered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-starts-process-of-framing-rules-to-implement-panchayat-act/story-RYh0ZvZ027XEsgaGNk0IbL.html
18-11-2020||India||Indian Army establishes living facilities for troops deployed in eastern Ladakh||The Indian Army said on Wednesday that it has completed establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in eastern Ladakh to ensure operational efficiency in the harsh winter months.The Army said that apart from smart camps with integrated facilities which have been built over the years, additional state-of-the-art habitats with integrated arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene have been recently created to accommodate the troops.“Troops in frontline are accommodated in heated tents as per tactical considerations of their deployment. In addition, adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater for any emergent requirements,” it said.The region sees temperature dipping to minus 30-40 degrees Celsius and experiences up to 40 feet of snowfall after the month of November. In addition, road access to the region also get affected for a brief period of time, it said.Also Read | Army completes setting up of modern habitat for troops in Ladakh “In order to ensure operational efficiency of troops deployed in winters, Indian Army has completed establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in the sector,” the Army said. India and China are locked in a military standoff since early May in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-establishes-living-facilities-for-troops-deployed-in-eastern-ladakh/story-9Sc6fXCbRjSQkEsHwo8IIN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Only 1,000 persons?’ Delhi HC expresses surprise over Chhath Puja plea||Amid the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, which has called for Centre’s intervention and bringing back a number of restrictions, Durga Jan Seva Trust moved the high court challenging the Delhi government’s order banning any gathering on Chhath Puja on November 20. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on November 10 had issued an order barring any gathering on the occasion of Chhath Puja, after cases in the Capital started to gallop starting from October last week. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad dismissed the petition and expressed surprise that at this point of time such a petition can be filed. The bench also said it would not interfere with the AAP government’s decision to ban Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks.“Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons. How come?” the bench said, as it struck down the petition as “meritless”. The high court said the third wave of the infection was already underway in the national capital and allowing a large gathering would result in people becoming “super spreaders”. “In today’s day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality,” the bench said, adding that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city. The high court said it appeared that the petitioner is not alive to the Covid-19 situation.“The infection rate is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593… the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases,” it noted.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-1-000-persons-delhi-hc-expresses-surprise-over-chhath-puja-plea/story-RImLm7PIqs9VV1Ha2qpoRO.html
18-11-2020||India||3 buildings worth Rs500 crore forfeited in Iqbal Mirchi case: ED||Three buildings worth Rs 500 crore were forfeited under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act, 1976 (SAFEMA) after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday revealed that drug dealer Iqbal Mirchi, close aid of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, misrepresented about the ownership of these buildings.“The investigation conducted by ED revealed that, in 2005 Iqbal Mirchi, in connivance with Sir Mohamed Yusuf Trust, misrepresented about the ownership of these buildings before the Competent Authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act),” the ED said in a press release. “Relying on the evidence shared by Enforcement Directorate, Competent Authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act) has forfeited three buildings — Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge & Sea View, all situated at Worli, Mumbai. The value of the properties is approximately Rs 500 Crores,” the agency added.All transactions made around these properties were declared null and void, the order stated, adding that the properties were falsely claimed by a trust before competent authorities on the pretext that since Iqbal Mirchi had not made complete payment, it had not handed over possession to him. On the basis of the above explanation, the properties were released from attachment under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in 2005. On November 6, 2019, the ED investigated into the case and informed the competent authority of the fraud, sharing definite and undeniable evidence of ownership of these properties by Iqbal Mirchi, the press release stated.“The evidence include complete payment receipts issued by the trust along with the corresponding entry in the bank passbook, letter issued by trust regarding handing over the possession to Iqbal Memon, submissions to Income tax admitting sale of these properties, etc,” the release stated.“In the fresh order, the competent authority has now observed that the order dated 11.03.2005 was obtained through fraud, wilful suppression of documentary evidence and facts and is therefore non-est order in eyes of law. The Competent Authority further observed that the trust concealed vital evidence and facts regarding the ownership of these properties,” the press release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-buildings-worth-rs500-crore-forfeited-in-iqbal-mirchi-case-ed/story-lwaTuyc377eIhc9YcTDmiI.html
18-11-2020||India||Failing repeatedly, Congress joined PAGD ahead of district development council polls: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday said that following repeated drubbing in elections, the Congress has joined the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) ahead of the district development council polls (DDC) in Jammu and Kashmir. Union minister Anurag Thakur, who reached Jammu late on Tuesday to campaign for the party, said, “Due to repeated defeats, the Congress is at its wit’s end and doesn’t know what to do. Its alliance with Gupkar Gang proves beyond doubt that it is seeking support from those (NC and PDP) who, in turn, are seeking the support of China and Pakistan to bring back Article 370.” Thakur added that Congress’s presence in the PAGD raises serious questions. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should tell the people of this nation whether Congress’s ideology and thinking matches with that of the Gupkar gang or its repeated defeats have compelled the party to become a member,” he said. Also read | We have electoral arrangement, don’t fully endorse Gupkar agenda: Congress“After Pulwama attack, Rahul Gandhi raised questions on the India Army and the government but he and his party were exposed when a Pakistani minister admitted that Pulwama was a big achievement of Imran Khan government,” he said. Thakur said that Congress will be exposed again and the nation will see how the party was playing into the hands of those who conspire to defame India. In contrast, he said, the BJP will reach out to the people with its achievements. “In 2019, we revoked Articles 370 and 35-A and ensured basic rights to STs, Valmikis, Gurkhas, West Pakistan refugees and women. We don’t make fake promises like Congress,” he said. BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh, who has also arrived here in run-up to the DDC polls, alleged, “J&K Congress president GA Mir met the Gupkar Gang and it was all being done on the directions of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.”. “We have rid J&K of plunderers by revoking Articles 370 and 35-A. Today, they have formed a gang and there’s a sister who says she will not hold aloft the tricolour..there’s an elderly person who talks of taking China’s help to restore Article 370 and another feels that one night, China will come and restore Article 370... but their shops are shut. ..Abdullah & sons, Mufti & sons won’t work anymore. For the past over seven decades, their three generations looted and plundered J&K. Now people will elect their own representatives,” said Chugh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failing-repeatedly-congress-joined-pagd-ahead-of-district-development-council-polls-bjp/story-l6pmNA1egBBHdoeizdT4bM.html
18-11-2020||India||Opposition questions deferment of Tripura ADC polls||Tripura governor Ramesh Kumar Bais extended his administrative rule over Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) for another six months as the polls could not be held amidst Covid-19 pandemic. It happened six months after ADC polls were deferred since March due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.“.....due to the persistence of Covid situation in the State, it shall not be possible to conduct General Election to constitute the new Council immediately.... , “ a notice signed by the governor reads. The ADC was dissolved on May 17 this year and the governor took charge of the ADC till the elections as per law. His tenure expired on Tuesday. GK Rao was appointed as executive officer to implement decisions and run the ADC on the governor’s behalf. The ADC has 30 seats, of which 28 are elected and two are nominated. ADC chief executive member and also a veteran CPM leader Radhacharan Debbarma asked, “If elections can be held in Assam’s Bodo Territorial Council and in Bihar, why elections can’t be held here?”Congress vice president Tapas Dey said, “It seems that the BJP is giving (party) time to regain ground in the ADC areas and also trying to handle their internal dispute with their alliance partner IPFT.” BJP didn’t react to the governor’s decision yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-questions-deferment-of-tripura-adc-polls/story-zNAvoZBlmGoRMPHgnmWwyO.html
18-11-2020||India||Goa govt to issue new SOP for hotels amid tourist season, says state health minister||The Goa government is drawing up a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for hotels amid the ongoing tourist season, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Rane said that coastal state will not seal its borders to keep out tourists.“We are in the process of issuing guidelines for hotels, which will make it mandatory for them to reserve one room as an isolation room on their property,” the minister said.Any guest who tests positive for coronavirus, but is asymptomatic, can be put up in the isolation room on hotel premises, he said.Rane further said that constant monitoring of patients in home isolation has brought down the Covid-19 mortality rate in the state.“We don’t get patients in a breathless stage any more, as we are monitoring their health in home isolation,” he said.Referring to Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha’s statement about poor health infrastructure in Goa, Rane offered a tour of the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital to show the robust infrastructure put in place by the Goa government.“People in Delhi have to pay for their treatment, while Goa is the only state that provides free treatment for Covid-19,” he said. PTI RPS ARU ARU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-to-issue-new-sop-for-hotels-amid-tourist-season-says-state-health-minister/story-JijUZgPLJsfeW2w4AKJKvL.html
18-11-2020||India||Phase 3 trial of Covaxin to begin in Haryana on Nov 20, minister Anil Vij offers to be first volunteer||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday announced that the third phase trial of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s potential vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will begin on Friday in the state. Vij also offered to be the first volunteer for the vaccine trial.“Trial for third phase of Covaxin a coronavirus vaccine product of Bhart Biotech to start in Haryana on 20th November. I have offered myself as first volunteer to get vaccinated,” the minister wrote on Twitter.Bharat Biotech has begun the Phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin with 26,000 participants across 22 sites in the country, the pharma firm had said on Monday. The Hyderabad-based drug maker is conducting the trial in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The Phase III trials will involve 26,000 volunteers across India, conducted in partnership with ICMR. It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. This is India’s first phase 3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted in India,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.The trial has been registered with the clinical trials registry of India and approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In Haryana, Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences in Rohtak and ESIC hospital in Faridabad have been identified among those sites across the country where trials will be conducted, according to Bharat Biotech’s statement.Trial volunteers, above the age of 18, will receive two intramuscular injections, about 28 days apart. “Participants will be randomly assigned to receive Covaxin or placebo. The trial is double-blinded, such that the investigators, the participants and the company will not be aware of who is assigned to which group,” the pharma firm said.Covaxin has been evaluated in 1,000 subjects in phase I and phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity data, the statement added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-trial-of-covaxin-to-begin-in-haryana-on-nov-20-minister-anil-vij-offers-to-be-first-volunteer/story-R0MrMiISIKO1yg2dShdaAJ.html
18-11-2020||India||SC takes note of petitions challenging foreign minister S Jaishankar’s election to Rajya Sabha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices on a batch of petitions challenging the election of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. The pleas have also raised the issue of Election Commission’s power on issuance of separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual and regular vacancies in Rajya Sabha. One of the petitions against Jaishankar has been filed by Congress leader Gaurav Pandya. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took note of the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that a date be fixed for hearing these matters. “We will give you short date and it will be listed on non miscellaneous day ,” the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing.Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jaishankar, accepted the notice.Earlier, the top court had said that it would like to give an authoritative pronouncement on the issue of EC’s power on issuance of separate notifications for holding by-polls for regular and casual elections to fill vacancies in Rajya Sabha.The pleas pertained to 2019 Rajya Sabha by-poll on two seats from Gujarat and both seats were won by BJP candidates. Earlier, the apex court had said that there was no authoritative judgement of the Supreme Court as to whether the election to more than one vacancy should be held separately or jointly.The Gujarat High Court, on February 4, had dismissed the plea of Congress leader Gaurav Pandya against Jaishankar’s election to the Rajya Sabha.It had also dismissed two other petitions filed by Congress leaders Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani against the election of BJP candidate Jugalji Thakore.Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani have also moved the apex court against High Court order dismissing their election petitions against Thakore.Both Jaishankar and Thakore were elected to Rajya Sabha on July 5 last year in by-polls held on seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani.Jaishankar and Thakore had defeated Congress candidates Pandya and Chudasama respectively in the bypolls.The Congress leaders had moved the high court, challenging the election on the ground that the Election Commission’s notifications, treating the two vacant seats to be of different categories and requiring by-polls to be held separately, were “illegal and in violation of provisions of the Constitution, the Representation of People (RP) Act, 1951 and the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961”.The high court had dismissed the petitions saying the petitioners failed to disclose the cause of action under the provisions of the RP Act relating to the grounds for declaring an election void.It had also said the petitioners failed to point out any provision of the Constitution or the RP Act requiring the EC to hold a single by-election for filling up all casual vacancies.           “The non-compliance of provisions of the Constitution or provisions of the said (RP) Act constituting the cause of action has to be specifically pleaded, and the interpretation of the petitioner of a particular provision of Constitution or of the Act in a particular manner cannot be termed as the noncompliance of such provision for the purpose of challenging the election,” the high court had said.Jaishankar and Thakore had contended before the high court that the EC broke no rules by holding separate elections for two seats and it has been a consistent practice by the poll panel since 2009 to issue separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual vacancies in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-takes-note-of-petitions-challenging-foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-s-election-to-rajya-sabha/story-nbXHCCo8PyxqzkEhXlmO4N.html
18-11-2020||India||Ahead of 2021 West Bengal polls, BJP tasks top office-bearers to submit ‘ground report’ on strategy needed to win||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sent its top office-bearers to tour West Bengal and submit a ground report on the strategy needed to usurp power from the Mamata Banerjee government in the 2021 Assembly polls. The tours of top office bearers have been finalised after a decision by the party that BJP President JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit the state regularly till the Assembly polls to take a stock of the preparations by the state unit. BJP President JP Nadda and national General Secretary (Organisation) BL Santhosh have given the task to the leaders to understand the issues within the state unit and interact with various factions. This is being done in an attempt to send out a message that the Central party leadership is hearing their grievances, while also boosting their morale. The leaders have been asked to compile a detailed report, as per various regions of the state, during their tour. Uttar Banga is being supervised by Harish Dwivedi, national secretary and Shiv Prakash, national joint general secretary (organisation). While Nabadip is being sorted out by national secretary Vinod Tawde and joint general secretary (organisation) Kishor Barman. Kolkata region is being reviewed by Dushyant Gautam, National general secretary and Amitava Chakravorty, state general secretary (organisation).National general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national secretary Sunil Deodhar have been asked to submit a detailed report on issues, strengths and weaknesses and areas that can be worked upon to counter state government in Hooghly and Medinipur.While Rarh Banga is being supervised by two national secretaries Vinod Sonkar and Arvind Menon.According to a senior leader, apart from communicating with office bearers and representatives of the party, analysis of district units and probable leaders who can take on the TMC effectively is being worked out.“The unit has witnessed top state leaders fighting with each other. The migration of leaders from TMC had troubled some in the party which led to differences. There have been meetings in Delhi to resolve this. Now, the Central representatives are touring, talking and noting the issues along with many other things to ensure that the BJP wins the elections. Theirs is expected to be a neutral report on which Central leadership can work,” explained a senior leader.The reports are likely to be submitted by November end to party chief JP Nadda. Polls for West Bengal Assembly’s 294 seats are scheduled to be held in the first half of next year. The BJP wants to better its Lok Sabha performance in West Bengal when it was able to secure 18 out of 42 seats in the 2019 general elections. The party has been at loggerheads with the TMC and allegations have been levelled against each other over political violence ahead of the Assembly polls. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2021-west-bengal-polls-bjp-tasks-top-office-bearers-to-submit-ground-report-on-strategy-needed-to-win/story-nb4s79N9RxD9BvvAch5l8H.html
18-11-2020||India||Not just ML Choudhary, 7 more in Nitish cabinet have criminal cases, says ADR report||While the new Bihar education minister Mewa Lal Choudhary remains under attack for corruption charges during his stint as the vice chancellor of Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour, which had led to lodging of an FIR against him and subsequent suspension from the JD(U); he is not the only one with taint in the Nitish Kumar cabinet.According to the latest study by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) & Election Watch, which was released on Wednesday after analysis of the self-sworn affidavits of the 14 ministers sworn into Nitish cabinet, eight (57%) have declared criminal cases including six (43%) with declared serious criminal cases against them.The list of eight includes four from the BJP, two from the JD(U) and one each from the HAM-S and VIP. However, it is Choudhary’s induction in the cabinet that has triggered off an uproar. In 2017, after the FIR was lodged against Choudhary, Nitish Kumar had refused to even meet him.Choudhary, whose name had surfaced in the BAU recruitment scam and an FIR was lodged against him by the order of the Raj Bhawan in a case involving appointment of 161 assistant professors and junior scientists, is the richest of all with declared assets of Rs 12.31 crore. The average assets of the 14 ministers analysed is Rs 3.93 crore.Choudhary has himself declared one criminal case and four serious cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against him. Animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahni has declared five criminal cases and three cases of serious nature under the IPC. BJP’s Jibesh Kumar has also declared five criminal cases and four cases of serious nature under the IPC. There are five others who have self-declared criminal cases of varying nature against them.Former deputy chief minister Sushil Kuamr Modi was among those who had sent petitions against Choudhary to the governor in 2017 highlighting the irregularities in the appointment process. Modi had then said that he could arrive at the conclusion of complete arbitrariness in the selection process after talking to a number of candidates.RJD MP and party spokesman Manoj Jha said the choice of Mewa Lal Choudhary as education minister was an indication enough of the CM’s weakened position and why Bihar lost after election results. “He can no more take a high moral ground, which he cited as the reason for walking out of Grand Alliance (GA) in 2017. It is bound to be a big embarrassment for the government in the Vidhan Sabha,” he added.Also Read: Nitish Kumar CM for namesake, says Shiv Sena, predicts his futureRJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav tweeted, “an absconding accused in corruption case has been made education minister”. “Nitish Kumar’s discourse on crime, corruption and communalism will, however, continue,” he added.An earlier analysis by ADR & Election Watch had found that 163 (68%) out of the 241 newly-elected leaders from all parties had declared criminal cases. This is higher than the last time. Out of 243 MLAs analysed during Bihar Assembly elections in 2015, 142 (58%) had declared criminal cases against themselves. Out of that, 123 (51%) MLAs declared serious criminal cases this year, compared to 98 five years ago, said the report.Also Read: Bihari NRIs congratulate Nitish Kumar, offer help in development of stateThis year, 19 candidates have declared murder cases against themselves, while 31 reported attempt to murder cases and eight reported cases of crime against women.With a large number of tainted candidates again winning the election, it shows compliance to the Election Commission (EC) guidelines in the light of the Supreme Court order to rein in such trend remains a distant dream. The EC directive had sought greater accountability from political parties to check the problem of criminalisation of politics.“This is dangerous. It is akin to insulting the mandate. A person facing such serious charges should not be made a minister. What is worse, he has been made education minister. Nitish Kumar is responsible for making such a horrible choice. How can such a man deal with higher education, which is in tatters and needed a man of integrity to pull it out of the rut,” asked social analyst and former head, department of economics, Patna University, NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-ml-choudhary-7-more-in-nitish-cabinet-have-criminal-cases-says-adr-report/story-FQRFAYi7IKN0nO3IVRBt2H.html
18-11-2020||India||After court intervention, Maharashtra govt agrees to shift Varavara Rao to Nanavati Hospital||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday agreed to shift jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao to the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai for treatment for 15 days after Bombay High Court’s intervention, reported news agency PTI.Rao, who has been in jail in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, had filed a bail application and a writ petition seeking he be shifted to the hospital immediately, owing to his “diminishing neurological and physical health condition”.Earlier in the day, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar of Bombay HC had directed the state to comply and bear the cost of the 81-year-old Telugu poet’s treatment. The court also said that Rao’s family could visit him as per the hospital’s norms.Senior lawyer Indira Jaising, arguing on his behalf, said that Rao’s condition was deteriorating and his family feared he could die if he is not shifted to the hospital. The court sought Rao’s medical report after he is shifted and treated at the Nanavati Hospital and said it will hear the bail plea on December 9. Rao should not be discharged without informing the court, it added.State’s counsel Deepak Thakre told the court that he had taken instructions from Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who said the state had no objection to shifting Rao to the Nanavati Hospital, PTI reported.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-court-intervention-maharashtra-govt-agrees-to-shift-varavara-rao-to-nanavati-hospital/story-DjeqZmTLy1hZrwkNmUcSGI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Marathis belong to us too’: Yediyurappa on Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ comment||Stoking the 70-year-long border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka over areas like Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani, Mahrashtra deputy chief minister and Karnataka chief minister locked horns on Wednesday. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was first to begin as he broached the issue, paying tributes to Balasaheb Thackeray. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa slammed Pawar’s statement and said those are meant for “unwanted controversy”.“Late Balasaheb had struggled his entire life for rights of common man. He always dreamt about the overall development of Maharashtra and make a united Maharashtra including Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani. So let us decide to fulfil this dream,” the statement from Ajit Pawar’s office read. It was issued on the occasion of Balasaheb’s death anniversary on November 17.Urging Pawar to not make such statements, Karnataka chief minister said, “Marathi speaking people are just like Kannadigas. They too belong to us. Maratha Development Authority has been formed for their development. Statement is just to trigger unwanted controversy. I urge him not to make such statements.” Maharashtra claims Belgaum and the other areas which are part of Karnataka as they were part of Bombay Presidency. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appointed Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde to look into the legal cases concerning the border dispute.  When I was @CMofKarnataka, Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, & other programs were implemented. These were not intended to divide people on caste or language.@BSYBJP has been neglecting these pro-people programs while announcing funds for projects that were not in the budget.6/7Slamming the setting up of Marathi Development Board, which has been announced a few days ago, opposition leader Siddaramaiah said this is a divisive step. “I strongly oppose any decision taken against the interests of Kannadigas. There are many other pressing issues that needs government assistance. @BSYBJP should look into that first to address inequality before hurting the sentiments of Kannadigas,” the former CM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marathis-belong-to-us-too-yediyurappa-on-ajit-pawar-s-united-maharashtra-comment/story-fdf6F9szDu82SkOF9hL4RJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves order on plea challenging PM Modi’s election to Varanasi seat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved the order on the petition challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat. The plea was filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) soldier Tej Bahadur challenging the rejection of his candidature by the returning officer on May 1, 2019.During the Lok Sabha elections last year, the returning officer had held that Bahadur failed to produce a certificate confirming that he was not dismissed from employment by the state on grounds of corruption or disloyalty. He was dismissed from BSF in 2017 after he posted a video online complaining about the quality of food served to the troops.Bahadur claimed that he was not given sufficient time to produce the certificate and the election officer went ahead with dismissing his nomination. On May 1 last year, he approached the Election Commission of India for the certificate but the same could not be obtained. The counsel also argued that Bahadur had earlier filed his nomination as an Independent candidate and later as a candidate of the Samajwadi Party.Bahadur had approached the top court after Allahabad High Court rejected his petition on December 6, 2019, on the ground that he was neither a candidate nor an elector of Varanasi to challenge the election of the Prime Minister.Counsel for Bahadur had circulated a letter for adjournment but the Supreme Court refused to adjourn stating that this matter is being adjourned the third time. “We are hearing you because the respondent is the only office in India. It’s the office of the PM. We don’t want this to be carried on like this,” the court stated. “Why should we grant you liberty for adjournment? You are abusing the process of law. You argue,” a bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told Bahadur’s counsel.Modi was represented by senior advocate Harish Salve while advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav appeared on behalf of Bahadur.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-plea-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-to-varanasi-seat/story-NeE08YmupOpq7aXZPy3A2I.html
18-11-2020||India||‘No lockdown in Delhi’: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assures shopkeepers||Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister, on Wednesday assured shopkeepers the government will not impose a lockdown after speculation over chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s comments on the issue. Sisodia’s assurance comes a day after Arvind Kejriwal wrote to the Centre seeking permission to shut markets in hotspots, in wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases. He also sought permission to close shops that are not following the Covid-19 protocol mandated by the government.“I would like to assure shopkeepers they do not need to be scared. We don’t intend to impose a lockdown,” Sisodia said, according to news agency ANI. “If needed, regulations will be increased in some markets. That’s what we requested the Centre. But it won’t be a lockdown in any manner,” Sisodia clarified. “We want your shops to remain open. The Delhi government believes that it is not a solution in the fight against Covid-19,” Sisodia said.“The solution is better hospital management and better medical systems. Delhi government has managed the medical system well and will do it in future too,” he also said.Since the last week of October, Delhi has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 infections. The daily number of fatalities has also been rising as the city reels under the third wave of Covid-19. As of Tuesday, Delhi has a total of 495,598 cases of Covid-19 infection, including 42,004 active cases, 445,782 recoveries and 7,812 deaths.Meanwhile, the Delhi government put a cap on wedding guests to limit the spread of the viral infection. After the revised order, no more than 50 people can be invited to any wedding in Delhi. Earlier, the limit was set at 200 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-assures-shopkeepers/story-jN2Y8jhkttI10IXPDlB98I.html
18-11-2020||India||China increases movement as rifts develop in Nepal Communist Party||With an increased rift inside Nepal Communist Party, the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on late Tuesday evening and held talks for about two hours.Sources inside the PM residence and Secretariat confirmed that Ambassador Yanqi met Oli late on Tuesday evening and held a discussion for about two hours.“Chinese Ambassador was here last late evening and held discussion with Prime Minister Oli for nearly two hours,” an official from PM Secretariat confirmed ANI on the condition of anonymity.Another source inside Baluwatar confirmed that Yanqi and Oli held a discussion about the unification process of the ruling party and solving ongoing issues inside the party.“They held a discussion about the party matters to keep the party intact and government in form. Ambassador Yanqi stressed to continue negotiation to settle down the disputes and reach consensus,” another source inside Baluwatar known with the talks about meeting confirmed ANI.Dissatisfaction inside the ruling Nepal Communist Party has increased once again with two chairs divided over conveying the Secretariat meeting of the party which is scheduled for Wednesday afternoon.Oli has sent a proposal to co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal to postpone the meeting while Dahal has remained firm in holding on to the meeting later in the afternoon.Out of the Nine-membered Secretariat of the ruling NCP, five members namely Dahal, Madhav Nepal, Jhal Nath Khanal, Bamdev Gautam, and Narayan Kaji Shrestha are pressing on for the meeting.Meanwhile, Bishnu Poudel, Ishwar Pokhrel, and Ram Bahadur Thapa along with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli are loggerheaded to postpone the meeting. In order to avert the meeting scheduled for 1 pm (Local Time), Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has summoned a cabinet meeting to skip the secretariat meeting.“I have been informed to reach PM residence before 1 pm this afternoon to attend the cabinet meeting. As the meeting was not able to convene on Monday due to Tihar it has been summoned for today,” a minister in Oli led cabinet informed requesting not to be named on the first place.Oli had made attempts to cancel Wednesday’s Secretariat Meeting for which he had sent Bishnu Poudel to convince Dahal and withdraw his political document.In the previous round of Secretariat meeting, Dahal had presented a document where he termed Oli’s activities as “inexcusable” and again demanded his resignation from both the posts terming him inappropriate for the post.Alleging Oli has filed over his promises and agreement earlier signed and brokered Dahal further has pointed Oli of failing to deal with the pandemic leaving everyone in despair and agony.The 19-page document floated by Dahal has directed Oli to make the sacrifice for the constitution, party, and nation for being unable to keep his words by disobeying party decisions, election manifesto, and ignoring good governance.With Oli making efforts to postpone the Secretariat meeting, Dahal on Tuesday had met President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to settle down the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-increases-movement-as-rifts-develop-in-nepal-communist-party/story-1OAzetp9P0T5aPW9v2vrkJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Shift Varavara Rao to Nanavati Hospital from Taloja jail: Bombay HC directs state||Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra government to shift Varavaro Rao to state-run Nanavati Rao Hospital for 15 days and ordered it to bear the cost of the 81-year-old Telugu poet’s treatment, news agency ANI reported. Rao has been imprisoned in Taloja jail in connection with the Elgar Parishad case.The high court also said that Rao’s family can visit him as per the hospital’s norms, according to ANI.Senior lawyer Indira Jaising argued on his behalf in Bombay High Court in a physical hearing. “He (Varavara Rao) is completely bed-ridden, in diapers, no medical attendant and has a catheter. The catheter was not changed for three months, as there was no one to change it,” she said, according to Live Law.“There is a reasonable apprehension that he (Varavara Rao) will die in custody,” Indira Jaising said today. “I am alleging negligence on the part of the state. If the State is unable to look after him, he needs to be shifted to Nanavati Hospital,” she added.Deepak Thakare, appearing on behalf of the state, had asked for Varavara Rao to be shifted to JJ Hospital, and all required tests to be conducted there. However, Jaising vehemently opposed this suggestion and informed the court that when Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital in July, he sustained head injuries, and was found lying in a pool of urine, with no nurse or attendant nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shift-varavara-rao-to-nanavati-hospital-from-taloja-jail-bombay-hc-directs-state/story-RC5PvHnZKQNx9ZeuaCheON.html
18-11-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar takes jibe at Congress over stand on RCEP||Union Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday took a jibe at Congress party over its leaders’ stand on Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP).In a tweet, Javadekar said internal contradiction and confusion in senior leadership of Congress on RCEP has been exposed .“Internal contradiction and confusion in senior leadership in Congress on critical issues exposed on yet another issue - RCEP. While yesterday @AnandSharmaINC termed India’s decision of not joining RCEP as unfortunate, @Jairam_Ramesh on the other hand endorsed India’s exit from RCEP,” Javadekar said in a tweet. Terming India’s decision of not joining RCEP as unfortunate, Congress leader Anand Sharma in a tweet on Tuesday said, “India’s decision of not joining Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership is unfortunate and ill advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration.”“Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP. We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap,” he added.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said, “On Oct 21 2019 I had described India’s imminent membership of RCEP as 3rd jhatka for the economy after demonetisation & botched GST. A year later the position @INCIndia took then in demanding that the PM not drag India into an unfair RCEP, as was being planned, stands vindicated.”In November last year, India decided not to join the RCEP agreement as its key concerns were not addressed. The key reasons behind New Delhi’s decision to remain out of the world’s biggest trade agreement include inadequate protection against import surge, insufficient differential with China, possible circumvention of rules of origin, keeping the base year as 2014 and no credible assurances on market access and non-tariff barriers.The RCEP is a proposed free trade agreement in the Asia-Pacific region between the 10 member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) namely, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam and five of ASEAN’s Free Trade Agreement(FTA) partners -- Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea.In May this year, China said it will welcome India back to negotiations on the RCEP at an appropriate time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-takes-jibe-at-congress-over-stand-on-rcep/story-bHV1LruMrawbE9zsC79pEI.html
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah, Nadda to visit Bengal every month till end of assembly polls: state BJP chief||West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday said union home minister Amit Shah and party national president J P Nadda will visit the state every month till the end of assembly elections.Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May next year.The two senior BJP leaders will visit the state separately every month to take stock of the party organisation ahead of the elections.“Amit Shah and J P Nadda will visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over.The dates are yet to be finalised. Their regular visits will energise the party workers,” Ghosh told reporters.Shah is likely to visit the state for two consecutive days a month and Nadda for three days, party sources said. Lashing out at the Congress-CPI(M) alliance, Ghosh said both the parties have been rejected by the people of the state long back.“The people of West Bengal have given chances to the Congress, the CPI(M) and the TMC. All the three parties have failed to live up to the expectations of the masses, which will now be fulfilled by the BJP,” he said.Read more | TMC anticipates spurt in fake news ahead of Bengal polls, draws a counterWith an eye on the elections, the BJP on Tuesday divided the state into five organisational zones and put central leaders in charge of them, party sources said. Senior BJP leaders Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar have been handpicked by the party top brass to head the North Bengal, Rarh Banga (south-western districts), Nabadwip, Midnapore and Kolkata organisational zones, they said. Deodhar, Tawde, Gautam and Sonkar are likely to conduct party meetings in their respective zones during the day. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, who has been given charge of the Kolkata zone, exuded confidence after arriving in the city that the saffron party will come to power in the state in the assembly elections.After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the main rival of the ruling Trinamool Congress by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP’s strength increasing in the state in the last few years, party leaders have exuded confidence that it will be able to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule in the 2021 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-nadda-to-visit-bengal-every-month-till-end-of-assembly-polls-state-bjp-chief/story-zJmsBlZ0PWAdntq91YoQ7K.html
18-11-2020||India||Delhi congress leaders take out tractor yatra against farm laws||Delhi congress leaders and workers took out a ‘Kissan Adhikar Tractor Yatra’ in rural pockets of north west Delhi on Wednesday, demanding that the Modi government withdraw the farm sector reform laws.The tractor procession started from Kanjhawla and was stopped by the police at Qutubgarh village, alleged party leaders.The “anti-farmer” bills passed by Parliament will hurt and weaken peasants in the country, Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said.“Congress is completely with the farmers to save their interests and demands that the Modi government withdraw the farm laws enacted by its government,” he said.Delhi congress leader Parvez Alam said hundreds of farmers participated in the yatra. He said the 15-km long tractor yatra covering villages from Kanjhawla to Barwala, was stopped by the police at Qutubgarh.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws will destroy the minimum support price mechanism, end Agricultural Produce Market Committees and allow corporates to arm-twist them. The government, however, has been saying that these laws will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of the middleman and usher in new technology in farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-congress-leaders-take-out-tractor-yatra-against-farm-laws/story-5ivzlDjoA7SqIHVAtqz8SI.html
18-11-2020||India||Army completes setting up of modern habitat for troops in Ladakh||With temperature set to dip substantially in the Ladakh sector in the winter months and no solution to the border row with China in sight, the Indian Army has completed the setting up of modern habitats for thousands of soldiers deployed in forward areas to deal with any misadventure by the People’s Liberation Army, officials familiar with developments said on Wednesday. Temperatures in some places held by the Indian Army can dip to minus 40 degrees Celsius, with the super high-altitude areas also likely to receive several feet of snow (30 to 40 feet) during the peak of winters. Watch: Indian Army sets up modern habitats for troops deployed in Ladakh “Apart from smart camps with integrated facilities which have been built over the years, additional state-of-the-art habitat with arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene has been created to accommodate frontline troops. The troops are not lacking anything and prepared to take on any challenge,” said one of the officials cited above. Fresh images emerging from Ladakh on Wednesday provided glimpses of the infrastructure the army has created to support its forward deployed troops at a time talks to resolve the border situation remain deadlocked and both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh theatre. “Troops in the front line have been accommodated in heated tents as per tactical considerations of their deployment… Adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater for any emergency,” said a second official. India has made vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its forward deployed soldiers, including the supply of specialised winter clothing from the United States. India has imported more than 15,000 sets of extended cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) from the US, with the emergency supply made by activating the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Association (LEMOA). India signed the LEMOA, the first of the three foundational agreements proposed by Washington to deepen bilateral military cooperation, with the US in August 2016. The Indian Army and the PLA have held eight rounds of talks to reduce friction along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) without any breakthrough. At the last round of talks on November 6, the two sides said they would ensure that their front line soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. They also agreed to hold the ninth round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers soon but no date has been fixed for that dialogue yet. India is pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said on November 6 that India will not accept shifting of the LAC in eastern Ladakh even as he did not rule out the possibility of the situation escalating into a larger conflict in the sensitive theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-completes-setting-up-of-modern-habitat-for-troops-in-ladakh/story-VOVvUdb4ntl6xTrsSY1RjN.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhath Puja: UP govt urges people to celebrate at home, follow Covid protocol||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an advisory for Chhath Puja in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, advising people to perform rituals at their homes or nearby, as much as possible. However, the government said that arrangements will be made by the local administration at the traditional spots near rivers/ponds for the puja. People must follow Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and abide by social distancing, stated the government.Chhath is dedicated to the Sun God and is one of the most popular festivals for the people of Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh or Purvanchal. Devotees gather and take a holy dip in rivers, ponds, and other water bodies during the four-day festivities from November 19 to 20.Chhath puja is mainly observed by the people of Bihar, Jharkhand, and bordering areas in Uttar Pradesh, and it will be celebrated on November 20. This year, the main celebration is on November 20 when devotees will offer ‘argha’ to Sun God.Meanwhile, preparations have begun for Chhath Puja in Lucknow’s Hasanganj area and on the banks of the river Ganga in Varanasi.“Only a few devotees have come for preparations of Chhath Puja amid Covid-19. Unlike this year, the place is usually filled with devotees,” a devotee said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-up-govt-urges-people-to-celebrate-at-home-follow-covid-protocol/story-3LavrKBNSU6gjwYKVv6rfL.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury attacks Kapil Sibal over introspection remark||Attacking veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal over his introspection remark, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said that the former union minister was free to join a new party or form one instead of making such embarrassing remarks against the Congress. “He (Sibal) is a senior Congress leader and has the accessibility and proximity to top leaders of the party. He can raise the issues with them instead of making such embarrassing remarks in public. He is free to form a new party or join one if he feels that the Congress is not the right place,” Chowdhury said. Sibal, in a recent interview, had emphasised the need of introspection in the party. The party is on a decline, the former union minister said, in the aftermath of the Congress’ massive drubbing in the recently held Bihar assembly election. Also Read: Bihar debacle reignites calls for introspection in Congress“Earlier too, Sibal has spoken about this. He seems to be very concerned about the Congress and its need for introspection. But he was not seen campaigning for the party in the recent elections in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, or Gujarat,” said Chowdhury. He added that mere talking will not achieve anything. Speaking without doing anything doesn’t mean introspection. “If he had gone to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, he could have proved that what he is saying is correct and that he strengthened the position of Congress. Speaking without doing anything doesn’t mean introspection,” Chowdhury added. Chowdhury is not the only leader to have attacked Sibal. Earlier, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also lashed out at Sibal, saying the former union minister should not have spoken of the party’s internal issues in the media. He added that this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-adhir-chowdhury-attacks-kapil-sibal-over-introspection-remark/story-VOvGdlYHpIhvsP5DNqPZWP.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR issues advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients; says indiscriminate use not advisable and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday said that indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was not advisable, even as the number of infections across the country breached the 8.9 million mark. Read moreFrom over 3,700 Covid-19 cases to 6,396 in 24 hours: Delhi’s rising numbers explainedDelhi logged nearly double the number of fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. From 3,797 cases on Monday, Delhi recorded 6,396 infections on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to 495,598. While 99 more fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, the number of active cases of Covid-19 is 42,004, authorities said. Read moreChhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festivalThe four-day Chhath Puja celebrations commenced on Wednesday with authorities preparing ghats for devotees to pay obeisance to the Lord Sun from November 20 to 21. Around a million devotees throng ghats for celebrating Bihar’s biggest festival. Read moreKaun Banega Crorepati 12: Can you answer this super difficult Rs 7 crore question that Mohita Sharma could not?Kaun Banega Crorepati found yet another crorepati in Tuesday’s episode. Sadly, she, too, could not bag the jackpot prize money of Rs 7 crore. Mohita Sharma was asked a rather tough 15th question and chose to quit the show with the Rs 1 crore she had won. Read moreWhatsApp’s disappearing messages now available to all usersWhatsApp announced the launch of disappearing messages earlier this month. This feature is now available for all WhatsApp users on Android, iOS and web as well. As the name suggests, messages will disappear from chats once the feature is enabled. Read moreVideo of ‘pizza rat’ in ‘human form’ is viral. Why? Because it’s 2020Do you remember the video of ‘pizza rat’ which went viral a few years ago? If you do, then chances are you are smiling because the clip is absolutely hilarious. In case you haven’t, allow us to explain. Back in 2015, the video became crazy viral because of what it showed - a rat dragging a pizza slice through the stairs of a subway in New York City. Read more‘We’re partnering for bulk production of Covid-19 vaccine’: Indian Envoy to USIndian ambassador to US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu spoke on the priority of Indo-US ties. Sandhu said that President-elect Joe Biden was immediately focusing on the Covid-19 issue. He added that India will be a significant partner for bulk production of vaccines. “We have seen President-elect Biden immediately focusing on Covid issue. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-issues-advisory-for-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients-says-indiscriminate-use-not-advisable-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Lhin3E8OzXpDNB2BQvq0EN.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Cipla launches rapid antibody detection kit||India’s leading drug maker, Cipla Limited, on Wednesday announced that it had launched Covi-G for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) antibody detection that gives results within 10 minutes.The kit has a sensitivity and specificity of 92%, which is its ability to detect true negatives and true positive results.The company signed a licensing agreement with a Belgium-based firm, Multi G, for the distribution of their Covid-19 Rapid Antibody test kit, across most emerging markets and Europe. “This licencing agreement is part of Cipla’s efforts to enhance global access to life- saving treatments and diagnostic infrastructure for patients in need,” said the company in a statement.Also read | Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientsAs part of the agreement, Cipla will be responsible for distribution of these rapid antibody kits that will be manufactured by MultiG. Marketed under the brand name Covi-G, this is among the earliest antibody kits to declare CE-compliance and is awaiting approval by ICH country regulators It has been commercialised in at least 20 countries already, with sensitivity and specificity exceeding 92%. The kit tests for both IgM and IgG antibodies, using a single-prick blood test. The kit gives results within 10 minutes.“Cipla’s expansive reach, network and partnerships with public health authorities as well as private institutions will help in ensuring the seamless access of these kits across 25+ markets in Asia, Middle-East and North Africa, Latin America, EU and Australia,” their statement further read.Apart from an epidemiological tool for mass screening, this point of care test can also be used to detect patients who have had a suspected asymptomatic or mild infection in the past, identify potential plasma donors and possibly prioritise susceptible populations for vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cipla-launches-rapid-antibody-detection-kit/story-breLDzhMcbnBZ3XBc5h3hO.html
18-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar CM for namesake, says Shiv Sena, predicts his future||Two days after Nitish Kumar was sworn in as the Bihar chief minister for the seventh time, Shiv Sena on Wednesday questioned how long will Nitish Kumar ‘endure’ the favour done by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and claimed that he was chief minister of Bihar only for namesake. An editorial in Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, said that the majority of the Janata Dal (United) and the BJP alliance in Bihar is slim, while the majority of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi is much stronger and there is no threat of it collapsing.The editorial said that Nitish Kumar said that he did not wish to become the chief minister but he accepted it on BJP’s insistence. “It is proven that Prime Minister Modi has a special love for Bihar as Fadnavis says. Shiv Sena was not given the CM‘s post in Maharashtra because BJP had more seats, (but) they conferred the CM’s crown on a party that slipped to the third spot (in the Bihar election). What generosity! It will be difficult to record this renunciation in politics but how long will Nitish Kumar endure this favour?” it asked. It further added that Nitish was Bihar’s CM only for namesake. “They [BJP] kept their word and made Nitish Kumar the chief minister, which is ok, but the question is if this is a permanent measure... Nitish Kumar will be the chief minister for namesake and he will be forced to resign after humiliation over a period of time,” it said, adding that BJP has made two deputy chief ministers to increase the trouble for Nitish Kumar.Also Read: Chhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festival Slamming the BJP leaders, the editorial said that it is laughable to hear them say that the Bihar government will last its full term when they have only three legislators more than the half-way mark required.“Maharashtra government has the majority and legislators. Therefore to say that the Maharashtra government will collapse is like breaking head on a stone wall,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-cm-for-namesake-says-shiv-sena-predicts-his-future/story-VaQswEfvm8cBbtpKbYVfkJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19 in Delhi: What shopkeepers at Bhagirath Palace market say about lockdown||With the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessing a rapid surge in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday suggested to the Centre that some markets in the national capital, which might emerge as hotspots in the coming days, be shut down.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOfficially, the spike in cases, which has been called the “third wave” of the pandemic in the city, was attributed to the festive season as people came out in large numbers to shop.Also Read | ‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainBhagirath Palace marketLocated in Old Delhi, Bhagirath Palace is one of the markets in the national capital which witnessed massive footfall during the festive season, with neither the shopkeepers nor the buyers taking precautionary measures against the virus. Bhagirath Palace is the largest market for medicines and medical goods in north India. If closed for even a few days, the supply of medicines across the region will be affected, according to experts.During the nationwide lockdown, the market was closed twice but not for more than four-five days due to which the supply of medicines was not affected. Also, with thousands of people coming to Bhagirath Palace to purchase medicines, the Delhi Police had banned the entry of vehicles. However, shopkeepers have now opened their shops, with hand sanitisers, masks etc. being sold on both sides of the road.According to shopkeepers in Bhagirath Palace, implementing Covid-19 norms here is “extremely difficult.” This, they say, is because the crowd here is huge and shopkeepers have occupied empty spaces outside their shops because of which the possibility of social distancing in the market is “nil.”Covid-19 in DelhiThe number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi has risen exponentially over the last few days. On November 11, the city logged its highest single-day virus count of 8,539. Just a day later, it recorded its highest death toll due to the virus in a single day at 104. With the situation going out of hand, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting on November 15 and announced a 12-point plan to bring the pandemic under control.Also Read | Daily Covid-19 tests to be increased to over 1 lakh in Delhi, says Arvind KejriwalOn Tuesday, there were 6,396 new Covid-19 cases and 99 related deaths in Delhi, bringing the total number of cases to 495,598 including 7,812 deaths, according to a government bulletin. The government has already ruled out a lockdown in the city.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-delhi-what-shopkeepers-at-bhagirath-palace-market-say-about-lockdown/story-bDLOl5RczlJh6TcAlVlkxN.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festival||The four-day Chhath Puja celebrations commenced on Wednesday with authorities preparing ghats for devotees to pay obeisance to the Lord Sun from November 20 to 21. Around a million devotees throng ghats for celebrating Bihar’s biggest festival.Authorities in Patna have appealed to the devotees to perform the puja at their homes to reduce the number of devotees at ghats in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said police have been deployed at ghats and devotees will not be allowed to commute in their personal vehicles to lessen the crowds. “Hence, there will be no parking facilities at the ghats.”Ravi said no private boats will be allowed to ferry devotees during the festival. “As a precautionary measure, we have deployed disaster management teams. ...officials are looking to implement safety standards at Chhath ghats amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ghats are getting equipped with basic amenities including drinking water, toilets, and lighting facilities. Barricading is being done for social distancing.”The Patna Municipal Corporation has started distributing Ganga jal to encourage the celebration of Chhath at homes in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-celebrations-begin-a-million-devotees-at-ghats-for-bihar-s-biggest-festival/story-hQpYtMKk3SQN5dAr52T4AK.html
18-11-2020||India||After Delhi, these are the worst Covid-19 hit cities in India||India’s Covid-19 tally surpassed the 8.9 million mark on Wednesday as it added more than 38,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry data showed that 474 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the death toll to 130,993.Meanwhile, the number of active cases remained below 500,000 for the eighth consecutive day. As of Wednesday morning, there were 446,805 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country. The national recovery rate improved to 93.52%, data showed.Also Read | Increased testing, more beds: How Delhi is planning to fight Covid-19 third waveAs the national tally of the daily coronavirus disease falls, the virus seems to be resurfacing in several states including Delhi which is reeling under the third wave of the pandemic.Here are the five cities that have seen a rising number of Covid-19 cases:DelhiAs of Tuesday evening, Delhi had more than 495,000 cases of Covid-19. The number has been surging since the last week of October when the city breached 5,000-mark of daily cases. It also reported more than 8,000 cases on November 11 which is the highest daily record so far.MumbaiWith a spike of 541 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai on Tuesday reported the highest single-day infections in Maharashtra, which is among the worst-affected states of India. The number of total infections in the metropolis is at 270,654 and its death toll stood at 10,596.KolkataWhile the daily number of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal is falling, Kolkata and other adjacent areas are reporting a major share in the eastern state’s caseload. As of Tuesday, the city had a total of 95,504 cases. The death toll in Kolkata has reached 2,448.AhmedabadWith the addition of 234 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in Gujarat, the tally in Ahmedabad district reached 45,802 on Tuesday. Four people died of the infection, taking the toll to 1,939 in the largest city of Gujarat. With 4.0, the city’s case fatality rate is among the highest in the country.PunePune city on Tuesday saw a rise of 145 Covid-19 infections. The total caseload in the city is over 331,000. The number of fatalities reported in the span of one day was eight, data showed. Pune hit its Covid-19 peak in September, after which the cases have been on a steady decline. However, it has the highest number of total cases and deaths per million as compared to other cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-these-are-the-worst-covid-19-hit-cities-in-india/story-zflFS0X1svx1lykfBM1T7I.html
18-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik announces Rs 115 cr to script turnaround of former Maoist-hotbed||A little more than two years after announcing a Rs 100 crore scheme for the development of Maoist hotbed of Swabhiman Anchala in Malkangiri district, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced another Rs 115 crore package for the area. The money is for a mega piped water supply project and for more mobile towers in the area.“Swabhiman Anchal is always in my heart and efforts will continue to make it a developed region. I had announced a Rs 100 crore special package under SETU (Socio-economic Transformation and Upliftment) in 2018. Now, it has been increased to Rs 215 crore,” said Patnaik, while exhorting the Maoists in the area to leave the path of violence and join the mainstream.Patnaik also said each of the households in the nine gram panchayats of Swabhiman Anchala area would get a 4G-enabled smartphone that would aid students’ study-related activities. Four mobile phone towers have been installed in the Swabhiman Anchal while there are plans for another three towers with 4G network in the area.Work on 33×11 kv electrical sub-station will be completed soon and 11 KV 3 phase line connection will be provided to all the residents. A total of Rs 100 crore will be spent for construction of concrete roads in all villages, 78 km tarred road and seven bridges in the area. A mega drinking piped water supply project at the cost of Rs 20 crore has been started while work for as many as 250 tube wells was completed. For irrigation, Rs 32 crore will be spent on 43 lift irrigation projects and 419 cluster deep bore wells. It will provide irrigation to 1700 hectares of land, said a government communiqué.Also Read: 35-year-old man arrested for rape and murder of 5-year-old girl in OdishaEarlier known as the Cut-off area for its geographical isolation following the building of Balimela reservoir, the Swabhiman Anchala was essentially a cluster of around 151 villages in Malkangiri’s Chitrakonda block that had turned into a bastion of the Maoists over the last 20 years. As the deep waters of Balimela reservoir separated the area from Malkangiri district, security forces found it difficult to approach the area. The construction of a 910 m long bridge in July 2018 at Janbai village over Gurupriya river ended the isolation.The area for long has been a theatre of violence beginning with the killing of 38 Greyhound policemen of Andhra Pradesh anti-Maoist force, who were sunk to death in the Balimela reservoir while returning after a three-day combing operation. In February 2011, erstwhile district collector of Malkangiri, R Vineel Krishna was abducted by Maoists from the Cut-off area, but released eight days later. In October 2016, at least 30 Maoists were killed in the Cut-off area in one of the biggest anti-Maoist encounters in the country. Though Maoist presence has decreased now, security forces in the area are now recovering several landmines and arms from Moaist hideouts during combing operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-announces-rs-115-cr-to-script-turnaround-of-former-maoist-hotbed/story-luiG0t702PGEj6jo3VH43H.html
18-11-2020||India||Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday said that indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was not advisable, even as the number of infections across the country breached the 8.9 million mark.The top medical body conducted an open-label phase II multicentre randomised controlled trial (PLACID trial) in the country across 39 public and private hospitals on the use of CPT in the management of cases with moderate Covid-19 infection. The therapy involves the use of plasma from people who have recovered from the infection to aid the immune response of those still fighting it.The study has concluded that the therapy “did not lead to a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality in the group that received CPT as compared to the group that did not receive CPT”, ICMR said.PLACID is the world’s largest pragmatic trial on CPT conducted in 464 moderately ill confirmed Covid-19 affected adults in a real-world setting wherein no benefit of use of CPT could be established, the top medical body added.ICMR’s statement comes at a time when there are 8,912,907 confirmed cases of the viral infection. Of them 446,805 are active cases, 8,335,109 have recovered and 130,993 fatalities have been recorded due to the viral disease.Before this, doctors at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had also advised against the overuse of experimental therapies. Dr Manish Soneja, an additional professor from AIIMS’ department of medicine, had said that randomised control trials did not show benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, or convalescent plasma therapy.A similar study by ICMR, published in the peer-reviewed British Medical Journal, in October had also found no benefits of convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. It found that the outcomes were almost the same for the two groups -- 235 who received two doses of convalescent plasma and 229 who received the standard care. The therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease, it said.According to ICMR, similar studies conducted in China and the Netherlands have also documented no significant benefit of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes of hospitalised Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiscriminate-use-not-advisable-icmr-s-advisory-for-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/story-P5tcjfYaILYsw2hrHbQuMN.html
18-11-2020||India||From over 3,700 Covid-19 cases to 6,396 in 24 hours: Delhi’s rising numbers explained||Delhi logged nearly double the number of fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. From 3,797 cases on Monday, Delhi recorded 6,396 infections on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to 495,598. While 99 more fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, the number of active cases of Covid-19 is 42,004, authorities said.The health department bulletin showed these cases came out of the 49,031 tests conducted the previous day, while the positivity rate stood at 13.04 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city. The highest single-day spike till date at 8,593 cases was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were also reported. Delhi witnessed a sudden spike in coronavirus disease cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time.What does the daily increase in cases say?The spike in everyday cases points that the city is facing a third wave of the infection and the Delhi government has also agreed to the same. Compared to the last two waves, Delhi saw nearly twice the number of cases in the third. In the first 15 days of October, the average number of cases reported daily in Delhi was 2,754. Between October 15 and October 31, this average shot up to 4,104. In the first 12 days of November, this average was 6,693. Over the past three days, there has been an average of around 3,100 new cases per day, but the number of tests has also fallen from around 58,000 per day to around 25,000 per day because of Diwali, Bhai Dooj and the weekend.Read more | Random rapid tests for commuters going to Noida from Delhi What about the positivity rate?Positivity rate in Delhi has consistently been above 11 per cent for the past two weeks –– crossing 15 per cent on some days. This had fallen to 6 per cent in September.Why is Delhi witnessing a spike in cases?Experts were already expecting this increase, keeping in mind the festival season. Even the health ministry has pointed out that the spike could be due to the festive season, the opening of essential services and allowing the movement of people.What has the Delhi government done?Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal seeking to withdraw the relaxation given for wedding gatherings and restricting the number of guests to 50, from the 200 allowed since November 1. The government has also written to the Centre to allow local lockdowns in markets which may emerge as hotspots. Kejriwal said the government has sought permission from the Centre to modify guidelines to shut markets if necessary.Read more| Covid-19: Delhi seeks curbs at weddings, markets“We witnessed massive crowds in some of the popular markets of Delhi before Diwali. No social distancing was followed and due to this, the number of Covid cases has surged significantly. In the last order passed by the Centre, it was noted that state government cannot impose any lockdowns without permission. We have requested them to permit us to shut down market places if necessary,” Kejriwal said.A decision has also been taken to increase house-to-house surveillance of active cases in containment zones and other vulnerable pockets in the national capital and 7,000-8,000 teams will be engaged for this exercise, an increase from the existing 3,000 teams that are currently involved. Elaborating further, NITI Aayog member VK Paul who heads Covid-19 national taskforce said the ICU bed capacity will be increased from 3,523 to over 6,000 in the next few days in hospitals across Delhi.Meanwhile, the North MCD said it has kept 20 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at its Hindu Rao Hospital, the biggest municipal hospital in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-over-3-700-covid-19-cases-to-6-396-in-24-hours-delhi-s-rising-numbers-explained/story-DBkzlai5vMmOVhoshLqVVM.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Kashmir’s 39% population has antibodies, shows sero survey||Kashmir’s first district-wise sero survey for Covid-19 has shown antibodies in about 39% of the population in the Valley. Health officials said that the sero-prevalence study in Kashmir division for SARS COV-2 specific IgG antibodies was conducted across all the ten districts of Pulwama, Budgam, Kupwara, Srinagar, Bandipora, Ganderbal, Anantnag, Baramullah, Shopian and Kulgam. “The study shows IgG antibodies among 38.8% sampled population,” said Dr S Muhammad Salim Khan, head of the department, community medicine, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar.Also read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases again jump to over 38,600; recoveries above 8.33 mnThe study was organised by Government Medical College Srinagar and JK National Health Mission in collaboration with SKIMS Medical College, Government Medical College Anantnag, Government Medical College Baramullah and Directorate of Health Services, Kashmir.Blood samples were collected from a total of 6,230 persons of which 2,415 tested positive for the Covid antibodies. “From each district,400 samples were taken while earlier, we had taken 2,418 samples in Srinagar district which were tested for the presence of IgG antibodies specific to SARS COV-2 infection in Abbott Laboratories’ Architect analyser by Department of Biochemistry GMC Srinagar, “ Khan said. The age-wise analysis shows more sero prevalence among the elderly population while gender-wise, it’s more among females (40.2%) than males (37.3%). “Over half of the sampled population (52.1%) who had Influenza-like illness showed IgG antibodies and surprisingly, among those who didn’t show any symptoms, 37.9% showed IgG antibodies,” he said. Half of the sampled population who had history of contact with a Covid-19 case showed IgG antibodies while among those who had no history of contact, 40% showed IgG antibodies.Among those who had tested positive for Covid-19, only 79.5% showed antibodies. Even among 912 persons who tested negative, 345 (37.8%) had Covid-19 specific IgG antibodies.“The study indicates that there has been widespread transmission of SARS CoV-2 infection in general population and there are apprehensions that the majority of unaffected population may also contract it if SOPs aren’t followed. There seems complacency among the general population and very few people are now using face masks. People are not adhering to social distancing norms even at gatherings in public places,” Khan said.The study was funded by JK National Health Mission, the main collaborator of the study, and was approved by the Institutional ethical committee of GMC Srinagar.The number of Covid-19 cases in J&K has reached 103,581 and the number of deaths at 1,604 till Tuesday evening. Of the casualties, 1,063 deaths were reported in Kashmir and 541 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kashmir-s-39-population-has-antibodies-shows-sero-survey/story-xInBkGEVjvpiKYqlcCoATI.html
18-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre, claims inflation, unemployment rate at all-time high||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday continued his attack on the Central government and claimed that inflation was never so high, nor was unemployment.Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief said that the public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily.“Banks are in trouble and GDP too. Inflation was never so high, nor was unemployment. Public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily. Development or destruction?” he tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi). बैंक मुसीबत में हैं और GDP भी। महँगाई इतनी ज़्यादा कभी नहीं थी, ना ही बेरोज़गारी। जनता का मनोबल टूट रहा और सामाजिक न्याय प्रतिदिन कुचला जा रहा है।विकास या विनाश?Over the past few months, the Congress leader has been targeting the Centre on various issues, including the handling of the coronavirus crisis, economic conditions in the country and unemployment, among others and alleged that the government was not doing enough to resolve these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-claims-inflation-unemployment-rate-at-all-time-high/story-X7wRVv9k4mDxJHfo4H6O9M.html
18-11-2020||India||J&K: PAGD announces third list of candidates for district development council elections||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) announced late on Tuesday its third list of candidates for the district development council polls in Jammu and Kashmir which will be held in a phased manner. The list came out on the day Union home minister Amit Shah blamed the alliance for pushing J&K back to the era of “terror and turmoil”.PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah released the list of 16 candidates with the Peoples Democratic Party contesting on eight seats, the National Conference on six seats, and the Peoples Conference and the Awami National Conference on one each. No Congress candidate figured in the third list. So far, PAGD has released names of 70 candidates for DDC polls in Kashmir. The first list had most of the candidates from the National Conference but the second and the third lists have accommodated candidates from other PAGD constituents as well.Earlier on Tuesday, Amit Shah, in a scathing criticism of the six-party bloc, termed them as the “Gupkar Gang” that wanted to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribals that the Centre had ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state. He also dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior party leader Rahul Gandhi to clarify their stand on the alliance.Shah’s remarks triggered a sharp response from the PAGD, which, its leader say, was formed to demand restoration of the special status. The PAGD leadership said the Bharatiya Janata Party was trying to delegitimise a coalition that was taking part in a democratic process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-pagd-announces-third-list-of-candidates-for-block-development-council-elections/story-V67v41hAH0seSWcuIfhVjJ.html
18-11-2020||India||10 killed in road accident in Gujarat, PM Modi condoles deaths||Ten people were killed and 16 injured when the mini-truck they were travelling in collided with another truck at a highway in Gujarat’s Vadodara on Wednesday morning, reports said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the victims and wished for a speedy recovery of the injured. “Saddened by the accident in Vadodara. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. Praying that the injured recover soon. The administration is providing all possible assistance at the site of the accident,” he said in a tweet. Chief minister Vijay Rupani also took to Twitter to express grief over the accident and said he has asked officials to help the victims. “Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident near Vadodara. Instructed officials to do needful. May those who have been injured recover at the earliest. I pray for the departed souls. Om Shanti,” Rupani tweeted. The 10 people, who died, were from Varachha area of Surat city and they were heading towards Pavagadh in Panchmahal district, Vadodara Police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt was cited as saying by news agency PTI. The injured at the accident site at Waghodia circle on the highway were admitted to the hospital.Home minister Amit Shah also expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the accident. “Have spoken to the local administration they are providing all possible assistance. Condolences with the bereaved families. May injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-16-injured-as-trucks-collide-on-highway-in-gujarat/story-Je5Ccb6IIyFa74FG94Yn0I.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh seeks Centre’s nod to make bio-ethanol from surplus paddy||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel met Union petroleum, natural gas and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi on Tuesday and sought his permission for production of bio-ethanol from surplus paddy purchased by the state in addition to purchase made by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The CM also demanded an increase in the quota of kerosene oil for people living in the forest areas. Baghel informed the union minister that state government has made necessary provisions in Chhattisgarh’s Industrial policy 2019-24 for setting up ethanol plants and requested permission to produce ethanol from about 6 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, a press release issued by the government stated on Tuesday. The CM sought permission for producing bio-ethanol from surplus paddy purchased from farmers in the state, in addition to purchases made by the FCI. The CM informed that an estimated 6 lakh tonnes of surplus paddy will be made available by the state government to ethanol plants for production. “Baghel drew union minister’s attention towards the requirement of more kerosene oil in forest areas and requested him to increase the quota. Union minister directed the officials for immediate action in the context. Union minister gave assurances to fulfil the demands made by Baghel with due consideration,” an official said. Also Read: Centre agrees to deploy 5 new CRPF battalions in Maoist-hit Bastar in a ‘bold’ moveEarlier on Tuesday, Baghel also met Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him to help generate more employment opportunities in the Bastar region to uproot Maoist problem from the state. During the meeting, Baghel discussed various issues with the Union minister such as better telecom facilities in Maoist affected regions, deployment of two more CRPF battalions in Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-make-bio-ethanol-from-surplus-paddy/story-HBFZZV0fIC2zUeFORQ0WXM.html
18-11-2020||India||Increased testing, more beds: How Delhi is planning to fight Covid-19 third wave||Delhi has been reeling under the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak since the last week of October when daily infections started to spurt. On October 28, the daily number of Covid-19 cases breached the 5,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak began. On November 11, the city reported another record hike as more than 8,000 people contracted Covid-19 in a day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBetween November 1 and 16, over 101,000 Covid-19 infections were added to Delhi’s tally. In this period, the city recorded most infections (8,593 on November 11) and deaths (104 on November 12) in a single day.While the city battles the third wave of Covid-19, authorities have attributed the rise in cases to crowding due to the festivities and the onset of winter. On Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that people from outsides are getting themselves tested in Delhi, which is leading to the rise in the number of infections.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said the Centre and all agencies are making “double efforts” to control the situation.Here is what the Delhi government is doing to check the spread of the coronavirus disease:1. The government has decided double testing in Delhi between 100,000 and 120,000. So far, the authorities were testing up to 60,000 samples in a day. The testing will be increased while making sure a balance remains between antigen and RT-PCR tests, officials have said.2. On Tuesday, the Delhi government sent a letter to the Centre seeking permission to reduce the number of people at weddings to 50. Earlier, the limit was set at 200.3. It also sought powers to close markets in the hotspots of the city and close shops that are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols.4. The number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds will also be increased to 6,000 in the next few days with the help of the Indian Army and central government.5. Under the containment strategy, authorities have also decided to increase house-to-house surveillance of active cases in containment zones and other vulnerable pockets. As many as 7,000-8,000 teams will be engaged for this exercise, an increase from the existing 3,000 teams that are currently involved.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-testing-more-beds-how-delhi-is-planning-to-fight-covid-19-third-wave/story-3HG2TazcTBCuIrorO9voTO.html
18-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases again jump to over 38,600; recoveries above 8.33 mn||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases went up to 8,912,907 after 38,617 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday. After recording nearly 30,000 cases for two days in a row, the daily cases jumped by over 9,400 on Wednesday. On Tuesday, 29,163 new cases were reported and Monday’s figure of 30,548 was a “historic low”, according to the health ministry. The country has also seen less than 50,000 daily new cases being registered continuously for the past 10 days.Click here for latest updates on coronavirus “While this signifies the wide adoption of COVID appropriate behaviour among the population, it also assumes significance in view of the high number of daily cases being continuously reported in many countries in Europe and the Americas,” the ministry said in a press release on Tuesday.According to the health ministry, 10 states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh account for 76.7% of the total active cases.India also recorded 474 new fatalities due to Covid-19 between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, which have pushed the death toll to 130,993, according to the health ministry. There were 446,805 active Covid-19 cases on Wednesday morning, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease continued to stay below the five lakh-mark and the number of patients discharged has reached 8,335,109.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe health ministry has said that India’s cases per million population is amongst the lowest in the world and stands at 6,430 against the global average of 6,956. The country’s deaths per million population are also amongst the lowest in the world at 94 deaths per million population, it has said.On Wednesday, the recovery rate reached 93.52% with Kerala reporting the maximum number of daily recoveries at 6620, followed by Maharashtra at 5123 and West Bengal at 4,388.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-again-jump-to-over-38-600-recoveries-surpass-8-33-million/story-ZidBCZFeIEmtF8Av5hSUQI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Was BJP-PDP alliance to bring back terror in J&K?’ asks Kapil Sibal after Shah’s ‘Gupkar gang’ remark||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday lashed out at Union Home Minister Amit Shah over his “Gupkar gang” remark and asked him if Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-People’s Democratic Alliance (PDP) alliance was done to “bring back terror” in Jammu and Kashmir.“Amit Shah alleges: Congress wants to take ‘J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil’ when in talk with other parties in the upcoming District Development Council elections. Amitji was BJP -PDP alliance to “bring back terror in J&K ..” ? Which gang were you then part of?” Sibal tweeted.On Tuesday, Shah had said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration wants foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir and asserted that Indian people will no longer tolerate an “unholy global gathbandhan” against national interest.Taking to Twitter, Shah had asked Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi if they support the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration which, he said, insults India’s tricolour.The Home Minister said that “Congress and the Gupkar Gang want to take Jammu and Kashmir back to the era of terror and turmoil”.However, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala clarified that “Congress party is not a part of Gupkar alliance or People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration.”In 2015, BJP entered into an alliance with PDP as no party could get a majority in 2014 Assembly polls in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. However, in 2018, BJP pulled out of its coalition government with the PDP. Parties including the National Conference, PDP, Peoples Conference and CPI(M), formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and are fighting the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections together.While Farooq Abdullah was chosen as president of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, Mehbooba Mufti was picked to play a role of vice-president.On October 24, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah had said that the PAGD has been formed to ensure the rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are restored. “All of us united that the pre-August 5th, 2019 position must be restored,” he added.The DDC polls will be conducted in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases between November 28 and December 19, and the counting of votes will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-bjp-pdp-alliance-to-bring-back-terror-in-j-k-asks-kapil-sibal-after-shah-s-gupkar-gang-remark/story-JI033SrQ4GOhT5xbirYkML.html
18-11-2020||India||No biodiversity study done yet for drilling inside Assam’s Dibru-Saikhowa national park, OIL tells Gauhati HC||No public consultations were held before granting environmental clearance for the proposed drilling operations inside Assam’s Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, Oil India Limited (OIL) said in an affidavit filed in the Gauhati high court on Tuesday. OIL maintained that existing rules do not require it to conduct public consultations and added that oil and gas exploration and extraction has not started yet. It added that no biodiversity study of the proposed site has been done yet. OIL said it is committed to undertaking the study.The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed in the court seeking a stay on permission granted to OIL in May to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations inside the Park.In a separate affidavit, the Assam forest department said the Assam State Biodiversity Board (ASBB) has not conducted any biodiversity impact assessment study at the site.The affidavit said ASBB received a request from OIL in August this year to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study, but it could not be conducted due to the blowout at a natural gas well of OIL at Baghjan near the Park.The forest department affidavit maintained that no drilling has been carried out inside the Park’s notified boundary.Spread over 340 sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is also a biosphere reserve and home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, and feral horses.OIL has said the drilling will be conducted through a technique called extended reach which would have no impact on the Park’s surface area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-biodiversity-study-done-yet-for-drilling-inside-assam-s-dibru-saikhowa-national-park-oil-tells-gauhati-hc/story-tseXaQc7TNr5D6QgPKIjJJ.html
18-11-2020||India||India’s move on RCEP ill-advised, says Congress leader Anand Sharma||Taking a divergent stand from his party, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Tuesday said India’s decision of not joining the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was “unfortunate and ill advised”. He insisted that it was in the country’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had last year stated that signing the RCEP agreement will deal a “body blow” to the economy and result in “untold hardship” for farmers, shopkeepers and small enterprises. “The cavalier attitude comes at a price, a price that millions of our fellow Indians, especially the unemployed youth and farmers, are having to endure. As if economic decisions have not damaged the economy enough, it is now ready to deal a body blow to it by signing RCEP,” she had told party leaders in a meeting. Sonia Gandhi also said the RCEP will result in untold hardship for farmers, shopkeepers, and small and medium enterprises. Also read | Congress says it’s not part of Gupkar allianceBut on November 4 last year, India walked out of mega free trade agreement RCEP as negotiations failed to address New Delhi’s outstanding issues and concerns. The remaining 15 member countries had signed RCEP agreement and have stated that the pact would remain open to India. The Congress had then claimed victory, saying its forceful opposition ensured that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government backed out from bartering the interests of farmers, dairy producers, fishermen and small and medium businessmen. “Our voice played a major role in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sudden and hypocritical discovery of Gandhiji’s talisman in Bangkok,” Sonia Gandhi had later said, addressing a meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party in the Parliament House complex in November last year. But on Tuesday, Sharma, one of the 23 Congress dissenters who wrote a letter to the party chief in August this year seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul, struck a divergent note. “India’s decision of not joining RCEP is unfortunate and ill advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration,” he said. “Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP,” Sharma added. “We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap,” said Sharma, who had been closely involved in RCEP negotiations in his capacity as the commerce and industry minister in the UPA government led by Manmohan Singh. Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also aired his views on India not joining RCEP on Tuesday, but said he would give a final view only when his party has taken a considered position on the issue. “My guarded tweet yesterday on India not being member of RCEP has been noticed by many. Every English language newspaper that I read has carried an editorial today that India would be better off by being a part of RCEP,” he tweeted. “I would reserve a final view until the Congress party has taken a considered position on the issue,” Chidambaram said. But he expressed dismay over external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks at the Deccan Dialogue on Monday, saying the minister “railed against trade agreements and praised the virtues of protectionism”. “Mr Jaishankar is speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s!” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. On Monday, he had tweeted, “RCEP born, it is the world’s largest trading body. 15 nations in our region are members of RCEP, India is not among them. There are pros and cons to India joining RCEP, but the debate has never taken place in Parliament or among the people or involving the Opposition parties,” he said. “It is another bad example of centralised decision-making unacceptable in a democracy,” Chidambaram added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-move-on-rcep-ill-advised-says-congress-leader-anand-sharma/story-tmdaJJTBS0xS7aG5cT3i9L.html
18-11-2020||India||Nagaland blockade suspended for a day, 2 states agree to talk for resolution||The indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland on NH-39 over alleged encroachment of Assam land has been suspended for Wednesday after authorities from both sides met to discuss the issue on Tuesday and further talks were proposed for Wednesday.Karbi students’ association (KSA) president Bijoy Bey said government officials in Assam conveyed that their Nagaland counterparts have assured to maintain status quo on the disputed area till further resolution and have requested the organisations to call off the blockade. “The deputy commissioner of Karbi Anglong has convened a meeting with us on Wednesday to further discuss the matter, so, until then, we have decided to suspend the economic blockade,” Bey said. However, he stressed that the blockade call was only being kept in abeyance and the organizations were not calling it off yet.Earlier Tuesday, a team led by Nagaland’s Dimapur deputy commissioner and commissioner of police conducted a joint spot visit with deputy commissioner Diphu (Assam) and other officials, which was followed by a meeting.Several organizations in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district had started the indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland from Tuesday citing alleged illegal encroachments by the neighbouring state. Led by Karbi Students Association (KSA), the organisations blocked NH 39 from 8:00 am on Tuesday. Several trucks carrying goods and other commercial vehicles were stranded because of the blockade. Also Read: Assam: AASU 4-day general conference begins today; to give final shape to new political partyThere are allegations that Nagaland authorities have issued land certificates to people in areas falling in the Daldali forest reserve, under Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) region in Assam. Authorities in Assam also allege that border pillars demarcating the 512 km long boundary between both states have been removed by people from Nagaland in order to encroach on Assam territory. “Encroachment of Assam territory has been going on for many years, but the state government has failed to stop it. Hence, we have decided to impose the indefinite economic blockade against it,” Bey, president of KSA told journalists on Sunday. The Dimapur authorities maintained that the boundary as per British map was not accepted by Nagaland side and the case is sub judice in the Supreme Court, said officials. On allegations that the Nagaland government issued land certificates to Naga people on Assam land in Karbi Anglong and Jorhat districts, the official denied that no such papers were issued.Nagaland and Assam share a 512 km boundary and a dispute that’s going on for over five decades. Nagaland has been claiming some portions of Assam as theirs while the latter is accusing the former of encroaching thousands of hectares of its land. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by the Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. There have been several violent clashes on the issue. Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985 and 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-blockade-suspended-for-a-day-2-states-agree-to-talk-for-resolution/story-54ykpoCX4Aw3ip17Sysw7K.html
18-11-2020||India||Assam: AASU 4-day general conference begins today; to give final shape to new political party||All eyes are on the four-day general conference of All Assam Students Union (AASU) which will start on Wednesday as the state’s premier student body gives final shape to a new political party ahead of next year’s assembly polls. In September, AASU and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), another influential student body, had joined hands and announced formation of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), which will contest the polls due in March-April. The general conference, to be held at Duliajan in Dibrugarh district, is expected to announce the office-bearers of the new political party and also witness several prominent faces of AASU leaving the platform to join active politics. The terms of AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi are ending and both the leaders are expected to take contest the next assembly polls. While Gogoi was slated to join AJP, there’s no clarity yet on which party Nath would join. Since both have been vehemently opposing the BJP-led coalition in the state, it is expected that they will join anti-BJP fronts. There’s also speculation that AASU adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya, one of the most prominent student leaders from the region, will be retiring from the outfit during the general conference. Bhattacharya, who is reported to be unhappy with the way AJP is shaping up, has remained mum on the speculations. There’s no indication yet on whether he will join any political party and contest the next polls. Incidentally, AJP is the second political party to be formed by AASU after Asom Gana Parishad, which came into being in 1985 after signing of the Assam Accord that ended the six-year-long anti-foreigners agitation--in which both AASU and AJYCP played a key role. Both organisations had spearheaded the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act stir in the state opposing the Centre’s move to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan—which many in Assam feared would lead to large scale influx of Bangladeshis to the state. Earlier, leadership of both AASU and AJYCP had stressed that formation of the new party won’t affect the organisations and they would retain their non-political character.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-aasu-4-day-general-conference-begins-today-to-give-final-shape-to-new-political-party/story-7ZXqKyUGH4EMX13g8YLNNK.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: India may produce Sputnik V; Sinovac’s candidate triggers ‘quick’ immune response||A number of vaccines against Covid-19 are at different stages of trials across the world as a global race continues to develop a shot for the coronavirus disease that has affected nearly 56 million and claimed more than 1.3 million lives so far.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs governments across the world are trying to secure the vaccines for people, Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that India may join the list of countries likely to start producing his country’s vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, according to a news agency.Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. India and China may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate Sputnik V, news agency RIA quoted Putin as saying. Putin, who also virtually hosted the five-nation BRICS summit on Tuesday, further proposed that the creation of a vaccine centre for the member states of the bloc - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa - be sped up, news agency TASS reported. Sputnik V is reported to be 92% effective at protecting people from Covid-19.Also Read | India may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, says Putin2. Chinese biotech firm Sinovac Biotech’s vaccine candidate, CoronaVac, triggered a “quick” immune response, preliminary trial results showed on Wednesday. However, the trial also found that the number of antibodies produced by the vaccine was lower than those in people who had recovered from the disease. CoronaVac is among five vaccine candidates undergoing late-stage trials in China to determine their efficacy in preventing Covid-19.Also Read | Chinese Covid-19 vaccine also found safe, induces immune response3. America’s Pfizer Inc, which is developing a vaccine candidate with Germany’s BioNTech SE, on Tuesday said a key milestone has been reached in the study of its vaccine candidate. The company further said it was preparing to submit its data to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorisation. It has also launched a pilot delivery program for its vaccine candidate in four US states. Earlier this month, the mRNA-based candidate, BNT162b2, was found to be more than 90% effective against the disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-india-may-produce-sputnik-v-sinovac-s-candidate-triggers-quick-immune-response/story-F2C8Gb5H5g6KqCVQdHOmEL.html
18-11-2020||India||Stubble fires come down; NW India breathes easy for now||Most parts of northwest India experienced blue skies and “satisfactory” and “moderate” air quality after a spell of “severe” air quality last week following widespread rains and snowfall in the hills and north-western plains on Sunday.Stubble fires in Punjab have also stopped with the Kharif harvest season coming to an end. This year, paddy yield in Punjab is likely to be 22% higher than last year, according to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).Compared to the past three years, air quality is considerably better this year in many north-western towns from November 13 to 17, shows data from Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index bulletins. On Wednesday morning also, the air quality index in northwestern towns and cities like Amritsar, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bathinda, Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Karnal etc was in “moderate” and “satisfactory” category.Even though Diwali this year was celebrated on November 14, a combination of favourable meteorology and tapering off of crop stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana has led to air pollution levels dropping significantly from November 15 onwards. The accumulation of pollutants from stubble fires and Diwali firecrackers has dispersed, scientists said.Also read | Focus on local emissions to avoid return of bad air“Unlike previous years when stubble fires would coincide and linger after Diwali, this time after Diwali, fires have also reduced and the accumulated pollution has been dispersed due to strong winds and rain after an active Western Disturbance that impacted the Western Himalayan region on November 14. Even though the wind direction changed from easterly to northwesterly on Tuesday, if there are no stubble fires, we do not expect air pollution levels to spike again. Wind speed will continue to be moderate over 10 kmph for the next few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.With the switch to northwesterly wind direction, minimum temperature is likely to drop gradually. On Monday, the minimum temperature in Delhi was 16 degree C, 2 degree C above normal and on Tuesday, it came down to 13 degree C , 1 degree C above normal. “We can expect minimum temperature to fall by another 3 degree C to about 10 degrees on Wednesday,” Shrivastava added.Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, light isolated to scattered rain and snow is very likely over Western Himalayan region from November 18 to 20 once again. Minimum temperatures are likely to fall gradually by 2-4 degree C over northwest India and north Madhya Pradesh during the next 4-5 days according to India Meteorological Department’s Tuesday bulletin.“What we are seeing now is because of very good wind speed following rain and snowfall in many parts of northwest India. The ventilation index in Delhi on Tuesday is over 10,000 m2. The mixing height is also very good. The pollution accumulated over the past few days has dispersed. The life of PM 2.5 particles (fine, respirable pollution particles) is about 3 days but it is now getting dispersed. Though wind direction has changed to north-westerly pollution levels have not increased. This is also because emissions from stubble fires have nearly stopped now,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height (the height at which pollutants mix in the air) and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Farmers in Punjab and the ICAR confirmed that harvesting for the Kharif season is nearly complete. “Air pollution levels have dropped in Punjab also. Fires have reduced because harvest is over. We had a very good crop this year. Whatever fires were left have been dampened after rain. We don’t expect more fires now,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab.“The arrival of paddy is 209.56 lakh tonnes up to November 17, around 22.8% higher than last year’s 170.64 lakh tonnes. Last year, the total arrival was around 188.9 lakh tonnes during whole season,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director general, ICAR.“This reduction in air pollution has been possible partly because fire counts have reduced to almost zero and meteorological factors have been favourable. Now that we have a Commission for air quality management in NCR and adjoining areas, I am hoping there will be strict compliance of emissions from the industrial sector, from power plants and brick kilns. Personally, I hope to see a reduction in air pollution levels compared to 2018 and 2019,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-fires-come-down-nw-india-breathes-easy-for-now/story-NQ01uU1q1Y55zkhaY2bBWI.html
18-11-2020||India||Cop arrives late at airport, slaps airline staff for not issuing boarding pass||A sub-inspector rank officer has allegedly slapped SpiceJet airline staff for not allowing him to board the plane because he reported late at the airport, officials said on Tuesday.“On November 17, three passengers including sub-inspector from Gujarat Police arrived at the airport. They had booked tickets in SpiceJet SG-8194 for Delhi but they reported at the counter late and started arguing with the airline staff at the ticket counter over boarding passes but airline staff denied issuing boarding passes due to the delay,” airport officials told ANI here.The officials said that after a heated argument, the sub-inspector slapped the airline staff for refusing to issue boarding passes over the delay.A scuffle broke out between the passengers and airline staff creating panic at the airport, after which airport security, CISF, was called for controlling the situation and the passengers, as well as the airline staff, were handed over to local police for further course of action.Sources said that the passengers and airline staff have reached a mutual understanding and withdrawn the complaint against passengers including the sub-inspector.However, the passengers including the sub-inspector were not allowed to board the flight. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sub-inspector-slaps-airline-staff-for-not-issuing-boarding-pass-at-ahmedabad-airport/story-1Sm3DfzH07yAqzHe9AradL.html
18-11-2020||India||BJP renews attack on Congress over AgustaWestland case||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said that no defence deals were finalised under the Congress government without “kickbacks” to its leaders. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was reacting to reports of Congress leaders allegedly receiving kickbacks in the AgustaWestland chopper deal. “There used to be a paint company Jenson and Nicholson that used a tag line, whenever you think of colour think of us... in the Congress’s case, it is modified to whenever you think of kickback in a military deal or a defence deal think of some Congress leaders,” the minister said. According to a news report, the key accused in the ₹3,000-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case, Rajiv Saxena, has allegedly made references to former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s son Bakul Nath, and his nephew Ratul Puri, along with senior Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel, during interrogation. “No defence deal without loot, no defence deal without a kickback and no defence deal without some Congress leaders becoming beneficiary of it has been the go-to policy of Congress leaders,” Prasad told mediapersons, while urging the Congress to clarify its stand on the allegationsReacting to the allegations, Khurshid said, “Nobody has been able to tell me who said what and in what context. If I knew, I would certainly reply. I don’t think that we should generally reply to anybody who goes around mouthing names of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-renews-attack-over-congress-over-agustawestland-case/story-d06pw1Gl5D6UaXh8s13AiK.html
18-11-2020||India||In warm conversation, Modi, Biden discussed healthcare, Indo-Pacific: US envoy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President-elect Joe Biden had a “very warm conversation” during which they exchanged views on the Indo-Pacific region and the role of healthcare, pharmaceuticals and particularly vaccines, said Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Tuesday. Speaking to ANI, Sandhu said PM Modi congratulated Biden on his election and the president-elect extended warm Diwali greeting to the Indian leader and people of India.“PM Modi and president-elect Joe Biden had a very warm conversation. The PM congratulated him and the president-elect extended warm Diwali greeting to the PM and people of India. They exchanged views on global strategic partnership and Indo-Pacific area and discussed the problems that both US, India and the world are facing vis-a-vis COVID,” the envoy said. “They discussed the role of healthcare, pharmaceuticals and particularly vaccines. They also discussed climate change and environment and in that the role of renewables and solar energy,” he added. Prime Minister Modi and Biden on Tuesday had a telephonic conversation wherein they agreed to further advance the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and discussed their priorities, including containing the Covid-19 pandemic and Indo-Pacific region, according to a statement by Prime Minister’s office.During the telephonic conversation, Prime Minister Modi warmly congratulated President-elect Biden on his election, describing “it as a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States”, the statement added.Prime Minister Modi warmly recalled his earlier interactions with Biden, including during his official visits to the United States in 2014 and in 2016. Biden had chaired the Joint Session of the US Congress that was addressed by the Prime Minister during his 2016 visit“In 2014, when PM Modi came for his first official visit to the US, it was the then VP Biden who hosted an official lunch for him. Again in 2016 during PM Modi’s address to the US Congress, it was VP Biden who presided over the joint session of US Congress. So they very warmly recall those interactions,” Sandhu said. Sandhu said the prime minister also extended warm congratulations for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.“During the interaction, PM Modi also extended warm congratulations for VP-elect Harris. This is a proud moment for Indian-Americans in the US. She is a source of inspiration and India is also very proud of her achievement,” he said. Meanwhile, Biden-Harris Presidential Transition team said that Joe Biden looks forward to working closely with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on “shared global challenges”, including containing Covid-19 and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-warm-conversation-pm-modi-joe-biden-discussed-healthcare-indo-pacific-us-envoy/story-TbxMwenQ7o50UdM29ApkmI.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress says it’s not part of Gupkar alliance||The Congress on Tuesday said it was neither a part of the Gupkar Alliance nor the six-party bloc of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in Jammu & Kashmir, hours after Union home minister Amit Shah asked the party to clear its stand on whether it is backing the alliance that is seeking to restore Article 370 in the erstwhile state.In a statement, Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala accused Shah of making mischievous statements on Jammu & Kashmir and insisted that the Congress would never compromise on the country’s territorial integrity. “The Congress is neither part of Gupkar Alliance nor PAGD. Will Mr Amit Shah bother to explain why the BJP formed a coalition government with the PDP that he is now attacking?” he asked. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had on June 19, 2018, ended its almost 40-month-old alliance with the Mehbooba Mufti-led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and withdrew its support to her government citing irreconcilable differences.“To spread lies, fraud and creating new illusions have become the way of the [Narendra] Modi government. It’s a shame that the home minister is keeping aside the responsibility of the national security and is making false, misleading and mischievous statements on Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” Surjewala said. Also Read: Amit Shah aims at Gupkar group on ‘foreign link’He said the Congress was never in favour of international intervention on the Kashmir issue and the party was committed to the country’s integrity, sovereignty and the tricolour. The Congress leader also asked Shah to explain who was responsible for the release of Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar, released along with two others in exchange for the passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines plane IC-814 in Afghanistan’s Kandahar in December 1999, and why it allowed Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) to visit the Pathankot air base following a terror attack. “Congress doesn’t need any lesson in nationalism from parties that were slaves or stooges of the British Empire. The nation still remembers the sacrifices of its leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi,” Surjewala said. “May be Amit Shah and the Narendra Modi government need new lessons in patriotism and national as their parent organisation, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), never hoisted the national tri-colour for 52 years at its headquarters,” he added. Surjewala said the Congress is fighting the district development council (DDC) polls because it favours democratic elections in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-it-s-not-part-of-gupkar-alliance/story-npAcKFYzuywquzKq1LqJrK.html
18-11-2020||India||Two Dalit sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh||The bodies of two Dalit sisters were found with eye injuries in a pond in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur district, with their families alleging that they were killed after an unsuccessful rape bid, police said.The bodies of the girls, aged 8 and 12, were retrieved from the pond late Monday evening, ASP Rajesh Kumar said.Both the bodies had injury marks on the eyes, he said.The girls had gone to the field in the afternoon to get vegetables but did not return, the police said.The family members of the minors have alleged that the assailants killed the girls after an unsuccessful attempt to rape them, the officer said.The bodies were sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited, police saidBoth the bodies had injury marks on the eyes, he said.The girls had gone to the field in the afternoon to get vegetables but did not return, the police said.The family members of the minors have alleged that the assailants killed the girls after an unsuccessful attempt to rape them, the officer said.The bodies were sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited, police said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dalit-sisters-found-dead-in-uttar-pradesh/story-5CaxGyuVuDDVyu5l2blq9M.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress Bihar, Gujarat incharges offer to resign after poll defeat||The Bihar and Gujarat incharges of the Congress on Tuesday offered to resign before a special committee formed in August to assist party chief Sonia Gandhi on organisational matters, people familiar with the development said, as rumblings in the organisation continued in the wake of its dismal electoral performances.Shaktisinh Gohil, the Congress’s Bihar incharge, and Rajeev Satav, who looks after the party affairs in Gujarat, offered to resign in the meeting, according to a Congress functionary who spoke on the condition of anonymity. This leader said that Manipur incharge Bhakta Charan Das, also attended the online meeting. While there was no official word on what transpired in the meeting, repeated calls to Gohil and Satav went unanswered.The meeting was held in the backdrop of the outcome of the Bihar assembly elections and by-elections to 58 seats across 11 states. In Bihar, the Congress won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested and, according to some analysts, impacted the chances of the opposition alliance to oust the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The party failed to win any seat in the by-elections to Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana.Also Read| Bihar, bypolls: What ails the Congress today?In the wake of the outcome, a war of words has erupted in the party after senior leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories to a letter to the Congress president in August that sought internal elections and an organisational overhaul, questioned the leadership on the poll debacle and asked if it was “business as usual”. The Congress functionary quoted above said that the committee members told Gohil and Satav on Tuesday that the panel is not the right forum to offer their resignations. They also told them that it does not have the mandate to accept or reject their resignations as only the Congress president has such a mandate. Instead, the committee told the incharges that they should identify the reasons for the party’s poor show in the three states and submit a detailed report, said the functionary. He added that the meeting was initially called to discuss the status of the party’s nationwide campaign against three new farm laws, which have been opposed by some quarters, but later the members asked Gohil, Satav and Das to join and discuss the poll outcome. The six-member special committee was formed by Gandhi as part of the party’s reshuffle drive carried out in September. It comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Only four members of the panel — Soni, Venugopal, Surjewala and Wasnik (who was a part of the 23 dissenters) — attended Tuesday’s meeting. Patel is in the being treated in Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital after having tested positive for Covid-19. Antony is awaiting a report of his test after developing symptoms. A member of the group of 23 leaders who had written the August letter termed the offer of resignations a “drama enacted to hide their failures” and demanded broad-based consultations on the poll outcome. “Anybody in the Congress will tell you that any meeting to discuss electoral setbacks without the presence of either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi is meaningless,” he said, pointing out that the two top leaders were not present at the meeting. “Why didn’t Surjewala offer to resign? It is strange. He was the face of the Congress in Bihar and looking after the party’s election management there. This meeting was a farce,” said the leader on condition of anonymity. Differences in the Congress have surfaced again after the election results. As Sibal spoke out publicly and insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot countered him and claimed that his remarks have “hurt the sentiments” of workers and reminded him that the party had been through crisis several times in the past. On Tuesday, senior Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid, too, took a dig at Sibal. In a Facebook post, Khurshid said if the mood of the electorate is resistant to the liberal values the party has espoused and cherished, it should be prepared for a long struggle rather than look for short cuts to get back into power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bihar-gujarat-incharges-offer-to-resign-after-poll-defeat/story-b9VA2vkcfpzOEA6BFrd4jJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Assam groups defer economic blockade||Students’ ogranisations in Karbi Anglong district of Assam on Tuesday decided to suspend their protest against alleged land encroachment by Nagaland, after officials of the two states assured them of maintaining status quo in the disputed area. The protesters, led by Karbi Students Association (KSA), have accused Nagaland authorities of issuing land certificates to people residing in areas falling under the Daldali forest reserve in Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) in Assam.Officials in Assam have also alleged that border pillars, demarcating the 512 km long boundary between the states, have been removed by people from Nagaland to encroach on Assamese territory. KSA president Bijoy Bey said that they had been assured that Nagaland would maintain status quo in the disputed area. “The Deputy Commissioner of Karbi Anglong has convened a meeting with us on Wednesday to further discuss the matter. Until then, we have decided to suspend the economic blockade,” Bey said. He added that the blockade was only being kept in abeyance and the organizations were not calling it off yet.Earlier in the day, protesters blocked national highway 39, leading to Nagaland, and restricted the movement of commercial vehicles. Officials from the two states visited the spot followed by a meeting between deputy commissioner of Nagaland’s Dimapur district and deputy commissioner of Assam’s Diphu.While Nagaland claims some parts of the shared 512 km-long border as its territory, Assam has accused Nagaland of encroaching on thousands of hectares of its land. Over the past five decades, there have been several disputes which claimed more than 100 lives.Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre, in 1971 and 2006, to resolve the issue. In 1988, Assam filed a title suit in the Supreme Court seeking identification of the boundary between the states and resolving the border dispute by permanent injunction restraining Nagaland from encroaching on Assam’s territory and handing over of encroached areas. The matter is at trial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-groups-defer-economic-blockade/story-x6s9phfXZ8eOGB4WeQZhTN.html
18-11-2020||India||Bihar: Nitish Kumar keeps Home, new deputy Prasad gets Sushil’s portfolios||Newly appointed Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad was given finance and five other portfolios that were held by his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi in a notification about the allotment of ministries issued by Raj Bhawan in Patna on Tuesday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar retained the home, general administration, vigilance and a clutch of other portfolios. Deputy CM Renu Devi was given the portfolios of panchayati raj, other backward classes and extremely backward classes, and industries. Prasad was given finance, commercial tax, environment, forestry and climate change and information technology, all of which were previously held by Modi. In addition, he will also hold the disaster management and urban development portfolios. The urban development department was with Bharatiya Janata Party minister Suresh Kumar Sharma, who lost the election from Muzaffarpur. Kumar took oath for his fourth consecutive term as chief minister on Monday. Devi and Prasad, both BJP leaders, replaced Modi, who was deputy CM for 11 years. Along with them, 12 ministers -- five from BJP, five from Janata Dal (United) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party -- were sworn in. The new cabinet met for the first time on Tuesday and cleared a proposal to convene the first session of the assembly and legislative council from November 23 to November 27, minister Amarendra Pratap Singh of the BJP said.In the distribution of portfolios, Mangal Pandey was retained as the health minister. He will also hold charge of art, culture and youth affairs, and road construction departments. The previous road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav, who was not made a minister but is widely expected to be appointed speaker during the assembly session next week. Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, a JD(U) leader who was the speaker in the previous assembly, was given parliamentary affairs, rural works, rural development, water resources and information and public relations department. Ashok Choudhary, the JD(U)s state working president, retained building construction besides science and technology, social welfare and minorities affairs while Bijendra Prasad Yadav, a former state unit chief of the JD(U), retained power, prohibition and excise besides getting planning and development, and food and consumer protection. Mewa Lal Chaudhary, a JD(U) MLA who was inducted in the cabinet for the first time, got education, while Sheela Kumar, a first-time MLA who is only one of two women members in the council of ministers, was given transport department. Other BJP ministers are Amarendra Pratap Singh (agriculture, cooperatives and sugarcane industry), Rampreet Paswan (public health engineering), Jibesh Kumar (labour, tourism and mines) and Ram Surat Kumar Rai (revenue, land reforms and law). VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, who lost his election, was given animal husbandry and fisheries. Santosh Kumar Suman, the son of HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, was given minor water resources and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes welfare departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-nitish-kumar-keeps-home-new-deputy-prasad-gets-sushil-s-portfolios/story-n7A7zS74rvU68YZvDmISFJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Peace on border was basis of growth of China-India ties: Jaishankar||As the border standoff between India and China continued for over six months, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said there was “cause for concern” but efforts were on to work out solutions. In an interactive session organised by Mumbai-based think-tank Gateway House, Jaishankar said the basis for the overall growth of the relationship between the two countries was peace and tranquillity along the borders.“Now, if that gets disturbed, then it cannot be that if the foundation of the house gets eroded or fractured and the rest of the superstructure remains unaltered. I think we are going through a period of stressful relations with China,” Jaishankar said.“My hope is that people at that end of the relationship understand the seriousness of what has happened,” he said.The external affairs minister also referred to a number of agreements that the two countries signed to ensure peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We have agreements not to bring a large number of forces to the border. These are written agreements which we have observed for 30 years. If today that is violated without explanation, with no justification offered to us, we have to ask ourselves, where is this going,” he said.“There is cause for concern, but it is in the nature of our job to try and work out solutions,” he added.Jaisankar said the rise of China was natural and part of a global rebalancing.He also said that it is the responsibility of the rising power to also consider how the world reacts, adding it is not just enough to rise.Canadian Foreign Minister François-Philippe Champagne said his country’s ties with China are multi-dimensional and complex, adding “coercive diplomacy” was not the way to engage in today’s world.“There are places where Canada will challenge China such as human rights and places where both will have to co-exist, such as Indo-Pacific and trade, climate change,” he said.In his remarks, Jaishankar also made an indirect reference to the Khalistan movement that strained ties between India and Canada during Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s first term.“Both nations have benefited from the talent and creativity of the human bridge. However, we have also seen the misuse of democratic freedoms by a small minority with medieval beliefs and a propensity to violence,” he said.Jaishankar also said that India and Canada can work together in dealing with Covid-19 and in shaping the emerging global order in the post-pandemic period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-on-border-was-basis-of-growth-of-china-india-ties-jaishankar/story-VC4OmZZrDqVjXw23EsTdVK.html
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah aims at Gupkar group on ‘foreign link’||A newly launched grouping of political parties in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) wants foreign forces to intervene in the region and take it back to the era of “terror and turmoil”, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, in a scathing criticism of the six-party bloc known as the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).He said that the “Gupkar Gang” wants to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribal people that the Centre ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state, and dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi to clear the air on whether their party is backing the alliance. Shah also called the grouping a “global gathbandhan against our national interest”.His remarks triggered a sharp response from the coalition, which its leaders say has been formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status. The PAGD leadership said the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to delegitimise a coalition that is taking part in the upcoming local polls in J&K. The Congress, too, hit back at Shah, saying the party is not a part of PAGD, which includes regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).“The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah wrote on Twitter.Also Read| Congress not part of Gupkar alliance: SurjewalaThe BJP maintains that the Gupkar grouping, led by NC’s Farooq Abdullah, has been formed on the directions of Pakistan and China and is guided by “anti-India” forces. The BJP unit in J&K has also demanded the arrest of PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti, the deputy chairperson of PAGD, for her October-end remarks that she will hold the national tricolour only after the flag of the erstwhile state is restored.“Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” Shah added.Reacting to Shah’s tweets, PAGD alleged that the BJP is frustrated with the alliance since it will not get a walkover in the district development council (DDC) elections, which will be held from November 28 to December 22, with candidates of the coalition in fray.“I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon’ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance (PAGD) was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party (Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party) a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” NC’s Omar Abdullah tweeted.He also stressed that PAGD is not a gang but a “legitimate political alliance”. “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled “corrupt & anti-national”,” he added.Mufti, a former ally of the BJP, said that the party’s “stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours & political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now”.“Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti-nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out. “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front,” she tweeted.Srinagar-based political analyst Aseem Bhat said that the coming together of the parties against the BJP is a significant development. “So far, the regional parties were on the back foot (after the nullification of Article 370 last year)...Now, they have started doing aggressive politics not only in Kashmir but also in the Jammu region, which is going to hurt the BJP...”In the statement denying any association with PAGD, the Congress said that Shah should explain the BJP’s alliance with the PDP in 2015, when the two parties formed the government in the state.Also Read| ‘Those who oppose BJP’s ideology are labelled corrupt and anti-national’: Omar Abdullah“Congress is neither part of Gupkar Alliance nor PAGD. Will Mr Amit Shah bother to explain why the BJP formed a coalition government with the PDP that he is now attacking?” Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, accusing the home minister of “making mischievous statements” on J&K and stressing that the Congress will never compromise on the country’s territorial integrity.PAGD has already released two lists comprising the names of 54 candidates for the DDC polls, in which nominees will contest on party symbols. Despite the central Congress leadership’s denial, three of the party’s candidates feature in the second list. Also, the J&K Congress leadership said earlier this week that the party is part of the grouping.On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370 and bifurcated J&K into two Union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests and a political firestorm.Several political leaders and activists including three former chief ministers — Mufti, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah — were detained as a preventive measure to maintain law and order. The Abdullahs were released in March, and Mufti in October.Since then, the leaders, once fierce opponents, have come together — backed by four other parties (Peoples Conference, Communist Party of India-Marxist, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference) — to forge the alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status. The grouping’s first meeting was held at the Gupkar residence of Farooq Abdullah on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-aims-at-gupkar-group-on-foreign-link/story-7Ldkz3rISETIoce0LeboML.html
18-11-2020||India||Meerut: 2 killed, five injured in building collapse after cylinder blast||Two persons were killed and five others were injured in a building collapse following a cylinder blast in the Falawada area of Meerut district here on Tuesday, police said.According to the police, seven people were rescued from the debris of the collapsed building and rushed to a nearby hospital; however, two of the seven succumbed to their injuries.“A building collapsed following a cylinder blast in Falawada area of the district. Seven people were rescued from the debris and rushed to a hospital. Two of them have succumbed to injuries. An inquiry will be done in this matter,” Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahani told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-2-killed-five-injured-in-building-collapse-after-cylinder-blast/story-ZWlA86o9nzQOkpqI5DNLoM.html
18-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt says Varavara Rao ‘fully conscious’, HC seeks reports||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra government to furnish details of the medical examination of poet P Varavara Rao, arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.The directions were issued after senior counsel Indira Jaising informed the court that the reports provided to the family of the 81-year-old on Tuesday afternoon did not have details of the tests conducted and lacked his neurology and urology reports.In its report submitted on Tuesday, the Maharashtra government said that Rao is “fully conscious and oriented”.Jaising said that the one-page report provided by the government through WhatsApp had no information regarding dementia and the urinary tract infection which Rao is suffering from.Calling it “an eyewash”, Jaising submitted that the state government was resorting to delaying tactics. Rao is in a critical condition, she said, adding that he should be shifted to the hospital.Rao is currently lodged as an under-trial in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai.Jaising told the division bench of justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar that the government had failed to comply with court orders directing Nanavati Hospital, where Rao was treated in July, to conduct a check-up of Rao and submit a report to the court, along with his wife and the NIA.Jaising told the bench that doctors at Nanavati Hospital who had examined Rao on November 12 via a video link, had also suggested that further tests, including a complete blood count and sonography of the abdomen, be done on him.“The state has yet to get the tests done. Besides, the doctors examined Rao through the video link only for 15 minutes. He needs to be examined by specialists. A neurologist needs to examine him physically and these tests can’t be done at the Taloja prison hospital,” Jaising said.“...Rao was not examined by a specialist so how can the video examination tell this court whether he needs to be shifted out of the prison to the hospital?” she said.Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said.Rao’s wife has sought that the poet be shifted to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai, owing to his “diminishing neurological and physical health condition”.The court has directed the state government to provide a detailed report and has posted the hearing for Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-says-varavara-rao-fully-conscious-hc-seeks-reports/story-XzfbI7cJghfTjbUHeKCwWL.html
18-11-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: ED denies Sivasankar’s allegations of pressure to name political targets||The Enforcement Directorate has denied the allegations levelled by former Principal Secretary of Kerala Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) M Sivasankar, an accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, that the agency had pressured him to name a few political targets.The ED made the rebuttal in an affidavit filed before a principal sessions court in Kochi on an affidavit filed by Sivasankar, in which he had alleged that he was pressurized to name a few political targets of ED’s choice.“The allegation regarding extortion or pressure for extracting the names of certain political party leaders is made with mala fide intention and is denied as false. Had he any such contentions or apprehension while he was in custody, he would have divulged it at the time or argument,” the economic offences watchdog submitted.It said that these allegations are only an afterthought intentionally made to make false allegations against the investigating agency.Sivasankar had earlier submitted that he was pressurized to name a few political targets, and added that when he refused to do so, he was arrayed as an accused in the money laundering case related to the Kerala gold smuggling case and was arrested.Earlier, the ED had submitted that its investigation in the matter has clearly established the involvement of M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling and also added that the probe has also revealed that he is involved in receiving kickbacks in the LIFE Mission project.M Sivasankar is in judicial custody till November 26 in connection with the case. He was arrested by the ED on October 28.The case, which is currently being probed by the ED, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Customs Department, pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-ed-denies-sivasankar-s-allegations-of-pressure-to-name-political-targets/story-3lDxZywewDuSLG7K8CmxmO.html
18-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh: Engineer arrested for exploiting 50 children||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested an Uttar Pradesh government employee for allegedly sexually exploiting 50 children between 5 and 16 for a decade and selling videos and photographs of sexual abuse on the dark web to paedophiles across the world, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.Rambhawan, a junior engineer with the state irrigation department, allegedly victimised children in the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur. He collected and shared child sexual abuse material (CSAM) with other paedophiles using dark web and cloud services abroad, the people quoted above said on condition of anonymity. “Apart from the physical abuse of these children, the accused also allegedly recorded their acts using their mobile phones, laptops and other electronic devices,” said RK Gaur, CBI spokesperson.Rambhawan, 41, hails from the town of Naraini in Banda district and was posted in Karvi town of Chitrakoot district for the last two years in the irrigation department. Before that, he was posted in Prayagraj. Late in the evening, state jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh said the junior engineer was suspended. The accused was arrested from Banda and charged under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). If found guilty, he faces life imprisonment. Amit Kumar, deputy superintendent of police with CBI, said the engineer was arrested on Monday and produced before a court in Banda on Tuesday. Kumar informed the executive engineer of the irrigation department in Karvi, Chitrakoot, about the arrest through a letter, a copy of which is with HT. He was remanded to CBI custody by the Banda court. During searches, the CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of CSAM, officials said.“The accused allegedly used these electronic items and gadgets to lure children falling in the age group of 5-16 years. The scrutiny of the emails of the accused has revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (both Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing CSAM”, Gaur said.Gaur said that the accused allegedly created and shared huge quantity of CSAM over the years through the internet using various social media platforms and websites over the dark web ,the portion of the internet not covered by search engines and, hence, mostly beyond access for typical users. Often, dark web sites are used for cyber crime because it cannot be accessed by traditional methods or browsers. “It was alleged that the accused used dark web for sale, transmission and sharing of such CSAM content with other individuals,” added Gaur. A CBI officer who didn’t want to be named said the accused disclosed during interrogation that he used to lure the children with mobile phones and other electronic gadgets.CBI has a special unit called Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/ Investigation (OCSAE) for matters pertaining to online child sexual abuse and exploitation. Apart from receiving various references/information, the unit is undertaking investigation of various offences relating to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.People familiar with the development said that the accused junior engineer has been booked under POCSO (prevention of children from sexual offences) act and Information Technology Act. If found guilty, he can face a jail term of life.An official in the UP government said on condition of anonymity that CBI teams were in Chitrakoot for about a month, investigating the engineer and questioning several people, including his driver, people close to him and those who handled or sold him electronic gadgets. Chitrakoot superintendent of police Ankit Mittal said the local police never got any complaint about him sexual abusing children. Child sexual abuse is punishable in India under the 2012 under the 2012 POCSO act and sections of the IPC. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 126 cases were filed under POCSO every day in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-engineer-arrested-for-exploiting-50-children/story-tOQZsogxvuS5R23QeVuURM.html
18-11-2020||India||Bihar, bypolls: What ails the Congress today?||The National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) victory after what many believed was a spirited campaign by the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav has once again reignited the debate on the ability, or the lack of it, of the Congress in stopping the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) juggernaut. While the Congress’s performance isn’t entirely to blame for the NDA’s victory in Bihar, the party performed poorly in other bypolls as well, winning only 12 of the 55 assembly constituencies (ACs) it contested out of the 59 ACs that went to the polls across 11 states. What ails the Congress party today?1) Rahul’s aggression doesn’t inspire confidence anymore...On July 21, 2018, the Opposition brought a no-confidence motion against the Narendra Modi government. There was never any doubt about the government’s survival. The strategy was meant to score a political point. Rahul Gandhi, the then Congress president gave what many believed was a combative speech. He was seen as the natural leader of the Opposition. The Congress’s fortunes peaked by the end of 2018. It wrested Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh from the BJP, and looked all set to make impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections compared to its 2014 performance. This was not to be. The Congress performed as poorly in 2019 as it had in 2014. Gandhi himself lost the Amethi Lok Sabha seat, considered a Congress bastion. The continuous dip in his electoral performance in Amethi, from 2009 to 2019, raises question about his popular appeal. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  2) The Congress national leadership is falling short...One of the most counter-intuitive results of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was the sharp drop in the Congress’s performance in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. The 2018 assembly election results, when extrapolated into Lok Sabha seats, would have meant 12 seats in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan and 10 seats in Chhattisgarh for the party. In the 2019 elections, the Congress could win only two Lok Sabha seats in Chhattisgarh and one in Madhya Pradesh. It failed to win even one seat in Rajasthan. A pre-2019 results analysis by Gilles Verniers of Ashoka University found that in 80% of the cases, the party that won the state election went on to win the state in the following general elections. In other words, the Congress went against the trend by performing badly in these three states. To be sure, the BJP has enjoyed an additional vote share in national elections in both 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This is widely attributed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity. There is a yearning within the Congress, and the entire Opposition, for a leader who can match Modi’s appeal. This is the root of the despondency in the opposition ranks. The Congress leadership has failed to live up to this challenge. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  3) Central and state units appear out of sync...At a time when the entire Opposition, including the Congress, is finding it difficult to match Modi’s national appeal, the party’s national leadership could have adopted a more participative style of functioning to attack the government, both within and outside Parliament. This is being rendered difficult because of a growing asymmetry in the Congress’s support base and national leadership. In the 2019 elections, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra contributed almost half (44.5%) of the Congress’s total votes. The share of these states in the party’s total Lok Sabha MPs was just 5.8%. The 2019 scenario looks drastically different from 1984, when there was an almost perfect correlation between share of states in the Congress’s votes and seats. If big support bases of the party do not find a reflection of their concerns in the national strategy, unrest and despondency are bound to grow. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  4) Shrinking footprint limiting the ability to accommodate personal ambitions...Organisational leadership of a party is not just about leading interparty competition. It also involves the delicate task of managing intraparty conflicts, factionalism, and personal ambition of leaders. The Congress is facing a huge crisis on this front. In Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the party lost state governments due to internal issues. In Rajasthan, a similar crisis erupted, but has been averted for the time being. The roots of these ruptures are the same — growing differences between leaders. The all-India leadership of the party is in no position to resolve these, as it has little to offer (such as, say, a governorship, a central portfolio or even a Rajya Sabha seat). A good way to look at this is to track the decline in the number of Rajya Sabha MPs the Congress has sent to the Upper House in each decade. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bypolls-what-ails-the-congress-today/story-rVKcIwFkgTV97B4rYbgzsO.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi slams Pakistan as terror, vaccine top Brics agenda||As the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping adopted a new counter-terrorism strategy on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for countries that help and support terrorists to be held guilty. Participating in the virtual Brics Summit chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi also called on members of the grouping to back a move by India and South Africa to secure exemption of Covid-19 vaccines from intellectual property agreements. Multilateralism, Modi said, is facing a crisis and questions are being raised about the functioning of global institutions since they haven’t kept pace with the times and are based on the mindset of 75 years ago. In a tacit reference to Pakistan-backed terrorism, Modi, who was speaking in Hindi, said: “Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing today. We must ensure that countries that help and support terrorists are also held guilty and this problem is dealt with in an organised manner.” He described the finalisation of the Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy as an “important achievement” and said India, as the chair of Brics from next year, will take this work forward. In a subsequent intervention, Modi suggested the national security advisers of Brics states should discuss the formulation of a counter-terrorism action plan. The Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which will allow member states to work out common measures and coordinate more closely at the UN and other forums and promote the implementation of UN’s global counter-terrorism strategy, was adopted at the conclusion of the summit. Modi’s remarks on terrorism were endorsed by Putin, who said some countries were like the “black sheep of the family” and the world cannot afford any complacency in dealing with problems such as terrorism and the pandemic. With a group of developing nations led by India and South Africa set to urge the World Trade Organization (WTO) this week to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines so that they become accessible to poor countries, Modi said: “India and South Africa have proposed that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments be exempted from intellectual property agreements. We hope that other Brics countries will support this.”  He added that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to benefit humankind. Among Brics countries, Russia has approved a vaccine for the disease although experts say this has been done without adequate testing, and China has granted emergency approval to three vaccines, including one meant for only military personnel. India has three vaccines that are in human trials. Also Read: BRICS countries urge for joint global effort to combat terrorismWTO laws allow compulsory licensing, where a member country has the right to licence the use of a patented drug or vaccine to a local company or even an arm of the government even if the patent holder does not agree to this. However, this can be done only under some conditions and will also require the patent holder to be compensated adequately. Noting that significant geo-strategic changes taking place around the world will impact security, stability and growth, Modi said Brics countries will play an important role in tackling these issues. The multilateral system is going through a crisis and questions are being raised about the credibility of global institutions since they haven’t changed with the times and are operating with outdated mindsets, he said. Besides the UN Security Council, reforms are needed in the WTO, IMF and WHO, he added. Also Read| Govt will leave no stone unturned to make India preferred global investment destination: PM ModiThe Brics countries, with 42% of the global population, will play a key role in post-Covid-19 economic recovery and there is scope to increase mutual trade, Modi said. India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, which aims to make the country self-reliant and resilient, can be a force multiplier for the post-Covid-19 economy and contribute to global supply chains, he added. Together, Brics countries account for 33% of global GDP and close to 20% of global trade, with China’s presence in the grouping skewing these numbers. This was the second time in a week that Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. The theme for the Brics Summit was “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth” and its agenda included global issues such as reforming the multilateral system and measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-slams-pakistan-as-terror-vaccine-top-brics-agenda/story-j3xc9LATr94AFyWqLB4flO.html
18-11-2020||India||In a first, farmer sues traders under new law, gets dues||A maize grower from Maharashtra has become the first person to invoke a provision in one of the three recently enacted farm reform laws , suing two traders for not paying money owed him for sale of produce and forcing the food merchants to clear an outstanding bill of Rs 285,000, according to documents reviewed by HT. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws passed in September to free up agricultural trade in the country, makes it compulsory for buyers to pay cultivators “within three days” of a transaction. Farmers in some states, especially Punjab, are protesting the farm laws, fearing that these could erode their bargaining power and create a monopoly for big firms in the long run. For Maharashtra cultivator Jitendra Bhoi, however, the law proved effective in making wholesale food aggregators, who often make peasants run after them for payments, clear dues promptly. “Before The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 was enacted this September, India did not have legal mechanism available for farmers to enforce time-bound payments,” an official of the agriculture ministry said, requesting anonymity. Also Read: Maharashtra Congress collects 58.77 lakh signatures to protest against farm, labour lawsBhoi raised a maize crop this summer in his 18-acre farm in Bhatane village of Shirpur tehsil in the state’s Dhule district. A tehsil refers to a civil administrative zone. On July 19, the farmer prepared to sell 270.95 quintal (100 kg each) of corn at a rate of Rs 1,240 per quintal to two traders, Subhash Vani and Arun Vani. The traders belonged to adjoining Khetia village across the border from Maharashtra, in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani district. The total transaction value was fixed at Rs 332,617, according to Bhoi’s complaint before the subdivisional magistrate of Pansemal tehsil, which HT has seen. The traders picked the entire produce, making a token payment of Rs 25,000 and promising to pay the rest within 15 days. In his complaint, the farmer enclosed receipts of the transaction showing the outstanding amount. Bhoi approached authorities in the first week of October, after payments were delayed by nearly four months. “A clerk I know in the local market alerted me to this provision in new laws brought by the government. He said traders must now pay within three days. I then decided to file a complaint,” Bhoi told HT over phone. According to Section 8 of The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, “The Sub-Divisional Authority shall decide the dispute or contravention under this section in a summary manner within thirty days from the date of its filing and after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard…” Simply put, in case of payment disputes between a farmer and a trader in new free markets provided for by the recent laws, a magistrate must settle the transaction row within a month. Also Read: ‘Angry’ over farm bills, Punjab records highest stubble burning cases in 4 yearsActing on the farmer’s complaint, authorities traced the traders, summoning them on October 6. They faced prospects of criminal action, including arrest. “After studying the case, listening to the farmer, and going through documents, it has been ordered by me that the buyers must make immediate payments owed to the farmer,” the magistrate’s closure report filed before collector Shivraj Singh Verma on November 5 said. The proceedings compelled traders Subhash Vani and Aun Vani to renegotiate the total pending amount to slightly less than initially agreed, paying the new outstanding in two instalments. The case was closed on November 4. “Dispute resolution at the local magistrate’s level helps avoid the hassles of approaching courts. But it’s really a question of how aware farmers are,” said Anand Yagnik, a lawyer who successfully fought a case in 2018 against suppliers of sub-standard cotton seeds to growers in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-farmer-sues-traders-under-new-law-gets-dues/story-ZC12X1nMl13Ssiby04Mx2M.html
18-11-2020||India||India pins hopes on locally-tested Covid-19 vaccines given Pfizer constraints||India hopes five locally-tested vaccines will help it to control Covid-19, as those developed by Pfizer and Moderna may not be available to it in big quantities soon.The five candidates include Russia’s Sputnik-V whose “Phase-II going to Phase-III” trials in India will start next week in collaboration with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Vinod Paul, the head of a committee advising the prime minister, said.The other experimental vaccines are the one being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India; Bharat Biotech and the Indian government’s COVAXIN; Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and lastly one being developed by Biological E. Ltd alongside Baylor College of Medicine and Dynavax Technologies Corp.Paul told a news briefing that AstraZeneca vaccine’s last-stage trials in India had gone well and had almost been completed. The country of 1.35 billion people has reported 8.87 million infections, second only to the United States, and 130,519 deaths as a result of Covid-19.“We are very hopeful that we will be successful with the five vaccines,” Paul said on Tuesday. “They are easy platforms, availability of doses is very high. They will be able to control our pandemic in terms of the numbers of doses required.”Paul said the government was also watching the progress of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, both of which have said interim results of last-stage trials of their candidates showed that they were more than 90% effective.Unlike Pfizer’s vaccine which must be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius or below, Moderna’s can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making it more suited for poorer countries such as India where cold chains are limited.“This obviously will be a very big hindrance to scale up the vaccine,” Paul said of Pfizer’s, adding that if India finds itself needing to do so it will pursue this option.“If we are required to form our strategy on this particular vaccine, then we will proceed with it. Though, even if we get it, we will get it in a few months only. But talks are ongoing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pins-hopes-on-locally-tested-covid-19-vaccines-given-pfizer-constraints/story-FyHf5xgkBnRqdKoyzO8ABI.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi is in the grip of a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but what of the rest of India?On Monday, India recorded 27,968 cases of Covid-19, according to the HT dashboard. Recorded cases typically lag tests by a day, so some credit for the low number of cases should go to the corresponding low number of tests conducted on Sunday (735,551; as compared to an average of 1,098,200 every weekday last week). India conducted only 674,020 tests on Monday, a public holiday in many parts of the country. Not surprisingly, on Tuesday, the country recorded 38,599 new cases. France recorded 27,228 cases on November 15, according to the NYT database. On Monday, the United Kingdom recorded 21,363 cases, Italy 27,352, and the US 166,581.Despite the temporary anomalies created by low testing over the weekend and on Monday in India, it is entirely possible that the number of daily case numbers in some European countries will overtake that in the country if they continue on their current trajectory. According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Research Center, India and Germany are the only two, among the 10 worst-affected countries currently, whose case trajectory is trending south.Also Read: Volunteers still needed to test variety of coronavirus vaccinesIndia’s, especially, has been trending south consistently since mid-September. Between early August and mid-October, India’s daily case numbers (on the boil in that period) were higher than those in the US too. And in absolute terms, India’s numbers are where they were in July.India’s trajectory presents an interesting visual study — it stayed flat (and this is even more marked when seven-day averages are considered) for almost two weeks in late October and the first half of November. This usually means the end of one wave, and the beginning of the next. Instead, perhaps because of the spate of public holidays that followed — Saturday was Diwali, and Monday was Bhai Dooj, making it a three-day weekend for testing — the numbers have fallen further.Disregarding this, this columnist is beginning to see the beginning of the second wave in the country. This is an early call (and a worrying one). It is based on data, though. There has been a rise in daily new cases over the past two weeks (again, I’ve disregarded data of the past three days) in Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. Interestingly, three of these states, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, were early hot spots of the coronavirus disease in the country. It stands to reason that if there is a temporal pattern to the trajectory of the pandemic, then these states should register it first.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis prediction comes with a caveat, though, one that has to do with the prevalence of the infection in a region. This is a parameter best captured through widespread antibody testing — popularly called sero surveys in India. Such surveys test for Covid-19 antibodies, and their presence usually indicates exposure to, and therefore, immunity, even if only temporary, from the disease. I say usually because researchers are learning that certain populations or population segments have antibodies that recognise and fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus without having been exposed to it — one reason proffered by some for low fatality rates in parts of Africa.Unfortunately, India has been remiss with such surveys. While the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) mandated that each of the 700-odd districts in the country conduct sero surveys regularly, few have done so. The result is a patchwork of data that confuses more than it enlightens.Also Read| Covid-19 in US: States plead for more federal help as virus outbreak worsensThere is another reason why I think India is seeing the beginning of a second wave, which will become evident within the next fortnight — in countries that have seen second (and in some cases third) waves, these have been preceded by the easing of restrictions, holidays and celebrations that witnessed social gatherings, or large public events. Most parts of India have seen all, or at least some of these, over the past two months and especially in recent weeks. I’d love to be wrong about this, though.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-HfHIHD5mAQqZpTIjfFflzI.html
18-11-2020||India||35-year-old man arrested for rape and murder of 5-year-old girl in Odisha||Four days after the mutilated body of a five-year-old girl was found in a nullah in Dhenkanal district of Odisha, police on Tuesday said they have arrested a 35-year-old man who is distant relative of the victim on charges of rape and murder.The body of the girl was found in a nullah at Kharakhari village in Kankadahada block of Dhenkanal district on November 13, a day after she went missing. Kamakhyanagar sub divisional police officer S Mallick said the accused Shankarshana Dehuri had raped and then battered the girl to death.“The accused is a distant uncle of the victim and used to visit the girl’s house. On November 12 evening, he took the girl and another boy to a nearby place on the pretext of buying some snacks for them. After having snacks, he asked the boy to go while he kept carrying the girl in his arms. No one saw the girl after that,” said Mallick.Police zeroed in on the suspect after questioning a number of shopkeepers at the village market and some others.The girl’s body was found on the morning of November 13. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to have battered the child after sexually assaulting her, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-year-old-man-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-5-year-old-girl-in-odisha/story-3vrUrZq4RSR2Z9IDhuUnbP.html
18-11-2020||India||GoAir flight from Riyadh to Delhi makes emergency landing in Karachi||A GoAir Riyadh-Delhi flight diverted to the Karachi airport on Tuesday after a medical emergency was reported onboard, according to news agency ANI. The flight landed safely at the Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, an airline official said. Some reports stated that the flight G8- 6658A- took off from Riyadh on Tuesday afternoon but had to make an emergency landing after a 30 year old passenger fainted and died on board due to cardiac arrest. Meanwhile, the flight has taken off and would land at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi shortly. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-flight-from-riyadh-to-delhi-makes-emergency-landing-in-karachi/story-H9c5Ia4yBI6zTJmXLwHusL.html
18-11-2020||India||Will work closely on shared global challenges, says Biden in phone call with Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US president-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday said they would work closely to advance the bilateral comprehensive global strategic partnership and to cooperate in areas ranging from post-Covid-19 recovery to the Indo-Pacific. During a phone conversation with Biden, Modi discussed the shared concerns and priorities of India and the US. He also congratulated Biden on his election, describing it as “testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the US”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry. “The leaders agreed to work closely to further advance the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership, built on shared values and common interests,” the readout said. They also discussed their priorities, “including containing the Covid-19 pandemic, promoting access to affordable vaccines, tackling climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region”. Modi recalled his earlier interactions with Biden, including during his official visits to the US in 2014 and 2016. Biden had chaired the joint session of the US Congress addressed by Modi during the 2016 visit. The president-elect expressed his desire to strengthen and expand the US-India strategic partnership alongside the first vice president of South Asian descent Kamala Harris, according to a statement by his transition team.“The president-elect noted that he looks forward to working closely with the prime minister on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19 and defending against future health crises, tackling the threat of climate change, launching the global economic recovery, strengthening democracy at home and abroad, and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” the statement read.The Prime Minister also extended congratulations and best wishes to vice president-elect Kamala Harris, the first woman and also the first person of Indian-American origin to be elected to the position. “Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns – Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region,” Modi tweeted. “I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations,” he said in a second tweet. Earlier, Modi had congratulated Biden and Harris on Twitter on November 8, when it became clear the Democratic Party candidate was set to clinch the presidential election. He had lauded Biden on a “spectacular victory” and described his contributions as the former vice president to strengthening Indo-US relations as “critical and invaluable”. He had added, “I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights.” On the same day, Modi had also congratulated Harris through a tweet, saying: “Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-dials-joe-biden-discusses-shared-concerns-and-priorities/story-3zj79DwSap19poYJUWSKGM.html
18-11-2020||India||Rape victim set ablaze by accused’s family in UP’s Bulandshahr dies in Delhi hospital||A teenage rape victim, who was allegedly set afire by the rapist’s family in a village in Jahangirabad area of Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday morning, succumbed to injuries during treatment at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital later in the day, police said. The family of the deceased has accused the uncle of the rapist and other family members of setting the girl on fire after they failed to persuade her for a compromise. In her dying statement, the girl accused Sanjay, uncle of the rapist, and other family members of setting her on fire, police said. Later, her family also lodged a case of murder in the Jahangirabad police station against Sanjay, his wife Kajal and five other persons accusing them of setting the girl on fire after failing in their efforts to convince her for a compromise despite mounting pressure.Bulandshahar’s senior superintendent of police S K Singh said initially it was said that the girl had set herself on fire. He said the family later accused Sanjay and six others of setting the girl on fire and a case was registered against the accused on the basis of the complaint. “We are investigating the charges,” said Singh, who suspended beat sub inspector Vinaykant Gautam and beat constable Vikrant Tomar and sent SHO Vivek Sharma of Jahangirabad police station to police lines. The SSP said three accused named in the FIR have been arrested and raids are being conducted to arrest the remaining accused. Singh said a rape case was registered on the girl’s complaint on August 15 and the accused was arrested the same day. Singh added the accused worked as a caretaker of an orchard in the girl’s village. Earlier on Monday, a 19-year-old law student, who was allegedly gang-raped on October 16, died by suicide in Anoopshahar area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-victim-set-ablaze-by-accused-s-family-in-up-s-bulandshahr-dies-in-delhi-hospital/story-Jkb5t8Aa2yU7s5cealrvcK.html
18-11-2020||India||Inform us about mechanism to deal with fake news: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to provide information on the existing legal regime to deal with complaints about the content on television channels and said that the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism to do this if one doesn’t already exist. It also expressed displeasure with an affidavit filed by the Centre highlighting the various advisories issued time to time to curb fake news. “What is shown by the television channels has a great consequence in this country...We want to know what legal regime exists to deal with such complaints (of fake news) and how these complaints have been dealt with in the past,” a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, giving three weeks’ time to the Centre to file a fresh affidavit in this regard. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and other parties, who objected to the reporting by certain television news channels and news portals on the Tablighi Jamaat event in March. After the religious gathering, the Nizamuddin markaz — where it was held — emerged as one of the early hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. On October 8, when the court last heard the PIL , the bench asked the Centre to file a response on steps taken to ensure fake news is not circulated through online and electronic media platforms. The government, through the ministry of information and broadcasting, filed an affidavit on November 13 and cited its advisories. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, found the affidavit unsatisfactory. “In your affidavit there is not a whisper about what action you have taken under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act. Further, there is no mention about any authority entrusted to go into these complaints (of fake news). We are disappointed with this reply,” the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.This was the second affidavit the government filed in response to the PIL. An earlier affidavit by the Union Government on August 6 was also found to be short of details when it comes to action taken against erring websites and news channels for fake news. “Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms of recent times,” the court observed on October 8. Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, informed the bench on Tuesday that the November 13 affidavit is sufficient and answers all queries by the court. However, he agreed to supplement it with the fresh information sought by the bench. Mehta said that the Centre has power to prohibit content on television channels, which are found to be violative of a programme code. For this, there is a committee, which has members from outside the Information and Broadcasting Ministry who watch the content and give their opinion, Mehta said. “There has to be a mechanism provided by you. Today, there is a situation that we have to ask a private body – News Broadcasting Standards Authority — to examine the issue. If you are not willing to examine, we will ask the outside agency; then don’t complain,” the bench observed. Advocate Ejaz Maqbool, appearing for the Jamiat Ulama i-Hind, agreed to file a response to the Centre’s affidavit. The court posted the matter for hearing after three weeks. The petition filed by Jamiat sought directions from the court “to stop the dissemination of fake news and take strict action against sections of the media spreading bigotry and communal hatred in relation to the coverage of Nizamuddin markaz event”. The latest affidavit of the Centre said that media outlets at large – both print and online — have responsibly covered the event. The Centre accused the petitioner of picking out some news reports to seek pre-telecast ban on airing of content. “The petitioner has selectively picked up a few articles / reports appearing in some of the web portals and private fact check portals to create an impression that the media had communalized the issue of Tablighi Jamaat and to create a false narative about the role of media,” the November 13 affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inform-us-about-mechanism-to-deal-with-fake-news-sc/story-9ga2KHfp8L7142dovyC2cI.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Joe Biden, wishes Kamala Harris; discusses Covid-19 pandemic, climate change||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on late Tuesday night wished United States President-elect Joe Biden and congratulated him on his victory in the recently concluded Presidential polls, underlining increased focus on Indo-US ties. “Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region,” PM Modi said in a tweet on Tuesday.  Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region.The prime minister also wished Indian-origin US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on her election to the US White House and country’s second highest office. “I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations.”Also read: Indo-US ties will pick up, Joe Biden no stranger to India, says S JaishankarPM Modi’s call comes almost ten days after both the newly elected Democrat officials won in a tightly fought Presidential race with Republican nominee President Donald Trump. Earlier in the day, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had indicated swift action in strengthening ties with the US administration and established old ties the country has with Biden. Jaishankar said that the President-elect Biden is “not a stranger to India or to the relationship” and India has dealt with him in his former roles as vice president in the Barack Obama administration. The Indian government will face no problems in taking forward ties with the US under the Joe Biden administration because of the strong element of bipartisan support for the bilateral relationship, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had said. “I am very confident that we will pick up where we left off (with the Donald Trump administration), we have done that over the last four administrations,” Jaishankar said while participating in an online discussion organised by the think tanks Centre for International Governance Innovation and Gateway House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-joe-biden-kamala-harris-discusses-covid-19-pandemic-climate-change/story-HZa1uUMX8FnJptIJN8eKrJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Data Protection Bill: JPC summons Visa, Mastercard officials||The joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the data protection bill has summoned representatives of Visa and Mastercard, a move that suggests the panel could shift its focus to provisions regarding data localisation in the draft law. The panel has questioned officials of social media and internet giants such as Twitter and Google. According to market researches, India has 47 million credit card users in 2019 and is poised to grow substantially with the government’s push for a cashless economy. Debit card usage, however, remains at a higher level. While Visa is the world’s largest payment gateway services, Mastercard stands a close second. In India, the government-backed Rupay dented the market share of the both Visa and Mastercard. In 2018, then finance minister Arun Jaitley said the indigenously developed payment system of UPI and RUPAY Card transact 65 % of the payments done through debit and credit cards. Led by BJP MP Meenaskhi Lekhi, the panel will also summon Paypal, another popular payment gateway, and Cyble, a cyber threat intelligence firm. Cyble has been in controversy of late after reporting the alleged breach of user data in BigBasket, which in turn lodged an FIR suggesting the company may be attempting to extort money in order to secure user data now purportedly on sale on the dark web. So far, US-based tech companies and social media giants have opposed the data localisation provisions of the bill and maintained that any attempt to stop cross-border transfer of user data can impact business prospects in India and affect several startup companies. The draft data protection law, which will serve as a key legal basis for the right to privacy in India, requires companies to keep a copy of all personal data of Indian users in India. A previous version of the law, drafted by the committee led by justice BN Srikrishna, suggested that all personal data must mandatorily be stored and processed in India. The 2019 draft bill allows companies to take such data, as long as it is not deemed critical, for processing in servers outside India after obtaining consent.This has significant implications for companies that use cloud services, which is a network of for-hire servers often based outside of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-jpc-summons-visa-mastercard-officials/story-ps0Bb2ZRRPKqaTJjDrcidL.html
18-11-2020||India||Random Covid-19 test for Delhi to Noida commuters from today: All you need to know||In an order passed on Tuesday, people travelling from Delhi to Noida will be tested for Covid-19 symptoms on a random basis as the coronavirus disease outbreak has grown at an unforeseen scale in the national capital. The move, seen as a combative measure amid the recent rise in cases of Covid-19, has been dubbed as a helpful measure to assess the spread of viral contagion as it would help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between Noida and adjoining areas, the officials said. Here is everything you need to know about the move affecting Delhi-NCR residents:- The random sampling will be done by a rapid antigen-based test. - There will be no restriction on free movement of people between Noida and Delhi.- Only a few randomly selected commuters will be tested under this drill and not all commuters.- The decision has been taken due to an increase in Covid-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar and is a part of a comprehensive strategy to fight the pandemic which has returned in the district. - Teams will be deployed at Noida-Delhi borders at DND and Chilla to randomly check people coming from Delhi for the Covid-19 infection. - All institutions in Gautam Budhh Nagar will be issued advisory to look out for symptomatic people, track them early and provide them with whatever treatment is required, officials have said. - People will have to follow all Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks or covers, practicing social distancing in public places and avoiding casual approach against the infection, officials have appealed again. Delhi has recorded over one lakh new coronavirus cases and around 1,200 deaths between November 1 and November 16 while nearly 94,000 patients recovered during the same period, according to official data.The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/random-covid-19-test-for-delhi-to-noida-commuters-from-wednesday-all-you-need-to-know/story-PdlsajfsM9RtPoZvofzvSP.html
18-11-2020||India||‘A good vaccine is...’: Adar Poonawalla’s cryptic tweet has many targets||Moderna and Pfizer’s announcement of the safety percentage of their vaccine candidates has intensified the vaccine battle. Serum Institute of India’s CEo Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday took to Twitter and reminded that a good vaccine may not be the one that comes first. A good vaccine has four attributes, Poonawalla tweeted. It has to be safe, it should offer long-term protection against the targetted disease, it should be transported and stored at a manageable temperature. And lastly, it should be affordable to all of humanity, Poonawalla wrote.  Definition of a good vaccine =1. Safe 2. Offers long-term protection against targetted disease3. Can be transported and stored at a manageable temperature4. Affordable to all of humanityLatest to the ongoing vaccine developments, Pfizer and BioNTech SE last week said their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. Moderna on Monday said its vaccine candidate against Covid-19, found it to have an efficacy of 94.5 per cent. The vaccines are at present waiting for the approval of the regulatory body. However, medical experts are not sure whether Pfizer vaccine would be helpful to poorer nations as the vaccine shot needs minus 70 degrees Celsius temperature. In normal medical refrigerator temperature, Pfizer vaccine can be stored for five days.Major hospitals in the United States have said they don’t have the storage facility as required for Pfizer vaccine. Without taking any name, Poonawalla indicated that a good vaccine can’t be so difficult to store. Earlier, the CEO of the world’s largest vaccine producer — by the volume — had said to the Washington Post that vaccines that require ultra-cold storage are ‘joke’. “Nobody wants a vaccine that is only going to protect you for a few months,” he had said. Serum Institute had earlier said that their vaccine will be priced at Rs 224 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-good-vaccine-is-adar-poonawalla-s-cryptic-tweet-has-many-targets/story-vzMZlUZcTof9vwesKbAleI.html
