19-11-2020||India||India, EU condemn the use of proxies for cross-border terror||New Delhi In an indirect reference to Pakistan, India and the European Union on Thursday called on all nations to take immediate and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks on other countries. The virtual counter-terrorism dialogue between the EU and India also strongly condemned terrorism in all forms and manifestations, including the “use of terrorist proxies for cross-border terrorism”, according to a joint statement. Without naming Pakistan, the joint statement said the two sides “reviewed threats posed by UN-sanctioned terrorist entities and emphasised the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks”. The statement added: “They also underlined the urgent need for all countries to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks on other countries.” India and EU are currently negotiating a working arrangement between Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation to support law enforcement authorities on both sides in preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism. The two sides sought stronger international cooperation to combat terrorism in a comprehensive and sustained manner, and said it is crucial to bring perpetrators of violence and terrorism to justice. “India condemned the recent terror attacks in the member states of the European Union and expressed condolences to the families of the victims. The EU reiterated its condemnation of terrorist attacks in India, including 26/11 Mumbai, Pathankot and Pulwama, and reiterated its support for the people and government of India in the fight against terrorism,” the joint statement said. The two sides described counter-terrorism cooperation as an important element of the EU-India strategic partnership, and discussed the need to work together at multilateral forums such as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Global Counterterrorism Forum and the UN, including the UN High-Level Counter-terrorism Week 2021 and the upcoming review of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. They also exchanged views on counter-terrorism challenges, including radicalisation and violent extremism, terror financing, and terrorist use of the internet. “The participants also discussed sanctions as a tool to combat terrorism, including designations of certain terrorist groups and individuals. They discussed ways to deepen cooperation between Indian Agencies and their European counterparts, including Europol, to enhance interaction in the sphere of counter-terrorism,” the joint statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-condemn-the-use-of-proxies-for-cross-border-terror/story-K5ipY18T2uid99eNUxo7GJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Odisha sarpanch arrested for seeking sexual favour from Dalit woman||Odisha police on Thursday arrested a sarpanch on charges of molesting a 20-year-old Dalit woman of Kalahandi district and seeking sexual favours from her in lieu of providing her with a house under Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana.Police officials in Kalahandi said sarpanch of Salepali gram panchayat under Madanpur Rampur block of Kalahandi district, Ramesh Chandra Sahu was arrested on Thursday on rape and molestation charges as well sexually harassing a Dalit woman of his panchayat. Inspector of M Rampur police station, Gobind Chandra Majhi said a case under sections 376, 354(A), 354(B) and 341 of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused sarpanch. Sahu was later produced in a local court which sent him to judicial custody.The woman her complaint to the police on Wednesday said that Sahu had been harassing her and asking for sexual favours in order to facilitate a house under Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana for her family. The victim’s parents are migrant workers in Gujarat’s Rajkot and she was staying with her three minor brothers in their house which was damaged during rains last year. She has applied for a new house under PMGAY.“The sarpanch used to come to our house frequently and under the pretext of providing a PMAY house tried to win my confidence. On October 18, he came to our house when I was alone and tried to sexually assault me. However, I managed to drive him out of the house. He boasted that no one can do anything as he has powerful connections,” the woman stated in her FIR.Soon after the woman lodged the complaint with police, some supporters of the sarpanch barged into the police station and attacked her. However, police rescued her and escorted her to a shelter home in Bhawanipatna town.Under the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana, beneficiaries get Rs 1.2 lakh directly into their bank account for construction a 25 square metre pucca house. Beneficiaries can also avail of a loan upto Rs 70,000 under this scheme from lending institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sarpanch-arrested-for-seeking-sexual-favour-from-dalit-woman/story-Q9R9O3AufmazGF0JTmFICL.html
19-11-2020||India||CBI searches 25 places of former TDP lawmaker in AP in illegal mining case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday searched 25 places including the premises of former Telugu Desam Party lawmaker Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao in connection with an ongoing investigation into alleged illegal limestone mining case. Searches were conducted in various places including those in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana’s Hyderabad belonging to Rao and others in connection with the case, the CBI said in a statement. “During searches, several incriminating documents, mobile phones, material objects and cash have been recovered,” the CBI note said. Rao, who represented Gurajala assembly constituency in Guntur district, has been facing allegations of irregularities in obtaining licenses for limestone mining. After coming to power in May 2019, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government ordered investigation by Crime Investigation Department (CID) of the state police. Later, the state government wrote to the Centre seeking a CBI probe into the allegations against the former TDP MLA. “In pursuance of the notification issued by the Andhra Pradesh government and further notification issued by Department of Personnel and Training of Government of India, the CBI has taken over 17 cases of illegal limestone mining from CID and registered a case on August 26, 2020 against 17 accused,” the statement said. It was alleged that the accused had fraudulently conducted illegal and unauthorized mining, quarrying and transportation of limestone in Konanki village of Piduguralla Mandal, Kesanupalli and Nadikudi Villages of Dachepalli Mandal, Guntur District for several years. They allegedly caused revenue loss to the state government and other licensed lease holders, and also exploited the natural resources. It was further alleged that illegal mining of several lakh of tons of limestone was conducted by the accused during the period from 2014 to 2018, as a result of which, natural resources worth several crore of rupees have been plundered. “In order to ascertain the quantum of unauthorized and illegal mining, CBI is also conducting volumetric analysis by using satellite imagery. Investigation is continuing,” the CBI release said.Rao could not be reached for comment on the CBI searches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-searches-25-places-of-former-tdp-lawmaker-in-ap-in-illegal-mining-case/story-q6JnPjEDu9kRrScUqm56II.html
19-11-2020||India||BSP chief Mayawati’s father dies, Adityanath, Akhilesh express grief||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati’s father Prabhu Dayal died at the age of 95 in New Delhi on Thursday, the party said in a statement.In a condolence message, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said, “Prabhu Dayal, father of party chief and former chief minister Mayawati, died at the age of 95. The workers and office bearers of the party pray for the peace of the departed soul and strength to the grief-stricken family to bear the loss.”Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath expressed grief on the demise of Mayawati’s father. He called the BSP chief to express his condolences.Later, in a tweet, the chief minister said, “The death of Prabhu Dayal is very sad. My condolences are with Mayawati and the bereaved family. I pray to Lord Ram for peace to the departed soul.”In a tweet, Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav also condoled the death of the BSP chief’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-chief-mayawati-s-father-dies-adityanath-akhilesh-express-grief/story-ADy8Xl7AUOlKo3mLhIKqGJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Ashok Chaudhary appointed Bihar Education Minister after Mewalal Choudhary steps down||Bihar Building Construction Minister Ashok Chaudhary was on Thursday given additional charge of the education department, following the resignation of Mewalal Choudhary over corruption allegations.Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan appointed Ashok Chaudhary as the education minister on the recommendation of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.Mewalal Choudhary was among the 14 ministers who were sworn in on November 16 as part of Nitish Kumar’s new term as Bihar chief minister.Also Read | 30-minute-long closed-door meeting with CM led to Bihar minister Mewalal Choudhary’s resignationIn 2017, Mewalal was suspended from the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) government over alleged irregularities in appointments during his tenure as the vice-chancellor of the Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour in Bhagalpur district.“An accusation is proven only when a charge sheet is filed or a court gives an order and none of the two is there to prove the allegations against me,” Mewalal said on corruption charges levelled against him.Mewalal is an MLA from Tarapur who was suspended from the JD(U) in 2017 but was re-inducted later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-chaudhary-appointed-bihar-education-minister-after-mewalal-choudhary-steps-down/story-uN9amZ30tUzdhOx2SlRthM.html
19-11-2020||India||India, US natural partners, will advance Indo-Pacific’s security: Foreign secretary Shringla||India and the US have the shared objective of advancing the security and economic interests of all countries with a legitimate stake in the Indo-Pacific region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Shringla’s remarks, made during a virtual interaction with the US India Strategic Partnership Forum, set the stage for New Delhi’s engagement with the incoming Joe Biden administration. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has already said India will face no problems in taking forward ties with the US under the Biden administration because of strong bipartisan support for the relationship. The foreign secretary highlighted the shared values that make India and the US natural partners for forging a stable, peaceful and prosperous 21st century, including mutual trust, a shared commitment to democracy and converging strategic interests. “India and the US have collectively affirmed the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, with firm support for Asean centrality. Our objective remains advancing the security and economic interests of all countries having a legitimate stake in the Indo-Pacific region,” said Shringla, who served as envoy to the US before taking over as foreign secretary at the beginning of this year. “It is my firm conviction that India-US ties are only going to get stronger. I am sure all of you present here today share my optimism,” he added. Shringla pointed to steps being taken by members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – which brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US – to combat Covid-19 and build resilient supply chains and said New Delhi sees Washington as a natural partner for building a resilient economy. “We are meeting today at an interesting time when the US is transitioning towards a new administration. One of the remarkable features of our bilateral ties is the strong bipartisan support in the US to strengthen its strategic partnership with India and work together on addressing global challenges,” he said. “We look forward to working with the new US administration for further strengthening and consolidating this multifaceted relationship for our mutual benefit and economic prosperity.” Shringla listed post-Covid-19 recovery and climate change as two key areas for future cooperation with the US. As a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council from next year, India will work with the US to seek collective solutions for the post-Covid world and reformed multilateralism, he said. The India-US 2+2 dialogue of foreign and defence ministers last month had focused on a coordinated Covid-19 response and economic recovery, and both sides had decided to promote access to an affordable Covid-19 vaccine, he said. Both sides also agreed to boost supply chain resilience and to expand bilateral trade, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-natural-partners-will-advance-indo-pacific-s-security-foreign-secretary-shringla/story-GmWAmonfIRj5gMjba4vTzJ.html
19-11-2020||India||EU seeks early meeting of mechanism to discuss trade agreement with India||The European Union (EU) has sought an early meeting for a new high-level mechanism with India to take forward discussions on a trade and investment agreement, Indian officials said on Thursday. The two sides had agreed to set up the high-level mechanism during the India-EU Summit in July. The EU’s trade commissioner raised the matter with the Indian side and discussions are underway to have a meeting of the mechanism soon, said joint secretary (Europe West) Sandeep Chakravorty of the external affairs ministry. “Today, the sub-commission on India-EU trade has met and there is forward movement. This high-level mechanism will take on the task of starting the negotiations on the India-EU trade and investment agreement,” he told reporters during a briefing after the India-Luxembourg Summit. External affairs minister S Jaishankar had said on Wednesday that India is interested in a fair and balanced free trade pact with EU. The virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Luxembourg counterpart Xavier Bettel – the first such interaction between the two sides in almost 20 years – focused on strengthening ties in the post-Covid-19 world, especially in financial technology, green financing, space applications and digital innovations. The two sides signed three agreements – a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the India International Exchange and Luxembourg Stock Exchange for cooperation in financial services and green finance, a MoU between the State Bank of India and Luxembourg Stock Exchange, and a MoU between Invest India and Luxinnovation to promote and facilitate FDI. Given Luxembourg’s role as a founding member of EU, Modi and Bettel also discussed the proposed trade and investment agreement with the European states. They also discussed cooperation on effective and reformed multilateralism, terrorism and climate change, Chakravorty said. Modi welcomed Luxembourg’s announcement to join the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and invited it to join the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). The two countries are also looking to sign an agreement between their space agencies. The two sides currently cooperate in satellite broadcasting and communications, and the launch of the PSLV-C49 on November 7 included four satellites from Luxembourg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eu-seeks-early-meeting-of-mechanism-to-discuss-trade-agreement-with-india/story-mm0zmCwLXAEIsbMTaYPLdP.html
19-11-2020||India||Keylong, Kalpa in Himachal Pradesh shiver at sub-zero temperatures||Himachal Pradesh witnessed dry weather on Thursday with Keylong and Kalpa recording sub-zero temperatures, the meteorological department said.Keylong, the administrative centre of the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti, was the coldest place in the state recording a temperature of minus 2 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT Centre Director Manmohan Singh said.Kinnaur’s Kalpa registered a low of minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, he added.  The minimum temperatures in Kufri, Manali and Dalhousie were 2.5 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius and 3.9 degrees Celsius respectively, the weatherman said.State capital Shimla recorded a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keylong-kalpa-in-himachal-pradesh-shiver-at-sub-zero-temperatures/story-CLxBhw8m9Fd5xKPWgYKbRJ.html
19-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to join G20 Summit during Nov 21-22||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will join leaders of the G20 for the grouping’s virtual summit during November 21-22, with the top item on the agenda being an inclusive and sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. This will be the third summit this month after the meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping where Modi and President Xi Jinping will share the same online platform amid the India-China border standoff. Saudi Arabia is the current chair of G20, and India is set to take over the presidency in 2022. India will enter the G20 troika with Saudi Arabia when Italy takes over the G20 presidency on December 1. The theme for this year’s summit is “Realising the opportunities of the 21st century for all”. “The focus of the upcoming G20 Summit, being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, will be on an inclusive, resilient and sustainable recovery from Covid-19,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. “During the summit, the leaders will discuss pandemic preparedness and ways and means to restore jobs. The leaders will also share their vision for building an inclusive, sustainable and resilient future.” This is the second meeting of the G20 leaders this year, after the extraordinary leaders’ summit held in March to discuss measures to contain the pandemic and to forge a coordinated global response. Saudi Arabia said in a statement on Thursday that the pandemic has revealed vulnerabilities in the capacity to prevent, detect and respond to pandemic threats worldwide. Vulnerable groups, including women, young people and low-income communities, have been disproportionately impacted, while the G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative has benefited 46 low-income countries. G20 countries have injected more than $11 trillion to support the global economy and bridged the health funding gap with $21 billion to enhance pandemic preparedness and response, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-join-g20-summit-during-nov-21-22/story-eSsZhk3nGqUKVtPUAxOFbO.html
19-11-2020||India||Jellyfish swarms invade Goa beaches, sting over 90 bathers||Swarms of stinging jellyfish have invaded the waters off Goa leaving more than 90 bathers requiring first aid in the last two days, Drishti, the lifeguarding agency manning Goa’s beaches has said. “Over the past two days, the Baga-Calangute beach belt witnessed over 55 cases while the Candolim to Sinquerim beach stretch saw 10 cases. South Goa reported over 25 cases of jellyfish related accidents requiring immediate first aid,” Drishti Marine, said in a statement. Jellyfish stings while usually treatable with menial first aid can also on occasion produce allergic reactions or leave the stung portion swollen or itching for days. “In one particular incident which occurred in Baga, a male who went parasailing developed chest pain and experienced breathing difficulty after being stung by a jellyfish. As he was short of breath, oxygen was administered while an ambulance was called for and the victim was rushed to the hospital,” the agency said. Jellyfish are of two kinds - toxic and non-toxic. Most jellyfish stings are harmless to humans and cause only mild irritation but in very rare cases jellyfish species can cause harm on contact.Jellyfish stingings have been rare occurrences but off late are being reported with increasing frequency along the coast. Drishti lifesavers posted along the beach were inundated with first aid cases related to jellyfish stings.Goa’s beaches were thrown open for tourists after the lockdown ended and the monsoons receded making the waters safer for bathing. In the recent past, sightings of the Portuguese man-o-war more commonly known as the bluebottle jellyfish have been sighted but more common jellyfish often remain undetected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jellyfish-swarms-invade-goa-beaches-sting-over-90-bathers/story-sJu4qgNAS5Cm9gsVQEDnmO.html
19-11-2020||India||70-year-old woman raped and killed in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district||In a shocking crime in Vidisha district of Madhya Pradesh, a 70-year-old was raped and murdered and her body dumped near her hut, police said Thursday.The crime took place in a village about 80 km east of Bhopal. Police suspect the senior citizen was killed Wednesday night or early Thursday. “Doctors found serious injury marks on the private parts of the victim. Her mouth was also found stuffed with clay,” said Sanjay Sahu, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Vidisha. The woman was sleeping in a hut near an agricultural field in the village when she was raped and killed, said the officer. Police have launched a probe to nab the perpetrators.“My mother used to sleep in the hut to take care of the vegetable crop. She used to come home in the morning. On Thursday morning when she didn’t come, I went to the fields to see her and found her body near the hut,” the woman’s son said.The rape and murder fuelled tension in the village. Authorities said a heavy police force has been deployed in the village to maintain peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-woman-raped-and-killed-in-madhya-pradesh-s-vidisha-district/story-uYtEgBrkHDwk7dryHWDF0L.html
19-11-2020||India||No firing across LoC today: Army says reacting to report of ‘pinpoint’ strikes in PoK||The Indian Army on Thursday refuted reports of carrying out strikes on suspected terror launchpads inside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. “Reports of Indian Army’s action in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) across the Line of Control are fake,” Indian Army Director General of Military Operations Lt Gen Paramjit Singh said. There has been no firing across LoC, the Army has clarified after a news agency report said Army has launched “pinpoint strikes” inside Pakistan-occupied- Kashmir.Security forces on Thursday gunned down four terrorists in an encounter on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway near Nagrota in Jammu.  Reports of Indian Army's action in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) across the Line of Control are fake: Indian Army Director General of Military Operations Lt Gen Paramjit Singh (file photo) pic.twitter.com/uHlULDWydhThe specific report of “pinpoint strikes” came just a week after five security personnel and four civilians were killed in Pakistani aggression at several locations — Uri, Nowgam, Keran and Gurez sectors in North Kashmir — across the Line of Control. Indian Army retaliated strongly and caused substantial damage to several launch pads.The report that the Army is carrying out strikes in PoK come in this backdrop amid claims that Pakistani military is pushing a maximum number of terrorists to India before the onset of winters. The report has been based on analysis of the ceasefire violations that took place on November 13, the Army has clarified.According to official data, 21 innocent civilians have lost their lives in Pakistani firing compared to 18 in the whole of 2019. This year eight infiltration bids were foiled and 14 terrorists have been neutralised along the LoC, according to official data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-carrying-out-strikes-in-pok-reports-fake-says-army/story-sJ2WbOjUujSLTsZrNLAaXL.html
19-11-2020||India||India, China to hold another round of talks soon on border standoff||India and China will soon hold another round of talks aimed at achieving complete disengagement and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. The border standoff along the LAC in Ladakh where both sides have deployed tens of thousands of troops backed by artillery and armoured vehicles, has entered its seventh month. Recent reports had suggested the two sides are considering several proposals for thinning troops at some friction points but are yet to make a breakthrough. The eighth round of talks between senior military commanders of the two sides, which was held in Chushul on November 6, was also joined by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry. “The objective of these discussions is to ensure complete disengagement and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “We will continue our dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels and have also agreed to have another round of talks soon with a view to achieve this objective,” he added. Srivastava described discussions during last round of talks between the military commanders as “candid, in-depth and constructive” and said both sides had exchanged views on “disengagement at all friction points along the LAC in the western sector”. There were expectations that the ninth round of talks between the military commanders would be held last week but the two sides are yet to finalise dates for the meeting. With no signs of an immediate breakthrough in efforts to pull back troops, both India and China have made preparations for their forces to remain in place along the LAC by building new accommodation to protect them from the harsh winter, when temperatures plummet as low as minus 40 degrees Celsius. The top Indian and Chinese leadership have participated in several virtual meetings this month, including the summits of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping, and the Indian side called for respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of states. The Indian leaders also emphasised the importance of a rules-based order at these meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-another-round-of-talks-soon-on-border-standoff/story-o7EeC4Ep2NsG4ePyoKtIZJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Centre asks UP, Haryana to check Covid-19 bed status in Noida, Gurugram||The ministry of home affairs has asked Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to survey take stock of the Covid-19 situations in areas that fall in the National Capital Region. Noida, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad, Faridabad will come under this survey where the Centre has asked the government to check the bed availability in private hospitals. Delhi entered what is being called the third wave of Covid-19 in the last week of October with a sudden spike in the number of daily infections. Diwali, Pollution aggravated the situation with the highest number of cases breaching the 8,000-mark and the number of daily toll reaching above 120. MHA has advised Haryana and UP govts to hold survey of pvt hospitals in their NCR districts on the lines of Delhi @PIB_India @DDNewslive @airnewsalertsUnion home minister Amit Shah convened a meeting and several steps have been taken to step up Delhi’s Covid-19 infrastructure. A total of 50 doctors and 175 paramedics have been deployed at Chhatarpur and Shakur Basti Covid-19 care centres. The current capacity of 3,652 ICU beds will be ramped up soon, the MHA has said. The Centre has created 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit more than 100 private hospitals in Delhi to assess bed utilisation and testing capacity. These teams will also identify extra ICU beds. Haryana and UP governments have also been asked to carry out similar surveys of hospital beds,Noida authorities have already started random Covid-19 sampling at the border area to arrive at a broad assessment of how many cases are getting imported from Delhi. On Wednesday, Noida recorded 179 new Covid-19 cases and the total tally stands at 20,749. On Wednesday, Gurugram reported 659 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-up-haryana-to-check-covid-19-bed-status-in-noida-gurugram/story-ozEebr1AqWGSKur4zXK5iO.html
19-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: To curb surge in Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad administration decides to impose night curfew and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahmedabad imposes night curfew from 9pm To 6am amid rising Covid- 19 casesWith the number of coronavirus cases witnessing a surge, the Ahmedabad administration has decided to impose night curfew on the city. The curfew will be imposed from 9 pm to 6 am in the city till further order.Amid a sudden spike in new cases during the festive season, officials said adequate number of beds have been made available for Covid-19 patients in city hospitals. Read MoreHTLS 2020: ‘Oxford Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600,’ says Adar PoonawallaOxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600 Adar Poonawala, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India told Hindustan Times on Thursday. He said it will take another 3-4 months before the vaccine could be made available to the general public. Poonawala’s comments came during the second session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit; Day 1, ‘Covid-19: Where Do We Stand’. Read MoreCyber and space domains focus of £16.5 billion UK defence pushThe UK government on Thursday announced the establishment of a National Cyber Force manned with intelligence and military personnel as part of a £16.5 billion push in the defence sector as the country prepares for life out of the EU from January 1, 2021. Read MoreVaravara Rao being treated for urinary tract infection at Nanavati hospitalPoet-activist Varavara Rao, jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case, is being treated for urinary tract infection at Mumbai’s Nanavati hospital where he was shifted on Wednesday night, said a doctor who did not wish to be named. Read More30-minute-long closed-door meeting with CM led to Bihar minister Mewalal Choudhary’s resignationBarely hours after assuming charge as Bihar education minister on Thursday, Mewalal Choudhary, JD(U) MLA from Tarapur, tendered his resignation from the ministry. Opposition parties, including the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had been pulling the government and attacking Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for inducting Choudhary who was earlier expelled from the party in 2017 after an FIR was lodged against him in a corruption case. On the advice of the chief minister, Governor Phagu Chauhan accepted Choudhary’s resignation. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Who will open, who will bat at four when Virat Kohli goes?’ - Ricky Ponting says ‘India have more questions to answer’India captain Virat Kohli made a huge decision ahead of the Australia series to take paternal leave after the first Test in Adelaide. It meant that Kohli will miss the remainder of the three Tests in Australia, something that has become a topic of discussion in cricketing circles. Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput discussed film on ‘ISI, Kasab’ a day before his death, had another meeting on June 15: reportSushant Singh Rajput’s agent told three investigating agencies that the late actor was in talks for a film about the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai. Producer Ramesh Taurani had previously confirmed that he’d spoken to Sushant about the project just one day before the actor’s death. Sushant died by suicide on June 14, and his final release was Dil Bechara, which debuted on the Disney+ Hotstar streaming service a few weeks later. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-to-curb-the-recent-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-ahmedabad-administration-decides-to-impose-night-curfew-from-9pm-to-6am-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fKJiuX3J7BdnwCTu1zNt2O.html
19-11-2020||India||LeT founder Hafiz Saeed sentenced in two more cases of terror financing||A Pakistani court on Thursday handed down Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, blamed by India for masterminding the 2008 Mumbai attacks, and two close aides prison sentences totalling ten-and-a-half years in two cases of terror financing. Besides Saeed, the others sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in Lahore are Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) leaders Zafar Iqbal and Yahya Mujahid, who served as JuD’s spokesman for many years. All three have been sanctioned by the UN Security Council. Hafiz is also the founder of the JuD.Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rehman Makki, also a top leader of JuD, was given a six-month sentence in the same cases. Saeed, currently serving a prison term in connection with other terror financing cases, was produced for the sentencing by anti-terrorism court judge Arshad Hussain Bhutta. Saeed was given two separate five-year prison terms under provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act for using and providing funds for acts of terrorism. He was also given a six-month prison term for being a member of a banned group. The judge ordered the seizure of Saeed’s “movable and immovable property” and directed him to pay fines totalling Pakistani Rs 110,000. All three sentences will run concurrently. Since Saeed is already in jail serving two sentences of five-and-a-half-years given to him in February, he will not serve any extra jail time. “Since the convict has already been convicted...by this court vide judgment dated 12.02.2020, so the punishment awarded to him in this case shall also run concurrently with punishment in said cases,” the court’s order said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the sentencing of Saeed was largely due to pressure on Pakistan from Western powers and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to crack down on terror groups and terror financing, including prosecution of those funnelling funds to terrorists. The people added Saeed’s conviction in four separate cases this year could be an indication the military establishment no longer considers him an asset. Virtually all of Saeed’s top aides have been arrested and put on trial, and there are indications that they are no longer playing a role in directing LeT’s operations. “It appears that LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, who was arrested for the Mumbai attacks and later released on bail in 2015, is the main person directing the operations,” said one of the people cited above. Lakhvi’s current whereabouts are not known. A total of 41 cases were registered against Saeed and his aides by Punjab Police after he was arrested in July 2019. Of these cases, two were decided on Thursday, bringing the tally of cases decided so far to 24. The rest are still being heard by anti-terrorism courts. Saeed and his aides are being held in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat jail. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to Saeed’s sentencing. Asked about Pakistan-backed terror groups operating in Jammu and Kashmir at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India had protested against Pakistan’s “continued support to cross-border terrorist infiltration into India” and reminded Islamabad of its bilateral commitment to now allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism. Srivastava also the “incessant infiltration of terrorists and induction of weapons to fuel terror activities continues unabated” and these activities weren’t possible without the support of Pakistani forces deployed along the Line of Control (LoC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-founder-hafiz-saeed-sentenced-in-two-more-cases-of-terror-financing/story-mqc8hqmIYfwT6KYgp4vwtL.html
19-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: ‘Wanted to be prepared for a pandemic ever since heard Bill Gates’ TED talk,’ says Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, said that he wanted to be prepared for a “pandemic level event” ever since he heard Bill Gates in a TED talk. Poonawalla’s comments came during the second session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit; Day 1, ‘Covid-19: Where Do We Stand’.“I wanted to be prepared for a pandemic level event ever since I heard Bill Gates in a TED talk where he clearly said that we should be more worried and prepared for such situations,” Poonawalla told HT’s health and science editor, Sanchita Sharma, on Thursday. WATCH | How long to control Covid-19 pandemic? Top doctors respond on #HTLS2020 Poonawalla was referring to Gates’ moving TED Talk few years ago wherein he warned against the possible rise of an infectious disease, also pointing out the state of ill-preparedness against such an event. Also read: HTLS 2020 - Is India ready for another pandemic? AIIMS director Dr Guleria answers“If anything kills over 10 million people in the next few decades, it’s most likely to be a highly infectious virus rather than a war. Not missiles, but microbes. Now, part of the reason for this is that we’ve invested a huge amount in nuclear deterrents. But we’ve actually invested very little in a system to stop an epidemic. We’re not ready for the next epidemic,” Gates had said. During the summit, Poonawalla shared that the Oxford vaccine will take about 3-4 months to be made available to the public and could cost between Rs 500-600. However, he said that it could take a few more years before every Indian is vaccinated and protected against the deadly virus. “It will be 2024, till everybody will get vaccinated and protected,” he noted. Speaking on the possible “side-effects” of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Poonawalla said, some of the mild symptoms that were noted across different age groups included, “fever, weakness, headache, normal cold”, which went away in a day or two after giving paracetamol, he said. The first session of Day 1 of the HT Leadership Summit saw Hindustan Times editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan discuss the pandemic and its many aspects with Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Dr Ashish K Jha, dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health. While Dr Guleria described India as a “resilient nation” in the face of the raging pandemic, he also called more investment in the public sector and involvement of healthcare professionals. Dr Jha, on the other hand, warned against the challenge of making the Covid-19 vaccine accessible to all. The experts also expressed delight and excitement over the breakthrough in Covid-19 vaccine recently reported by leading pharmaceutical giants Moderna and Pfizer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-wanted-to-be-prepared-for-a-pandemic-ever-since-heard-bill-gates-ted-talk-says-poonawala/story-7oJa0RgnHZh1kDBn04mbrL.html
19-11-2020||India||Bihar grapples with rising cases of post-Covid complications||A majority of patients who recovered from Covid-19 are returning to the AIIMS-Patna, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, with complaints of respiratory distress, a senior doctor at the facility said on Thursday. The AIIMS, which did an initial assessment of 92 patients since it initiated OPD service for post-Covid patients on September 25, found that 51% complained of shortness of breath, 38% of cough, 35.86% of weakness and 20% had fever till November 9. Some among them even had multiple complaints, said Dr Deependra Kumar Rai, head of the department of pulmonary medicine, AIIMS. Of those with respiratory distress, around 33% patients had post Covid interstitial lung disease (PC-ILD) and 13% had poor lung function, he said. “As many as 13% of the PC-ILD cases have post Covid pulmonary fibrosis, which is problematic for patients as it is believed to cause permanent damage to the lungs, affecting its expansion. Another 19.56% of patients are non-fibrotic, and their lung function is expected to recover over a period of time,” said Dr Rai. The AIIMS has advised PC-ILD patients to be on regular follow-up for the next six months to check for pulmonary fibrosis. “We will do their spirometry test to check the functioning of the lungs every two months and also run a CT scan of the chest to check for fibrosis, if it resolves with time,” he added. Dr Rai advocated breathing exercises and yoga for patients who had recovered from Covid-19. At least two-third of the patients, coming to the OPD of the pulmonary department at AIIMS-Patna, belonged to the 30-60 years age group, while 21% were less than 30 years old and 12% over 60 years of age. The average daily patient footfall had risen in the past fortnight. An average 12 to 13 patients were reporting every day to the OPD for consultation as compared to 2-4 initially, when the service was introduced, said Dr Rai. The Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which was the other dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Patna, has seen lesser footfalls of post-Covid patients in its OPD. “We are in the process of collating post-Covid patient data. However, a negligible percentage has returned to our OPD clinic with post-Covid complications out of the nearly 2,000 Covid patients who survived after treatment at our hospital. This is a pointer to the fact that our patient recovery is good. Only about 5% to 6% severe pneumatic patients have come to us with complaints of shortness of breath after eight weeks of recovery from Covid,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, nodal officer for Covid-19 at NMCH. Out of its Covid-19 tally of 2,29,474, Bihar on Thursday reported 5,772 active cases while the death toll was at 1,209.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-grapples-with-rising-cases-of-post-covid-complications/story-8dy3QFSCQM5royuzKksleM.html
19-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Covid-19 vaccine could roll out in 3-4 months, says SII’s Adar Poonawalla||Providing a glimmer of hope to a population ravaged by the novel Coronavirus, Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla announced at the HT Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday that India could well expect a suitable and effective vaccine for the contagious viral disease by the end of the year or early next year. Emphasising that the initial doses of the vaccine would be allocated for all frontline workers, health officials and the elderly who are more vulnerable, Poonawalla said that if timelines were not delayed by unexpected circumstances, the common people would be able to get vaccinated by March- April 2021. SII’s Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine, pricing and rollout at #HTLS2020 “Never did I dream that we at the Serum Institute of India (SII) would have a good vaccine developed by this year-end with all regulatory approvals in place. If everything goes according to plan, January-February 2021 is our deadline for making the vaccine available to frontline workers and to the general public by March, April next year,” the SII CEO said.Promising to allocate at least 50% of the volume of the vaccine manufactured by his company to his own countrymen to help them battle the Covid-19 infection, Poonawalla indicated that SII had plans to roll out 100 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine by February 2021. He also said that efforts were on to make the vaccine affordable for all at an initial price range of Rs 500 to Rs 600. He assured that there would be no major side effects but slight fever may occur which could be treated with paracetamol.ALSO READ | HTLS 2020: ‘Oxford Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600,’ says Adar PoonawallaHe also spoke about adding two more manufacturing facilities to his current production capacity to enable the company to roll out 100 million doses of the vaccine by February 2021.Poonawalla was participating in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in conversation with HT’s Health Editor Sanchita Sharma. The maiden session also saw Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS and Dr Ashish K Jha, Dean, Brown University School of Public Health discussing the Covid-19 health crisis and how it had affected the entire world. Dr Guleria also warned the population to be more cautious now than ever before since a suitable vaccine for the viral disease was just round the corner.Adar Poonawalla is the CEO and owner of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced and sold globally (more than 1.5 billion doses). SII supplies affordable life-saving vaccines approved by the World Health Organization to at least 170 countries, across the globe. The family-owned company was set up in 1966 by Cyrus Poonawalla with the aim of manufacturing life-saving immunobiological drugs including vaccines.ALSO READ | HTLS Day 1 LIVE: Oxford vaccine will roll out in next 3-4 months, says AdarAmid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, which has brought nearly 200 countries face-to-face with the largest public health crisis that the world has seen in a century, this year’s edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) is a totally virtual affair and an amalgamation of global leaders from all spheres of life. Live discussions with the celebrity participants will be spread over the span of four weeks scheduled twice a week on Thursdays and Fridays.The theme of this year’s edition, held virtually, is ‘Defining a New Era’ as the world learns to live and deal with the Coronavirus infection and takes baby steps in controlling the pandemic.The Hindustan Times Leadership Summit began nearly a decade and a half earlier in 2003, to raise the level of discourse on critical issues and to encourage interaction among leaders in important areas and present quality thought through a number of conversations. The last seventeen summits have seen leaders from the country and across the world putting across their views to build a better India in an emerging post-modern world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-if-all-goes-well-covid-19-vaccine-will-roll-out-in-next-3-4-months-says-sii-s-adar-poonawalla/story-j226aS5gpL7UwK2qsQ1XcM.html
19-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: ‘Oxford Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600,’ says Adar Poonawalla||Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600 Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India told Hindustan Times on Thursday. He said it will take another 3-4 months before the vaccine could be made available to the general public. Poonawalla’s comments came during the second session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit; Day 1, ‘Covid-19: Where Do We Stand’.While in conversation with HT’s health and science editor Sanchita Sharma, Poonawalla said that nearly 300-400 million doses of the Oxford vaccine for Covid-19 will be available by the first quarter of 2021. Poonawalla emphasised the significance of “private players” for enhanced distribution of the vaccine once it hits the market. Watch | SII’s Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine, pricing and rollout at #HTLS2020 “As many private players will have to be brought in to partner with the government for enhanced distribution of the vaccine... we see more of that happening,” he said.  Also read: HTLS 2020 - Is India ready for another pandemic? AIIMS director Dr Guleria answers#HTLS2020 | Day 1 of the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit comes to an end!In case you missed it, watch full video https://t.co/OoCaaXP6dV pic.twitter.com/rMhhVzQC4hPoonawalla said it will take about four more years to get everyone get vaccinated and protected from the virus. “It will be 2024, till everybody will get vaccinated and protected,” he noted. Speaking on the possible “side-effects” of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Poonawalla said, some of the mild symptoms that were noted across different age groups included, “little fever, weakness, headache, normal cold”. “Even those symptoms went away in one or two days after giving paracetamol,” he said. In the opening session of the summit, Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and Dr Ashish K Jha, dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health talked about the pandemic, the road ahead for India and the breakthrough achieved by pharmaceutical giants Moderna and Pfizer with respect to the Covid-19 vaccine. Both the experts expressed their delight with the development while cautioning against the challenges ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-priced-at-rs-500-600-says-adar-poonawalla/story-9H2zv8fxgtbCOs59P3xZNL.html
19-11-2020||India||Varavara Rao being treated for urinary tract infection at Nanavati hospital||Poet-activist Varavara Rao, jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case, is being treated for urinary tract infection at Mumbai’s Nanavati hospital where he was shifted on Wednesday night, said a doctor who did not wish to be named.The family of the 81-year-old activist from Hyderabad is expected to reach Mumbai on Friday. He was shifted to the Nanavati hospital for 15 days on the directions of the Bombay high court which noted that Rao was almost on his deathbed.“He is stable. At present, we are treating him for urinary tract infection. We are also running further diagnosis for his dementia. Until we get all the test reports, we cannot comment on his health. At present, he is admitted in the general ward without any oxygen support,” said the doctor from the hospital requesting anonymity since he is not authorised to talk to the media.The high court had instructed the state government on Wednesday to shift Rao from Taloja jail to Nanavati hospital. In July, Rao was treated at the state-run St George Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. During his treatment, he was diagnosed with neurological problems. Later when neurologists from the JJ Hospital examined him, he was diagnosed with delirium which is a state of mind characterized by restlessness, illusions, and incoherence.As the activist needed specialized neurological and urological treatment, he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital. Rao was arrested in 2018 and charged under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Along with him, nine other activists were accused of plotting violence with Maoists and making provocative speeches at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-being-treated-for-urinary-tract-infection-at-nanavati-hospital/story-c5i6t8hauafHG9hxduD6OI.html
19-11-2020||India||Rajat Sharma re-elected as president of News Broadcasters Association||The News Broadcasters Association on Thursday elected India TV Editor-in-Chief Rajat Sharma as the president for another term in 2020-21, a statement issued by the media body said.At the NBA board meeting, the members unanimously asked Sharma, the chairman and editor-in-chief of India TV, to continue as the president.The board also elected Anuradha Prasad Shukla, chairperson-cum-managing director - News24 Broadcast India Ltd, as the vice president and M K Anand, managing director & chief executive officer - Times Network - Bennett, Coleman and Co. Ltd, Honorary Treasurer of the NBA for the year 2020-2021.Sharma was first elected as NBA president in 2014-15 and has since been heading the organisation barring 2016-17.In his address to the NBA members at the 13th annual general meeting, Sharma said that during the last six months, the entire world has gone through an unprecedented crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Businesses across the globe have seen disruption. News broadcasters are no exception to this disruption. Overnight everything changed for one and all. Our responsibility as news channels increased manifold when the government declared us as ‘essential services’,” he said.Also Read | SSR case media trial: Have NBA to keep eye on electronic media, Centre tells Bombay HC“Our members stood up to all the difficulties and ensured that news was delivered seamlessly and without any glitches. During the lockdown, there was an unprecedented spike in the viewership of news channels,” he said.The NBA salutes journalists, camera persons and editorial staff who have gone beyond their line of duty, putting their lives at risk, and ensured that news and information of the pandemic reached millions of viewers, Sharma said.“This year also witnessed an unprecedented challenge of unregulated toxic content by some channels who are not NBA members. I am happy to share that NBA members stood together to fight against this menace,” he said.“The NBA believes in editorial standards ensuring objectivity, neutrality, fairness and accuracy in reporting. We have appealed to the advertisers not to support toxic content and sensationalism that promotes hate. I am happy to share that reputed brands have come forward and supported our stand,” he said.The NBA is the largest organisation of news broadcasters, consisting of almost all major news networks of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajat-sharma-re-elected-as-president-of-news-broadcasters-association/story-6X3GkMVsDaDPYgp2LQMTOM.html
19-11-2020||India||Want to take bilateral ties with India to new heights, says Australian PM Morrison||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday said his country plans to take bilateral ties with India to new heights by working together in frontier technologies. “We have plans to take our entire relationship to new heights. In June of this year we did just that when my good friend Prime Minister Modi and I met virtually and signed a comprehensive strategic partnership it elevated our partnership,” Morrison said. In his video address to the the Bengaluru Tech Summit, 2020 (BTS2020), he said Australia and India have unlimited possibilities of working together in space research, critical minerals, 5G, AI, quantum computing and much more. “We have signed the landmark Australia India Technology Framework Agreement on cyber and cyber enabled technology. That means Australia and India are working together for an open, free, safe, and secure internet. That is the foundation for digital economies to work. We will be soon launching Australia-India Cyber and Critical Technologies Partnership grant program,” he added.Also Read | Time for tech solutions that are designed in India, but deployed for the world: PM Narendra Modi Organised by the Karnataka government along with Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society, the state government’s Vision Group on Information Technology, Biotechnology & Startup and Software Technology Parks of India, the summit that saw the inaugural address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is scheduled to take place from November 19 to 21. Stating that the relationship between India and Australia is going from strength to strength, Morrison said “we share a deep desire to succeed and see our region prosper in peace and safety, as ultimately that is all our technology ambition is all about, the prosperity and safety of us all.” He said that he is proud to be leading a 150 strong virtual delegation of Australian policy makers, industry leaders,startups and world-leading institutions to the Summit. “Bengaluru, Indias biggest technology cluster, 4th biggest in the world, home to a 3rd of India’s tech professionals and to at least 25 Australian companies, is pulsing with energy and ambition and it is a place where it is easy to believe that “Next is Now,” he added. Highlighting Australia as a great adapter and implementer of technology,the Prime Minister said his country has seen a rapid uptake in technology during the pandemic. In the first three weeks of the pandemic, one-fourth of Australian businesses changed the way they deliver what they do, almost a quarter changed what they do and almost one-third of them expanded their online presence, he said. Pointing out that Australian companies have employed thousands of professionals in Bengaluru and Indian companies are also growing their footprints in Australia, Morrison said the Australia India Strategic Research Fund, Australia’s largest bilateral science firm with any country, is already forging relationships with universities, research institutes and businesses. In the past decade, 30 AISRF clients have funded Australian and Bengaluru based universities for some pioneering research like quantum computing and astrophysics, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-take-bilateral-ties-with-india-to-new-heights-says-australian-pm-morrison/story-WJxwF9RklQYNuhE2jmjaYK.html
19-11-2020||India||Neither sacked by CM nor quit party, says rebel TMC minister after talks||Nine days after throwing a veiled challenge at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership, West Bengal transport minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari on Thursday sounded mellow at a rally and said neither has chief minister Mamata Banerjee sacked him from the cabinet nor has he left the party. “I am still an active primary member of the party. I am still a minister and part of the cabinet. Neither has the chief minister sacked me, nor have I quit on my own. I am here as long as the higher authorities don’t expel me or I leave,” Adhikari said at a big rally organised on the occasion of the 67th National Cooperative Week by various cooperative banks and organisations at Nandakumar in East Midnapore district. “Some people are expecting me to make a political statement today. I cannot do that. We hail from the land of Iswarchandra Vidyasagar,” said Adhikari, referring to the 19th century social reformer and educationist. “Political statements cannot be made while staying in the party and the cabinet. There can be differences and differences can lead to separation. But as long as I am in the party I cannot act irresponsibly,” said Adhikari. Senior TMC leaders told HT last week that Adhikari is particularly unhappy with organizational decisions taken by the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw a veiled challenge at the party while addressing a public rally at Nandigram, his assembly constituency in East Midnapore. “Political observers are waiting for me to announce my political programme. They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this sacred platform. This is not the place. I will speak from a political platform,” said Adhikari. “I am not afraid of anyone. We will meet on the battlefield,” he added without naming anyone or even the TMC. Triggering speculations that he might join the BJP, Adhikari ended his short speech with the slogan “Bharat Mata Zindabad,” which appeared to be an improvisation on the Hindi slogan BJP leaders raise. The TMC hurriedly held a counter rally in Nandigram and urban development minister Firhad Hakim took pot shots at Adhikari without naming him. Two senior TMC Lok Sabha members, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay had been discreetly holding talks with the rebel minister since then. Even Kishor visited the minister’s father, Lok Sabha member Sisir Adhikari, last week and held a long discussion. Their efforts apparently had some effect. “I had a talk with Suvendu earlier this week. I have informed Mamata Banerjee about what transpired. She has given her initial reaction. I will have a word with Sudip and we will again talk to Suvendu next week. He told us that has not taken any decision on quitting the party,” Saugata Roy said on Thursday. Amid the TMC’s efforts to pacify Adhikari, the BJP made no bones of what it thinks about the situation. “What’s going on between the TMC and Adhikari and the language being used against him by some of the leaders cannot exactly be described as a honeymoon,” quipped state BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neither-sacked-by-cn-nor-quit-party-says-rebel-tmc-minister-after-talks/story-GgZT6YcGzReAVAkY1gF0qM.html
19-11-2020||India||SC defers hearing on Sudarshan TV show for two weeks||The Supreme Court on Thursday deferred for two weeks in the hearing on a petition against the ‘Bindas Bol’ show of Sudarshan TV news channel.The Apex Court was hearing a petition filed by Advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan against Sudarshan TV news channel for a programme on the alleged infiltration of Muslims into the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), and he sought directions from the Apex Court against the telecast of the said programme and take serious action against the TV channel.The three-judge bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, had given time to all the parties to respond to the affidavit filed by the central government and adjourned the hearing after two weeks.“We will hear the matter after two weeks,” the bench led by Justice Chandrachud said.The other two judges in the bench hearing the case are Justices Indira Banerjee and Indu Malhotra.Read more | Inform us about mechanism to deal with fake news: Supreme CourtThe central government had, in its affidavit, stated that ‘Bindas Bol’ was not in “good taste” and it violated the Programme Code. It, however, had allowed the programme to run with certain modifications, moderations, and with the due procedure of law and statute.The Apex Court had in its interim order on September 15 stayed the telecast of the remaining episodes of the programme on “UPSC Jihad” till further orders. It had decided to examine the larger issue in the case, with respect to the balancing of free speech, with other constitutional values, including the fundamental right to equality and fair treatment for every segment of citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-defers-hearing-on-sudarshan-tv-show-for-two-weeks/story-4RBRq8ZAKIxwjlbETfrWBL.html
19-11-2020||India||Ahmedabad imposes night curfew from 9pm To 6am amid rising Covid- 19 cases||With the number of coronavirus cases witnessing a surge, the Ahmedabad administration has decided to impose night curfew on the city. The curfew will be imposed from 9 pm to 6 am in the city till further order.Amid a sudden spike in new cases during the festive season, officials said adequate number of beds have been made available for Covid-19 patients in city hospitals.As many as 40 per cent beds in hospitals are still available for coronavirus patients, said Additional Chief Secretary, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who has been appointed officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Ahmedabad city.As per Gupta, out of 7,279 beds made available for COVID-19 patients in seven government and 76 designated private hospitals, 2,848 beds, that is 40 per cent, are still available. These include 2,347 beds in government hospitals and 501 beds in designated private hospitals.Ahmedabad district in Gujarat reported 220 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 46,022, the state health department said. With five more deaths, the fatalities in the district rose to 1,949, the department said.With 221 more recoveries, the number of patients who have been discharged from hospitals rose to 40,753, it said.The number of micro containment areas in the city also saw a rise with 14 such areas added to the list, taking the total to 100, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said.Residential localities and as well as individual apartments are designated as containment areas after new Covid-19 cases are detected there. This enable the civic body to carry out surveillance and other activities to contain the spread of Covid-19.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-imposes-night-curfew-from-9-pm-to-6-am-amid-rising-covid-cases/story-eKkXB83DZCqPHAmVcO2XLP.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19 surge in Nagaland due to increased testing, say health authorities||A fresh spike in Covid-19 cases is sweeping through Nagaland with 710 new infections and two deaths being reported in the last five days.The rise in cases is mostly because of increased testing and aggressive contact tracing being carried out, said Dr. Nyan Kikon, the state nodal officer for Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. He said there was also an increase in the number of security personnel coming in from high risk places outside the state. Armed forces and security personnel constitute 45% of the state’s Covid-19 tally.The official said that amid fears of new infections rising during the winter, the state’s health department along with the support of all the government agencies is preparing itself with all the available resources to face any surge in Covid-19 cases.Dr. Kikon said it was too early to say if the reason for the recent spike in cases was due to recent festivities. “We need credible evidence. We cannot simply attribute the rise in the number of cases to the festivals or weddings or any such events that took place recently,” he said.Earlier this week, the government sealed the secretariat for 48 hours for preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in workplace settings.As of Thursday, Nagaland’s Covid-19 tally stands at 10,460 out of 1,07,276 samples that have been tested. The death toll in the pandemic is 48.According to the health and family welfare department data, 8,955 people have recovered so far and there are 1,251 active cases now.According to the health department’s data, traced contacts make up 29% of the total cases while returnees and travellers constitute 21% while 5% are frontline workers. Nagaland’s positivity rate of 9.3% continues to be higher than the national average although the state has maintained a good recovery rate, which has crossed almost 90%.Households (31%) and workplaces (24%) are stated to be the most common places of infection among traced contacts.“The state data of high household contacts clearly points toward living-room-spread and is a reason why Covid-19 cases are increasing. We should now pay attention to the peril of small gatherings among family and friends who may appear healthy, especially with the festive season around the corner,” the health department said in its last weekly bulletin.It also underscored the danger of community spread linked to super spreader events such as festivities and weddings. “The danger of undetected transmission which will surface weeks later with cases and deaths after such events need to be taken into account,” the bulletin pointed out. While some events like weddings are unavoidable, the department officials advised that the organizers should ensure all safety measures are enforced.They emphasized that the key is early and timely intervention of the limited treatments available.“The treatment available for Covid-19 is very limited but the timing of interventions like oxygen, steroids, antivirals etc is extremely crucial,” officials stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-surge-in-nagaland-due-to-increased-testing-say-health-authorities/story-6qzEuEzoa2eqHGlbAextnK.html
19-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: ‘Thrilled with Covid-19 vaccine leap,’ says Brown University expert||This year’s Hindustan Times Leadership Summit started with a session on Covid-19 and saw Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Dr Ashish K Jha, dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health, talk about the deadly contagion and raging pandemic that has gripped the planet for nearly a year now. The opening session of the summit, ‘Covid-19: Where Do We Stand’, saw both Guleria and Jha converge their learning from working amid the pandemic, the challenges and the road ahead for India. How long does Covid immunity last? Brown University’s Dr Jha explains #HTLS2020Jha was first to respond to Hindustan Times editor-in-chief, Sukumar Ranganathan’s query on the two big Covid-19 vaccine breakthroughs that came the past week and said he was, “thrilled, happy and delighted” by the developments. “I have been very pleasantly surprised with what we are seeing with vaccines. Two or three weeks ago, I would have been happy with vaccines around 60 per cent effective, I dared not hope for 70 per cent and yet we have two vaccines, one from Moderna, one from Pfizer, that have both shown to be 95 per cent effective. That is incredible,” Jha said. Also read: HTLS 2020 - Challenges and opportunities of new era in national securityJha, however, pointed out that getting billions around the world vaccinated will be a challenge to tackle. “We must not underestimate those challenges but we must still celebrate the scientific breakthrough and this good news,” Jha added. The theme of this year’s virtual edition is ‘Defining a New Era’ as the world grapples with the coronavirus pandemic. The live discussions with leaders across sectors will be spread over four weeks and will be held every Thursday and Friday.Started in the year 2003, the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit aims to raise the level of discourse on critical issues, encourage interaction among leaders in important areas and present quality thought. The last seventeen summits witnessed leaders from India and across the world participating, exchanging their views and ideas for a better world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-brown-university-s-dean-dr-ashish-k-jha-on-moderna-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-breakthrough/story-5fRyFjmeBrkBbJEcFK8oQJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Teen killed after touching live wire in Tamil Nadu while trying to take selfie||Tragedy stuck a teen here on Thursday when he was electrocuted after climbing atop a goods train to click a selfie, police said. According to police, 15 year-old M Ganeshwar was the son of a state government quality inspector who was inspecting food grains transported here by a goods train at the railway junction here.The boy, who had accompanied his father, climbed on the train on a different platform, ignorant of the high tension wire running above, to click a picture of his self.He came in contact with the live wire with 25,000 volts and died instantly, police said.His body was sent for a post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-killed-after-touching-live-wire-in-tamil-nadu-while-trying-to-take-selfie/story-0CkRePZDcgWMAhtkFHQdfM.html
19-11-2020||India||Congress cracks whip on dissenters, Jharkhand leader issued show-cause notice for remarks against Rahul Gandhi, RPN Singh||Cracking the whip on dissenters, the Congress in Jharkhand on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to senior leader Furqan Ansari for criticising Rahul Gandhi and the party’s state in-charge RPN Singh, people aware of the matter said. Ansari, a former Lok Sabha member from Godda in Jharkhand, had questioned Rahul Gandhi’s campaigning in Bihar. He also claimed that the people working in Rahul Gandhi’s office and his advisors were mainly MBA graduates. “As a result, they are not able to give him the right advice or suggest key talking points for his campaign speeches. To strengthen the Congress, it is important for Rahul Gandhi to have a political advisor,” he said. Ansari’s son Irfan is currently a legislator from Jamtara. Also Read: Cong rumblings grow, PC seeks bypoll show reviewAnsari, 72, also said that he will write to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and seek major overhaul in the party organisation. Ansari also attacked Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh. “If I were at the helm, I would have not appointed him (Singh) even a block president,” he said. There were demands from state leaders for strict action against Ansari to send a “stern message” to dissenters. Acting on requests from several leaders, the party’s Jharkhand working president Kamlesh Mahto Kamlesh issued the show-cause notice to Ansari on behalf of state unit chief Rameshwar Oraon who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. In the notice, Ansari has been asked to explain his remarks within seven days. “Your statements to the media against Rahul Gandhi and RPN Singh have hurt the statements of party workers. There is an established norm in the party that no Congress leader will give press statements against the leadership. You have violated that norm,” the notice said. Differences in the Congress have surfaced again after the results of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls in several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal spoke out publicly and insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections. Sibal, a former union minister and one of the 23 signatories to a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August this year seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul, questioned the leadership on the poll debacle and asked if it was “business as usual”. The remarks triggered a war of words within the Congress as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot countered Sibal and claimed that his remarks have “hurt the sentiments” of workers and reminded him that the party had been through crises several times in the past. On Tuesday, senior Congress leader and former union minister Salman Khurshid, too, took a dig at Sibal. In a Facebook post, Khurshid said if the mood of the electorate is resistant to the liberal values the party has espoused and cherished, it should be prepared for a long struggle rather than look for shortcuts to get back in power. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also claimed that the party’s performance in the assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka show that there is either “no organisational presence on the ground, or it has weakened considerably”. In an interview to Dainik Bhaskar, former union finance minister Chidambaram said that the Congress fought more seats in Bihar than its organisational strength, and called for a “comprehensive review” of the poll results. He added, however, that he was “more worried” about the by-election results. As part of the Mahagathbandhan, or Grand Alliance, the Congress contested 70 seats but managed to win just 19, impacting the Opposition’s chances of ousting the ruling coalition from power; it won just nine of the 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh, and failed to open its account in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-cracks-whip-on-dissenters-jharkhand-leader-issued-show-cause-notice-for-remarks-against-rahul-gandhi-rpn-singh/story-BRSFA5FfJ6DZT3iAyGUxyL.html
19-11-2020||India||Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 to begins. Watch Live here||Medical experts, politicians, business executives, sportspersons and Bollywood actor will speak in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit which begins on Thursday and to discuss the critical issues concerning India and the world. Watch Live here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindustan-times-leadership-summit-2020-to-begins-watch-live-here/story-Yp53MIVQT61EI3M2S5TDGP.html
19-11-2020||India||Andhra govt claims over 2 lakh students opted out of pvt schools to join govt ones in last 1 year||The Andhra Pradesh government has claimed that more than two lakh students studying in various private schools across the state have moved to government schools in the last one year. According to the statistics released by the chief minister’s office, the total number of students enrolled with the state government and government-aided schools till now was 42.46 lakh, which is 2.68 lakh more than the enrolment figure from 2019, which stood at 39.78 lakh. “The most encouraging part of this enrolment in the last one year is that out of these 2.68 lakh students, as many as 2,01,833 students were from various private schools. They opted out of private schools and got enrolled in government schools,” the CMO release said. It pointed out that in the past, parents used to withdraw their children from government schools and admit them in private schools due to lack of proper infrastructure and academic standards. “The reforms undertaken by the present government in the education sector in the last one year were aimed at reversing this very trend by uplifting the standard of education imparted in government schools. Statistics reveal that the government’s efforts in this direction have yielded excellent results,” the CMO claimed. It said since June 2019, the government had introduced several student and parent-oriented schemes like Jagananna Ammavodi, Nadu-Nedu and Jaganna Vidya Kanuka, that helped government schools to develop at par with corporate schools. Under the Jagananna Ammavodi scheme, mothers sending her children to government schools are being paid Rs 15,000, till the student completes Class 12. “This incentive has encouraged parents to send their children to schools rather than engaging them in labour to earn extra income,” the CMO release said. Under the Nadu-Nedu scheme, the government has undertaken revamping over 45,000 schools in the state to provide students and teachers with the best possible atmosphere. Apart from major infrastructural renovations, each of the schools will also be equipped with a dedicated English lab in order to facilitate modern learning. In the first phase, 15,715 schools were spruced up and it will be completed by January, 2021, it said. Similarly, under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme, all students are supplied with uniforms, a school bag, books, socks, a belt and other necessities. This not only reduces the financial turmoil that poor families are put through at the beginning of each academic year but also helps the government control dropout rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-claims-over-2-lakh-students-opted-out-of-pvt-schools-to-join-govt-ones-in-last-1-year/story-D8x6O8Ye4FCjmilwLpR9RN.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Not our official stance’: Sanjay Raut on Karachi Sweets row||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the demand for changing the name of Karachi sweets is not Shiv Sena’s official stance. His clarification comes after a video showing a Sena leader asking the owner of Karachi Sweets in Bandra West area to change the name of the shop. “Karachi bakery and Karachi sweets have been in Mumbai since last 60 years. They have nothing to do with Pakistan . It makes no sense to ask for changing their names now.Demand for changing their name is not Shivsena’s official stance,” the Sena MP tweeted.The video showed Shiv Sena leaders Nitin Nandgaonkar saying that he has a problem with the word Karachi and that’s why he wants it to be replaced. “You have to do it, we are giving you time. Change ‘Karachi’ to something in Marathi,” Nandgaonkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-our-official-stance-sanjay-raut-on-karachi-sweets-row/story-8f7hZunYKtDKyjd5byucaL.html
19-11-2020||India||Congress cold to Harish Rawat’s promise of free power, water in Uttarakhand||The Congress unit in Uttarakhand has distanced itself from the promise of former chief minister Harish Rawat that the government will provide 25 litres of drinking water and 100 to 200 units of electricity free every month to people in the state if the party comes to power in the 2022 assembly polls. The cold reception seemed to highlight the friction in the Uttarakhand unit of the Congress despite Rawat’s standing as a major leader.Harish Rawat, who is also a Congress national general secretary and party’s in-charge for Punjab, said he had made the announcement of free power and drinking water to people given the robust power generation network which has been developed in the state over the years and good availability of water resources in the Himalayan state. “I am firm on my stand as we have the capacity to provide free electricity in the range of 100 to 200 units. Our power distribution and generation capacity has developed over the years to the extent that we can provide it to people free to some extent. In case of drinking water supply, with the hill state having good water sources, we can provide 25 litres of pure water daily to each family free of charge. All this is possible”, he said. When questioned about the Congress leadership saying that it is not the party’s stand and the poll manifesto is yet to be prepared, Rawat said, “Ideas are first floated and then made part of the manifesto. In this case also, I will present it before the party, discuss it with them, so that these could be made part of the manifesto,” he said. The Congress unit in the state has distanced itself from Rawat’s stand, emphasising that the party has not yet discussed the issue.Pritam Singh, Congress state president said Rawat is a senior leader of the party who has come up with this idea. “But as a party president in the state, I can tell you it is not the party stand, nor has the party come up with a manifesto yet. As the idea has been floated, in the coming time we will discuss it in the party and take appropriate action,” he said. Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress vice president in Uttarakhand cautioned against unrealistic promises.“Our poll manifesto committee will decide what promises the party needs to make. The party will discuss this idea also, but we have to ensure making only such promises, which the party can fulfil in future. Otherwise, it will be very embarrassing for the party”, he said The ruling BJP was unsparing in criticising Rawat for the promising free power and water.Bansidhar Bhagat, state BJP president said Congress is expert at making empty slogans, aimed at misleading people, especially when the elections are near.“The state is not in a position to do such things at present. Congress is desperate and it is showing. I want to ask Harish Rawat what he has done for the state when he was in power. Now, he is making empty promises to the people. Congress needs to do some introspection first”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-cold-to-harish-rawat-s-promise-of-free-power-water-in-uttarakhand/story-kxMK5U7ffC56F6QZK4kk5O.html
19-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Quota for Covid warriors’ children in MBBS, BDS admissions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Quota for Covid warriors’ children in MBBS, BDS admissionsUnion Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan announced on Thursday that the central government has introduced a new category for the children of Covid warriors in the guidelines for selection and nomination of candidates against the Central Pool Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery(MBBS) andBachelor of Dental Surgery(BDS) seats for the academic Year 2020-21. Read more Penalty for not wearing mask in public in Delhi raised from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the penalty for not wearing masks in public places will be increased from Rs500 to Rs2,000 in light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases in the capital. Read more‘Gone in 10 minutes’: Gold, cash worth Rs 12 cr looted in Odisha’s CuttackIn what could be the biggest-ever robbery in Odisha, four armed miscreants on Thursday morning looted cash and jewellery worth Rs 12 crore from the branch of IIFL Finance, a leading non-banking finance company, in busy Cuttack town. Read more‘He should play every game of next IPL’: KXIP co-owner Ness Wadia heaps praise on Chris GayleKings XI Punjab co-owner Ness Wadia on Thursday said that hard-hitting West Indies opener Chris Gayle has done enough to play every game of the next IPL. The KXIP think tank surprised many when Gayle did not feature in their playing XI at the start of IPL 2020.  Read more Amitabh Bachchan gives love advice to KBC contestant, says he used to write Jaya Bachchan love letters, continues to write them to this dayActor Amitabh Bachchan in the latest episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati spoke about his courtship period with wife Jaya Bachchan. He said that he would write her love letters before their wedding. The couple has been married since 1973. Read moreWatch: Sidharth Malhotra hits Delhi streets on a bicycle to ‘burn those extra calories’ post DiwaliThe boxes of sweets and oily delicacies still make us go weak in the knees despite gorging boxes of them this Diwali but Shershaah actor Sidharth Malhotra motivated us to sweat them all out now and focus on getting our body back in shape. Read moreNissan Magnite mileage figures revealed, fuel economy of 20kmpl for turbo manualNissan Magnite is raring to take the fight to rivals in the sub-compact SUV segment and is expected to be launched in the Indian market on November 26. The Magnite promises several segment-first features and is powered by 1.0-litre B4D naturally-aspirated petrol and 1.0-litre HRA0 turbo-petrol engine options. Read more WhatsApp disappearing messages: 5 things you need to knowOne of WhatsApp’s much-awaited features is finally here for all users. Disappearing messages have been in testing for months now and WhatsApp has finally introduced the feature for users. With this feature WhatsApp users can send messages that self-destruct after seven days. Read more ‘Technology First’ is Centre’s governance model: PM Modi hails Digital IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that Digital India, which was launched by the Centre in 2015, is no longer being seen as any regular government initiative but it has become a way of life. PM Modi was speaking at Bengaluru Tech Summit, 2020, via video-conferencing. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-quota-for-covid-warriors-children-in-mbbs-bds-admissions-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yTf2oHTlExFFcXapbw9XqM.html
19-11-2020||India||India ranks 77 in global bribery risk matrix||India is at 77th position with a score of 45 in a global list that measures business bribery risks of 2020.The list by TRACE, an anti-bribery standard setting organisation, measures business bribery risk in 194 countries, territories, and autonomous and semi-autonomous regions.According to this year’s data, North Korea, Turkmenistan, South Sudan, Venezuela and Eritrea present the highest commercial bribery risk, while Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden and New Zealand present the lowest.In 2019, India’s rank stood 78 position with a score of 48 while in 2020 the country was ranked 77 with a score of 45, the data showed.The score is based on four factors -- business interactions with government, anti-bribery deterrence and enforcement, government and civil service transparency, and capacity for civil society oversight, including the role of the media.India fared better than its neighbours - Pakistan, China, Nepal and Bangladesh. Bhutan, meanwhile, secured 48th rank with a score of 37, the data showed.“China has potentially helped to reduce opportunities for bribe demands by public officials by continuing to streamline its bureaucracy,” TRACE Bribery Risk Matrix said in a statement.Apart from India, Peru, Jordan, North Macedonia, Colombia and Montenegro also have a score of 45 in the matrix.Somalia moved out of the bottom ranking, which it held from 2017 to 2019, and is now ranked 187th out of 194.The TRACE Bribery Risk Matrix said it measures the likelihood of bribe demands in 194 jurisdictions. It was originally published in 2014 to meet a need in the business community for more reliable, nuanced information about the risks of commercial bribery worldwide.The matrix aggregates relevant data obtained from leading public interest and international organisations, including the United Nations, World Bank, V-Dem Institute at the University of Gothenburg and World Economic Forum.This data helps companies to assess the likely risk of bribe demands in each country and to design compliance and due diligence programs tailored to that risk, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-77-in-global-bribery-risk-matrix/story-DSkKY8L1Qy95gvusKXIpUO.html
19-11-2020||India||Kerala police begin probe into leaked voicemail of gold smuggling accused||The Kerala police on Thursday ordered a probe after Swapna Suresh, the main accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, in a purported voicemail claimed that the Enforcement Directorate was pressuring her to name chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the racket with inducement to make her an approver.The voicemail was released by a web portal Thursday morning and was soon shared widely. Suresh also alleged that the ED forced to sign her statement and did not allow her to read it. Shortly after the voicemail began trending and sparked a controversy, Director General of Police (Jail) Rishiraj Singh ordered a probe into the incident.Deputy inspector general of police Ajay Kumar who is investigating the new development said Swapna Suresh has agreed that it was her voice but he said it was not sent from the jail . During questioning, she reportedly told the official that she did not exactly remember when she said this. Booked under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) she is now lodged in the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram. Earlier another accused in the case, M Sivasankar, senior bureaucrat and the CM’s former secretary, also made a similar allegation in the court. The ED had denied it. A senior official who is part of the multi-agency probe said it was a tactic to pressurise central agencies. The CPI(M) state secretariat released a statement saying the central agencies were keen to implicate the CM’s office in the smuggling case and the party will oppose the move.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedhran also waded into the latest row and called it a drama enacted by the CM’s office. “The CM lauded the central agencies all these day but turned against them when it started probing his office also,” he said.The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the voicemail was a move to sabotage the ongoing investigation into the gold smuggling case and sought a high-level probe into it. Two days ago, BJP state president K Surendran had alleged that many people were meeting Suresh in the jail and sought the list of people who met Suresh in the jail since she was lodged there in the second week of October. “The CM’s office is behind the latest development,” said Congress unit’s chief Mullapally Ramachandran. He also said that Vijayan was scoring a self-goal as the investigation was about to reach him. Two weeks ago, C M Raveendran, another secretary of the chief minister was summoned by the ED but could not appear after he had tested positive for Covid-19. Raveendran is reported to be very close to the CM. The gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after 30 kg of yellow metal was seized by the Customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate.Later P S Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the baggage, was arrested by the customs. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later by the National Investigation Agency. Senior bureaucrat Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Five central agencies are probing the case in which 36 people were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-begin-probe-into-leaked-voicemail-of-gold-smuggling-accused/story-M79RdVjJJomq9ayeDNjkKM.html
19-11-2020||India||Quota for Covid warriors’ children in MBBS, BDS seats||Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan announced on Thursday that the central government has introduced a new category for the children of Covid warriors in the guidelines for selection and nomination of candidates against the Central Pool Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery(MBBS) and Bachelor of Dental Surgery(BDS) seats for the academic Year 2020-21. This new category will be called ‘Wards of Covid Warriors’, the minister said in a tweet. A press release by the ministry said that five central pools will be reserved for this new category. Vardhan said the move recognises the need to dignify and honour the contributions of all those who treated and managed coronavirus patients. The minister recounted definition of ‘Covid Warrior’ as laid down by Government of India while announcing the insurance package of Rs 50 lakhs for them. Covid warriors are all public healthcare providers including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this. Private hospital staff and retired/volunteer/ local urban bodies/ contracted/ daily wage/ ad-hoc/ outsourced staff requisitioned by States/ Central hospitals/ autonomous hospitals of Central/ States/UTs, AIIMS and Institutes of National Importance (INIs)/ hospitals of Central Ministries drafted for Covid-19 related responsibilities are all included, going by government definition.As for the states and union territories, Vardhan added that their respective governments will certify the eligibility for this category.The selection of candidates will be made by the Medical Council Committee (MCC) through online application on the basis of rank obtained in NEET-2020 conducted by National Testing Agency(NTA).India’s coronavirus caseload has risen to 89.58 lakh with fresh 45,576 infections, while the number of recoveries has surged to over 83.83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, according health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quota-for-covid-warriors-children-in-mbbs-bds-admission/story-8HxijHtQ24o8FKs5jmoEwI.html
19-11-2020||India||‘90-99% of Covid-19 is about protection and motivating others’: Harsh Vardhan||Union Minister Harsh Vardhan while addressing a FICCI Ladies Organization webinar on ‘The Shifting Healthcare Paradigm During and Post-Covid’ told the panel that he believes every single Indian has a role to play in the fight against coronavirus. “Everybody can contribute to the health scenario of the country” The Union Minister said that “90-99% of Covid-19 is only about protection and motivating others. You can protect yourself from this deadly virus with small precautions like wearing a good quality mask properly, maintaining social distance, respiratory etiquette, and taking care of hand-hygiene”“Only 10% is therapeutic” he addedWhile lauding the country’s efforts at tackling the coronavirus pandemic, which he said started on 8th of january, and is now in the 11th month he said that the “government has acted in a proactive manner, with a pre-emptive strategy and a graded response” Vardhan termed the country and the government’s efforts to tackle the ongoing menace as bold. Adding that whatever steps were needed at every critical juncture was taken fearlessly by the government. “We surveilled lakhs of people at airports, sea ports, and land borders.”Calling the junta curfew an “unique innovative experiment with voluntary participation of everyone in the country” he stated that both lockdowns and unlock both were equally bold decisions handled by the government. Talking about the contribution of the Indian scientific community Vradhan said “The scientific community also rose to the occasion. The scientists produced new types of ventilators. Initially we had problems with PPEs, N95 masks, and within a few months we were able to export them”“I confidently tell people that a couple of months from now we will be able to deliver the vaccination to the people of India” he added.Vardhan mentioned that the swabs of coronavirus tests used to earlier go to America’s Center for Disease Control and Pollution(CDC) because India had only one lab testing facility in pune, but as of 8 in the morning India has established 2116 labs established in every nook and corner of the country.Vardhan stated that all these just goes on to prove that when India decides to do something it can do it.India’s coronavirus caseload has risen to 89.58 lakh with fresh 45,576 infections, while the number of recoveries has surged to over 83.83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, according health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-99-of-covid-19-is-about-protection-and-motivating-others-harsh-vardhan/story-43qsygZW2hk6zN5g3JhxHK.html
19-11-2020||India||Rice procurement up 18%, as government seeks to calm farmer protests||The Union government has procured 28.6 million tonnes of paddy, the main summer staple, which is 18.6% higher than last year, with Punjab’s share being the highest at nearly 70%, according to the food ministry’s data as on November 17. The government has paid a minimum support price (MSP) value of Rs54,147 crore so far to nearly 2.7 million farmers in key rice-growing states, such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Andhra Pradesh. Punjab alone has contributed over 19.6 million tonnes, which is 69.7% of the total procurement. Last year, till November 17, the government had procured 24.1 million tonnes of paddy. Production of kharif or summer crops this year is likely to be a record 144.5 million tonnes, marginally higher than the 143.4 million tonnes produced during the kharif season of 2019-20, according to an official forecast. Higher output, buoyed by a robust monsoon, is one of the reasons behind higher procurement this year. Also Read: Delhi congress leaders take out tractor yatra against farm lawsThe Union government is on course to buy a record quantity of paddy this year to also blunt the politically sensitive farmers’ agitation against a set of laws enacted to liberalise the agriculture sector. Farmers protesting the laws fear the reforms will erode their bargaining power and lead to a collapse of the procurement system, referring to the government’s assured buying of farm produce at federally fixed prices. The food ministry’s official projections show that the government’s total procurement for summer paddy (2020-21) will touch 74.2 million tonnes, up from 62.7 million tonnes procured during 2019-20, an increase of 18%. The food ministry has expanded its procurement operations for summer-sown crops to cover an estimated 10.5 million paddy growers, against last year’s 10.2 million. The government has also raised the number of paddy-purchase centres by 27%, which now stands at 39,122, up from 30,709 last year. Managing the stock might become difficult owing to higher procurement unless the government offloads more as food grants to the poor, according to Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. From April to November 2020, the government has made additional offerings of free food under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), launched after the Covid-19 outbreak. This has freed up storage capacities of bulging state-held granaries and made way for higher paddy procurement. The total allocation under the PMGKY is 32.1 million tonnes. This included 21.4 million tonnes of rice and 10.6 million tonnes of wheat. Total federally held food stocks as on September 1, 2020, stood at 77.3 million tonnes, up from 71.2 million tonnes on the same date last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rice-procurement-up-18-as-government-seeks-to-calm-farmer-protests/story-fyNszFbDR3Yc2yCTDfO3TO.html
19-11-2020||India||Why no action on Kunal Kamra’s tweets, Parliament panel asks Twitter to reply in 7 days||A joint committee of Parliament for Data Protection on Thursday asked Twitter why it has not taken any action against comedian Kunal Kamra’s tweets about the Chief Justic of India, ANI reported. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi and Congress MP Vivek Tankha interrogated Twitter’s policy head. Reacting to this questioning, Kamra tweeted, “Personal liberty is like Promotions in corporate India...”Twitter, meanwhile, said it can’t remove the post unless the court issues such orders, Meenakshi Lekhi said. “We’ve asked for an answer in 7 days. Since there are no laws in India regarding these, we have to talk to the top executives of such service providers,” Meenakshi Lekhi said.On November 12, Attorney General K K Venugopal granted consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his tweets.“The tweets which I am extracting below are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, said Venugopal.A day after, on November 13, a petition was Friday filed in the Supreme Court seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra. The petition, filed by five petitioners including law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar, has claimed that Kamra had started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of journalist Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court’s order rejecting his plea seeking interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case.Kamra had refused to retract his tweets and apologise.“The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker,” he said in a statement addressed to Venugopal and the judges on his Twitter page. “My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticized. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” he had added.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-action-against-kunal-kamra-s-tweets-parliamentary-panel-asks-twitter/story-JnFiaw5LHmqvLa0l8EWKAP.html
19-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena, NCP trying to destroy Congress in Maharashtra, says BJP’s Pravin Darekar||Maharashtra BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Thursday accused the ruling Shiv Sena and NCP of trying to destroy their ally Congress in the state by ignoring its demands.The Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council was here to campaign for BJP’s candidate from Pune graduates constituency- Sangram Deshmukh.“The MVA government has given a package to the state transport department that is headed by a Shiv Sena minister, but refused to give any relief to the energy ministry held by Congress’s Nitin Raut. Therefore, it is clear that the Shiv Sena and the NCP are trying to destroy the Congress party in Maharashtra,” Darekar said in a press conference.Earlier this month, Nitin Raut had hinted at a major relief to electricity consumers facing the issue of inflated power bills, saying that a Diwali gift was in the offing.However, the minister reportedly announced recently that the government will not be able to provide any relaxation in the inflated electricity bills that consumers received.Also Read | Fadnavis hits out at MVA government, calls it anti-developmentSpeaking about the minister’s statement, Darekar said, “It is an unfair decision...The government must give relief to the people.” He also alleged that the government has ignored the issues of employment and education.A day after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis exuded confidence that his party will win the 2022 election to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Darekar said the Shiv Sena does not have the patent of the saffron flag and Hindutva.“We have raised many questions regarding the development work in Mumbai...It is true that people will decide whose saffron flag will be hoisted on BMC in the elections,” he said.The BMC is currently being ruled by the Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-ncp-trying-to-destroy-congress-in-maharashtra-says-bjp-s-pravin-darekar/story-MkbJvlBkno7sSo2I9wkB4O.html
19-11-2020||India||Soldier who died in avalanche cremated with full military honours||The mortal remains of soldier Nikhil Sharma were consigned to flames on the banks of Devika river in Udhampur with full military honours on Thursday in Jammu and Kashmir.Amid a swarm of people’s bugles sounded the last post, the mortal remains of the brave heart were consigned to flames on the banks of Devika river, said a Defence official.Rifleman Sharma, aged 25, died and two others were injured when their post was hit by an avalanche in Karnah sector along the Line of Control (LoC) in frontier district of Kupwara, late Tuesday evening.Also Read: China perceives rising India as ‘rival’; wants to constraint its partnership with US, allies: reportThe avalanche had hit the Roshan post of the Indian army in Karnah sector on Tuesday at around 8 pm.Rifleman Nikhil Sharma was posted with the 7 Rashtriya Rifles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-who-died-in-avalanche-cremated-with-full-military-honours/story-jIFjjJl5iWBescidxpIvUK.html
19-11-2020||India||Congress seeks CBI probe into ‘multi-crore scams’ in Meghalaya Power Dept||The opposition Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged multi-crore scams in the Meghalaya Power Department.It alleged there have been many irregularities and anomalies in the implementation of various projects that include the Asian Development Bank (ADB) funded smart metering project, Saubhagya Scheme and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), among others.“There have been scam after scam in the Power Department. We demand an independent inquiry by no less than the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to ensure that those involved be punished under the law of the land,” Congress spokesperson Zenith Sangma told reporters here on Wednesday.He criticised the Conrad Sangma government in the state for its “adamant attitude” in addressing the issue, which if rectified on time, could have saved “hundreds of crores of rupees” in the interest of the state.“If those in power are accused of involvement in corrupt practices, it is their duty to order an independent inquiry to prove the opposition’s allegations wrong,” the Rangsakona MLA said.The conditions in the tendering process for the smart metering project have been made in such a way to ensure only one bidder of their choice qualifies, he said.“Only one bidder has qualified for the work initially estimated to cost around Rs 200 crore. Later, an additional 18 per cent of the estimated cost was added which amounts to Rs 36 crore.“This draining of money is taking place due to lack of competition in the tendering process, which was done with predetermined and mala fide intention to ensure only one bidder gets qualified. This is a scam,” the Congress leader said.Also Read |  No-confidence motion against Conrad Sangma govt in Meghalaya defeatedIf more firms were allowed to participate in the bidding process, the estimated cost would not have been hiked by Rs 36 crore, he said.“This is happening at a time when the state is facing a huge financial crunch. The administration is unable to pay salaries to employees of different departments including MeECL (Meghalaya Energy Corporation Ltd) but money is getting drained out due to greed of a few,” Sangma said.The letter of allotment (LOA) of phase I and II of the DDU-GKY was revised by increasing the scope of work by Rs 30 crore without approval from the funding agency -- the Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd, he said.“The Centre-state ratio in the expenditure of the project is 85:15. So, the Meghalaya government has to shell out an additional Rs 4.5 crore with the enhancement of the cost of the project by Rs 30 crore,” he said.The estimated cost of the Ganol Small Hydro Power Project has been enhanced by Rs 151 crore. When the matter was raised during the Assembly’s autumn session, the government replied that it was due to some “geological surprise”, the Congress leader said.“Did the MeECL not do soil testing before preparing the DPR? When this question was raised, the government said it was somehow missed. Is it possible? “All work needed to be done underground has been completed. Only the superstructure is left. How can there be ‘geological surprises’ now? They are making different excuses to loot public money,” he said.In the Saubhagya Scheme, two firms from Delhi and Mumbai have been awarded the major work at 51 per cent more than the schedule of rate (SOR), due to which an additional Rs 180 crore expenditure will have to be incurred, while 100 local companies have been given minor service connection work at SOR, Sangma said.He also opposed the one-time settlement (OTS) given to various industries with regard to outstanding bills till March 31 this year.“Around 50 per cent of the Rs 700 crore outstanding power bills in the state are of the industries. Why should they be excluded from paying the dues?” he said.The state government, however, is yet to issue a reaction to the Congress demand for a CBI probe into the alleged scams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-cbi-probe-into-multi-crore-scams-in-meghalaya-power-dept/story-IkIL3A0jUWb1Mypku8288K.html
19-11-2020||India||After a brief lull, dissent over ILP is simmering again in Meghalaya||Blaming the government over its alleged failure to contain influx of outsiders into the state, several groups in Meghalaya have on Wednesday evening announced a series of agitational programs starting November 27 with a black flag protest by all its members. This will be followed by a sit-in protest in all district headquarters of the state on December 4.Demanding immediate implementation of the contentious Inner Line Permit (ILP) in Meghalaya, the groups intend to also mount pressure on the Central Government.A detailed meeting of the Confederation of Meghalaya Social Organizations (CoMSO) comprising of 14 pressure groups was held at the North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU) campus following which the chairman of the confederation, Robertjune Kharjahrin said, “We demand the Centre to immediately implement the ILP in the whole of Meghalaya and for the state government to re-introduce the Meghalaya residents, safety and security (amendment) bill, 2020, which was recently returned by the governor.”In November 2019, the state Cabinet had passed an ordinance amending the Meghalaya Residents Safety and Security Act, 2016, which would require visitors to register, akin to an ILP regime. This had eased the tension a bit but now the same is simmering to the brim.Kharjahrin today stressed that New Delhi has to respect the resolution passed by the state legislative assembly with regards to introducing a strong and effective law like the ILP. “The delay in implementing the ILP is a clear indication that there is total lack of political will on the part of the Centre and not that it needs time to examine the proposal,” he asserted.Also Read: Shillong Times editor quits Editors Guild, cites ‘discrimination’Expressing amazement that though CM Conrad Sangma and his deputy Prestone Tynsong along with state PHE minister Renikton Tongkhar had called on Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi, yet no mention was made whether ILP was discussed or not, the CoMSO chief further demanded that the state government and all 60 legislators should aggressively pursue with the Centre for immediate implementation of the ILP.Notably, the cry for ILP grew louder after the introduction of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) with a series of agitations affecting normalcy in this predominantly tribal state, leading to prohibitory orders and even suspension of internet services, a rare occurrence in this hill station. Most of Meghalaya comes under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, hence, exempted from the CAA.The state government was virtually steamrolled into adopting a resolution in the state legislative assembly on December 20, 2019, urging the central government to bring Meghalaya under the colonial-era regime.The resolution introduced by chief minister Conrad K Sangma was voted in favour of by all 60 legislators cutting across party lines in a day-long special session of the house while pressure groups continued demonstrating outside demanding immediate implementation of ILP, a decision that now still awaits the Central nod. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-brief-lull-dissent-over-ilp-is-simmering-again-in-meghalaya/story-zS4ic0zDseUc4J5a88nGNM.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Gone in 10 minutes’: Gold, cash worth Rs 12 cr looted in Odisha’s Cuttack||In what could be the biggest-ever robbery in Odisha, four armed miscreants on Thursday morning looted cash and jewellery worth Rs 12 crore from the branch of IIFL Finance, a leading non-banking finance company, in busy Cuttack town.Police officials said four miscreants wearing masks and helmets arrived at the Nayasarak branch of IIFL Finance and entered its premises threatening the lone security guard at gunpoint. The miscreants, who spoke in Hindi and Odia, then rounded up the branch manager and other staff in a toilet and snatched the keys of the locker.“Except 2-3 packets of gold, the robbers mopped up almost all the gold that would be around Rs 12 crore. The incident happened in just 10 minutes,” said Satya Pradhan, manager of the branch. Pradhan said the CCTV camera of the branch was not functional when the robbery took place. IIFL Finance Limited is a major non-banking financial company that gives gold loans, business loans including loans against property and microfinance.Also read: Second Covid-19 wave in Mumbai likely around New Year’s EveCuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said special teams have been formed to nab the robbers. The borders of the city have been sealed and police officials of neighbouring Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Dhenkanal and Kendrapara have been alerted.The robbery is likely to be embarrassing for the Naveen Patnaik government as it comes a day before the winter session of the Odisha Assembly. There have been a series of armed robberies of banks and ATMs this year in the state.Last month, the police commissionerate had advised banks and financial institutions to improve security systems at branches and ATMs.In February this year, the Ludhiana branch of IIFL also saw a similar robbery when four armed persons decamped with 30 kilograms of gold worth Rs 13 crore and Rs 3.5 lakh cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gone-in-10-minutes-gold-cash-worth-rs-12-crore-looted-in-odisha-s-cuttack/story-pLphv6VxoqiZvY8eAv0ACO.html
19-11-2020||India||Confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be ready in three-four months, says Dr Harsh Vardhan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said he was confident that Covid-19 vaccine would be ready in the next three-four months and added that the priority to provide the same to 135 crore Indians would be based on scientific evaluation. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Minister was addressing the FICCI FLO webinar on ‘The Shifting Healthcare Paradigm During and Post-Covid’ today. “I am confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be ready in the next three-four months. Priority for the vaccine will be designed on the basis of scientific data. Health care workers and corona warriors will naturally be prioritised followed by elderly and disease-prone people. Very detailed planning is underway for vaccine dissemination. An e-vaccine intelligence platform has been created to discuss the blueprint for the same. Tracking and tracing of the vaccine would be neck-deep once it’s available for the public. Hopefully, 2021 should be a better year for all of us,” the Health Minister said.Praising the efforts of the Central government, the Minister said some ‘very bold steps’ were taken to fight the pandemic in the last few months.“Janta curfew was a very innovative and unique experiment by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It had nationwide participation from the citizens. The decision to impose a lockdown followed by unlocking were some bold decisions by the central government during the pandemic. We have handled it very well,” the Minister said.“The government has been very proactive in its response towards this fight. Airports, seaports and land borders were put under surveillance for Covid-19 well in time,” he added.Giving an account of the journey of the last 11 months, the Minister said India was amongst the top countries to control the impact of the pathogen in a short duration.Also Read | AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot candidate shows promise among elderly in trials“Initially we faced a shortage of PPE kits, ventilators and N-95 masks. But in a few months time, we were able to export these things to different parts of the world. Our scientists are now well ahead of many others globally in their research on the vaccine. In a couple of months, we should be able to produce a vaccine for the Covid-19 infection. Our performance has been excellent on every parameter set by the World Health Organisation, we have the highest recovery rate and the least fatality rate. We have 2,115 laboratories in every look and corner of the country for Covid tests. Over 20 lakh dedicated Covid beds are in place. It proves that whenever India decides to excel at something, it does,” the Health Minister asserted.Sharing the vision of PM Modi he said that the Centre will deliver a new India to the citizens in 2022. “We will deliver a new India in 2022 as per the dream of PM Narendra Modi. Only humanism and nationalism would prevail in this new India as our PM envisions,” Harsh Vardhan concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confident-that-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-ready-in-three-four-months-says-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-gIQlZoNFLMXq3gFyGDmdlK.html
19-11-2020||India||Bihar Guv Phagu Chouhan administers oath of office to Jitan Ram Manjhi as pro-tem Speaker||Bihar Governor Phagu Chouhan on Thursday administered the oath of office to former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi as pro-tem Speaker of the 17th state assembly, which will convene its inaugural session from November 23.Elected from the Imamganj assembly constituency, Manjhi has been made pro-tem Speaker for two days (November 23 and 24) till the Speaker of the Bihar Legislative Assembly is elected.Manjhi, who started his political journey from the Congress, has been a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly since 1980. He has been associated with all the mainstream parties of the state until he floated his own party, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM)-Secular in 2015. He also served as the chief minister of Bihar from May 20, 2014 to February 20 2015. ALSO READ | 5 day Bihar assembly session from Nov 23, Nitish Kumar will seek trust voteIn the 16th Bihar Legislative Assembly, veteran Congress leader Sadanand Singh had been administered the oath as pro-tem Speaker by then Governor and current President of India Ram Nath Kovind.A pro-tem Speaker is selected from amongst the seniormost members of the Assembly. On the first two days, all the 243 newly elected members of the Bihar Assembly will be administered the oath by the pro-tem Speaker. In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, the session will be held in the Central Hall with seating arrangements following social distancing norms for the members On the third day of the session, there will be the election of the Speaker, while the governor’s address to the joint sitting of the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the Bihar Legislative Council will be on the fourth day, followed by discussion, the government’s reply and motion of thanks.ALSO READ | Bihar Assembly Election 2020: How women steered NDA towards majorityOn the last day, the supplementary budget of the government will be taken up.After the joint sitting, the Bihar Legislative Council session will be held in the Bihar assembly to maintain social distancing norms.Bihar is one among only seven states having a bi-cameral legislature-- both lower house (Assembly) and the upper house (Council). In the new Assembly, RJD is the single largest party with 75 members, while the Grand Alliance has 110 seats. The NDA has 125 seats, including 74 members of the BJP. An independent candidate has also extended its support to the NDA alliance. There are seven others, including five members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the newly-elected Bihar Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-guv-phagu-chouhan-administers-oath-of-office-to-jitan-ram-manjhi-as-pro-tem-speaker/story-ZFs2bFwdipeE3XF5A0ZEnO.html
19-11-2020||India||Don’t play politics over Chhath Puja: Kejriwal’s message to BJP||The Delhi government on Thursday increased the fine for not wearing masks to Rs 2,000 from Rs 500, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday. “People are wearing masks. But there is leniency as well. We need to tighten the screws. The fine which was Rs 500 so far has been increased to Rs 2,000,” Kejriwal said, addressing a press meet after an all-party meet held to address the Covid-19 situation of the Capital. The government will also urge the hospitals to stall non-emergency operations so that Covid-19 patients get the maximum care, Kejriwal said. “If you have a tonsils operation, you can schedule it next month too as it is not emergency. We will request the hospitals in this regard,” the CM said. All private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80 per cent of their ICU beds and 60 per cent of non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patientsAlso Read:  ‘You were shaken out of slumber’: High Court raps Delhi govt over Covid-19 surge After the BJP blamed the AAP government — centering around the restrictions on Chhath Puja — for the present Covid-19 situation which breached all past records of daily infections and daily toll, Kejriwal said it is not time to indulge in politics. “ Why would I not want Delhi people to celebrate Chhath? It is an auspicious occasion and people should celebrate it but inside their house. Don’t gather outside at ponds and other waterbodies as it may cause a massive spread. I told all parties in the meet that it’s a difficult time for the people of Delhi when Covid-19 cases are rising. It’s not the time for politics, there is an entire lifetime for it. We should set aside politics and allegations for a few days. This is the time to serve people.”After the all-party meeting, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the AAP government faltered in taking the right measures. “ If the Delhi government had taken the right measures people would not have had problems celebrating Chhath Puja together. Markets should remain open with Covid-19 guidelines. The need of the hour is ICU beds and ventilators,” Gupta said. On Thursday, the AAP government was rapped by the Delhi high court for relaxing the restrictions. “Why did you wait for 18 days to restrict the number of guests ar weddings? How many died of Covid-19 during this period?” the high court asked the government.Since October last week, Delhi has been witnessing an unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, which is being seen as the third wave in the city. The first two took place in July and September, respectively. Meanwhile, the AAP government allowed 200 guests at weddings. The relaxation has been reviewed and now only 50 guests are allowed.Instead of a total lockdown, the government is mulling closing markets which have become Covid-19 hotspots in the last few weeks. On November 18, Delhi recorded 131 deaths — highest single-day fatalities. The overall Covid-19 cases in the capital has also crossed the 5 lakh-mark. The highest single-day spike of 8593 COVID-19 cases till date here was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-play-politics-over-chhath-puja-says-arvind-kejriwal-after-bjp-s-attack/story-ikSuYIYmwtFrev6TVRm6eL.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Major terror strike’ foiled, security forces gun down 4 JeM terrorists in Jammu’s Nagrota||Security forces gunned down four terrorists in a swift operation after an encounter broke out at Ban Toll Plaza on Jammu-Srinagar national highway near Nagrota in Jammu district in the early hours of Thursday. Two policemen of the Special Operations Group were also injured in the exchange of fire. They have been identified as Kuldeep Raj (32) of Akhnoor in Jammu district and Mohammad Ishaq Malik (40) of Neel Qasim Banihal in Ramban district. Both have been admitted in Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu with neck injuries. Their condition is said to be stable.The encounter between terrorists and security forces started around 4.50 am at Ban Toll Plaza on Jammu-Srinagar national highway.Watch | Four terrorists gunned down by security forces in Jammu’s Nagrota Inspector-General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh said that the truck was ferrying the terrorists to Kashmir.“It was put to checking by the policemen at the toll plaza because we had intelligence inputs with us,” Singh said. He further said, “in the exchange of fire four terrorists were eliminated and two constables were injured. Terrorists lobbed grenades on security forces during checking. The truck also caught fire and few grenades also exploded inside it during the exchanges”.“The area is now being sanitised” he added. The IGP informed that in the run-up to the DDC elections, security forces were getting intelligence inputs of possible infiltration by Pakistan terrorists.“This morning when the truck was stopped for checking at the toll plaza, the driver fled from the spot and as soon as a joint team of police and the CRPF started checking the vehicle, a heavy volume of firing commenced,” he said. Security forces immediately started retaliating. The terrorists also lobbed grenades at the security personnel, he added. “Medicines with Pakistani markings show Pak origin of terrorists. The quantity of weapons and type of medicines also indicate fresh infiltration and them being suicide attackers,” said the IGP. An FIR under various sections of the Arms Act has been registered at Nagrota police station.In the three-hour-long operation, all four terrorists were eliminated, he said and added that 11 AK 47 rifles, three pistols, 29 live grenades, six UBGL grenades, mobile phones, compass, pithu bags and other ammunition were recovered from the slain terrorists.Also read: China is biggest stumbling block in India’s UNSC permanent membershipThe slain ultras belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad terror outfit. “It appeared that they were given a task to carry out a major terror strike,” Singh stated.It seemed they also adopted the similar modus-operandi of infiltrating from across the International Border (IB) in Jammu region before boarding a Kashmir-bound truck on Pathankot-Jammu national highway the preceding night, said a senior police officer. “However, forces eliminated them in a swift operation,” he added. He further said it appeared the terrorists entered through fresh infiltration from Samba sector.Earlier, Jammu district police chief SSP Shridhar Patil told HT that “around 5 am some terrorists opened fire at security forces near Ban Toll Plaza in Nagrota area. They were hiding in a vehicle.”CRPF spokesman Shivnandan Singh said, like January 31 this year, a group of terrorists had opened fire on a joint party of police and CRPF at Ban Toll plaza around 5 am on Thursday. “They probably came in a vehicle,” he added. Meanwhile, advisor to Lieutenant Governor, Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, visited GMC Jammu and met the jawans who suffered injuries while fighting with the terrorists in Nagrota encounter this morning.Also read: Delhi policewoman promoted for tracing 76 missing kids in last 3 monthsDuring his visit, Bhatnagar asked the medical officers about the condition of both the jawans. He directed the medical superintendent to ensure that the injured jawans be given the best possible medical care and directed constant monitoring of the injured personnel. He complimented the injured jawans for their bravery and assured all assistance to them.On January 31, a group of terrorists had opened fire at a police team near Ban Toll Plaza, triggering a gunfight in which three ultras were killed and a policeman got injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-terror-strike-foiled-security-forces-gun-down-4-jem-terrorists-in-jammu-s-nagrota/story-drof7W1jNICtHSBrUyLcRI.html
19-11-2020||India||China is biggest stumbling block in India’s UNSC permanent membership||PM Modi expressed India’s strong support for multilateralism, described the UNSC as a necessity but asserted that it was under stress. “The credibility and effectiveness of global institutions is being questioned. The reason for this is that there has been no change in these institutions despite the passage of time. These institutions reflect the mindset and realities of the world 75 years ago,” he said.The remarks come ahead of India assuming one of the 10 rotating non-permanent seats at the UN Security Council in January. India has declared that “reformed multilateralism” would be a key focus of its two-year term.PM Modi described terrorism as the biggest threat to the world, a pointer to Pakistan and also as an indirect swipe at China that has shielded Pakistan and Pakistan-based terrorists from sanctions by the UN. China did block sanctions against Pakistan-based terror group founder Jaish-e-Mohammed Masood Azhar for a decade before it had to step aside in 2019 under intense international pressure. China has been standing in the way of India’s entry to Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) by tagging it along with entry of Pakistan despite New Delhi’s impeccable non-proliferation record in contrast to Islamabad that has been a direct beneficiary of nuclear proliferation by North Korea and China.PM Modi isn’t the only one to press for reform of the UN Security Council. UN General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir recently spoke out against the existing structure, saying it was failing to respond to the world’s biggest challenges due to “competing interests”. French President Emmanuel Macron already has called for an overhaul of international cooperation mechanisms, going to the extent of underscoring that the UNSC “no longer produces useful solutions today”.The UN Security Council reform has been on the agenda for more than a decade. But member nations haven’t been able to agree on how big the council should become and whether other nations should have veto powers. As a result, the Security Council continues to reflect the global power structure of 1945, when the Second World War victors – the P-5 – the USA, UK, France, Russia and China – acquired their privileged status. Critics have long argued that the council in its present form, is both undemocratic and anachronistic and would stand to lose its effectiveness and legitimacy unless it is transformed to reflect today’s world.India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador TS Tirumurti, speaking in the UN General Assembly this week, said ‘’Today’s Security Council is an impaired organ. It has been unable to act with credibility essentially due to its unrepresentative nature. But then, what is happening inside the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) process, which we seem to be wedded to?’’Intergovernmental Negotiations framework is a group within the United Nations that is looking into UNSC reforms. But it has made no progress since 2009 when it was formed.There have been no serious attempts to come up with a consolidated text to begin formal negotiations due to resistance by certain countries such as China that are opposed to the expansion of UNSC membership.For years, India, Germany, Japan, and Brazil have been trying to get a permanent seat to the UN Security Council but the UN charter is such that it gives permanent members the veto power to any resolution, including the expansion of membership.While the first four have backed India’s permanent membership, China has time and again stalled it by laying down conditions impossible to meet. China says there are major differences among UN members over UNSC reforms and insists that a “package solution” should be found to accommodate the interests and concerns of all parties.The Chinese mission to the UN has questioned the need for reforms in “haste”. It doesn’t matter that the informal negotiations for reforms have been on for the last 10 years. “To start text-based negotiation in a haste or to impose a single document is not conducive to building a consensus and promoting unity,” the Chinese mission said in a statement.India along with Japan, Germany and Brazil, however, called out China’s delaying tactics in September this year. New Delhi told the UNGA president that the inter-government negotiation process had become a convenient smokescreen to hide behind for those who didn’t want to see any reforms in the security council, a reference to countries such as China, Turkey and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-is-biggest-stumbling-block-in-india-s-unsc-permanent-membership/story-yTpTstOwjEY7vYz5t2NiNN.html
19-11-2020||India||State’s post-facto consent to CBI is valid: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court (SC) has held that a state government’s post-facto (afterwards) consent would be valid for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate corruption cases against government officials. A two-judge SC bench, comprising Justices AM Khanwilkar and BR Gavai, who was dealing with a case on the matter from Uttar Pradesh (UP), upheld a verdict of the Allahabad high court (HC). The HC had validated an investigation against two UP government officials after the accused had complained that the central probe agency started the investigation against them without obtaining consent of the state government under Section 5 and 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946. The CBI had initiated proceedings against Ramji Singh, general manager (GM), and Yogendra Nath Pandey, assistant manager, of the District Industries Centre, Chandauli, after the duo had allegedly prepared false status reports to enable a company obtain subsidised coal from Northern Coalfields Limited, which is located in Singrauli in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh (MP). Also Read: Delhi HC asks Centre to respond to plea seeking legal recognition of same-sex marriagesThe CBI did not name the accused officials in the first information report (FIR), which was lodged on April 13, 2011. Initially, the probe started after the then UP government had granted a general consent allowing the CBI’s jurisdiction within the state. Later, the consent under Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988, was obtained on May 31, 2012. The central probe agency found incriminating evidence against the two officials and they were charge sheeted in May 2012. The sanction from the state under Section 6 of the DSPE Act, 1946, was obtained on September 7, 2018. The CBI contended that this post-facto consent was valid to prosecute the errant officials.The UP government supported the CBI’s contention and argued in the HC that prior consent under Section 6 of DSPE Act, 1946, would not be mandatory. The HC upheld the state government’s contention and gave a verdict in the latter’s favour on August 14, 2019, following which the guilty officials moved the apex court.The SC bench endorsed the HC’s verdict. It said: “The single judge found that the post-facto consent was sufficient for investigation by the CBI for the offences against the two public servants, whose names though did not find place in the FIR, but were found in charge sheet....we find no reason to interfere with the finding of the HC with regard to not obtaining prior consent of the state government under Section 6 of the DSPE Act, 1946.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-s-post-facto-consent-to-cbi-is-valid-supreme-court/story-4bGV0AtPLq2CGgugEMdK8H.html
19-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Fadnavis slams MVA government, calls it ‘anti-development’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fadnavis hits out at MVA government, calls it anti-developmentFormer Maharastra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has slammed the ruling Shiv Sena and its leadership for being “anti development” and accused them of stalling infrastructure projects key to Mumbai’s development. He blamed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic, excessive electricity bills, and cases against journalists-activists. Read more India uniquely poised to leap ahead in information era: PM Narendra Modi at Bengaluru Tech SummitIndia is uniquely positioned to leap ahead in the information era and the country has the best minds as well as the biggest markets for doing so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing the Bengaluru Tech Summit, Modi said India’s local technology solutions have the potential to go global and it is time for them to be designed in India and deployed for the world. Read moreCorona Thomas: Kerala local body polls candidate is making heads turnWhile some may have coined the jingle ‘Go Corona Go’ but in south Kerala’s Kollam, a lot of people are chanting ‘Corona ki Jai’ or ‘hail corona’. Corona Thomas (24) is the BJP candidate in Kollam Corporation’s Mathilil ward. All said and done, coronavirus wasn’t very kind on Corona Thomas either. Infected with the viral disease, she gave birth to a baby girl in October. Read moreCovid-19 and Guillain Barre Syndrome: Relation, causes and symptomsSeveral neurologists in Mumbai came together last week to conduct a study on a rare neurological complication, the Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS), in patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The effort came after more than 24 patients developed paralysis due to GBS. The study hopes to establish a correlation between Covid-19 and GBS and is slated to be finished in three weeks. Read moreHyundai Elantra 2021 gets two 10.25 inch screens, features to rival luxury carsHyundai Elantra 2021 is making a bold claim of being one of the better looking sedans on global roads but it is also making the rather boisterous claim of being a car that is loaded to the brim with features, several of which are only found in high-end luxury brands and price points far higher. Read more‘They are big players’: Harbhajan Singh names two batsmen who can stand up in Virat Kohli’s absence in Australia TestsVeteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh believes the best way for the Indian cricket team to deal with Virat Kohli’s absence after the first Test against Australia is to forget about it. Kohli’s departure from Australia after the day-night Test in Adelaide is a blow for India not only because of his batting but due to the effect he has on his players on the field. Read moreChhath Puja 2020: History, significance, date and time of celebrationCelebrated primarily in the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and the Madhesh region of Nepal. Chhath is an ancient Vedic festival, historically native to the Indian subcontinent and Chhath Puja, which is central to the celebration of this festival is dedicated in honour of the solar deity, Surya and his sister Shashti Devi (Chhathi Maiya), in order to get their blessing and to thank them for bestowing all the fortunes of life. Read moreNeha Kakkar shares romantic pictures with Rohanpreet Singh from their honeymoon. See them hereSinger Neha Kakkar and her husband, singer Rohanpreet Singh are still on their honeymoon. She shared fresh pictures and the two look very much in love. Sharing them, Neha wrote: “Thank you @addressboulevard @addresshotels Our Look: Styled by Me #NehuPreet.” Sharing another lot, she wrote: “Fun at breakfast table with @rohanpreetsingh @addressboulevard @addresshotels Our Look: Styled by Me #NehuPreet.” See them hereVideo of kids playing basketball shows how teamwork makes the dream work“If everyone is moving forward together, then success takes care of itself,” years ago founder of the Ford Motor Company, Henry Ford, said these words and they still stand true. It is often by working together that we achieve so much more. This video, shared on Twitter, perfectly showcases that notion. Watch Watch: Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to Indira Gandhi on her 103rd birth anniversaryRahul Gandhi paid tribute to Indira Gandhi on her 103rd birth anniversary. He visited Shakti Sthal, the memorial of Indira Gandhi in the national capital, to pay tribute to his grandmother & former Prime Minister. He also tweeted one of her pictures and wrote, ““I pay my tribute on the birth anniversary of Smt. Indira Gandhi, an efficient Prime Minister and form of power. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fadnavis-slams-mva-government-calls-it-anti-development-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JrBtBKiplpNqjYNpDL7LqL.html
19-11-2020||India||‘You were shaken out of slumber’: High Court raps Delhi govt over Covid-19 surge||Delhi High Court on Thursday slammed the Aam Aadmi Party-led government in the national capital over the ballooning cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Hitting out at the government over the delay in bringing measures to check the spread, the high court said, “You were shaken out of slumber, you turned turtle after we asked questions.”“Why did you wait for 18 days to restrict the number of attendees at weddings? How many died of Covid-19 during this period?” the high court also asked the Delhi government, according to news agency PTI. The court also noted that the quantum of fine for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing does not appear to be a deterrent.Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19It said there appeared to be substantial disparity in monitoring and imposition of fines in certain districts as compared to others.“What kind of monitoring and marshalling are you doing? Look at the situation seriously with a magnifying glass. You have crossed cities like New York and Sao Paolo,” the court said.Delhi government on Wednesday put a cap on a number of attendees to be allowed at a wedding as Covid-19 cases are rising in the city. Now, only 50 people will be allowed at weddings in Delhi, down from a cap of 200. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal has given approval for the revised limit. Also Read | Covid-19 negative report gives false hope, don’t go out yet: ExpertsSince the last week of Delhi has been reeling under the third wave of Covid-19 when the cases of infection started to spurt. On October 28, the daily number of cases breached the 5,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak began. On November 11, the city reported another record hike as more than 8,000 were contracted the Covid-19 in a day. As the infection tally in the Capital has been witnessing a steady spike, the Centre is also planning a house-to-house survey in Delhi. “Planning for house to house survey in Delhi in advanced stage, after Union Home Minister @AmitShah held meeting on Nov 15 on Delhi COVID situation. Survey expected to begin by the weekend and completed by 25 November,” the Union ministry of home affairs tweeted.Also Read | Covid-19: No lockdown, but there may be local restrictions, says Delhi health ministerThe Centre and Delhi government have also stepped-up testing to ensure early identification and treatment of Covid-19 patients. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 7,486 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally in the city to over five lakh, while 131 new fatalities, the highest single-day death count till date, pushed the toll to 7,943, authorities said.The total number of cases has now climbed to 5,03,084.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-were-shaken-out-of-slumber-why-did-you-wait-for-18-days-to-restrict-number-of-wedding-attendees-high-court-raps-delhi-govt/story-0amSLyQ7507WkkWs7szjGP.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19 and Guillain Barre Syndrome: Relation, causes and symptoms||Several neurologists in Mumbai came together last week to conduct a study on a rare neurological complication, the Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS), in patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The effort came after more than 24 patients developed paralysis due to GBS. The study hopes to establish a correlation between Covid-19 and GBS and is slated to be finished in three weeks. The aim of the study is to develop an India-specific database regarding Covid-19 and GBS that will be sent for scientific publication.“There haven’t been many studies on Covid-19-associated GBS in India. Our study will be first-of-its-kind where the sample size will also be large. Along with hospitals, we are also collecting data from nursing homes,” Dr Megha Dhamne, the study’s principal investigator and neurologist at LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai, said.What is Guillain Barre Syndrome?GBS is a rare autoimmune disorder, a prototype of post-infectious neuropathy that usually develops within two to four weeks after an acute infection, and is caused by a bacterial or viral infection. It is mainly observed in the last stage of Covid-19 recovery or among completely recovered patients. GBS is found in Covid-19 patients when the immune system attempts to kill Sars-CoV-2 and accidentally starts attacking the peripheral nervous system, thereby affecting limb functions. The syndrome’s first symptoms are a tingling or itching sensation in the skin, followed by muscle weakness, pain and numbness and these may emerge first in the feet and hands. More severe cases may have reflex loss and paralysis.Read more | Ray of hope? Study claims Hepatitis C drugs can be effective against Covid-19Could all Covid-19 patients have GBS?While Covid-19 is known to affect digestive, cardiac and kidney functions, the virus can have an indirect effect and trigger an immune response that can attack the body’s peripheral nervous system. Experts believe that it is still difficult to assess the nature of permanency of GBS but such cases have been identified within five to 10 days of the onset of symptoms of Covid-19. Doctors have recommended regular follow-ups by recovered patients.Is there a treatment for GBS?Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and sometimes plasma therapy helps patients with GBS recover. Patients who may develop severe complications could require intensive care treatment or ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-and-guillain-barre-syndrome-relation-causes-and-symptoms/story-5dyPPPFK7Ijqkva2yHM0OO.html
19-11-2020||India||India uniquely poised to leap ahead in information era: PM Narendra Modi at Bengaluru Tech Summit||India is uniquely positioned to leap ahead in the information era and the country has the best minds as well as the biggest markets for doing so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing the Bengaluru Tech Summit, Modi said India’s local technology solutions have the potential to go global and it is time for them to be designed in India and deployed for the world. “The potential of our youth and possibilities of technology are endless. It is time we give our best and leverage them. I am confident that our IT sector will keep making us proud,” he said. On the government’s focus on leveraging the benefits of technology, he said that policy decisions are aimed at liberalising the technology and innovations industry and an example of that is the recent relaxations announced in the compliance burden on the IT industry. Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit on November 19“The achievements of the industrial era are in the rear-view mirror, and now, we are in the middle of the information era. The future is coming sooner than anticipated. In the industrial era, change was linear. But in the information era, change is disruptive,” the Prime Minister said. He said from catering to local needs such as construction of houses for the poor to setting the pace for the defence sector, technology plays a key role. “Earlier, wars were determined by who had better elephants and horses. Now, technology is playing a very important role in global conflicts. From software to drones to UAVs, technology is redefining the defence sector… In the information era, the first mover doesn’t matter, the best mover does. Anyone can make a product anytime that disrupts all existing equations of the market,” he said. Referring to the Digital India mission that was launched by the government five years ago, the Prime Minister said the accomplishments in bridging the digital divide and opting for a human-centric approach have ensured that the mission has not remained a regular government initiative, but become a way of life, particularly for the marginalised and those in the government. “Through technology, we have enhanced human dignity. Millions of farmers receive monetary support in one click. During the peak of the lockdown, it was technology that ensured that India’s poor received proper and quick assistance. The scale of this relief has few parallels,” the Prime Minister pointed out. He went on to add, “As per a report, the Internet came to India around 25 years ago and the number of Internet connections recently crossed the 750 million-milestone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uniquely-poised-to-leap-ahead-in-information-era-pm-narendra-modi-at-bengaluru-tech-summit/story-vaFQ1SnecIS9ttFUJmndwK.html
19-11-2020||India||Dharmendra Pradhan urges Odisha CM for all-party meeting to resolve inter-state border disputes||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday wrote to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to convene an all party-meeting over border disputes with neighbouring states and also urged him to seek the support of the Central government in mediating a resolution.In the letter, Pradhan, who hails from Odisha’s Talcher, highlighted that tensions have flared up once again along the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border at Pottangi Block in Koraput district. “It is understood that unilateral demarcation claiming certain portions of the Sunabeda Mouza under Sambai Panchayat and digging of a pond in the village of Talaganjei padar by officials of the Andhra Pradesh administration was found unacceptable to Odisha. The matter has now escalated to blockage of Pottangi-Arku road by villagers on the Andhra Pradesh side,” the Union Minister said while requesting Patnaik to convene an all-party meeting with due participation and inputs from Odisha’s intelligentsia and civil society.Pradhan also suggested him to form a House Committee in the Odisha Legislative Assembly comprising members of these issues and presenting their learned findings along with their recommendation. “Keeping in mind the sensitivity of the issue, I would also urge you to seek the support of the Central government in mediating a resolution between Odisha and her neighbouring States for boundary disputes,” he stated. Pradhan highlighted that fourteen out of Odisha’s thirty districts share borders with Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. “Odisha has a long history of border and water disputes with all these neighbouring States owing to historical, cartographic and geographical reasons,” he said. “It would seem prudent to arrive at an effective and comprehensive resolution of Odisha’s ongoing and long standing border disputes with all its neighbouring States, i.e. Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, through bilateral discussions between States,” he stated. The Union Minister said that Odisha should take the lead in initiating discussions to resolve border disputes. “However, it must be ensured that socio-economic interest of the people of Odisha is not compromised in any way and if necessary, the State should also consider legal remedies for resolution of these disputes,” he concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-urges-odisha-cm-for-all-party-meeting-to-resolve-inter-state-border-disputes/story-hZoyWQdo1pEW2yW3rvpYkN.html
19-11-2020||India||Fadnavis hits out at MVA government, calls it anti-development||Former Maharastra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has slammed the ruling Shiv Sena and its leadership for being “anti development” and accused them of stalling infrastructure projects key to Mumbai’s development. He blamed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic, excessive electricity bills, and cases against journalists-activists.Fadnavis said the Metro Line-3 car shed was shifted to Kanjurmarg just to satisfy the Shiv Sena leadership’s ego. He claimed the shifting will delay the project by five years and lead to the cost escalation by Rs4,000 crore.Also read | Mumbai court grants bail to man who tweeted against Thackerays“I had stayed the proposal of the car shed at Aarey for nine months after taking over as chief minister in 2014 just to check if there was an alternative to it to avoid environmental damage. After checking all other options, an expert committee of top officers said that Aarey was the only option as the Kanjumarg land was under litigation and it will lead to heavy losses and delay to the project,” he said at a meeting to chalk out the Bharatiya Janata Party’s strategy for the 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections.“Even the committee appointed by Thackeray government under [bureaucrat] Manoj Saunik has recommended keeping the depot at Aarey for the same reasons cited by earlier committee. But the recommendation by their own committee was overruled while shifting the depot to Kanjurmarg.”Fadnavis said that the car shed at Kanjurmarg will also lead to environmental destruction because of the construction. “When we proposed affordable housing scheme on the salt pan land for poor during our tenure, Thackeray had opposed the proposal citing the reason of environment. How can they allow a car shed that will need similar construction resulting in the environmental issues,” he said.Fadnavis said the Thackerays were misleading people by saying they have notified 800 acres as forest land in Aarey. “We had notified it as an eco-sensitive zone during our tenure and as such construction was banned. By changing parlance, the Thackerays have been misleading people,” he said.Fadnavis also attacked the government for opposing the Bullet Train project and said that investment of Rs50,000 crore in Maharashtra for the project would have given a push to the state’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-hits-out-at-mva-government-calls-it-anti-development/story-QJ3ZeECGKvTPGQplS4AaEI.html
19-11-2020||India||Setback to UP’s Shiksha Mitras as SC allows state government to fill 69,000 assistant teacher posts||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday removed the legal obstacles put up by around 100,000 aggrieved Shiksha Mitras, or para teachers, in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in the way of the Yogi Adityanath-led government to fill up around 69,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers.The Shiksha Mitras had challenged a state government order, which was issued on January 7, 2019. The order had raised the minimum qualifying marks for Assistant Teachers Recruitment Examination (ATRE), 2019, to 60-65% from 40-45% in ATRE, 2018. Around 30 petitions were filed in the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court (HC) a day after ATRE, 2019, was conducted, challenging the revised eligibility norms.Several Shiksha Mitras were inconvenienced due to higher qualifying cut-offs and failed to make the grade.However, the two-member apex court bench, comprising Justices UU Lalit and M Mohan Shantanagouder, found nothing wrong with the state government’s order. The SC said: “Any process, which applied equally to all the candidates and was designed to garner the best talent, cannot be called arbitrary or irrational.”The bench viewed the matter through the lens of Constitutional guarantee of right to free education under Article 21A. The bench said, “Article 21A of the Constitution would envisage quality education being imparted to the children, which, in turn, would signify that the teachers must be meritorious and the best of the lot.” The bench approved the enhanced qualifying marks set by the state government and allowed the latter to fill up the 69,000 posts for assistant teachers, as per the results of ATRE-2019, which were declared on May 12 amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Altogether, 1,46,060 candidates were declared successful in the examination.The SC held out a sliver of hope for the Shiksha Mitras and recorded the submission of the state government, which was keen on offering one more opportunity to the aggrieved para teachers.However, the court left it to the discretion of the state government to consider the “manner and the modalities” in which the opportunity could be availed of.The appeals before the apex court arose out of an order passed by the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad HC on May 6 following which the Shiksha Mitras lost their challenge to the qualifying cut-offs fixed by the state government.The Shiksha Mitras have been serving in UP under a state government order that was issued on May 26, 1999. The objective of recruiting Shiksha Mitras was to maintain teacher and student ratio in primary schools by hiring para teachers at a lesser monthly salary. Earlier, Shiksha Mitras were paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,450, which was later increased to Rs 10,000.The Shiksha Mitras had claimed that those who had appeared for ATRE, 2018, and ATRE, 2019, formed a homogeneous class, but the SC did not accept this contention. The apex court maintained that the difficulty level of both the examinations was different.The bench found out that 37.62% of candidates had qualified in ATRE, 2019, when the eligibility cut-off was 60-65%. While 38.83% of candidates had qualified in ATRE, 2018, when the eligibility cut-off was 40-45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/setback-to-up-s-shiksha-mitras-as-sc-allows-state-government-to-fill-69-000-assistant-teacher-posts/story-ewFWxQSb5ULy0mw25k3kCI.html
19-11-2020||India||MoEFCC okays Maharashtra’s proposal to study distribution, population of Arabian Sea humpback whales||Maharashtra is the third state along the country’s west coast, which will join the studies on the distribution and population of Arabian Sea humpback whales. The initiative has already been undertaken by Karnataka and Goa, as part of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change’s (MoEFCC) endangered species recovery programme.The MoEFCC said they had approved a proposal to support Maharashtra’s plans to use a combination of acoustic and visual monitoring methods to bridge the information gap for the whale species in the Indian waters. Maharashtra seeks to implement a community-based monitoring network to report sightings and strandings of such marine species.“Maharashtra is the third state to have submitted its plan after Karnataka and Goa. Understanding more about this species is extremely important. We will be supporting the Maharashtra government in this project,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general of forests (wildlife), MoEFCC. “Arabian Sea humpback whale is a signature species, whose conservation is also being pursued by the International Whaling Commission (IWC),” he added.IWC is a global body that looks into whale conservation. “The commission is appreciative of India’s efforts towards conservation of this particular species,” the IWC had said.Earlier on August 7, the Maharashtra state board of wildlife (SBWL) had approved the proposal on Arabian Sea humpback whales following a report compiled by the Mangrove Cell. The Maharashtra government had submitted its final proposal to MoEFCC on November 12.“It is a good development, as emphasis is being laid on conservation of marine species. We are trying to protect those species that have not been in focus. We will be looking at many more such studies in a phase-wise manner,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (wildlife), Maharashtra.The state’s research programme has been proposed from December 2020 to October 2025, which is divided into five annual phases. The first phase consists of determining seasonal occurrence patterns and habitat use of the species through passive acoustic monitoring (sound recorders). A visual survey along Angria bank -- off the Malvan coast -- will be undertaken along with genetic sample collection from stranded baleen whales for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing over the next year. The next phases will include long-term monitoring, vessel-based line transect survey with photo-identification exercises, and developing a network (stranding) of stakeholders, local community members, researchers and veterinarians. Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (Mangrove Cell), said, “Our attempt is to understand the seasonal occurrence pattern of these whales based on the audio recordings. It will help determine critical hotspots for their breeding or feeding grounds along the Maharashtra coast. Continuous acoustic monitoring will help understand their communication behaviour and how they are affected by the noise of ships and seismic (oil) exploration in offshore areas.”The total budget for the five-year project is around Rs6.12 crore, which will be shared by the Centre and the state government in a ratio of 60:40.“Most of the research on this species has been carried out in Oman. This species has not been studied much in the Indian coastal waters and there have been sporadic records of their presence. There have also been some stranding incidents of this species on the western Indian coastline,” said Manas Manjrekar, deputy director, Mangrove Foundation.In June 2018, Arabian Sea humpback whales were one of four species to be added to the recovery programme during the 49th meeting of the standing committee of national board of wildlife (NBWL), under the MoEFCC.The ministry had requested all states to develop five-year action plans. Arabian Sea humpback whale was the 21st species, which was included in the plan, said Dasgupta.The state government has proposed that this species of the whale’s population is likely to be less than 250 mature individuals. The International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Species Survival Commission cetacean specialist group identified that a population estimation study -- through identification by photograph – showed between 60 and 111 humpback whales along the Oman coast, which make their way during the winter towards warmer waters of India’s west coast. According to the Arabian Sea Whale Network, the most recent sighting of the species was by scuba divers near Netrani Island off the Karnataka coast last December. However, telemetry studies by the Environment Society of Oman have been regularly reporting Arabian Sea humpback whales crossing into Indian waters.“Maharashtra’s bid to begin its studies on the whale species is heartening news. However, there has been a delay in the fieldwork because of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. This has put a spanner in our works to compare whale songs between India and Oman,” said Dr Dipani Sutaria, a senior research fellow, who has undertaken extensive research into Arabian Sea humpback whales.THREATS TO THE SPECIESHumpback whales spotted along India’s west coast are part of the distinct Arabian Sea population. The species is considered to be the most isolated whale population in the world and recognised as non-migratory.As per the IUCN Red List, the species is endangered and it is protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. An adult whale ranges between 40 and 50 feet (ft) in length and weighs up to metric 30 tonnes. These whales can be found in the coastal waters along Yemen, Oman, Iran, India, the Maldives and Sri Lanka. The species is recognised as a genetically isolated stock that is separated from other populations approximately 70,000 years ago. Historical records show that this small isolated population was also subjected to whaling. In 1966, Russian whaling ships in the Arabian Sea had caught 238 humpback whales within 10 days, out of these 164 (69%) were killed off the Gulf of Kutch, Gujarat, and another 12 (5%) were killed close to the Gulf of Khambhat. Other threats to these species include: entanglement in fishing gears, strikes by ships, disturbance from vessel noise, and seismic surveys related to oil and natural gas exploration in offshore areas.(Source: Maharashtra’s proposal to the Centre, IUCN)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moefcc-okays-maharashtra-s-proposal-to-study-distribution-population-of-arabian-sea-humpback-whales/story-mqgmtiEsYq97UsPunT3F6M.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Setting pace for other sectors to evolve’: PM Modi address Bengaluru Technology Summit 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated the three-day Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020. During the virtual inauguration, PM Modi highlighted the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the technology sector and lauded the industry, saying it “recognised great opportunities that came with the pandemic. The Prime Minister said the sector realised “it was not the end of the road”.“Technology is setting the pace for other sectors to evolve,” PM Modi also said.Follow highlights from his address here:1. “We launched Digital India 5 years back. Today, I am glad to say that Digital India is no longer being seen as any regular government initiative. Digital India has become a way of life. Particularly, for the poor, marginalised and for those in the government.”2. “Our government has successfully created a market for digital and tech solutions. It has made technology a key part of all schemes. Our governance model is technology first.” 3. “Through technology, we have enhanced human dignity. Millions of farmers received monetary support in one click. At the peak of the Covid-19 lockdown, it was technology that ensured that India’s poor received proper and quick assistance.”4. “Achievements of the industrial era are in the rearview mirror, and now, we are in the middle of the information era. Future is coming sooner than anticipated In the industrial era, change was linear. But in the information era, change is disruptive.”5. “India as a country is uniquely positioned for leap ahead in the information era, we have best minds and big market.” 6. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, the amount of tech adaptation would not have been possible in decade, but it happend in juts few months months. Work form anywhere have become norm, and it is going to stay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/technology-is-setting-pace-for-other-sectors-to-evolve-pm-modi-address-bengaluru-summit-2020/story-uRJp5GMxmeQLYWprb6Q0hK.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Digital India has become a way of life’, says PM Modi at Bengaluru Tech Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the ‘Digital India’ mission launched by the Centre five years ago is no longer being seen as a regular government initiative and it has instead become a way of life.“Thanks to Digital India, our nation has witnessed a more human-centric approach to development. Using technology at such a large scale has brought about several life changes for our citizens. The benefits are for everyone to see,” the Prime Minister said while inaugurating the Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020.Modi said the government has successfully created a market for digital and tech solutions. It has made technology a key part of all schemes. “Our governance model is ‘Technology First’,” he said.Bringing to spotlight the significance of technology amid the coronavirus pandemic, Modi said, “At the peak of the lockdown, it was technology that ensured that India’s poor received proper and quick assistance. The scale of this relief has few parallels.”The Prime Minister said that when it comes to technology, the way ahead lies in learning and growing together and following the approach, several incubation centres are opening in India. He also pointed to the culture of hackathons which have been organised in India over the past few years.Talking about the transition from industrial to the information era, Modi said, “Achievements of the industrial era are in the rear-view mirror, and now, we are in the middle of the information era. Future is coming sooner than anticipated. In the industrial era, change was linear. But in the information era, change is disruptive.” He said that in the industrial era first-movers had an advantage over others. However, in the information era the best-mover races ahead, Modi said.Hailing India’s IT sector, the Prime Minister said, “Our local tech solutions have the potential to go global. It is time for tech-solutions that are Designed in India but Deployed for the World.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-india-has-become-a-way-of-life-says-pm-modi-at-bengaluru-tech-summit/story-mxfvbohBhvDGF41AP74KSN.html
19-11-2020||India||DRI busts an international cocaine smuggling racket in 3-day-long Operation Calypso||The Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) ran a three-day long operation codenamed “Operation Calypso” to bust an international drugs smuggling racket wherein cocaine was concealed in a steam press iron from Trinidad and Tobago to Mumbai, people familiar with the development said. Four persons—two Africans and two Indian women—have been arrested, and cocaine weighing 504 grams worth Rs3 crore to Rs4 crore in international market, has been recovered, they said. Investigations have also revealed that this syndicate smuggled multiple consignments of cocaine in the past; the total quantity of cocaine smuggled via the same modus operandi is over 3.3kg since August 2020, valued at over Rs20 crore. DRI, Mumbai, had received an intelligence input from a reliable source about cocaine being smuggled to Mumbai from Trinidad and Tobago. Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling: ED denies Sivasankar’s allegations of pressure to name political targets“We immediately swung into action and as expected, during prior verification, the address declared on the courier packet appeared suspicious, thereby suggesting it would be challenging to intercept the Indian recipients of the contraband. We first intercepted the consignment and ascertained the presence of cocaine. Thereafter, we kept discreet watch and when a woman came to pick up the consignment on November 17, she was apprehended by the team,” said an officer. The woman disclosed during interrogation that the package containing the contraband was to be delivered to an African national in Navi Mumbai. “Teams were quickly formed and dispatched to Navi Mumbai. To make the delivery appear more realistic, the services of an app-based taxi were also availed. The teams lay in wait for nearly an hour, after which one African national approached the taxi in which the lady was waiting with the consignment. When he attempted to take the parcel, he was immediately overpowered by DRI officers hanging around incognito. An accomplice of the African national was waiting nearby in an auto. On seeing his accomplice nabbed, the other African national immediately fled,” said a second officer. “We set off in hot pursuit and when his auto was about to be intercepted, the African national jumped off the moving auto and began running. However, after a chase of almost a kilometre on foot, auto and car, the accomplice was also nabbed,” said the second officer. The DRI officials cited above said that role of another Mumbai-based woman was also uncovered during the operation. “Sources confirmed that this woman was currently holidaying in Udaipur. Another DRI team from the Ahmedabad unit was swiftly assembled and it reached Udaipur in the dead of the night. The DRI team was able to zero in on the exact location of the woman in Udaipur. They kept watch over the hotel and in the morning of November 18, with the assistance of Udaipur Police, the woman was apprehended. She was then arrested by DRI and, with magisterial permission, she was brought to Mumbai on transit remand on Wednesday night,” said the first officer. “It then also came to light that this woman was a history-sheeter who was arrested by Mumbai Police only last year. The woman who had come to collect the parcel from the courier company also has a criminal background and both ladies had met while they were in jail last year,” he said. In all, four persons have been arrested. “The operation being carried out by DRI has thrown up a sophisticated cartel of international drug smugglers. The immaculately executed ‘Operation Calypso’ has once again shown DRI’s commitment to fighting international drug cartels and ability to plan and execute complex operations, all while strictly adhering to the letter and spirit of the law,” said a third officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dri-busts-an-international-cocaine-smuggling-racket-in-3-day-long-operation-calypso/story-WIBvq8kptyYwEWOZXoT6TI.html
19-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases jump to 45,576; tally over 8.95 million||India recorded a one-day jump of 45,576 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, after reporting less than 39,000 daily infections for the past three days, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The country’s infection tally has surged past 8.95 million while the death toll has reached 131,578.Of the total 8,958,483 cases, as many as 8,383,602 people have been discharged from Covid-19 designated hospitals or have recovered from the viral infection in home isolation. The daily recovery figure saw a jump of 48,493 on Thursday, taking the recovery rate to 93.58%, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.Click here for live updates on coronavirus Even as the toll has mounted to 131,578, India’s new deaths per million due to coronavirus disease in the past seven days has continued to remain the lowest in the world at 3, according to a graph shared by the health ministry on Twitter. While the world’s average of seven days stood at eight, France reported the maximum number of new deaths per million at 62 followed by the United Kingdom at 43.India’s active caseload stands at 443,303, which is 4.95% of the total confirmed cases in the country, the ministry said.Meanwhile, an indigenously developed testing kit based on the gene-editing technology CRISPR – called Feluda – will be launched in Delhi on Thursday by the Tata group in collaboration with the Apollo group of hospitals, according to people familiar with the matter. The test is likely to be cheaper than the current gold standard RT-PCR and equally accurate, helping in scaling up Covid-19 testing as it would need a machine that is widely available with laboratories and science institutions.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe global infection tally has gone up to 56,187,563 with the United States continuing to report the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 11,525,540. The virus has claimed 1,348,600 lives across the globe, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-jump-to-45-576-tally-over-8-95-million/story-MwpJ1lrczULNQZkakdDwpK.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19: UP begins focused 12-day sample testing drive from today||Uttar Pradesh is rolling out the second phase of the focused sample testing drive for Covid-19 from November 19 which will go on till November 30. “Sample tests will be carried out in the slums on November 19, 20 and 21; in temporary and permanent prisons on November 22; in children shelter homes on November 23; in old age homes and women shelter homes on November 24; for street vendors on November 25; for teachers and staff of classes 9 to 12 on November 26; in government and private offices on November 27; and in market areas and weekly markets across the state on November 28, 29 and 30,” said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal and additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, while addressing a joint press conference. Also read | Delhi: Wedding curbs back as coronavirus cases hit 500,000Earlier, a 16-day focused sample test drive was organised across the state from October 29 to November 9. The focus was on people who came in contact with a large number of people. These included auto-rickshaw drivers, rickshaw pullers, mehndi and beauty parlour staff, sweet shop staff, security staff of malls, staff of electronics shops and vehicle showrooms, retail shop keepers, people working in fruit and vegetable markets. The data released by the state government showed that Covid cases increased in Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagarj, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Meerut. Lucknow reported 294 fresh cases on Wednesday, Kanpur 117, Prayagraj 145, Ghaziabad 134, Gautam Buddh Nagar 179 and Meerut 260. “The surge of Covid cases in Delhi has led to an increase in cases in the bordering districts, whereas the numbers have declined in the remaining districts,” the officers said. Thirty deaths were reported across UP on Wednesday, taking the fatality count to 7,441. These include six deaths in Lucknow, three in Meerut, and two each in Prayagraj and Varanasi. During the last 24 hours, 2,390 fresh cases were reported and 2,529 patients were discharged after recovery. There were 21,954 active cases in UP, while 9,672 people were in home isolation, 2,163 were admitted to private hospitals. The remaining patients were in government hospitals. As many as 487,000 people have recovered in the state since the start of the pandemic in March, taking the recovery rate to 94.31%, the officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-begins-focused-12-day-sample-testing-drive-from-today/story-Y9DhteparIcCvFKvKxwdiM.html
19-11-2020||India||Kashmir Valley likely to receive fresh rain, snowfall: IMD||The Kashmir Valley is expected to receive fresh rain and snowfall in the upper reaches as temperatures are likely to go below the freezing point, India Meteorological Department said . It received rain and the snowfall last week as well.Also read | Snowfall strands Adityanath, Trivendra Singh Rawat in Kedarnath for hoursThe resort town of Gulmarg recorded the lowest minimum temperature of minus 6 degrees Celsius. Jammu and Srinagar recorded minimum temperatures of 9.5 degrees Celsius and 0.8 degrees Celsius.Kashmir received first heavy snowfall in the beginning of November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-valley-likely-to-receive-fresh-rain-snowfall-imd/story-IHUryxcLBSAhlNX6MjkQ2L.html
19-11-2020||India||India’s first child to have undergone liver transplant set to become doctor||Life has come a full circle for Sanjay Kandasamy (23) as “the miracle baby of medicine is all set to join the profession”. Doctors at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in the national capital are eagerly waiting for the coming April, as Kandasamy, who had made history to undergo the country’s first paediatric liver transplant as a 20-month child in 1998, will take the Hippocratic oath.Kandasamy, who belongs to Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu, is full of beans about his feat.“This has been my ambition since childhood. I’m alive today because of the efforts of my doctors. I want to take up this noble profession to save lives. Initially, I wanted to be a surgeon, but later I realised that my interest lies in paediatrics. I am likely to specialise in paediatrics and focus on neonatology (newborns),” he said.Kandasamy was born with a rare condition called Biliary Atresia – the congenital disorder that leads to liver failure among newborns. The liver failure occurs due to blockage in ducts that carry bile from liver to gallbladder. His father had donated 20% of his liver for the transplant surgery. “He was the first child in India to have successfully undergone a liver transplant. It has been 22 years since he underwent the surgical procedure. He is a classic example of long-term smooth survival after undergoing a liver transplant surgery,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, the group medical director and a senior liver specialist at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital. Dr Sibal was one of the key members of the team of doctors, who had treated Kandasamy in 1998.Doctors, who were involved in the surgical procedure, had to face multiple challenges to ensure Kandasamy’s recovery. “I remember he was in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for about two months. We practically lived in the hospital for those two months to get him out of ICU. He was less than two years old, when he was operated on. His condition was rather critical,” reminisced Dr AS Soin, chairman, institute of liver transplantation and regenerative medicine, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram.Dr Soin had performed the critical surgery along with Dr MR Rajasekhar at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital. “It is one of the proudest moments in my 28-year career as a transplant surgeon. My baby patient is all set to become a doctor,” he added. The surgical procedure has underscored that long-term smooth survival of children, who underwent liver transplant, is a reality.“We know of around 40 children, who are leading a normal life even after 12 years of liver transplant. Globally, children have lived beyond 40 years after their transplant,” Dr Soin said. Dr Sibal said there were a few common concerns of parents that would keep recurring during counselling sessions that are conducted before a liver transplant surgery. “Will my child be able to go to school without any difficulty? Will my child have a normal growth and development? The latter question is more common for a girl child, where parents are eager to know whether she can start a family when she grows up. Though these are legitimate concerns, they have proven to be ill-founded,” Dr Sibal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-child-to-have-undergone-liver-transplant-set-to-become-doctor/story-kVWUCPUApPSH4NmR8lSELO.html
19-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut wants IPS officer D Roopa suspended, calls her ‘unworthy, undeserving’||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has attacked D Roopa Moudgil over her comments on bursting firecrackers on Diwali and called for her suspension, saying police officials like her were a “shame in the name of police force”.Ranaut’s tweet against the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer comes in the backdrop of a spat between Moudgil and a popular Twitter handle True Indology over the origin of firecrackers and whether they were used in ancient India. This began after the governments in several states imposed a ban on bursting crackers during Diwali. In a tweet on November 14, the Bengaluru police officer shared her Facebook post stating bursting firecrackers was not part of the Hindu tradition as there was no mention of it in religious scriptures and epics. The statement was contested by True Indology, who in turn “accepted the challenge” and cited texts to prove the point but failed to convince Moudgil. Also, read: Here are 5 times the queen of Bollywood Kangana inspired us to get fit Also Watch | ‘How many voices will you suppress Sonia Sena?’: Kangana on Arnab’s arrestAs the arguments between the two went on, Twitter suspended the True Indology handle. The reason for the account’s suspension was not stated.“She should be suspended, such cops are a shame in the name of police force #ShameOnYouIPSRoopa we can’t let her get her evil ways #BringBackTrueIndology,” Ranaut said in her tweet. “Side effects of reservations, when unworthy and undeserving gets the power they don’t heal they only hurt, I don’t know anything about her personal life but I guarantee that her frustration is stemming out of her incompetence,” she also tweeted. Living off on tax money, these cops are answerable for arm twisting commoners, it’s a valid question rather than taking people’s complaints and assisting them, why is @D_Roopa_IPS indulging in time pass trolling that too in working hours threatening and intimidating youngsters. https://t.co/b9O7clFzTe Side effects of reservations, when unworthy and undeserving gets the power they don’t heal they only hurt, I don’t know anything about her personal life but I guarantee that her frustration is stemming out of her incompetence #BringBackTrueIndology https://t.co/BUrVm1Fjz3Ranaut also came out in the support of True Ideology with the hashtag #BringBackTrueIndology. In a series of tweets, the actor slammed the police officer for being “vengeful” and indulging in the spat during her working hours. “Government appoints people like @D_Roopa_IPS to protect fundamental rights of commoners, but look at her obnoxious ignorance like a sore looser she became so vengeful that if she couldn’t win the arguments with facts she simply got @TIinExile eliminated.Shame on you @D_Roopa_IPS,” the Bollywood actor tweeted.  You are a hero @TIinExile , at times the fight for civilisation feels like a lonely and thankless battle, to see the organised power of the other side can make one disheartened but keep at it, one day you will be a leading voice, my love and blessings #BringBackTrueIndology https://t.co/Fh3yqbC9BqShe also questioned Twitter and its chief executive, Jack Dorsey, over the account’s suspension and sought action against the social media site tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office. “@jack @Twitter @TwitterIndia your bias and Islamist’s propaganda is embarrassing, why did you suspend @TIinExile ? Because he busted fake narratives of our history? Shame on you, waiting for the day when you will be banned in India, hope @PMOIndia takes action against twitter,” she tweeted. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi too called out Moudgil. “Doesn’t befit IPS officers of the country to be arguing with anonymous Twitter Handles that too during working hours. Make a point, let it go, you aren’t winning anything by arguing on SM!” Singhvi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-wants-ips-officer-d-roopa-suspended-calls-her-unworthy-undeserving/story-yVaVfmjL2obVd5fW1sSZ0O.html
19-11-2020||India||Chhath puja celebrations are prohibited in these states amid Covid-19||Chhath puja celebrations began on Thursday with the traditional ‘nahay khay’ ceremony across several parts of the country. The four-day-long festival is being celebrated in many parts of the country, including, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, amid the raging coronavirus pandemic.The Chhath Puja is celebrated on the sixth day of the Kartik month every year. During the festival, women and men fast and worship Sun and his wife Usha to express gratitude and pray for the prosperity of their family. Chhath puja will end on Saturday morning after prayers to the rising sun.In view of the pandemic, several states have put a curb on the festival in view of the rising Covid-19 infection prompting protests and criticism from the political parties. Here is a list of states that have put restrictions on Chhath celebrations.DelhiThe Delhi government has imposed a blanket ban on Chhath puja festivities after Covid-19 cases jumped to record high numbers in the national capital. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) instructed officials to ensure that Chhath puja is not performed at public places, river banks and temples in the city this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.MumbaiIn Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has put restrictions on the mass celebration of Chhath puja at beaches, river banks and other natural water bodies in the city and asked devotees to avoid crowding.OdishaIn Odisha, the government has also prohibited the mass celebration of Chhath puja including bathing at river banks. Since a large number of people gather near the river banks, the celebration of the festival has huge potential for the spread of the coronavirus disease, the government had said while imposing the restrictions.JharkhandThe Jharkhand government had also banned the festivities at river banks keeping Covid-19 in mind. However, a day later on November 17, the government retracted its order and allowed people to celebrate the festival at water bodies. However, strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, including wearing face masks, has been made mandatory for devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-celebrations-are-prohibited-in-these-states-amid-covid-19/story-QcgAE7jBSdUxkB6s4k5j8M.html
19-11-2020||India||Odisha cops arrest 7 for gruesome murder of 6 from a family||A week after six members of a family including four children were found murdered at their home in western Odisha district of Bolangir, police on Wednesday claimed to have solved the case by arresting 7 persons.The accused were identified as Babulal Jani, Chhaya Gond, Baldev Gond, Manish Gond, Bhola Jani, Shiva Jani and Bikal Kairi, while two other main accused Gangua Majhi and his son Baldev Majhi were absconding.On Wednesday last, Bulu Jani (50), his wife Jyoti (48), daughters, Sarita (12) and Shreya (3) and two sons, Bhishma (5) and Sanjeev (2), were found murdered and wrapped in blankets at their house in Sanrapada village in Patnagarh block of Bolangir. Jani used to hawk honey as well as sell stationery items and trinkets in the area since the last 10 years. Neighbours found the bodies after they peeked through the window when they got suspicious after noticing Jani and his family members had not come out of the house. An axe was found at the spot of the incident.Bolangir SP Madkar Sandeep Sampat, who led the investigation, said Jani and his family were killed by members of three of the neighbouring families over past enmity. “Though the deceased are originally from Bihar, they had been living in Patnagarh for more than 10 years. The family of Gangua Majhi, Babulal Jani and Baldev Gond used to quarrel with Bulu Jani on some pretext or the other every other day. Bulu Jani apparently used to harass and humiliate the three families over several issues. They were looking for an opportunity to take revenge,” said the SP.Also Read: Senior citizens, pregnant women and healthcare workers will be 1st in line for Covid vaccine: OdishaLast month, Bulu Jani had a fight with Gangua Majhi over the former trying to break the lock of Majhi’s house in the latter’s absence. The incident angered Majhi as well as two other families and they planned to wipe out the family including the children.“The accused families did not want to take chances as they thought the children may take revenge when they grow up,” said the SP.Also Read: Jagannath temple administration pitches for mid-December reopeningOn Nov 10 evening, six of the accused lay in wait outside Jani’s family. At 11 pm, they tried to fire at Jani when he came out to relieve himself. However, the bullet missed its target. The accused, armed with an axe, sword and petrol, broke through the house and hacked six family members to death. All the bodies bore injury marks on the neck or back of their heads.After the murder, deceased Bulu Jani’s sons had lodged a complaint with police alleging that five persons in the locality were threatening their father. About a year ago, one of the sons of Jani was found murdered in Rourkela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cops-arrest-7-for-gruesome-murder-of-6-from-a-family/story-0rVU8LEPMG1PStSRLiufaK.html
19-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After a short breather, pollution levels rise in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After a short breather, pollution levels rise in DelhiThe national capital’s air quality remained in the “poor” category on Thursday morning, the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) data showed. Read moreChina is fortifying defences across Ladakh border, not prepping to disengageReinforcements of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) posts, relocation of troops, and rapid strengthening of road infrastructure across the friction points in occupied Aksai Chin over the past 30 days – all clearly indicate that China is preparing for a long haul along the 3,488km Line of Actual Control (LAC), keeping up the pressure on India even as the two countries talk disengagement and de-escalataion. Read more4 terrorists killed in gunbattle in Jammu’s NagrotaFour terrorists were gunned down by security forces in an ongoing encounter in the Nagrota area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Jammu district, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: From Kapil’s Melbourne Miracle to Agarkar’s Adelaide redemption, the best of Indian bowling in AustraliaFor years, India vs Australia Test series have been billed as a battle between India’s batting and Australia’s batting, so much that it almost sweeps under the carpet some of the most phenomenal spells of bowling by India Down Under. Read moreNikhil Dwivedi on Naagin trilogy with Shraddha Kapoor: ‘If Spider Man or Superman can exist, so can a shape-shifting snake’Shraddha Kapoor will be seen as a naagin - a shape-shifting snake - in a new three-film series directed by Vishal Furia and produced by Nikhil Dwivedi. Read moreElon Musk could become world’s second richest person as Tesla stocks surgeElon Musk is just a Tesla Inc. rally away from unseating fellow mega-billionaire -- and occasional verbal sparring partner -- Bill Gates as the second-richest person on the planet. Read moreKakapo wins New Zealand’s Bird Of The Year contest amid voter fraud scandalForest and Bird’s Facebook page announced a big, green, flightless, nocturnal parrot, Kakapo as the winner of the Bird Of The Year contest 2020. Read moreChhath Puja 2020 wishes: Quotes, images, messages to share with your loved onesChhath Puja is a Hindu festival dominantly celebrated in the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Eastern Uttar Pradesh and the country of Nepal, and this year it.will be celebrated on Friday, November 20. Read more‘Covaxin’s efficacy expected to be more than 90%’: PGI Rohtak’s V-CThe third-phase trial of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin will begin from November 20. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-a-short-breather-pollution-levels-rise-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UEFluZ3kvis4EbBXGk8d4N.html
19-11-2020||India||‘Great daughter of our motherland’: Rahul Gandhi, Congress remember Indira Gandhi on birth anniversary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday paid tribute to his grandmother and former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her 103rd birth anniversary. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi remembered her as an “efficient Prime Minister” and as someone who was a “form of power.”“I pay my tribute on the birth anniversary of Smt. Indira Gandhi, an efficient Prime Minister and form of power. While the entire nation, even today, speaks of her impressive leadership, I always remember her as my beloved grandmother. Things she taught me inspire me everyday,” the former Congress president tweeted and also posted a picture of his grandmother. एक कार्यकुशल प्रधानमंत्री और शक्ति स्वरूप श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी जी की जयंती पर श्रद्धांजलि। पूरा देश उनके प्रभावशाली नेतृत्व की आज भी मिसाल देता है लेकिन मैं उन्हें हमेशा अपनी प्यारी दादी के रूप में याद करता हूँ। उनकी सिखायी हुई बातें मुझे निरंतर प्रेरित करती हैं। pic.twitter.com/9RHDnAClOJGandhi also paid a visit to Shakti Sthal, the memorial of Indira Gandhi in the national capital, to pay his tribute to her. Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to former Prime Minister and his grandmother #IndiraGandhi at Shakti Sthal, on her birth anniversary today. pic.twitter.com/gP69emCwtSThe Congress party remembered Indira Gandhi as a “trailblazer, visionary, true leader and great daughter of India.” “A trailblazer, a visionary, a true leader and a great daughter of our motherland, Smt. Indira Gandhi was much more than a Prime Minister to our citizens; she was the revitalising strength in their quest for greatness and prosperity. Today, we pay a proud tribute to India’s Indira,” the party tweeted. A trailblazer, a visionary, a true leader & a great daughter of our motherland, Smt. Indira Gandhi was much more than a Prime Minister to our citizens; she was the revitalising strength in their quest for greatness & prosperity. Today, we pay a proud tribute to #IndiasIndira. pic.twitter.com/roaBfzvjHVBorn on November 19, 1917, Indira Gandhi was the daughter of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru and one of three members of the Nehru-Gandhi family to hold that office, with Rahul Gandhi’s father and Indira Gandhi’s elder son Rajiv Gandhi being the third. She is also the first and only woman PM of India thus far.Indira Gandhi was the third prime minister of India and the second-longest serving after her father. She also held other important portfolios like defence, finance, home and external affairs. She is also remembered for India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in 1971, which led to the creation of Bangladesh, as well as the near 24-month Emergency imposed by her in 1975.She was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards on October 31, 1984 for sending the Indian Army inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar earlier that year to take it back from Sikh separatists. Her assassination led to anti-Sikh riots across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-daughter-of-our-motherland-rahul-gandhi-congress-remember-indira-gandhi-on-birth-anniversary/story-riYteZrOSNJCv2PuxRBu7O.html
19-11-2020||India||Centre asks ministries to ensure timely completion, better monitoring of infra projects||Delays in the timely implementation of projects, especially those related to infrastructure, has caught the eye of the Centre, which has now asked all departments and ministries to not only pull up their socks but also ensure a tighter system of monitoring and a mechanism to bring accountability in the system.In a strong letter dated November 13 to all Union secretaries, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba pointed out that delays and increased costs “not only impede the nation’s growth but also result in scarce resources having to be reallocated to these projects, rather than being productively utilised for meeting other important developmental needs”.The top government official said that instructions have been issued time and again to emphasise the need for careful planning in case of infrastructure projects and identifying critical milestones with corresponding timelines.These are required to be clearly spelt out in the proposals for the cabinet or cabinet committees, along with other relevant details, while seeking approval.Also Read: Buyers allege developer sold units fraudulently, land lesser on ground than on paper, approach HCThe cabinet secretary said that specific physical or financial milestones and target dates are also required to be incorporated in a separate ‘Statement on Major Milestones and Corresponding Target Dates’.“However, despite clear instructions it has been observed that adequate attention is not being paid to this aspect,” Gauba said in the letter.The top government official also made clear that in cases where costs need to be revised or there is a need for extension in timeframe for implementation, the proposals should necessarily contain an “analysis of the reasons for slippage and list the corrective steps taken so as to ensure accountability in the system”.Significantly, the cabinet secretary’s letter came at a time when the government is trying hard to put the economy back on track which has been sluggish due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier in July, the cabinet secretary had also pointed out to the ministries that departments were not paying attention to timelines while sending proposals to the cabinet, which was resulting in difficulty in monitoring of infrastructure projects leading to avoidable time and cost overruns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-ministries-to-ensure-timely-completion-better-monitoring-of-infra-projects/story-eAJw9VxqZjc1PRCOHqDuFJ.html
19-11-2020||India||West Bengal: Man kills parents, attempts suicide; rescued from Howrah apartment||A man (40) allegedly killed his parents and made a bid to die by suicide at an apartment in Shibpur in Howrah district of West Bengal, which is located around 10 kilometres (km) from Kolkata. Police on Wednesday recovered the partially decomposed bodies of the two victims after being informed by their neighbours of a stench emanating from the flat. The man, who was found sitting next to his parents’ bodies, was admitted to a hospital for treatment. “We have sent the bodies for an autopsy. The man was admitted to a hospital, as he tried to die by suicide. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the man had killed his parents at least three to four days ago,” said an official of a local police station. Also read | Old rivalry leads to double murder in Odisha’s Sambalpur districtThe victims have been identified as Pradyut Bose (70), his wife Gopa Bose (65) and their son, Subhojit Bose. Police said that Pradyut was a retired employee of a private company. Subhojit holds a master’s degree in computer applications (MCA), but he is unemployed. He is suffering from an acute depression and purportedly confessed to the police about killing his parents. The family’s financial condition had worsened during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and they did not mingle with their neighbours, the police said.“Their neighbours were getting a foul smell over the past two days. On Wednesday, they found that the smell was coming from a flat on the third floor of the building. They knocked on the doors but when they didn’t get any response, they informed the police,” said the officer. The police broke open the entrance door of the apartment and found Gopa’s and Pradyut’s bodies lying on a sofa and on a bed in an adjacent room, respectively. A blood-splattered Subhojit was found sitting in another room of the apartment. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-man-kills-parents-attempts-suicide-rescued-from-howrah-apartment/story-mmimuPWkoMHwPE6CYO39iL.html
19-11-2020||India||I&B ministry to decide if gaming sites that promote gambling can advertise on TV||The Union Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry has started a consultation with various stakeholders to decide if advertisements of entities, which are involved in online gambling, should be allowed to be broadcast on TV channels.Though gaming sites that promote gambling have become popular over the last few years, concerns are being raised whether the trend is flouting the Public Gambling Act, 1867.A writ petition on this matter was filed in the Delhi high court (HC), which in October had suggested that regulatory bodies should look at the plea.The petitioner had sought curbs on mushrooming of gaming websites, which allegedly facilitate online gambling and also carry advertisements.Also Read: Ludhiana man loses ₹29,000 to fraudsters on OLXThe Advertising Standard Council of India (ASCI) looked into the matter following the HC order. ASCI said it was not a competent authority to decide if entities are conducting gambling and suggested that the I&B ministry should look into the matter as the regulator. The ministry held its first consultative meeting – a virtual exercise because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak --- on the matter, which was attended by Vikram Sahay, joint secretary, I&B, representatives of ASCI, gaming federation and broadcasters.The ministry felt that the matter should be examined afresh because of the nebulous nature of the existing online gaming norms, said a person, who is aware of the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-ministry-to-decide-if-online-gambling-platforms-can-advertise-on-tv/story-UFEtmL5GkLVnJrCyBse67J.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Pfizer announces 95% efficacy, Spain authorises phase 3 trial of Janssen’s candidate||With the announcement by several firms developing potential vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the efficacy of their respective candidates, hopes that a shot would soon be available soon to treat the infection have been rekindled. The arrival of a Covid-19 vaccine, however, might still take some time. This is because while the majority of these vaccine candidates are yet to complete the trial phase, those that have completed trials are yet to be approved for use by health regulators.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update on the Covid-19 vaccine development front, American drugmaker Pfizer Inc on Wednesday announced its candidate was found to be 95% effective. The announcement came on a day the United States became the first country to cross the 250,000 Covid-19 death mark.Here are the latest updates on the development of a vaccine for Covid-19:1. Pfizer, which is developing a vaccine in partnership with Germany’s BioNTech SE, said the -candidate- BNT162b2-was found to be 95% effective in the final analysis of its phase 3 trial. Pfizer said there had been 170 cases of Covid-19 in its trial on more than 43,000 volunteers, adding that it would apply for emergency use authorisation (EUA) within days. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), pointed out last week that storing the Pfizer vaccine will be a huge challenge for India as it needs to be stored and transported at minus 70 degree Celsius.Also Read | Keeping Pfizer vaccine at minus 70 degree Celsius tough, says AIIMS chief2. Spain has authorised phase 3 trials of the vaccine being developed by Johnson and Johnson-owned Janssen Pharmaceutica. This is the first vaccine candidate which will enter phase 3 trials in the country. The trials will be conducted in nine hospitals; 20% of the participants will be under 40 years old and 30% above 60 years old. Janssen, whose vaccine candidate is called Ad26.COV2-S, announced late September the start of phase 3 trials of its candidate.Also Read | Senior citizens, pregnant women and healthcare workers will be 1st in line for Covid vaccine: Odisha3. Even as the race to find a Covid-19 vaccine continues, US health officials on Wednesday said freezers required to store vaccines, once approved, are in place at health facilities that are preparing to administer initial doses. The US government will have 40 million doses, enough to vaccinate 20 million people, by the end of December should vaccines being developed by Pfizer and Moderna Inc get approval for emergency use, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-pfizer-announces-95-efficacy-spain-authorises-phase-3-trial-of-janssen-s-candidate/story-rWoijD0iMOlEwsrDk0N6iP.html
19-11-2020||India||Delhi feels winter chill as minimum temperature falls to 9.5°C||Parts of northwest India have started recording a fall in both day and night temperatures following snowfall and rain in the Western Himalayas over the weekend.In Delhi, the minimum temperature recorded on Thursday fell to 9.5 degrees C, 3 degrees below normal (till 6.30 am). Minimum temperature in Delhi on Wednesday was 10.6 degrees C, 2 degrees C below normal and the maximum temperature was 25.4 degrees C, 2 degrees C below normal.Chandigarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Rohtak and other cities and towns recorded a fall in maximum temperature by 2-3 degrees C compared to normal but haven’t started recording any fall in minimum temperatures yet.“The temperature will continue to fall in the coming days. This is both the impact of the snowfall over western Himalayas and temperature falling gradually as we head towards winter. In Delhi, minimum temperature is likely to be below 10 degree C in the next few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also read | Focus on local emissions to avoid return of bad airIndia Meteorological Department on Wednesday said a cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea and a trough (area of low pressure) runs from this cyclonic circulation to Comorin area. Under its influence, widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and Lakshadweep on November 18 and 19. Due to this system, a low-pressure area is likely to form over central parts of South Arabian Sea around November 19. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards and concentrate into a Depression over central parts of South Arabian sea and adjoining central Arabian sea during subsequent 48 hours according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-feels-winter-chill-as-minimum-temperature-falls-to-9-5-c/story-oLsGcNjaQiShwGG97GIqYN.html
19-11-2020||India||Vietnamese cadets pipping ceremony held at IMA in advance on request||The pipping ceremony of three Vietnamese Gentleman Cadets (GCs) was held in advance before the scheduled passing out parade of autumn term in December, at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Wednesday, said an IMA official. The ceremony in which the cadets get their rank stars on their shoulders was held days ahead of the passing out parade on request of the Vietnamese embassy, said the official. “The ceremony was held for the three Vietnamese GCs who were currently undergoing training at the academy along with 208 other foreign GCs from 11 friendly foreign nations,” said Lt Col Himani Pant, public relations officer IMA. Also Read: Lt Gen Harinder Singh takes over as 50th Commandant of IMA“It was held in advance especially for them on the request of the Vietnamese embassy which wanted all the Vietnamese trainees undergoing training in all the army training establishments in the country to return to Vietnam together under the Indian government’s Vande Bharat mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vietnamese-cadets-pipping-ceremony-held-at-ima-in-advance-on-request/story-wXap3tyW2ZQgX0INcAgiiJ.html
19-11-2020||India||ICMR warns against ‘indiscriminate’ use of plasma therapy||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday issued a new advisory on convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) that lays down specific criteria for its use to stop indiscriminate use in the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Benefits of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes, reducing severity of disease, duration of hospitalization and mortality in Covid-19 patients are dependent on the concentration of specific antibodies in convalescent plasma that could neutralize the effects of SARS-CoV-2. It is speculated that convalescent plasma having low concentration of specific antibody against SARS-CoV-2 may be less beneficial for treating Covid-19 patients as compared to plasma with high concentration of such antibodies,” said the ICMR advisory. “This advisory therefore embraces the principle that a potential donor for convalescent plasma should have sufficient concentration of antibody working against Covid-19... It also highlights that presence of antibody against Covid-19 in a potential recipient makes transfusing convalescent plasma a futile intervention,” it further said.As per ICMR advisory, the potential recipients include patients in early stages of the viral disease, 3-7 days from the onset of symptoms, but not later than 10 days; and having no IgG antibody (which is the longer lasting antibody against Sars-Cov-2) against Covid-19 using appropriate confirmatory test. An informed consent has to be taken from the recipient or their family before transfusing convalescent plasma. To donate, ICMR says only men, and women who have never conceived, and are between 18 and 65 years , are eligible.“There were reports of misuse of this experimental therapy, and that was being given randomly, which is why the advisory had to be put out,” said a senior ICMR official who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-warns-against-indiscriminate-use-of-plasma-therapy/story-3tHwnt38bIUD1dlYqTXIXP.html
19-11-2020||India||Brics calls for equitable distribution of coronavirus vaccine||Ahead of the World Trade Organization(WTO) taking up a proposal by India and South Africa to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping has said it will work for “fair, equitable and affordable” distribution of vaccines. During the Brics Summit on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called on the grouping to back the move by India and South Africa to secure exemption from intellectual property agreements for vaccines. The proposal is already facing opposition from developed countries, including the US and European Union member states. The Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Council of the WTO is expected to the take up the proposal for patent protection waivers on Friday, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. Also Read| Covid-19 immunity may last longer: StudyThe Moscow Declaration adopted at the conclusion of the Brics Summit said the members of the grouping “will work to ensure that, when [the vaccine is] available, it is disseminated in a fair, equitable and affordable basis”. The declaration didn’t make any direct reference to the proposal by India and South Africa. The declaration recognised the importance of “extensive immunisation” in preventing, containing and stopping the transmission of the Coronavirus, and supported cooperative approaches to expedite research, development and production of vaccine and therapeutics. Participating in an online discussion on Tuesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said India will do everything possible to make vaccines affordable and accessible to everyone. Despite the currently strained India-China ties, Chinese President Xi Jinping too offered to work with India on vaccines during the Brics Summit. “Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on phase-III clinical trials ... we are prepared to cooperate with South Africa and India as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-calls-for-equitable-distribution-of-coronavirus-vaccine/story-1ox0MKLaz74i4LFb5qO2sL.html
19-11-2020||India||Senior citizens, pregnant women and healthcare workers will be 1st in line for Covid vaccine: Odisha||Senior citizens in Odisha aged above 60 years, health workers and pregnant women would be the first to get Covid-19 vaccine, Odisha government announced. Chairing a high-level meeting on Wednesday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said once the vaccine is available in Odisha, pregnant mothers and health workers will be on the priority list for vaccination.According to the 2011 census, elderly people constitute 9.5% of Odisha’s population of 4.2 crore. In terms of numbers, there are four million people aged 60 years and above, two million each of men and women, with the majority of them living in rural areas.The Odisha government had already started the process for preparation of a comprehensive database of frontline Covid workers including the healthcare workers, Anganwadi and ASHA workers for seamless initiation of the vaccination programme.Indian medical association, AYUSH association, Nursing association, Paramedic workers’ association and Private hospital owners’ association have been asked to submit details of their members to their respective district collector, municipal commissioner or chief district medical officer for enrolment in the database.The Odisha government had earlier announced the establishment of an advanced vaccine manufacturing unit on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar that will produce 10 types of vaccines including that of Covid-19 and malaria. The government will spend Rs 300 crore for the unit.Also Read: Jagannath temple administration pitches for mid-December reopening Experts said vaccinating the elderly will be a challenge as most of them lived in rural areas where maintaining cold chain facilities would be a big hurdle. “Even by most optimistic assessment, I don’t think we would see a vaccine before April next year in India. Once the vaccines are available, they have to be transported to the CHC and PHC level to ensure vaccination of the elderly. In India, where our vaccine cold-chain systems are powered by electricity, much would depend upon how we manage to ensure uninterrupted power,” said Dr Bonod Patro, professor of community medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-citizens-pregnant-women-and-healthcare-workers-will-be-1st-in-line-for-covid-vaccine-odisha/story-AdNdG273EeKcKySjtouBwL.html
19-11-2020||India||China is fortifying defences across Ladakh border, not prepping to disengage||Reinforcements of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) posts, relocation of troops, and rapid strengthening of road infrastructure across the friction points in occupied Aksai Chin over the past 30 days – all clearly indicate that China is preparing for a long haul along the 3,488km Line of Actual Control (LAC), keeping up the pressure on India even as the two countries talk disengagement and de-escalataion.The ninth round of the India-China military dialogue on disengagement and de-escalation is expected to take place soon.According to senior military commanders, PLA is constructing more than 10 dugouts each at Samar Lungpa, 30km east of Karakoram Pass; and at Mount Sajum, south of Rechin La. It is also increasing troop deployment at Qizil Jilga, 70km east of Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO).  Also Watch | Indian Army sets up modern habitats for troops deployed in LadakhAlso Read| ‘Stressful relations’: Jaishankar analyses China ties, then some adviceIndia and China have major differences on their respective perceptions of the LAC at these points, as noted during the failed exchange of maps on June 17, 2002. This difference is as significant as 176 sq-km at Samar Lungpa, and 129 sq-km at Mount Sajum. Qizil Jilga is a major PLA outpost. Although a section of South Block believes that PLA wants to disengage and de-escalate soon, available intelligence, such as this, point to the contrary, and means that the Indian Army may well have to spend the entire winter in subpolar Ladakh.  For instance, the movement of over 60 heavy-equipment transport vehicles has been noticed on the road from Shendong to Spanggur Gap, just south of Chushul, and surveillance equipment is being installed by the Chinese all along the LAC in Ladakh. Chinese tank transporters have also been noticed at Gobak, 60km east of LAC indicating that PLA has not let their guard down. Finally, there has been redeployment of troops in Aksai Chin at Rudog, Mapotheng, Sumxi, and west of Chang La, north-east of Demchok.Roads and infrastructureAccording to Indian national security planners, the Chinese army is undertaking strategic road construction for faster deployment on LAC with focus on the Depsang Bulge area and the DBO sector. It is understood that PLA is constructing a road north of Karakoram Pass to Chip Chap Valley for faster deployment across the DBO post. Road construction is also ongoing near Chuti Chang La, across the Depsang Bulge, a mere 8km from LAC. Depsang Bulge has been a friction point between the two armies since early 2013 transgressions by PLA. While there have been news reports about PLA deciding to move back to Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso from its present position of Finger 4, it is, in reality, undertaking an exercise to widen and black tar a road from Finger 6 to Finger 8. Again the motive is faster deployment of PLA in case of a flare-up on the north banks of the frozen salt water lake.Also Read: PM Modi rides on Arjun’s ‘aatmanirbhar’ fire power to send message to Pakistan, ChinaWith PLA fully deployed across LAC, China has stationed container housing modules across all the friction points including Jeevan Nullah in Depsang Plains and Dehra La across the Bulge area. At least 285 container units have come up south west of Samzungling, in the depth area of the Galwan Valley, which saw a flare-up on June 15.Shiqaunhe Town across Chumar has been turned into a major army supply depot with heavy construction materials stationed there to maintain continuous supply of heavy equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-is-fortifying-defences-across-ladakh-border-not-prepping-to-disengage/story-yNM2E5GOX3RzhqiIOBSPwJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Three held for chopping off woman’s nose, tongue||Three people were arrested for allegedly chopping off the nose and tongue of a 28-year-old widow in Jaisalmer after she refused to remarry a relative of her in-laws, the police said on Wednesday.The woman, identified as Guddi, a resident of Jagiron Ki Dhani in Sankra block of Jaisalmer district, has been admitted to a hospital in Jodhpur for treatment, said Kanta Singh, station house officer at Sankra police station. According to the first information report filed by the victim’s brother Baseer Khan, Guddi married Koje Khan about six years back and a year later, he died. After her husband’s death, Guddi’s sisters-in-law began forcing her to remarry another man from their family, which she refused, Singh said.Baseer Khan said that on Tuesday afternoon, a few relatives of Koje Khan came to her home and attacked her with a sharp weapon. “They chopped off Guddi’s nose and tongue and also broke her right hand,” Baseer Khan said in the FIR. He said the accused also injured his mother Bismilla when she tried to save Guddi.SHO Singh said they arrested Janu Khan on Tuesday, and Anwar Khan and Nawab Khan from Jodhpur on Wednesday. The FIR has also named nine more accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-held-for-chopping-off-woman-s-nose-tongue/story-Jxw9cRQndTlFQjWcBv8umJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Kerala Assembly Speaker seeks Minister’s clarification on allegations of leaking CAG report||Kerala Legislative Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan has sought an explanation from Finance Minister Thomas Isaac after a complaint was lodged against the latter by the opposition alleging a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report was leaked to the media before it was tabled in the House.Sreeramakrishnan, acting on the complaint filed before him, asked Isaac to submit an explanation in the matter at the earliest.Congress MLA VD Satheesan had filed a complaint to the Privileges and Ethics Committee of Kerala Legislative Assembly, accusing Isaac of infringing on the rights of the House by revealing details of the process of the audit before it was tabled in the Assembly.The Leader of the Opposition in Kerala Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala had also written to the Speaker asking for his intervention on the issue alleging that the Finance minister flouted all constitutional norms and violated the oath of secrecy by leaking the CAG report before it was tabled in the Assembly.Chennithala, in his letter, demanded his resignation and action against the minister for “violating” the Constitution by disclosing the report in public before tabling it in the Assembly.Isaac had last week targeted the CAG over its “findings” in its report that the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) was “unconstitutionally” raising loans. He had said that the Kerala government will not allow the CAG to destroy KIIFB.The CAG had earlier this week clarified that an audit report on state finances for the year ended March 2019 was submitted on November 6 to be tabled in the Kerala Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-speaker-seeks-minister-s-clarification-on-allegations-of-leaking-cag-report/story-EgrH8o8z0nCgD9zDRIOitJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Bhima Koregaon case: Poet Varavara Rao to be moved to hospital for 15 days||The Bombay high court on Wednesday ordered Maharashtra to shift octogenarian Telugu poet P Varavara Rao from Mumbai’s Taloja prison to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days to undergo medical treatment, with the state underlining that this was a special case that could not be treated as a precedent. The order by a two-judge bench, comprising justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar, came on a petition by Rao’s wife Hemlata who alleged that the poet’s health had drastically deteriorated and that his continued detention -- for two years now -- was a breach of his fundamental rights.The state and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, first opposed any transfer, then said the poet -- who is facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for his alleged role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon riots -- could be moved to a government facility and finally that he should pay for his treatment.But the court rejected all contentions, and asked that Rao not be discharged from hospital without its assent. “Ultimately, there is a man on death bed. He is 80 years old and has serious disease. He will come to court. Can the state say, no we will treat him in Taloja?” the court said.Rao’s lawyer Indira Jaising told the court that his family feared he could die if he was not shifted to a hospital and also sought bail. The court said it will hear the bail plea on December 3 and sought Rao’s medical report after treatment at Nanavati Hospital. Jaising told the court that Rao was bedridden, was frequently delirious and had lost comprehension of reality. She also submitted that Rao earlier tested positive for Covid-19 and that his family was worried that he may suffer complications in the form of organ failure given his age.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, opposed the plea and said that Rao could be shifted to JJ Hospital as all the tests could be conducted there.The court observed that government hospitals were overburdened due to Covid-19 and asked Singh whether he will admit his relatives to JJ or St George’s hospitals. He said it was not as if people were not being admitted and treated in these places. He also said that shifting Rao to Nanavati Hospital would set a wrong precedent.Jaising objected and said Rao’s family found him lying in a pool of urine in JJ hospital and that if Rao died for the want of proper medical treatment, it would amount to custodial death. “Death is inevitable but there should be some dignity,” she said. The court directed that the cost of Rao’s treatment at Nanavati Hospital, a private facility, will be borne by the state government. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre, representing the state government, initially suggested Rao should bear the cost of treatment at Nanavati Hospital.But Jaising argued that the Supreme Court held a state could not cite lack of money as a reason to not look after a citizen’s fundamental rights. The bench accepted the submission and reminded the state that even at the Nanavati Hospital, Rao would continue to remain in judicial custody. “He (Rao) is in your (state) custody. Even in the hospital he will remain in your custody, so you pay for the treatment,” the bench said.Thakre then spoke to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and told the court that the state had no objection to the plea. He said Rao being shifted to a private multispeciality hospital would be treated as a “special case” and not a precedent for other cases.Rao is among over a dozen scholars and activists arrested for their alleged links to Maoists and for allegedly instigating violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. The activists are accused of making provocative speeches at an event called the Elgar Parishad in Pune on December 31, 2017, and conspiring to foment the riots that killed one person and left many injured.Hemlatha moved the court last week after learning about Rao’s deteriorating health at the prison hospital.Jaising submitted that when Rao was arrested two years ago, he was healthy. She said his condition deteriorated inside jail and added that co-accused Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira took care of Rao but they were not medically trained. Jaising blamed the state’s negligence for a head injury Rao suffered while arguing for the need to shift her client to the Nanavati Hospital. Jaising said Rao’s mental health was failing and his ability to eat was also compromised. Rao was arrested in August 2018. He was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. His bail was denied by an NIA court on June 26.Rao continued to show signs of delirium and was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. Later, he was shifted to St George’s Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19.On July 13, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notice to Maharashtra government, asking it to ensure Rao was taken care of. Maharashtra chief secretary responded on July 22, saying adequate care was provided.In October, Hemlatha moved the Supreme Court seeking bail but a three-judge bench on October 29 asked the Bombay high court to hear his plea at the earliest. Last week, a division bench of the Bombay high court directed the state government and NIA to arrange for an immediate video medical consultation for Rao with doctors at Nanavati Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-case-poet-varavara-rao-to-be-moved-to-hospital-for-15-days/story-0K0XkqryENMwlE0rfp3GXN.html
19-11-2020||India||Indian, Chinese officials to discuss Xi offer on Covid-19 vaccines development: Chinese foreign ministry||Indian and Chinese officials will have “communication and coordination” to discuss cooperation to develop Covid-19 vaccine, said Chinese foreign ministry, a day after President Xi Jinping said his country is ready to cooperate with New Delhi on vaccines development. When asked what kind of cooperation China seeks to have with India after President Xi delivered the address during BRICS summit, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said: “I believe competent authorities of China and India will have communication and coordination.”“The Chinese government is willing to make contributions to achieving the accessibility and affordability of vaccine in developing countries and the building of a community of health for humankind. China is willing to promoting sustained cooperation with other countries on vaccine development and international fight against Covid-19 to defeat the virus at an early date,” he added.There are several vaccines being developed by China. Some of them are already being administered to people on an emergency basis.Speaking at 12th BRICS summit, Xi Jinping said that China is prepared to cooperate with India and other BRICS nations in the development of vaccines against Covid-19.Xi said: “It is important that we support WHO’s a crucial leadership role in this endeavour. As we speak, Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on phase-III clinical trials of vaccines, and we are prepared to have cooperation with South Africa and India as well. China has joined the COVAX facility, a platform on which we will share vaccines with other countries, developing countries in particular.”More than 55.94 million people are known to have been infected by Covid-19 worldwide. Some 1.344 million people have also died of the novel coronavirus, while nearly 35 million have recovered, data collated by Johns Hopkins University showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-officials-to-discuss-xi-offer-on-covid-19-vaccines-development-chinese-foreign-ministry/story-oosAl7U0MQQwE3rzPk6hzJ.html
19-11-2020||India||Bodies of 40 monkeys found in Jute bags in Telengana village||As many as 40 monkeys were found stuffed in jute bags in a decomposed state behind an electric substation at Sanigapuram village in Telangana’s Mahabubabad town, the police said on Wednesday, adding that the animals may have been poisoned. According the police, some local villagers first noticed the bodies of the monkeys after a strong stench emitted from the spot located on a hillock, and immediately informed the police and forest authorities.Mahabubabad (rural) sub-inspector of police Ch Ramesh Babu told HT that the incident might have taken place around five to six days ago. “We have registered a case under section 429 (killing and poisoning of animals) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), apart from section 11(l) of the Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals Act, 1960,” Babu said. District forest officer (DFO) Poloju Krishnamachary said the decomposed bodies of the monkeys were cremated in the afternoon.Forest officials suspect some locals, who could not tolerate the menace created by monkeys, could be behind the killings. The DFO said inquiries by the police revealed that some animal catchers from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh had come to Mahabubabad some time ago and their involvement also could not be ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-40-monkeys-found-in-jute-bags-in-telengana-village/story-JFo0Y13GD21wXN4AOvp2RO.html
19-11-2020||India||4 terrorists killed, policeman injured in gun battle in Jammu’s Nagrota||Security forces gunned down four terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammad in a gunfight near Nagrota town in the Jammu district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, officials said. A policeman was also injured in the gun battle, which started around 4.50am near the toll plaza in the Ban area of Nagrota on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway.Officer of the Special Operations Group--Kuldeep Raj, 32, of Akhnoor in Jammu district was injured in the exchange of fire. He was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu with injuries on the neck. His condition has been stated to be stable.“In the exchange of fire four terrorists were eliminated. Terrorists lobbed grenades on security forces during checking. The truck also caught fire and a few grenades also exploded inside it during the exchanges,” Mukesh Singh, inspector general of police of Jammu zone, said.According to officials familiar with the development, the terrorists came in the truck and were on their way to Kashmir. “It was put to check by the policemen at the toll plaza because we had intelligence inputs with us,” one of the officers said.Watch | Four terrorists gunned down by security forces in Jammu’s Nagrota A senior officer said that it seemed the JeM terrorists adopted the similar modus-operandi of infiltrating from across the international border in Jammu region before boarding a Kashmir-bound truck on Pathankot-Jammu national highway the preceding night. “However, forces eliminated them in a swift operation,” he said. He also said that the terrorists are likely to have entered through fresh infiltration from the Samba sector.Shivnandan Singh, a spokesperson of the Central Reserve Police Force, said Thursday’s gunfight was similar to the encounter on January this year as a group of terrorists opened fire at a joint party of police and CRPF at the Ban toll plaza. Singh was referring to an encounter on January 31 when a group of terrorists had similarly opened fire at a police team near the toll plaza, triggering a gunfight in which three terrorists were killed and a policeman was injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-between-terrorists-and-security-forces-underway-in-jammu-s-nagrota/story-Ag2WvdZIbcCtrM5bVAPmiM.html
19-11-2020||India||India, US are committed to rule of law unlike China, say US Senators||Senator John Cornyn on Wednesday said that the United States and India relationship will grow as both countries, unlike China, are committed to the rule of law which gives confidence to business and investors.Speaking in a virtual interaction on the theme “U.S. and India: Post Election Perspectives”, US Senator Mark Warner said that China follows the policy of authoritarian capitalism as it allows “ferocious domestic competition until the national champion arises” and then the champion is backed by the government in the world market.“I think what we have seen is that China has this model where they allow ferocious domestic competition until the national champion arises on Huawei. That national champion then gets 75 per cent of the Chinese domestic market, and that translates into 20 per cent of the global market. And then the Chinese government would back that national champion with, in the case of Huawei 100 billion dollars,” Warner said.He further said, “There is no American or Indian company, alone, that can compete with that. I think what I have seen is a growing consensus, both from Indian government representatives and particularly from Indian Americans that maybe a decade ago India wanted to kind of skirt, not being on the China side or on the American side. But I think echoing what Senator Cornyn said we both are nations that operate under the rule of law.”Reiterating the strong India-US relations, Senator Cornyn said, “We have a large diaspora of Indian Americans in Texas. This is really how I got involved and, of course, through the Indo-American chambers in places like Dallas... We have earned a lot, and also learned about the incredible potential of the enhanced relationship between our two countries.”He further said that China doesn’t play by the rules as India does. “Both the US and India are committed to rule of law, which gives confidence to business and investors. To me, that’s one of the greatest strengths of the US-India relationship. The Anglo jurisprudential heritage of both of our countries, and observing the rule of law and playing by the rules --in my opinion give greater predictability and competence to job creators and investors, and, I think, this is one reason why we are continuing to grow closer and closer together,” he added.Another speaker in the discussion, former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma recalled the talks held between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President-elect Joe Biden.“You may have seen that Prime Minister Modi had a good call with President-Elect Biden. They talked about building out the strategic partnership, vaccine development, Covid-19 and climate change,” he said.To this, Warner said, “I think both India and the United States need to rethink the supply chain. I think the US should rejoin some of these international efforts. I think we need to be like the trillion-dollar effort led by the European Union on vaccine distribution. The recent news on vaccination is very positive. But we need to have an international distribution system.”On the US-India defense relationship, Cornyn said amid China’s continuous threat in the international waters the countries (QUAD) need to support each other.“Yesterday (on Tuesday), I was talking to Indian Ambassador to USA Taranjit Singh Sandhu about this. While America has friends like India, China does not have many friends. I think we need to recognise the strength of friendship among ourselves like through the recent military exercises that were never undertaken,” he said.He further said, “It’s obvious that China is not going to stop to threaten freedom of navigation and international sea lanes and jeopardise trade the economy of countries like India and the world. Hence, we have to continue to support one another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-are-committed-to-rule-of-law-unlike-china-say-us-senators/story-yT7AACyliDhTfn8lDmi3QI.html
19-11-2020||India||US Navy plans to revive tactical formation focused on Indian, Pacific oceans||The US Navy plans to revive a tactical formation that will focus on the Indian and Pacific Oceans and work with partners such as India and Singapore to cope with potential contingencies, a top American naval defence official has said. Kenneth Braithwaite, secretary of the US Navy, made the announcement about establishing the First Fleet while addressing the Naval Submarine League’s annual symposium on Tuesday. The First Fleet, which will be one of the US Navy’s “numbered fleets” or major tactical units, could be based out of Singapore in the long run, said Braithwaite, according to a report by USNI News, the journal of the US Naval Institute. “We want to stand up a new numbered fleet. And we want to put that numbered fleet in the crossroads between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans, and we’re really going to have an Indo-PACOM footprint,” Braithwaite said. “We can’t just rely on the 7th Fleet in Japan. We have to look to our other allies and partners like Singapore, like India, and actually put a numbered fleet where it would be extremely relevant if, God forbid, we were to ever to get in any kind of a dust-up,” he said. Braithwaite’s remarks come against the backdrop of the navies of India, Australia, Japan and the US kicking off second phase of the Malabar exercise in the Arabian Sea. The move assumes significance because of the current focus on China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, especially the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-navy-plans-to-revive-tactical-formation-focused-on-indian-pacific-oceans/story-5YajDiC5AtVU97oJhM262O.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19 positive Ahmed Patel’s ‘heath stable now,’ says family||The health of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a Gurugram hospital a few days ago, is significantly better, his family said on Wednesday.“Spoke to the doctors today. He is significantly better than when he was admitted a few days ago to the ICU Medanta. He is stable. Treatment is going to take more time,” Mumtaz, Ahmed Patel’s daughter, said in a video posted by her brother Faisal Patel on Twitter.She also asked the people to keep praying for the speedy recovery of her father. Several leaders, including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, have extended their wishes for Patel’s well-being. Patel, who had tested positive for Covid-19 a few weeks ago, was on November 15 admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram for further treatment.Earlier on October 1, Ahmed Patel informed that he was tested positive for Covid-19 and urged all those who came in contact with him in past few days to undergo self-isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-ahmed-patel-s-heath-stable-now-says-family/story-ONXP28AX3EPWARLpZo7M8J.html
19-11-2020||India||Sudarshan News show may fan communal issues: Centre||The Centre found the controversial television series “Bindas Bol– UPSC Jihad” telecast by Sudarshan News to be in bad taste, offensive and likely to promote communal issues according to a November 4 order issued to the channel by the ministry of information and broadcasting, which has been reproduced in an affidavit filed by the ministry before the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The Centre issued a show cause notice on September 23 to the channel for an alleged violation of the programme code on September 23, eight days after the Supreme Court stayed the telecast of the remaining episodes of the controversial TV series while dealing with a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Firoz iqbal Khan.The Centre constituted an Inter Ministerial Committee (IMC) that examined all the material submitted by the channel . The Committee submitted its conclusions to the ministry of information and broadcasting on October 1, following which the latter held another round of hearings with the channel executives.Finally the ministry decided that, “the manner in which the channel has gone about its exposition, including its comments on the selection process, examination system of the Civil Services, portrays one community and Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) in bad light, and the channel could well have avoided utterances and videos which were not in good taste or decency.”The channel argued that the programme was not intended to target the Muslim community but focused on the activities of one Zakat Foundation of India that was financing the coaching of Muslim students with an intention to capture the Indian bureaucracy and the country.The ministry concurred with the finding of the IMC that the issue of alleged terror links of Zakat Foundation of India and its source of funding were disputed facts, requiring a full investigation to adjudicate the veracity, truthfulness or falsity of the claim made in the programme.The ministry’s order said, “While freedom of speech and expression is a fundamental right, the tone and tenor of episodes telecast do indicate that the channel has through the various utterances and audio-visual content breached the Programme Code. The Ministry finds that they are not in good taste, offensive and has likelihood of promoting communal attitudes. ”The Ministry cautioned Sudarshan to be careful in future and asked the channel to review, modify and moderate the content of the future episodes to ensure there is no violation of the programme code.The apex court is expected to take up this affidavit on Thursday and the order of November 4 will remain subject to final orders to be passed by the Supreme Court in the PIL proceeding. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta will be appearing for the Centre to explain the findings arrived at by the ministry.The apex court on September 15, stayed the telecast of the remaining episodes of the Bindas Bol show . The PIL petitioner informed the Court that the Centre had previously found no violation of the programme code and allowed four episodes of the controversial series to be aired. When the court started examining the issue of whether the channel could be permitted to air content that portrayed a certain religious community in bad light, the Centre issued a show cause notice to the channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-news-show-may-fan-communal-issues-centre/story-xowDmD7Um9rijx1N3UcfEN.html
19-11-2020||India||HC notice to Centre, UP on plea for release of men held for alleged PFI membership||The Allahabad high court on Wednesday issued notices to the Central and Uttra Pradesh governments while hearing a petition seeking the release of three men, alleged to be members of the Popular Front of India (PFI), arrested while on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim. A bench of justices Pritinker Diwaker and SC Sharma has sought responses from the Central government, state government, the superintendent of Mathura district jail and sub-inspector of Maant police station in Mathura, Prabal Pratap Singh, on the habeas corpus pleas filed on behalf of the accused -- Atiq-ur- Rehman from Muzaffar Nagar, Masood from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur.Seeking release from jail, the petition has challenged the order of the magistrate by which the three were sent to judicial remand calling it unlawful. The petition said that the Mathura chief judicial magistrate did not have the jurisdiction to try the matter or remand the petitioners to custody. It added that Rehman and Masood were going to meet the bereaved family while Alam was ferrying them to the destination. Representing the petitioners, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued, “The petitioners are unfortunate victims and scapegoats of the high-handedness of the police authorities. None of them are PFI members. They have committed no offence, which is clear from a bare perusal of the sections slapped on them and the allegations in the FIR, which are completely false and bogus, and no case against them is made out.”The three men were arrested by Mathura police on October 5 and charged under various sections of the IPC, along with sections 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and relevant sections of the IT Act. Police had alleged that the three had links PFI student wing Campus Front of India (CFI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-centre-up-on-plea-for-release-of-men-held-for-alleged-pfi-membership/story-Vt7FI1zPIDjV1z3nv2mSQI.html
19-11-2020||India||Army sets up winter habitat for troops in Ladakh amid border row with China||With the temperature set to dip substantially in the Ladakh sector in the coming months, and no solution to the border row with China in sight, the Indian Army has completed the setting up of modern habitat for thousands of soldiers deployed in forward areas to deal with any misadventure by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), officials familiar with developments said on Wednesday. Temperatures in some pockets where the Indian Army is holding posts can dip to minus-40 degrees Celsius, with remote high-altitude areas also likely to receive up to 40 feet of snow during peak winter. “Apart from smart camps with integrated facilities, which have been built over the years, additional state-of-the-art habitat with arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene, has been created to accommodate front-line troops,” said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. Fresh images from Ladakh on Wednesday provided glimpses of the infrastructure the army has created to support its forward deployed troops at a time when talks to resolve the border situation remain deadlocked and both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh theatre. “Troops on the front-line have been accommodated in heated tents... Adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater for any emergency,” said a second official. Also Read: PM Modi spells out India’s war strategyAt the Siachen base camp and lower heights of the glacier, soldiers live in habitats similar to the ones that have come up in the Ladakh sector, with arrangements for electricity, water and heating, the officials said. Troops deployed at extreme altitudes in Siachen live in heated tents (just like front-line troops along the contested Line of Actual Control) -- almost 80 per cent of the posts on the glacier are located above 16,000 feet, with Bana post towering above the rest at 21,753 feet. “Frontline troops have to live in tents. You can’t have prefab units on the border. These units are basically to house reserve troops,” the officials said. The Indian soldiers are holding positions at heights of almost 20,000 feet in the Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. India has made vigorous attempts to support its high-altitude deployments in the sector, including the supply of specialised winter clothing from the US. The country has imported more than 15,000 sets of extended cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) from the US, with the emergency supply made by activating the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Association (Lemoa). India signed Lemoa, the first of the three foundational agreements proposed by Washington to deepen bilateral military cooperation, with the US in August 2016. In a statement made in the Lok Sabha in September, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the morale and motivation of Indian soldiers was very high and they were being provisioned with suitable clothing, habitat and the required defence wherewithal. Also Read: India concerned over situation in South China Sea that ‘erode trust’“It’s a question of force preservation and sustainability during winters and the modern habitat created for soldiers will ensure operational readiness and high morale,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The Indian Army and PLA have held eight rounds of talks to reduce friction along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) without any breakthrough. At the last round of talks on November 6, the two sides said they would ensure that their front-line soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. They also agreed to hold the ninth round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers soon “but no date has been fixed for that dialogue yet,” the officials said. India is pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-sets-up-winter-habitat-for-troops-in-ladakh-amid-border-row-with-china/story-jdAkC13Aj9MZJWuLDvX3ZK.html
19-11-2020||India||UP child molester used new gadgets to lure victims: CBI||An Uttar Pradesh government employee, who is facing charges of sexually abusing 50 children for a decade, used to allegedly target poor families because the victims could be lured with gadgets and electronics, said senior Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials on Wednesday.Ram Bhavan Singh, a suspended junior engineer in the state irrigation department posted in Chitrakoot , was arrested by CBI from Banda district on Monday. If found guilty, he faces life imprisonment. He is facing charges under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly sexually exploiting children between 5 and 16, for a decade and selling videos and photographs of sexual abuse on the dark web to paedophiles across the world.The CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of child sexual abuse materials (CSAM), officials said. During examination of the phones and laptop, investigators gathered 66 videos and 610 photographs of children, said a CBI official on condition of anonymity. A second CBI official said Singh targeted children of street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers and domestic helps who worked at his two-room rented house in Chitrakoot, where he lived for 10 years. The children hailed from Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts, the official added. “During interrogation, the accused revealed that he targeted children who could easily be lured with money, electronic gadgets, eatables or any other thing they were deprived of. Ram Bhawan believed that he could easily handle the families,” the second official stated. The official said on two occasions in the past 10 years, the children complained about him to their parents, but Singh allegedly hushed up the matter by paying money to the poor parents. The official also explained that Singh hailed from Banda, was posted in neighbouring Chitrakoot district for 11 years and had several relatives from Hamirpur -- three districts where the majority of his alleged victims were from.Singh was produced in a Pocso court in Banda on Wednesday and the court decided to hear the CBI’s plea seeking five-day custody on Thursday. The CBI needs his custody remand in connection with the ongoing physical verification of his alleged victims in three districts of the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.The remand application was filed in the court of additional district judge (five) Rizwan Ahmad on Wednesday.CBI counsel Manoj Kumar, Ram Sufal Singh and Jai Prakash Sahu said the agency needed the remand to complete the probe. Singh's counsel Arvind Singh Chandel opposed the plea and said he was not aware of the case fully, nor was he given any documents. The court granted him a day to study the documents. Outside the court, a large crowd gathered to catch a glimpse of the accused. Married for 18 years, Singh allegedly trapped the children by showering affection on them, said a third CBI official. “His relatives could not assess his ulterior motive, thinking he was making up for being childless. Apart from the videos and pictures, the CBI found a number of compact discs and video-making equipment,” added the official. Singh came on the radar of the CBI’s Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE) unit after the agency busted the location of uploading child pornography recently. “A scrutiny of emails of the accused revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing CSAM,” said a fourth agency official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-child-molester-used-new-gadgets-to-lure-victims-cbi/story-TA7Yi8gYHd6St71zOozBPI.html
19-11-2020||India||Amit Shah, JP Nadda to visit Bengal almost every month||Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda will visit West Bengal separately every month until the assembly election, due in the state next year, to boost the morale of workers, BJP leaders said on Wednesday as the party ramps up its strategy in the poll-bound state. “Amit Shah and JP Nadda are expected to visit the state separately every month for at least two days till the assembly elections are over. The dates are yet to be finalised. Their regular visits will boost the morale of workers,” West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told media persons in Kolkata. Fine-tuning its strategy, the BJP also appointed central leaders to oversee poll preparedness in five organisational zones in to which the party has carved up the state. Senior party leaders said that based on their reports, the party’s central leaders in Delhi will prepare a final battle plan for the state. Senior leaders Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi, Vinod Sonkar and Vinod Tawde, who have been made observers for each of the five organisational zones will camp in their respective zones -- North Bengal, Rarh Banga (south-western districts), Nabadwip, Midnapore and Kolkata -- till Friday to draft the reports. Also Read: TMC to keep tabs on 5 BJP central leaders deputed to Bengal ahead of polls“It will basically be a SWOT [strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats] analysis. This is for the first time that central observers are being sent to take stock of poll preparedness in the zones. Earlier, central leaders used to be appointed as observers for an entire state,” said a senior BJP leader familiar with the plan. Senior leaders said that an analysis of the party’s strengths and weaknesses, at the booth level, becomes all the more important because amidst a pandemic, the Election Commission of India is likely increase the number of auxiliary booths to maintain Covid-19 protocols. The West Bengal assembly elections are likely to be held in April-May 2021. Kailash Vijayvargiya is the BJP’s state in-charge while the party’s national secretary Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya, the party’s IT cell chief, are co-incharges. The ruling Trinamool Congress in the state on Wednesday took a jibe at the BJP, saying that the party has lost faith in its state leaders and is asking central leaders to intervene. “BJP’s central leaders are stepping in. This clearly indicates that the party has lost faith in the state leadership. The party is however still dreaming of winning the elections. It is not bad to dream,” said TMC MP Saugata Roy. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 constituencies in its best-ever performance in a contest that was marred by political killings and violence. It also won 40.2% of the votes cast. The TMC won 22 seats and 43.3% of the votes.Also Read| ‘BJP working on ground to defeat Mamata Banerjee, over 83% polling booths already covered’: Dilip GhoshDuring his two day-visit to the state on November 5 and 6, home minister Shah held a meeting with party workers and reviewed poll preparedness. He also expressed confidence that the BJP would form the next government in the state. “The BJP has an even chance in the coming elections. The scenario will get clearer within the next two to three months as situations unfold. But it is a fact that the BJP, over the years, has become the principal opposition party and this time they are eyeing for the Bengal polls,” said Amal Mukherjee, a political commentator and a former principal of Presidency College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-jp-nadda-to-visit-bengal-almost-every-month/story-TVoCDxG89kfwfdb429wpSI.html
19-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The world’s first at-home Covid-19 test was approved (for emergency use) by the US Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday. Made by Lucira Health, this is a molecular test which is relatively inexpensive — according to the company’s website, it will cost under $50 — and quick (30 minutes). The company also claims that the product was 94% as accurate as the gold-standard RT-PCR test in identifying positive cases and 98% as accurate in identifying negative ones, which makes the home test fast, relatively cheap, and accurate.On Wednesday, news reports said the Feluda test, developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, would be launched in Delhi, but only for use in laboratories. The test, which uses CRISPR , can also be done at home, but it looks like a home version could take some time. Also Read: Feluda test kit set to hit the market on ThursdayThe Lucira test uses a technology called RT-LAMP or Reverse Transcription Loop Mediated Isothermal Amplification. Molecular tests respond to the genetic material of the virus, ribonucleic acid, or RNA. But before they do this, RNA has to be converted into complementary DNA, or cDNA, which is achieved using an enzyme called Reverse Transcriptase and a process called Reverse Transcription (it’s the reason many people use the terms interchangeably). LAMP then amplifies the cDNA, which is what shows up in the final result. In the case of the Lucira test, this is through a unit whose LED indicators change colour.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccurate, inexpensive, rapid tests hold the key to getting the pandemic under control. Accurate, inexpensive, rapid, home tests are even better. RT-LAMP tests aren’t based on some new breakthrough technology, though. They have been around for years. Back in May, India’s health minister, Harsh Vardhan, announced that a CSIR lab would work with an arm of India’s largest industrial conglomerate Reliance to commercialise its own rapid and inexpensive RT-LAMP tests for Covid. That hasn’t happened yet, though, in October, a Kochi-based company, Agappe Diagnostics, launched its own LAMP test for Covid-19, albeit for use in laboratories. Agappe’s test has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research.It’s possible that the announcement of an approval for Lucira’s home test could open the floodgates; reliable home tests will remove a critical bottleneck in the current testing and diagnosis process, helping break the chain of infections. India’s health ministry and ICMR should work towards making accurate home tests available for those who need them (read that as those with symptoms, or those who have been exposed to an infected person; the FDA has said that Lucira’s home test will require a doctor’s prescription).Also Read: Covid-19 lockdowns test the economic endurance of desperate AmericansPS: I usually avoid post scripts, but a recent paper (based on research) sheds more light on the immunity of those already infected by Covid-19 to reinfection, something Dispatch 204 on November 13 dealt with in the context of the findings of the latest round of Delhi’s sero survey. In the paper, uploaded on November 16 on pre-print server bioRXiv, researchers at the La Jolla Institute for Immunology, California, and others, claim (on the basis of a study of 185 Covid-19 patients) that many patients retain immune cells capable of recognising and fighting the disease even six months after infection. This adds to a growing volume of evidence that while infected people may show no trace of specific antibodies that fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus after some time, this does not mean a loss of immunity, with many possessing B-cells and T-cells that can remember and fight the virus. Theoretically, this means that vaccines should provide the same length of protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-3LYq75AZGsoSocwQXQdMLN.html
19-11-2020||India||TMC to keep tabs on 5 BJP central leaders deputed to Bengal ahead of polls||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) is keeping a close watch on the movements and activities of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) five central leaders who are in the state to evaluate organizational strengths and weaknesses of the district units in south and north Bengal ahead of the assembly polls due in about five months. TMC’s district leaders said that every movement of Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Vinod Tawde, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar are being watched by party workers and feedback is being sent to leaders in Kolkata. The five BJP leaders have been put in charge of different organizational zones in Bengal. They started holding internal meetings from Wednesday morning. “This brigade of outsiders that is coming to Bengal to capture power will be fought back by people of the state. We are confident about that. These people have no idea about the culture, history and heritage of Bengal,” TMC Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said at a press conference on Wednesday. “We have to keep a close watch on these outsiders. We have to find out if they are here to create communal trouble, divide people or, indulge in horse trading. Our workers have been asked to be on the alert,” said Roy. “Our workers have been told to put up resistance if any effort is made to create trouble,” he added. “These people are living in a fool’s paradise. They think winning 18 Lok Sabha seats (in 2019) is equal to winning the assembly polls. Voting patterns in Lok Sabha and assembly polls are quite different,” said Roy. To stop divisions in its ranks prior to the polls, the TMC is also making efforts to pacify rebel transport minister Suvendu Adhikari who will address a big rally at Ramnagar in East Midnapore on Thursday where he is likely to announce his next course of action. He has kept the party guessing by avoiding all political programmes, government events and cabinet meetings in the last two months. This led to speculations that he might join the BJP.Two senior TMC Lok Sabha members, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay, are in touch with Adhikari. Roy even held a meeting with him on Monday night. To maintain secrecy, Adhikari reached the venue in a different car and without his security personnel. Both the MPs refused to comment on the issue. On Wednesday, Adhikari addressed a rally organised by people associated with the co-operative movement. To the relief of TMC leaders, he did not make any controversial statement and did not even refer to the party. Senior TMC leaders told HT last week that Adhikari is unhappy with the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor for making the recent organizational changes and wants the party to field candidates of his choice at 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. TMC leaders said that various programmes are being undertaken by the party to reach out to voters physically and through the social media. The TMC’s information technology cell recently started an interactive campaign where people can mark themselves “safe from the BJP.” The campaign has crossed the one million mark, the party has claimed. Later this month, another campaign will start to showcase performances of the TMC government. It will be named Bangadhwani (the call of Bengal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-to-keep-tabs-on-5-bjp-central-leaders-deputed-to-bengal-ahead-of-polls/story-Plm1kwWEz20OipY54VLCUO.html
19-11-2020||India||Cong rumblings grow, PC seeks bypoll show review||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram has said that the party’s performance in the assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka show that there is either “no organisational presence on the ground, or it has weakened considerably”. In an interview to Dainik Bhaskar, former Union finance minister Chidambaram said that the Congress fought more seats in Bihar than its organisational strength, and called for a “comprehensive review” of the poll results. He added, however, that he was “more worried” about the by-election results. In by-elections to 59 assembly seats across 11 states, the Congress contested 55 but won only 12. Chidambaram’s comments raising concerns and seeking a review come at a time when differences in the Congress have resurfaced after the election results over similar post-election worries aired by former Union minister Kapil Sibal. As part of the Mahagathbandhan, or Grand Alliance, the Congress contested 70 seats but managed to win just 19, impacting the Opposition’s chances of ousting the ruling coalition from power; it won just nine of the 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh, and failed to open its account in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Manipur. “I feel the Congress contested more seats than its organisational strength in Bihar. The Congress was given 25 seats where the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) or its allies had been winning for 20 years. It should have refused to contest from these seats, and fielded only 45 candidates,” Chidambaram said.“I am more worried about by-poll results that show the Congress has no organisational presence on the ground or it has weakened considerably,” Chidambaram added. “...Remember, not long ago we had won [assembly elections] Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.” Earlier this week, Sibal insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections. “We are yet to hear from the Congress party their views on our recent performance in Bihar and in the by-elections. Maybe they think all is well and that it should be business as usual,” he told The Indian Express.Sibal was one of the 23 signatories to a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul.Also Read: In the Congress, the lack of ideological clarity | HT EditorialSibal’s latest remarks have triggered a war of words within the party, with Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury the latest senior leader to attack the former Union minister. “Instead of giving sermons sitting in AC rooms, he (Sibal) should work on the ground. Lecturing others without doing anything won’t help. Only calling for introspection without doing anything on our own is of no use,” Chowdhury said, adding that those unhappy with the party’s functioning are “free to leave instead of embarrassing it”.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said this week that Sibal’s remarks have “hurt the sentiments” of Congress workers and reminded him that the party had been through several crises in the past. Former Union minister Salman Khurshid, too, seemed at odds with Sibal. In a Facebook post, Khurshid said that if the mood of the electorate is resistant to the liberal values the party has espoused and cherished, it should be prepared for a long struggle rather than look for short cuts to get back into power. Hyderabad-based political analyst C Narasimha Rao said the Congress party has weakened on the ground whenever it has been out of power, and added that the party’s choice of regional leadership is partly to blame for this. Meanwhile, some members of the group of 23 dissenters who signed the August letter have held meetings over the past few days after the Bihar elections to discuss their next move. One member of this group said on condition of anonymity that the group has moved beyond writing letters and will soon come out with its future strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-rumblings-grow-pc-seeks-bypoll-show-review/story-pkAhxpiO6RGR0KyNIQAeOK.html
19-11-2020||India||US Navy plans to revive formation focused on Indian and Pacific oceans||The US Navy plans to revive a tactical formation that will focus on the Indian and Pacific Oceans and work with partners such as India and Singapore to cope with potential contingencies, a top American naval defence official has said. Kenneth Braithwaite, secretary of the US Navy or the top civilian official in the department of the navy, made the announcement about establishing the First Fleet while addressing the Naval Submarine League’s annual symposium on Tuesday. The First Fleet, which will be one of the US Navy’s “numbered fleets” or major tactical units, could be based out of Singapore in the long run, said Braithwaite, according to a report by USNI News, the journal of the US Naval Institute. “We want to stand up a new numbered fleet. And we want to put that numbered fleet in the crossroads between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans, and we’re really going to have an Indo-PACOM footprint,” Braithwaite said. “We can’t just rely on the 7th Fleet in Japan. We have to look to our other allies and partners like Singapore, like India, and actually put a numbered fleet where it would be extremely relevant if, God forbid, we were to ever to get in any kind of a dust-up,” he said. “More importantly, it can provide a much more formidable deterrence. So we’re going to create the First Fleet, and we’re going to put it, if not Singapore right out of the chocks, we’re going to look to make it more expeditionary-oriented and move it across the Pacific until it is where our allies and partners see that it could best assist them as well as to assist us.” Braithwaite’s remarks came against the backdrop of the navies of India, Australia, Japan and the US kicking off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the Arabian Sea. The move assumes significance because of the current focus on China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, especially the South China Sea. The US and the other members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue – India, Australia and Japan – have said they are committed to ensuring freedom of navigation and a rules-based order in this region. The First Fleet existed from January 1947 to February 1973, when it was redesignated as the Third Fleet. The US Navy currently has seven active numbered fleets. Each numbered fleet has task forces and other units for specific operations. Braithwaite, who is expected to visit India soon, said he had not spoken to acting defense secretary Christopher Miller about the plan for the First Fleet but had “crossed all the other t’s and dotted all the other i’s”. An unnamed US defence official told USNI News Braithwaite had discussed the proposal with former defense secretary Mark Esper, who was onboard with it. During his address at the symposium, Braithwaite also referred to the Chinese showing “their aggressiveness around the globe”. “Every single one of our allies and partners are concerned about how aggressive the Chinese have been. I would argue with anybody that not since the War of 1812 has the US and our sovereignty been under the kind of pressures that we see today,” he added. The US alone cannot stand up to China and nations around the Pacific and the globe need to assist in “pushing back militarily and economically if there was a chance for deterrence to work”, he was quoted as saying. Braithwaite said he would travel to India in the coming weeks to discuss security challenges and how the two sides can help each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-navy-plans-to-revive-formation-focused-on-indian-and-pacific-oceans/story-rdLbRBbVy02UMVXjrodTOJ.html
