20-11-2020||India||Covid-19: UP districts see surge in cases in fortnight||After a dip, some of the districts in Uttar Pradesh are now showing an upward trend in fresh daily Covid-19 cases. Meerut leads the list with 126% rise in 15 days. Other districts that have shown a rise in daily cases in two weeks are Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, and Ghaziabad. Expert say there are various reasons for the spike. “Meerut is a city where people in large numbers visit from other places particularly Delhi. We are studying the travel pattern, which could be one reason why cases are going up, and will soon devise a fresh strategy for Meerut,” said Dr Ved Prakash, HoD pulmonary critical care medicine department at the King George’s Medical University. Dr Prakash is also the OSD for Meerut medical college. Also read | Pandemic causes break in 36-year-old tradition of UP’s Indira MarathonThe number of deaths has also increased. According to the state health department data, 21 deaths were reported on November 16, 20 on November 17, 29 on November 18 and 40 were reported on November 19. The active cases in the state also increased from 21,954 on Wednesday to 22,757 on Thursday. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad ,said the state government has adopted a multi-pronged strategy to check the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Along with collecting samples, increase in testing, surveillance across the state and contact tracing is being carried out to break the infection chain, he said. In Lucknow, the lack of social distancing is stated to be a big factor behind rising cases. “People have virtually stopped following the Covid-19 protocol and hardly maintain distance when out in the market,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors. “People going to vegetable, grocery markets are seen standing close together at shops. Wearing masks on the chin isn’t preventing infection,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president IMA, Lucknow. The surge in cases in Delhi has led to increase in the cases in the bordering districts, including Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Meerut whereas in the remaining districts the Covid cases are under control, said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, and added that the state government has started random sample tests in the districts bordering Delhi. Keeping an eye on the surge in neighbouring Delhi, the state government has sounded an alert in the neighbouring districts.People have been urged to follow the guidelines strictly. A health department officer said the festive season leading to a sudden increase in the activities, increase in the pollution, dip in the temperature with the onset of the winter and people ignoring the Covid-19 protocol are leading to the spike. The high recovery rate of 94.18 %, positivity rate of below 5 % and fatality rate at 1.44% are boosts for the health department in the fight against the pandemic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-districts-see-surge-in-cases-in-fortnight/story-wYkh1VnVQqWoBdaM6hk45L.html
20-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh child molester case: CBI suspects involvement of others in engineer’s network||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing the involvement of people linked to Uttar Pradesh irrigation department junior engineer Ram Bhavan Singh in the alleged sexual abuse of about 50 children he was arrested for in Banda on Tuesday, officials of the federal agency aware of the matter said.Bhavan allegedly clicked photographs and made video clips while sexually abusing children aged between five and 16 years. He later sold the content on the dark web to other paedophiles.An official said Bhavan is not a very tech-savvy person and they suspect some other people assisted him in preparing video clips and clicking photographs of children using hidden cameras and webcams. He said the same content was later uploaded on the web for sale.The official said Bhavan’s emails suggested he was in constant touch with Indian and foreign nationals for sharing child sexual abuse material. He added Bhavan created and shared child pornography for years via social media platforms and websites.The official said Bhavan is suspected to be one of the point persons of a large network involved in child pornography available on the dark web. “The CBI is scanning his emails and mobile phones to check for the people who were in frequent touch with him. Eight mobile phones have been recovered from the accused. The laptop of the accused is also sealed for further examination.”The CBI has found Bhavan targeted street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers, and domestic helps. The agency is trying to trace these children to record their statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-child-molester-case-cbi-suspects-involvement-of-more-people-in-sexual-abuse/story-6D1qQQQgQa11dXDkB2TdBO.html
20-11-2020||India||70% of women considered for permanent commission in the army make it||Almost 70% of women officers who were considered for permanent commission in the army by a special selection board have been selected to serve a full term in the army, officials said on Friday.Of the 615 women considered for permanent commission, 422 have been found to be fit for the role by the board, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The results of the special board were declassified on Thursday. The board was convened months after the government issued a formal order in July granting permanent commission to women following a Supreme Court verdict. The government’s July 23 order specified grant of permanent commission to women officers in 10 streams—Army Air Defence (AAD), Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME), Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate General (JAG) and Army Educational Corps (AEC). The army had set August 31 as the deadline for short-service commissioned (SSC) women officers to submit their applications for permanent commission. The Supreme Court in February ruled that women should be considered for command roles and that all women officers are entitled to permanent commission. It asked the army to give them permanent commission within three months in a major boost to gender parity. The Centre got a one-month extension on July 7 to implement the Supreme Court’s verdict after it moved an application before the apex court seeking the extension of the deadline by another six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread from March 25. The Supreme Court’s judgment was hailed for creating a new equality paradigm in the armed forces. It upheld a 2010 Delhi high court verdict. The Supreme Court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through short-service commission, are entitled to permanent commission even if they have more than 14 years of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-women-considered-for-permanent-commission-in-the-army-make-it/story-uPQRPezqZW5z8flmf3Ak0H.html
20-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally breaches 9 million mark, death toll at 132,162||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the grim 9 million mark and the country’s death toll stood at 132,162, according to the Union health ministry data on Friday. In the last 24 hours, 45,522 new cases of the coronavirus disease were reported from across the country and 584 patients succumbed, the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am showed.The country’s death toll has risen to 132,162. India also registered 44,807 new recoveries between Thursday and Friday morning as the number of active cases were at 443,794, the health ministry said. The recovery rate rose to 93.60% on Friday and total recovered cases stand at 8,428,409. The gap between recovered cases and active cases, which has been steadily increasing, presently stands at 7,984,615.Also read | Covid-19 casts shadow on Parliament’s winter sessionThe ministry had said on Thursday the recoveries have continued to overtake the daily new cases continuously since the past 47 days and that India’s active caseload has fallen under the 5% mark. “This trend of more daily recoveries than the daily cases has led to a continuous contraction of India’s Active Caseload,” it had said.On Thursday, the ministry had said that 77.27% of the new recovered cases were from 10 states and Union territories. “With 7,066 persons recovering from COVID, Kerala saw the most number of recoveries. Delhi registered another 6,901 daily recoveries while Maharashtra reported 6,608 new recoveries,” it had said.Also read | Schools, colleges in Gujarat not to reopen from November 23Ten states and Union territories also contributed 77.28% of the new cases. Delhi reported 7,486 cases of the coronavirus disease, Kerala recorded 6,419 and Maharashtra registered 5,011 new cases, according to the health ministry. Of the 585 fatalities reported on Thursday morning, 79.49% were from 10 states and Union territories. “22.39% of new fatalities reported are from Delhi which reported 131 deaths. Maharashtra also saw a three-digit fatality count of 100 while West Bengal reported 54 new deaths,” the ministry had said.The health ministry has rushed high-level expert teams to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur, to assist in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention, and efficient clinical management of coronavirus disease. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), is leading the three-member team bound for Haryana, and Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, is heading the Rajasthan team. The teams comprise three experts each. “With the surge in the daily new cases and the spike in the daily fatalities in Delhi, the spillover effect is being observed in the NCR, within the states of Haryana and Rajasthan, where the number of Covid-19 patients is on the rise,” said the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-breaches-9-million-mark-death-toll-at-132-162/story-hZuhoM0cSw7kihiF2gISHK.html
20-11-2020||India||Covid-19 shadow on Parliament: Here’s a look at history of winter sessions||Parliament normally meets thrice a year for the budget, monsoon, and winter sessions. This year, however, the surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital has cast a shadow on the winter session, which usually begins in late November and ends in December.Between 1952 and 2019, 65 winter sessions of Rajya Sabha have been held. Eight of these sessions commenced in December. Four winter sessions started in the first week of December in 1993, 2003, 2004, and 2013.Two sessions commenced in the second week of December in 1994 and 2008. The 244th winter session in 2016 started in the 3rd week while the 156th session in 1990 in the 4th week of December.Also read | Govt deliberating on holding next Parliament session in JanuaryAs per information collated by the Rajya Sabha secretariat, two winter sessions that started in December continued into the next year. The 41st winter session was held in two parts. The first part was held from November 18 to December 12, 1962. The second part continued from January 21 to January 25, 1963.The first part of the winter session in 2003 was held from December 2 to December 23. The second part of this session began on January 30 and ended on February 5, 2004.The winter sessions began thrice in October. As many as 54 winter sessions, which account for 83% of the total such sittings, commenced in November.The number of sittings of all the 65 winter sessions adds up to 1,389 with an average duration of 21.36 sittings.The shortest session of seven sittings was the 152nd session in 1989. The longest session of 32 sittings was the 86th session in 1973. Of the 65 winter sessions, 46 had sittings ranging from 20 to 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-parliament-s-winter-session/story-gWVq0KyhZmlghZd13ji83M.html
20-11-2020||India||Analysis | India has rightly shunned RCEP for now||India’s decision to stay out of the China-backed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, or RCEP, Asia’s mega free-trade agreement (FTA), has been met both with a sense of approval and disappointment and divided economists on the issue.The RCEP is an FTA between the 10 members of the ASEAN as well as China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand. Will India lose out on opportunities of trade and investment an FTA expectedly offers, or are we better off without it?Free trade should drive prosperity for all. After all, humanity has ventured far and wide since ancient times to trade, guided by the principle of comparative advantage i.e. countries export stuff they can make cheaply at home and import goods costlier to produce domestically. That’s the theory.Also Read: China perceives rising India as ‘rival’; wants to constraint its partnership with US, allies: reportIn reality, trade imbalances can result in big winners and losers, impacting wages, and employment. For instance, importing goods from China that rely on a lot of unskilled workers can reduce the demand for unskilled workers in India.The objective of the RCEP is to create a mammoth regional-trading bloc. It comprises one-third of the world’s population and some 29% of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP).Yet, without India, Asia’s third-largest economy, there will be limited gains to be had from the RCEP, some analysts say. One of the most in-depth studies of RCEP by Renuka Mahadevan of the University of Queensland and Anda Nugroho of Indonesia’s finance ministry found that an RCEP minus India will add just 0.08% to China’s estimated 2030 GDP. That’s because India on average has higher tariffs than other RCEP countries and, therefore, has the largest scope to reduce them.FTAs like the RCEP are thought to be advantageous simply because they create preferential treatment among member nations, who get freer access to one another’s markets through lower tariffs, leading to re-orientation of supply chains and greater interdependence.A recent paper from the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, authored by Sunitha Raju and V Raveendra Saradhi, suggests India’s concerns about Chinese imports are exaggerated. The study found that, between 2007-08 and 2015-16, India’s import of Chinese intermediate goods, which refer to semi-finished items that go into the making of a final product, had raised domestic industrial output and efficiency. Import of Chinese capital goods, such as machinery, also had a positive impact, the study notes.Yet, India has a sound basis to shut the doors on the RCEP for now. It’s important to note, in this context, that India already has FTAs with the ASEAN nations since 2009, South Korea since 2009 and Japan since 2011. India’s experience of these FTAs hasn’t been encouraging.It has generally been the case that India’s lack of competitiveness in exports has meant it can’t take advantage of FTAs. Simply put, our industry lacks the scale, technology, and productivity required to compete.The RCEP proposed that 92% of India’s traded goods must have zero tariffs by the end of a 15-year period. India fears it will end up importing far more than it will be able to export, which is the trade deficit. This remains the core concern.India’s trade deficit with the ASEAN nations as a whole ballooned from $13 billion to $22 billion between 2014-15 and 2018-19, official data show. A recent analysis by ICICI Securities Ltd showed that in 2018-19, India’s trade deficit with RCEP countries, as it were, stood at $105 billion. With China alone, India runs a massive US$60 billion trade deficit.India fears greater market access will impact its key manufacturing sectors like steel, leather goods, electronics, and textiles, which other nations can produce more cheaply.Opening up agricultural markets, which enjoy tariff protection as high as 30-40%, could hurt farm incomes. Highly efficient dairy sectors of Australia and New Zealand, which export 90% of their dairy produce could pummel domestic profitability. A proposed FTA between India and the EU has been languishing for years, with both sides unwilling to open up their agricultural markets.Higher standards for intellectual-property protection that RCEP-like FTAs entail could impact the domestic pharma industry and cause drug prices to soar. India fears the RCEP will also limit its policy-making room in areas such as foreign investment.It’s wrong to assume that, since India has a comparative advantage in the services sector, the RCEP could be beneficial. India’s advantage is limited to software services and it would have lost out in areas such as business processes, telecom, and fintech services to technologically more advanced members.While India should choose economic openness, it should simultaneously increase its trade competitiveness. This will require higher labour productivity, bigger firms, as opposed to a large unorganised sector, access to better technologies and investment. The need, therefore, is to create an economy that can compete in global markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/analysis-india-has-rightly-shunned-rcep-for-now/story-axsa89GgH5Wtsl21SjLf3O.html
20-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 14, including 6 children killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.6 children among 14 killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s PratapgarhFourteen people, including six children, were killed when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh late on Thursday night, according to news agency ANI. Read moreSpotlight on Ladakh, China secretly made moves in central, Sikkim and eastern sectorsChina has surreptitiously undertaken a large military infrastructure upgrade in the central, Sikkim and eastern sectors with simultaneous strengthening of surface-to-air missile sites, an increase in unmanned aerial vehicle numbers, and an expansion of airbases in Tibet. Read moreUP child molester nabbed: Whistleblower tipped off CBI, gave key proofAn anonymous whistleblower tipped off the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and provided evidence against a Uttar Pradesh government employee who is facing life imprisonment for allegedly sexually exploiting 50 children for a decade Read moreBumrah, Shami good but we too have Starc, Hazlewood and Cummins: Australia keeper Alex CareyAutralia wicket-keeper batsman Alex Carey understands ‘how good’ Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami can be but he also wants India to understand the quality of Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. Read moreGoogle completes global rollout of RCS, end-to-end encryption coming next yearGoogle said it has completed the global rollout of Rich Communication Services (RCS) for its Messages app. Google has been working with carriers in different countries to enable RCS in the Messages app. Read moreAnupam Kher gets emotional on meeting Neetu Kapoor without Rishi Kapoor: ‘Our shared tears made bond of those moments stronger’Anupam Kher got emotional as he met Neetu Kapoor in Chandigarh, where she is shooting for her upcoming film, Jug Jug Jeeyo. He reminisced about their meetings in New York with her husband, the late Rishi Kapoor. Rishi died in April after a two-year battle with leukemia. Read moreAirPods makes a cameo in new Tom & Jerry trailer. Did you spot it?The much-loved cartoon Tom and Jerry is set to make a comeback in a new film that is scheduled to release in 2021. The trailer, released on November 17, gives a glimpse of a power-packed action film in the form of animation as well as live-action sequences. Read moreSII’s Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine, pricing and rollout at #HTLS2020The opening session of the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit saw an enlightening discussion of the Covid-19 pandemic. Serum Institute of India’s CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla gave an update on the coronavirus vaccine. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-14-including-6-children-killed-in-road-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e38tQQWWNrh5cr5TDhu7dJ.html
20-11-2020||India||Fresh snow, rainfall in upper reaches of Kashmir bring mercury further down||There as fresh snow and rainfall in the upper reaches of Kashmir on Thursday night, leading to a drop in the night temperature.Snow and rainfall was reported in Sonmarg and Drass areas of Kashmir and Ladakh.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted an improvement in the weather for the next two days in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.However, IMD has also predicted another spell of rain and snowfall from November 22. “Another spell of rain and snowfall could likely take place on the evening of November 23 to November 25.The main activity could be on November 24 which may lead to temporary closure various vulnerable passes. The spell seems to lesser than earlier ones,” said IMD, J&K and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snow-rainfall-in-upper-reaches-of-kashmir-bring-mercury-further-down/story-EU9dFEvUurFO6wxYXY67WN.html
20-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Covaxin phase 3 trials to begin in Haryana today, minister to take shot||A global search continues for a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) even as a rise in the number of infections and related deaths are being reported. According to a tally by worldometers, more than 57 million people have contracted the disease so far and more than 1.3 million have lost their lives due to it. The tally also shows that nearly 40 million people have recovered from the coronavirus disease till date.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn India, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij will be administered a shot of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine candidate as its phase three trials begins in the state.Here are the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, had offered to be the first volunteer. “I will be administered a trial dose of Covaxin, a Bharat Biotech product tomorrow at 11am at Civil Hospital, Ambala. I have volunteered to take the trial dose,” Vij had tweeted on Thursday. He will be administered a shot of the vaccine candidate of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, Covaxin.2. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Thursday said it may sell Covishield, the vaccine being developed by Oxford University, for around Rs 500-600 per shot in the market as against Rs 220 per shot it will cost the government. Poonawalla made this statement on the opening day of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS), where he was one of the speakers.3. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday expressed confidence a Covid-19 vaccine will be ready in “next three-four months.” The minister, who was addressing a FICCI webinar, further said healthcare workers and corona warriors will “naturally be prioritised,” followed by senior citizens and disease-prone people. “Hopefully, year 2021 should be a better year for all of us,” he further said.4. America’s Pfizer Inc and Germany’s BioNTech SE, who are together working on a vaccine candidate, will on Friday file for emergency use authorisation (EUA) in the United States, the US government, as well as BioNTech co-founder announced. In an interview, BioNTech co-founder Ugur Sahin said there was a chance they could receive approval this year itself and start delivering by December. Pfizer recently said the vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, was found to be 95% effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-covaxin-phase-3-trials-to-begin-in-haryana-today-minister-to-take-shot/story-YGLM89Kty0ZqAqjNqXYo5O.html
20-11-2020||India||Odisha tribal killed, declared Maoist, rights body rejects theory 4yrs later||Four years after Odisha police claimed to have gunned down a Maoist in Rayagada district, the Odisha human rights commission on Thursday ruled out the deceased being a rebel and asked the state government to pay Rs 1.5 lakh compensation to his next of kin.On February 27, 2016, Manda Kadraka was shot down by Border Security Force (BSF) and District Voluntary Force personnel during a combing operation in the forest area near Dangamatia village under Kalyansinghpur police limits of Rayagada district. Drika, the brother of the deceased, had alleged Manda and another person named Dambaru Sikka had gone to the hill top to collect local brew ‘salap’ when they came under fire. Manda fell to the bullet injuries, while Sikka escaped and alerted the villagers. Later, Kadraka’s body was brought to the village and last rites performed.OHRC chairperson BP Das and member secretary Asim Amitabh Das in their order said the claim that Kadraka was a Maoist could not be substantiated. Also Read: BJP seeks Naveen Natnaik’s resignation after two custodial deaths in Odisha“There was no evidence against Kadraka that he had indulged in Maoist-related offences and was planning to kill the collector and SP. It would not suffice to just make a claim that he stayed in the Maoist camp and was part of any Maoist group. The state is liable to pay compensation. The state home department should pay Rs 1.5 lakh compensation to the next of the kin of the deceased,” the OHRC order said.The police had claimed that Kadraka was at a Maoist camp organised by their leader Sukdev alias Bunty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-killed-declared-maoist-rights-body-rejects-theory-4yrs-later/story-lxxhS8iWsUUSotYjSG1N6H.html
20-11-2020||India||Elderly, those with chronic diseases to get vaccine first: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the national vaccine committee on Covid-19 has included the people aged between 50 and 65 years of age, and those less than 50 years of age with chronic diseases, in the list of people to be administered the vaccine on priority basis.A vaccine will be available in a couple of months, the minister said.Addressing the FICCI FLO webinar on ‘The Shifting Healthcare Paradigm During and Post-Covid’, the Union minister said that according to government estimates, around 400 to 500 million doses of the vaccine will be available in the country by July-August next year. “Almost 25-30 crore people will be given vaccine in the initial phase. This vaccine will have to be administered at least twice within the gap of two-three weeks to each person. Naturally we will have to prioritize. Corona warriors will be our natural priority, then 65 plus elderly population and 50-65 years and 50 years and less people with diseases,” Harsh Vardhan said.Detailing the vaccination plan, the minister said, “Based on the vaccine research outcome within India, where some are in phase 3 trial stage, we have made tentative guidelines that can vaccinate about 250-300 million people in the initial phase. The vaccine will have to be administered at least twice within a gap of two-three weeks to each person. Naturally we will have to prioritize.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-those-with-chronic-diseases-to-get-vaccine-first-harsh-vardhan/story-mtvgBVpOQQHeDgz8GKsDQP.html
20-11-2020||India||Shivpal Yadav says may forge alliance with SP to defeat BJP in 2022 UP polls||Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohiya) chief Shivpal Yadav has said that his party may forge an alliance with the Samajwadi Party to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 Legislative Assembly Elections.“We will form an alliance with the Samajwadi Party to defeat the BJP in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Elections. Our priority will be to ally with the Samajwadi Party. We will also speak to other parties in the state,” Shivpal Yadav told reporters here on Thursday.He said that the BJP has not fulfilled any of its promises and added none of the decisions taken by the BJP government in the state and the Centre were in the interest of the country or its people.This comes merely days after former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav clarified that the Samajwadi Party will not form an alliance with any of the major parties in 2022 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly elections but can form a partnership with the smaller parties. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivpal-yadav-says-may-forge-alliance-with-sp-to-defeat-bjp-in-2022-up-polls/story-C161CMJBT02usdVpduEzAK.html
20-11-2020||India||Cash, jewellery worth ₹12cr looted in Odisha||Four armed men on Thursday looted cash and jewellery worth ₹12 crore from the branch of IIFL Finance, a leading non-banking finance company, in Odisha’s Cuttack town, the police said.Police said four men wearing masks and helmets entered the office of the Nayasarak branch of IIFL Finance after the branch opened at around 9.40 am and threatened the lone security guard at gunpoint. The miscreants, who spoke in Hindi and Odia, then rounded up the branch manager and other staff into a toilet and snatched the keys to the locker.“Except two-three packets of gold, the robbers mopped up almost all the gold that would be around ₹12 crore. The incident happened in just 10 minutes,” said Satya Pradhan, manager of the branch, adding that the CCTV camera was not functional when the theft took place. Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said seven special teams have been formed to nab the suspects and all are investigating separate leads. The borders of the city have been sealed, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-jewellery-worth-12cr-looted-in-odisha/story-y3zLarPRdS3IMWeSJBLCLM.html
20-11-2020||India||Spotlight on Ladakh, China secretly made moves in central, Sikkim and eastern sectors||China has surreptitiously undertaken a large military infrastructure upgrade in the central, Sikkim and eastern sectors with simultaneous strengthening of surface-to-air missile sites, an increase in unmanned aerial vehicle numbers, and an expansion of airbases in Tibet while the world’s attention has been focused on Beijing’s hostile moves on the line of actual control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh and its tense stand-off with India, according to people familiar with the matter.While Hindustan Times has already reported the PLA’s force accretion in East Ladakh, something that reduces the chances of the status quo ante being restored at friction points, Indian military commanders are concerned about the build-up across the LAC, from Kaurik Pass in Himachal Pradesh to Fish Tail I and II in Arunachal Pradesh.Military commanders and national security planners who spoke on condition of anonymity said that over the past month they noticed the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) engage in road construction at Churup village right across Kaurik pass in the central sector and that it has placed new container housing modules around Tunjum La, north of the contested Barahoti plains in Uttarakhand, just 4km from the 565km LAC in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Also Read: China is biggest stumbling block in India’s UNSC permanent membershipShiquanhe, a garrison depot 82km from Demchok LAC with Gar Gunsa airport, has become a hub for Beijing’s relocation of troops and heavy equipment. The position of Shiquanhe is such that it can serve as the main logistics supply depot from Demchok to Barahoti plains, Indian military planners said.The situation in the eastern sector is no different, with an electronic warfare unit being deployed at Nyanglu, 60km from the Arunachal Pradesh border, in an old 1962 war PLA camp. This unit is a strategic support force with four counterspace jammers, possibly oriented towards Indian GSAT communication and commercial satellites, the military planners said. India has also noticed redeployment of troops at Yebi with heightened PLA surveillance at Bum La. The PLA’s intelligence and surveillance activity has picked up all along the 3,488km LAC with specific focus being noticed across Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and the Galwan sector in East Ladakh, the military planners added. Evidence of this heightened surveillance comes in the form of the construction of communication towers at Changmu, 27km from the LAC and north of Sebu La in Sikkim. The India (Sikkim)-Bhutan-China trijunction saw the 73-day Doklam stand-off in 2017.The Chinese have also speeded up the strengthening of depth areas with new missile transporter erector launchers seen at the surface-to-air missile site in the Kashgar airbase, 475km from the western sector LAC, Indian military commanders said. The Kashgar and Hotan bases are patrolling the skies in Aksai Chin with both the military bases showing the presence of heavy transport lift planes. There have been fresh troop and equipment dugouts under camouflage nets reported from Kangxiwar, 112km from the LAC across Karakoram Pass.Also Read: China is fortifying defences across Ladakh border, not prepping to disengageThe number of military UAVs has increased at the Hoping airbase in Shigatse, opposite the Sikkim sector, with military logistics capacity being increased at the Lhasa airbase. The massive road-communications-surveillance upgrade all along LAC indicates that the PLA could open other fronts on the LAC if the worst-case scenario materialises in East Ladakh. In the wake of this, India’s national security planners are closely monitoring the movement of the military dialogue between the two armies while keeping troops on high alert even in the central and eastern sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-ladakh-china-secretly-made-moves-in-central-sikkim-and-eastern-sectors/story-GuwPWJKoYjQ3hGlNx7rZUP.html
20-11-2020||India||Congress issues notice to Jharkhand leader||The Jharkhand Congress on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to senior leader Furqan Ansari for criticising senior leader Rahul Gandhi and the party’s state incharge RPN Singh, people aware of the matter said.The development coincided with Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha offering to step down from the post taking moral responsibility for the party’s poor show in the just-concluded assembly elections. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge of Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil along with Gujarat incharge Rajeev Satav had already offered to quit their posts for the poll debacles in their respective states. Ansari, a former Lok Sabha member and a prominent Muslim leader in Jharkhand, had raised questions on Rahul Gandhi’s campaigning in Bihar. He also claimed that the people working in Gandhi’s office and also his advisers were mainly MBA graduates. “As a result, they are not able to give him the right advice or suggest key talking points for his campaign speeches. To strengthen the Congress, it is important for Rahul Gandhi to have a political advisor,” said Ansari, whose son Irfan is currently a legislator from Jamtara.Ansari said he would write to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and seek major changes in the party organisation. Ansari also attacked Jharkhand incharge RPN Singh. “If I were at the helm, I would have not appointed him (Singh) even a block president,” he said. There were demands from state leaders for strict action against Ansari to send a “stern message” to dissenters. Acting on requests from several leaders, party’s Jharkhand working president Kamlesh Mahto Kamlesh issued the show-cause notice to Ansari on behalf of state unit chief Rameshwar Oraon. In the notice, Ansari has been asked to explain his remarks within seven days.Differences in the Congress have surfaced again after the results of assembly elections in Bihar and by-polls in several states. On Thursday, senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge attacked party colleagues for targeting the Congress leadership following defeat in elections, accusing them of “weakening” the party from within.“We have to fight unitedly. It has pained me that some senior leaders have spoken against the party and its leadership,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-issues-notice-to-jharkhand-leader/story-Uue9HcBHC1k38RUR15PdfP.html
20-11-2020||India||14, including 6 children, die in road accident in UP’s Pratapgarh||Fourteen people, including six children, of a wedding party were killed and few others injured when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a parked truck in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh late on Thursday night, officials said. The accident took place at a spot on the Prayagraj-Lucknow highway under Manikpur police station of the district, police said.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the road accident and directed senior officials to reach the spot and provide all possible assistance. He also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the accident. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announces a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to next of the kin of the deceased, who lost their lives in the Pratapgarh road accident,” his office said. Anurag Arya, Pratapgarh’s superintendent of police, said the primary investigation suggested that the accident took place when the SUV driver failed to spot the stationary truck and collided with it from behind on the highway near Deshraj Ka Inara village. Passengers trapped in the SUV were taken out and moved to the community health centre (CHC) in Kunda where the 14 of them were declared dead on arrival. The dead included women and children, Arya added.The dead have been identified as Dinesh Kumar (40), Pawan Kumar (10), Dayaram (40), Aman (7), Ramsamujh (40), Ansh (9), Gaurav Kumar (10), Naan Bhaiya (55), Sachin (12), Himanshu (12), Mithilesh Kumar (17), Abhimanyu (28), Parasnath (40) and the driver of the Bolero Bablu (22).Twelve of the deceased are from Jigrapur village while two along with driver are from another village, police added. They had gone to attend a wedding at Shekhpur village in Nawabganj area and were coming back when the accident took place. Locals said the SUV was badly damaged in the collision and police faced difficulties in rescue operation due to darkness. The incident caused grief in the village of the deceased and a large number of their relatives and other villagers assembled at the Kunda community health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-children-among-14-killed-in-road-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-s-pratapgarh/story-sayvXE1jf2LsBpEj70Jm3J.html
20-11-2020||India||Famers plan protest in Delhi from Nov 26||Leaders of different farm bodies from across the country on Thursday announced an indefinite protest in Delhi from November 26 against the recent farm laws passed by the Centre, even as they warned that they would block roads leading up to the Capital if they were not allowed to enter the city.At a meeting of the United Farmers Morcha, an umbrella body of at least 500 farmers’ unions formed to lead the protest, in Chandigarh, it was decided that the members would stage protests outside Parliament – the nation’s power centre – till their demands are met, a leader aware of the developments said. “Whether we are allowed to protest or not, farmers will reach Parliament,” the leader said. “We do not know for how long the protests will continue, but we will not stop till our demands are met. The farmers are making arrangements to stay for three to four months,” said Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, who heads the Haryana chapter of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).The Parliament in September passed three bills that the government said were aimed at unleashing reforms in agriculture and allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. While some experts have hailed the move, farmer bodies and opposition parties allege that the laws will benefit only big businesses.Chadhuni said the government cannot stop people from travelling to the Capital. “If that happens, we have an alternative plan ready,” he said, without divulging what the alternate plan is.According Hannan Mollah, president of the All India Kisan Sabha and seven times MP from West Bengal, and Shiv Kumar Kakaji, convener of All India Kisan Maha Sangh in Madhya Pradesh, the protests will conclude only after their demand to repeal the farm laws are met. They said farmers from Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh will also join the protest that will see active participation of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Farmers’ bodies from Punjab will drive 11 tractors from each village in the state and reach Delhi, the members said. “Farmers across rest of the country will protest simultaneously in their respective states for which a plan is ready as we have asked them to gherao central government offices,” said Mollah.BS Rajewal, a farm leader from Punjab, said that if the Centre invites them for talks, they will attend the meeting, “but the protests from November 26 will continue”.In Thursday’s meeting, the United Farmers Morcha urged political parties to join the protest. “Leader of any political party can join us, but they have to be with the farmers. They should not come as representative of their party,” said Yogendra Yadav, member, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. A seven-member national committee of farm leaders Yadav, VM Singh, Raju Shetty, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Rajewal, Kakaji and Chadhuni has been formed to coordinate the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/famers-plan-protest-in-delhi-from-nov-26/story-wG5g7ugIum0xABTQQlz55O.html
20-11-2020||India||LeT founder Hafiz Saeed gets 10-year sentence in terror financing cases||A Pakistani court on Thursday gave Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, held responsible by India for masterminding the 2008 Mumbai attacks, and two close aides prison sentences totalling ten-and-a-half years in two cases of terror financing -- a decision likely influenced by the pressure brought to bear on Islamabad by the Financial Action Task Force. It is also being seen as an indication of Saeed’s decreasing utility to PakistanBesides Saeed, the others sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in Lahore are Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) leaders Zafar Iqbal and Yahya Mujahid, who served as JuD’s spokesperson for many years. All three have been sanctioned by the UN Security Council. Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rehman Makki, also a top leader of JuD, was given a six-month sentence in the same cases. Saeed, currently serving a prison term in connection with other terror financing cases, was produced for the sentencing by anti-terrorism court judge Arshad Hussain Bhutta. Saeed was given two separate five-year prison terms under provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act for using and providing funds for acts of terrorism. He was also given a six-month prison term for being a member of a banned group. The judge ordered the seizure of Saeed’s “movable and immovable property” and directed him to pay fines totalling Pakistani ₹110,000. All three sentences will run concurrently. Since Saeed is already in jail serving two sentences of five-and-a-half-years given to him in February, he will not serve any extra jail time. Also Read: Pak updates terror list, India says it omits key 26/11 Mumbai attackers“Since the convict has already been convicted... by this court vide judgment dated 12.02.2020, so the punishment awarded to him in this case shall also run concurrently with punishment in said cases,” the court’s order said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the sentencing of Saeed was largely due to pressure on Pakistan from western powers and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to crack down on terror groups and terror financing, including prosecution of those funnelling funds to terrorists. The people added Saeed’s conviction in four separate cases this year could be an indication the military establishment no longer considers him an asset. Virtually all of Saeed’s top aides have been arrested and put on trial, and there are indications that they are no longer playing a role in directing LeT’s operations. “It appears that LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, who was arrested for the Mumbai attacks and later released on bail in 2015, is the main person directing the operations (of the terror group),” said one of the people cited above. Lakhvi’s current whereabouts are not known. A total of 41 cases were registered against Saeed and his aides by Punjab Police after he was arrested in July 2019. Of these cases, two were decided on Thursday, bringing the tally of cases decided so far to 24. The rest are still being heard by anti-terrorism courts. Saeed and his aides are being held in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat jail.  There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to Saeed’s sentencing. Asked about Pakistan-backed terror groups operating in Jammu and Kashmir at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India had protested against Pakistan’s “continued support to cross-border terrorist infiltration into India” and reminded Islamabad of its bilateral commitment to now allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism. Srivastava also the “incessant infiltration of terrorists and induction of weapons to fuel terror activities continues unabated” and these activities weren’t possible without the support of Pakistani forces deployed along the Line of Control. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said Pakistan could say after Saeed’s sentencing in several cases that it has delivered on FATF’s demand for prosecution of those involved in terror financing, and claim a moral victory. “But it’s more important to see what Saeed does next, including the outcome of any appeals in higher courts. The Pakistani establishment may have sacrificed Saeed but his network remains and his son Talha Saeed and Lakhvi are still active. The game is not over yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-founder-hafiz-saeed-gets-10-year-sentence-in-terror-financing-cases/story-UjVsXCMrGbAUOfwTB7AmAI.html
20-11-2020||India||India, China to hold another round of talks on border stand-off||India and China will soon hold another round of talks aimed at achieving complete disengagement and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control, the ministry of external affairs said on Thursday. The border standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC, where both sides have deployed thousands of troops backed by artillery and armoured vehicles, has entered its seventh month. Recent reports suggested the two sides are considering several proposals for thinning troops at some friction points but are yet to make a breakthrough. The eighth round of talks between senior military commanders of the two sides, which was held in Chushul on November 6, was also joined by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry. “The objective of these discussions is to ensure complete disengagement and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-another-round-of-talks-on-border-stand-off/story-fK7vYVKnxzegq7dpnmHhcP.html
20-11-2020||India||Joint Parl Committee grills Twitter on Kamra; row erupts over jurisdiction||Microblogging site Twitter faced heat at a meeting of a joint parliamentary panel on Thursday for not taking down comedian Kunal Kamra’s tweet targeting Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, and was asked to clarify its policy of blocking and removing users and tweets.But the proceedings sparked a political tussle with four Congress lawmakers suggesting that such issues should be dealt by Parliament’s IT Panel headed by Shashi Tharoor. Panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi later dismissed the charge. In the meeting, Twitter policy head Mahima Kaul faced a barrage of questions from angry members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Data Protection Bill when she was summoned for giving “incongruous” written replies to some questions related to the bill. The company, the previous day, submitted a written apology for wrongly showing Ladakh as part of China.JPC chairman Lekhi and Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha raised several questions, with Lekhi telling the Twitter official that both Tankha and she might sue Twitter over Kamra’s tweet even though they belong to different political parties.The comedian’s tweet in question came after a barrage of tweets where he criticised the Supreme Court’s favourable ruling on Arnab Goswami’s bail request. Lekhi, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP, also questioned Twitter’s policy of blocking or removing handles and tweets, and gave seven days to submit detailed response on the policy. “In their submission to the committee they said they follow healthy practices; and that only obscene and profane tweets are blocked. But there is no clear-cut policy on what amounts to profanity or obscenity; their affidavit is not clear on what is their policy is because when we showed them Kunal Kamra’s obscene tweets about the CJI they had no explanation for it,” she said.MPs present in the meeting said it was Tankha who first raised the issue of Kamra’s tweet and said, it amounts to Twitter ridiculing the nation. “In our country, we cannot allow obscene remarks against anyone. And if Twitter is allowing such obscene remarks against CJI, then it can’t be tolerated,” Tankha said, according to the MPs who spoke on condition of anonymity.The MPs quoted above added that the Kamra issue came up in connection to the affidavit by Twitter as discussions veered on the company’s policies on regulating objectionable content.According to two MPs at the meeting, Twitter didn’t assure the panel that the tweet would be removed but said that the issue would be flagged to the appropriate officials at Twitter. “We’ve asked for an answer in seven days. Since there are no laws in India regarding these, we have to talk to the top executives of such service providers,” Lekhi said. But Lekhi’s order asking Twitter to clarify on its policies led to a political row.Senior Congress leader and Parliament’s IT panel chief Tharoor tweeted, “Dear @M_Lekhi, as far as I am aware your Committee was formed for consultations on the Data Protection Bill & its mandate is to report on the statutory provisions continued in the draft Bill. Could you clarify if you have taken on additional responsibilities & on whose authority?”Tharoor’s colleague and member of the JPC, Jairam Ramesh, joined the debate and tweeted, “I could not attend the meeting today, but had I been there I would have raised this very issue. It is not the first time this has happened. The committee headed by @M_Lekhi has no authority over this issue.” Jairam later told HT, “We have a hyper-enthusiastic chairperson with wide-ranging concerns and interests.”Two other Congress MPs, Karti Chidambaram and Saptagiri Ulaka, said the JPC has no jurisdiction to look into the Kamra issue.Lekhi hit back at the party. “I won’t run a law tutorial for Shashi Tharoor when his own party colleague Vivek Tankha has already concurred with me...A member of the IT panel should have better understanding of data protection and algorithm manipulation.”Later, Tharoor responded: “Seems some people do need “tutorials” on the mandate of special committees formed to discuss specific bills. This JtCmt is to discuss the provisions of a draft data protection bill&report thereon. Parliament has not been informed of an expansion of its mandate beyond this task.”Twitter and Facebook were summoned for the second time on Thursday by the JPC after they appeared before the panel last month and opposed the proposed data protection law, India’s first targeted legislation to protect personal data.Members of the panel asked how some posts get 4,000 to 5,000 “likes” while other posts (by the same person) attract more than 100,000 likes -- a question related to a long-held opinion in many quarters in India and overseas that such companies amplify some content and downplay others. Facebook executives maintained they are just a platform and not a publisher of posts or content. But Lekhi and Biju Janata Dal MP Bhartruhari Mahtab dismissed this legal argument and said Facebook can’t escape accountability on what is being posted on its platform. Twitter was also asked why it took more than a month to rectify its mistake on Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joint-parl-committee-grills-twitter-on-kamra-row-erupts-over-jurisdiction/story-gfuf3VcYpfJt8JaBKfT0vL.html
20-11-2020||India||Non-BJP candidates not allowed to campaign, say Gupkar alliance leaders||Members of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration on Thursday accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of “going out of its way” to help the Bharatiya Janata Party by “locking up” PAGD candidates for the upcoming DDC polls citing security concerns.Taking to Twitter, National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said, “The J&K administration is going out of its way to help the BJP & it’s recently created king’s party by locking up candidates opposed to the BJP, using security as an excuse. If the security situation isn’t conducive to campaigning what was the need to announce elections?”The NC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India (Maoist), and the Awami National Conference have formed the PAGD seeking restoration the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution.The constituents of the PAGD are unitedly contesting the upcoming District Development Polls.“What sort of elections are being held in J&K where candidates are being stopped from campaigning? Is this the safe, terror free J&K the Home Minister was tweeting about yesterday?,” Abdullah said.Mehbooba Mufti, the vice-chairperson of the PAGD, alleged that BJP candidates were allowed to campaign freely as against non-BJP candidates.“Non BJP candidates for DDC polls aren’t allowed to campaign freely & are being locked up on the pretence of security. But BJP & its proxies are given full bandobast to move around. Is this the democracy that GOI claimed its promoting in yesterday’s phone convo with US Pres elect?,” Mufti said.The administration, however, has denied the allegations, saying that security was being provided as per the individual’s threat perception. “This is not the case. It may be according to security perception. There is no disparity between the candidates of different parties,” said Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole. Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said that they are putting candidates in secure areas as it was difficult to provide security individually. “It is difficult to provide security to each candidate individually. We are providing collective security measures. Everyone is being put in secure areas and those who go out for campaigning are provided double escort besides securing the area for campaigning,” Kumar told reporters in Srinagar.“Since yesterday, the candidates have started their campaigning. There is no need to fear,” he said. J&K BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-bjp-candidates-not-allowed-to-campaign-say-gupkar-alliance-leaders/story-LEbQbMfEJgF1cJpI8vplZP.html
20-11-2020||India||4 Jaish terrorists gunned down in J&K encounter||Four terrorists affiliated with the Pakistani terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad were killed in an encounter near Nagrota in Jammu district, security officials said on Thursday. Two policemen of the Special Operations Group were injured in the exchange of fire, the officials said. The encounter broke out at around 4.50 am at Ban toll plaza on the Jammu-Srinagar highway following specific input, Jammu zone inspector general of police Mukesh Singh said. “A truck ferrying the terrorists was checked at the toll plaza because we had intelligence inputs. The driver fled from the spot and as soon as a joint team of police and CRPF officials started checking the vehicle, they met with heavy firing,” Singh said. The terrorists also lobbed grenades on security forces, he said. “The truck caught fire after few grenades exploded inside it,” Singh said.“In the exchange of fire, four terrorists were eliminated and two constables were injured. The area is now being sanitised,” he said. The injured constables have been identified as Kuldeep Raj (32) of Akhnoor in Jammu district and Mohammad Ishaq Malik (40) of Neel Qasim Banihal in Ramban district. They have been admitted in GMC Jammu with bullet injuries and their condition is said to be stable, the official said.Several incriminating materials and ammunition, including eleven AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 29 live grenades, six UBGL grenades, mobile phones, compass, pithy bags, were recovered from the slain terrorists, he added.The four terrorists were affiliated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad, the IGP said. “It appeared that they were given a task to carry out a major terror strike, “ he added. A senior police official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the terrorists had infiltrated from across the international border in Jammu region before boarding a Kashmir bound truck on Pathankot-Jammu national highway the preceding night. “However, forces eliminated them in a swift operation,” the official said. The Jammu IGP said that since the announcement of the schedule for District Development Council (DDC) polls, security forces have been receiving intelligence inputs of possible infiltration by Pakistan-based terrorists.“For the last few days, Pakistan has increased attempts to infiltrate militants into this side and to disturb the elections for which the process is on. In this context, Jammu Police and security forces have done a good job by neutralising four Pakistanis (militants). Their aim was to come to Kashmir to disturb the election process,” Singh said.In Srinagar, IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the four terrorists were on their way to the Kashmir valley to disturb the DDC polls scheduled later this month, as Pakistan has been trying to cause trouble in the political process.DDC polls will be held from November 28 to December 22. Results will be declared on December 22.These polls will be the first major political activity in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5 last year, when the Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 of the Constitution and split it into two Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-jaish-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-encounter/story-bIXd6ewfFBQw2P2lIBqi1J.html
20-11-2020||India||Paddy procurement up amid farmers’ agitation||The Union government has procured 28.6 million tonnes of paddy, 18.6% higher than the quantity in the corresponding period last year, with Punjab’s share being the highest at nearly 70%, according to the food ministry’s data until November 17. The government has paid a minimum support price (MSP) value of Rs 54,147 crore so far to nearly 2.7 million farmers in key rice-growing states, such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, the data showed. Punjab alone has contributed over 19.6 million tonnes, which is 69.7% of the total procurement. Last year, till November 17, the government had procured 24.1 million tonnes of paddy. To be sure, production of kharif or summer crops this year is likely to be a record 144.5 million tonnes, marginally higher than the 143.4 million tonnes produced during the kharif season of 2019-20, according to an official forecast. Higher output, buoyed by a robust monsoon, is one of the reasons behind higher procurement this year. The Union government is on course to buying a record quantity of paddy this year also to blunt a politically challenging farmers’ agitation against a set of laws enacted to liberalise the farm sector. Farmers protesting the laws fear the reforms would erode their bargaining power and lead to a collapse of the procurement system, which refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at federally fixed assured prices. Also Read: Punjab farm fires up by nearly 90% over daily average of past 5 years: StudyThe food ministry’s official projections show the government’s total procurement for summer paddy (2020-21) will likely touch 74.2 million tonnes, up from the total quantity of 62.7 million procured during 2019-20, an increase of 18%. The food ministry has expanded its procurement operations for summer-sown crops to cover an estimated 10.5 million paddy growers, against last year’s 10.2 million. The government has also raised by 27% the number of paddy purchase centres, which now stand at 39,122, up from 30,709 last year, official figures show. Higher procurement may make managing stocks difficult unless the government offloads more as food grant to the poor, according to Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. From April to November 2020, the government has made additional offering of free food under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), launched due to Covid-19. This has freed up storage capacities of bulging state-held granaries and made way for higher paddy procurement. The total allocation under the PMGKY is 32.1 million tonnes. This included 21.4 million tonnes of rice and 10.6 million tonnes of wheat. As on September 1, 2020, total federally held food stocks stood at 77.3 million tonnes, up from 71.2 million tonnes on the same date last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-up-amid-farmers-agitation/story-4ehJCjyxdZZzV9VZSxxNhO.html
20-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Decoding the nature of the economic recovery||A series of high frequency indicators has pointed to a growing momentum in the Indian economy. How far this has helped the economy make up for the sharp fall from pre-pandemic levels will become clear only when the second quarter (July-September) GDP figures are released later this month. When disruptions as massive as the current one hit an economy as complex as India’s, growth rates are not the only thing affected. An equally important parameter to track is income distribution, which has its own effect on the economy’s growth trajectory. While the Indian economy does not offer much in terms of high-frequency data to analyse such changes, it is increasingly becoming clear the current economic recovery might not be based on a very broad base. Here’s why:1. Households in India saved more during the lockdownLast week, the Reserve Bank of India released provisional estimates of household savings for the first quarter (April-June) of the current fiscal year. As a share of GDP, household savings were 20.1% in the quarter ending June 30. This number was 10% in March and 7.8% in June 2019. In absolute terms, household savings increased from Rs 3.84 lakh crore in the quarter ending June 2019 to Rs 8.15 lakh crore in June this year. The increase in this savings-GDP ratio is higher than the increase in absolute savings. This is because the denominator (GDP) itself suffered a huge fall – it contracted by 24% on an annual basis – in the June 2020 quarter. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today2. Did India see a paradox of thrift in the first quarter?The term paradox of thrift owes its popularity to John Maynard Keynes who argued that if people try to save more during a recession, it will eventually end up hurting the economy rather than helping it. This is because an increase in (precautionary) savings leads to a fall in consumption and therefore aggregate demand or income. The economic logic of this is not very difficult to understand. If the additional savings of Rs 100 substituted the money spent on eating out, then the people working in the restaurant lose out on incomes. This leads to the restaurant workers cutting down on their purchases, say new clothes for their children. This triggers a vicious cycle of sorts. The Covid-19 pandemic has added another layer to this — forced savings. This is because social distancing requirements stopped a lot of people from undertaking spending such as eating out, travelling or taking vacations, even if they wanted to. The fall in PFCE more than compensated for the increase in household savings in the quarter ending June 30. While things would have improved after the June quarter — much of April and May was in an almost complete lockdown — the magnitude of this improvement will only be known once we have more data. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();3. Rising food inflation’s impact on poor householdsRetail inflation, especially the food component of it, has been very high in the past one year. Food inflation has been growing in double digits in the months of September and October. The fact that this comes on an already high base — food inflation grew at 5.1% and 7.9% in September and October last year — means that absolute prices are really high. Food items have a weight of 39% (47% in rural areas and 30% in urban areas) in the average CPI (consumer price index) basket. As is to be expected, food items have a much bigger weight in consumption spending of poor households. According to the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey of the National Sample Survey Office — these are the latest available figures — the bottom 50% of household spent more than half their consumption expenditure on food. At a time when pandemic-related headwinds to income and employment continue to persist, the sharp rise in food prices must have created a big squeeze on non-food spending by poor households. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();4. Stocks rally driven by an ‘investment of last resort’?India’s benchmark equity index, the BSE Sensex reached an all-time high on November 18. That this has happened is not surprising. The stock market has shown what is referred to as a V-shaped recovery after falling temporarily in the initial phase of the lockdown. This is despite the fact that most institutional forecasts have predicted a double-digit contraction for the Indian economy in the current financial year. What explains this? A look at one of the most basic indicators of stock market performance, the price to earnings or PE multiple, suggests that the current stock market rally is not backed by objective performance. The PE multiple measures price of a share to earnings per share. This multiple has increased rapidly after the lockdown, underlining the speculative nature of the current boom. This, when read with the fact that the rest of the economy does not have many investment opportunities to offer could also mean that it has been acting as “an investment of last resort” of sorts for people with a glut of savings. An economy where the relatively poor have lost incomes and jobs, are having to spend more on buying food, and where the rich are facing a savings glut because they cannot spend even if they want to and are perhaps therefore investing in stocks presents a mixed picture. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-decoding-the-nature-of-the-economic-recovery/story-0p02Z5Syux6xlVgoUQltrI.html
20-11-2020||India||UP child molester nabbed: Whistleblower tipped off CBI, gave key proof||An anonymous whistleblower tipped off the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and provided evidence against a Uttar Pradesh government employee who is facing life imprisonment for allegedly sexually exploiting 50 children for a decade and distributing photos and videos of their abuse to paedophiles across the world, said officers of the agency on Thursday.This anonymous whistleblower -- whom CBI referred to as a “reliable source” in its first information report (FIR) --gave the investigators a pen drive with 34 videos, 679 pictures, three phone numbers and three email IDs used to post the videos on the dark web, according to the FIR, a copy of which has been seen by HT. This tranche of evidence, along with the agency’s own investigation, helped the CBI zero in on Ram Bhavan Singh,a suspended junior engineer with the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department who was posted in Chitrakoot district for the past 11 years and allegedly molested children between 5 and 16. “This reliable source told the CBI that Ram Bhavan and others were involved in transmission of obscene material depicting children in sexual acts, as well as unnatural offences committed on minors, in Banda, Chitrakoot and nearby areas in Uttar Pradesh,” said one of the officials quoted above. The whistleblower may be connected to the operation, added the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.Singh -- who is charged under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code -- is currently in Banda jail. On Thursday, additional district and sessions judge Rizwan Ahmad fixed November 24 for the hearing and ordered that the accused remain in judicial custody till November 30.The deferral came following objections raised by defence counsel Anurag Singh Chandel on Thursday. The CBI’s lawyer Ashok Kumar Singh sought time to file a rejoinder. Singh, 40, is accused of sexually abusing children from Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts -- often targeting victims from poor and underprivileged families who he lured with gadgets and electronics. He is also accused of victimising the children of some of his relatives. A second official said during investigation, the CBI found one of the numbers provided by the whistleblower was used to post child sexual abuse material (CSAM) on the dark web, the portion of the internet not covered by search engines and, hence, mostly beyond access for typical users. Often, dark web sites are used for cyber crime because it cannot be accessed by traditional methods or browsers.This particular number was registered to the junior engineer on his address in Banda -- where he was arrested from on Monday by the CBI’s special unit called Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/ Investigation (OCSAE) that deals with matters pertaining to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.A third official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said investigators suspect Singh may not have been working alone, but was part of a syndicate. This is the reason the CBI has added “others” to the FIR.The first official said the three email IDs used to post the videos on the dark web needed sign-in credentials, as otherwise the content was locked behind a paywall to maintain a high degree of anonymity.The FIR mentions that Singh used three mobile phone numbers and three email addresses to upload videos of child abuse. During searches, the CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of CSAM. CBI alleged Singh targeted children of street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers and domestic helps who worked at his two-room rented house in Chitrakoot, where he lived for 10 years. The children hailed from Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts.“During interrogation, the accused revealed that he targeted children who could easily be lured with money, electronic gadgets, eatables or any other thing they were deprived of. Ram Bhavan believed that he could easily handle the families,” said the third official.This official said on two occasions in the past 10 years, the children complained about him to their parents, but Singh allegedly hushed up the matter by paying money to the poor parents. The parents also may have chosen to remain silent, fearing that going public with the accusation would bring their families a bad name.Singh came on the radar of the CBI’s OCSAE unit after the agency busted the location of uploading child pornography recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-child-molester-nabbed-whistleblower-tipped-off-cbi-gave-key-proof/story-8twCeoMv7ex9ceTRziJe0L.html
20-11-2020||India||Court summons law student who accused Chinmayanand of rape for appearance on Nov 27||The special MP-MLA court on Thursday ordered the law student who had accused former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand of sexual harassment, to appear on November 27 before it to record her statements.“The court has ordered the law student to appear before it to record her statements as to why she has disowned her allegations of sexual harassment against Chinmayanand,” said Abhay Tripathi, prosecution lawyer representing the state. Meanwhile, accountant Gaurav Gupta of the Swami Shukdevanand Post-Graduate College, Shahjahanpur, where the law student studied, appeared before the court to record his statement. He was the sixth prosecution witness to appear before the court of Pawan Kumar Rai, special judge. The former minister is president of the managing committee of the college. Gupta testified that the law student was also working in the college library while studying law and was drawing salary. The prosecution has listed 33 witnesses to appear before the court. Thereafter, the defence will get an opportunity to produce their witnesses. The law student had disowned her accusations before the court, through her lawyer, on October 13 last and denied that she had levelled any allegation of sexual harassment against Chinmayanand. A case has been filed against her under Section 340 of the Cr PC for lying in court. This is a miscellaneous case in addition to the ongoing State Vs Chinmayanand case. “In all her FIRs, even the one lodged in New Delhi, the law student had levelled allegations of sexual harassment against the former minister. Now she has disowned these allegations. This is a clear case of perjury,” Tripathi pointed out. The sexual harassment case came to light in August last year when the woman went missing from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Later, she released videos alleging rape and sexual harassment by the former minister. The state government formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter and SIT lodged an FIR against the former minister under Section 376-C of the IPC. It also implicated the law student for extortion.Chinmayanand and the law student were arrested and sent to jail in September last year. In February this year, the Allahabad high court granted bail to Chinmayanand. The woman also secured bail and is currently out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-summons-law-student-who-accused-chinmayanand-of-rape-for-appearance-on-nov-27/story-Ou4Wrrwzmrp3pCX3kOlzVO.html
20-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday, New York City decided to shut its public schools from Thursday after the city reached a positivity rate (seven-day average) of 3%. This is among the lowest bars anywhere in the US, but given New York’s debilitating first brush with the pandemic back in March and April, it is one that is perhaps justified. New York moved quickly to reopen some of its public schools in September, but with the second wave of the pandemic beginning to take hold of the city (and the state), it has been clear for days now that a closure was imminent.The announcement of the closure came around the same time Unicef released a report on the impact of Covid-19 on children, which said that only 24% of schoolchildren around the world have access to Internet channels. India is relatively better off. A recent study by Azim Premji University found that 40% of children in 1,522 schools surveyed across 26 districts in five states had access to online methods of learning.Also Read: New York City schools to close again to stop renewed spread of Covid-19India’s approach to schooling during the pandemic has been very different from that of most other countries. In Europe and the US (and even Australia), the emphasis has been on keeping schools open as long as possible. During phased lockdowns imposed in some regions in these countries and in Europe, schools have usually been the last to close – and the first to reopen. India kept schools closed for months, and allowed their partial and conditional reopening only in mid-October, although many states and Union territories didn’t do this till November. Some still haven’t. India’s decision wasn’t entirely unexpected; nor is it unjustified. It is difficult to ensure social distancing, masking, and other protocols, in both public schools as well as private ones of varying hues. There’s also the issue of transport – many children use public or shared transport to get to school and back, and a large-scale reopening of schools could overwhelm a transport system that itself is returning to normal only now.Yet, science is reasonably clear that the risks of returning to school are extremely low for younger children.As the Unicef report points out “data from 191 countries collected from February to September show no consistent association between school reopening status and Covid-19 infection rates”. The report also refers to a study across 31 countries by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control that found “child-to-child transmission in schools was uncommon and not the primary cause of Covid-19 in children who were infected during the time that they attended school”. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt is older schoolchildren who are more at risk (and, of course, teachers and staff). Many Indian states have allowed schools to reopen for older children, though, worried especially about those in Class X and Class XII (the two years when children appear for examinations conducted by their respective boards) who may either not have access to online resources or not be taking well to online education.This columnist believes that states and Union territories should have reopened schools for younger children – despite the logistical and other challenges, it is safer for them to be in school, than older children – and also ensure, as Dispatch 108 on July 18 suggested, that every child has access to a device and an Internet connection. This would have helped address contingencies, such as the one New York is facing now, and also dealt with the issue of older children. Indeed, children from Classes IX to XII who are currently allowed in school in most states should be the ones staying at home simply because they face higher risks of infection (than younger children).Finally, as the Unicef report explains, young children depend on schools for more than just education – “… nutrition, psychosocial support and health services…”It would be unfair to deprive them of those.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-aEYa5wGhep3qMxnx3mO3pN.html
20-11-2020||India||BJP seeks Naveen Patnaik’s resignation after 2 custodial deaths in Odisha||Odisha’s director general of police on Thursday promised action as per NHRC guidelines hours after two custodial deaths in Sundargarh and Puri district triggered massive protests with people trying to force their way into a police station and the opposition BJP demanding the resignation of chief minister Naveen Patnaik.DGP Abhay said police were waiting for post-mortem reports in the case of two alleged cases of custodial deaths in Puri and Biramitrapur town in which a 33-year-old and 26-year-old youth died respectively. The police chief said the autopsies were being videographed.“Necessary action would be taken as per NHRC guidelines,” he said.In Puri, family members of a Telugu youth named K Ramesh and members of Puri Bar Association staged protest after reports that Ramesh of Baseli Sahi had died in police custody. The family members of the youth had a face-off with police at district headquarters hospital where the post-mortem was being conducted. The members of Puri Bar Association also joined the protest alleging police excesses.Denying any excesses, Puri’s superintendent of police Akhileswar Singh said they got a tip-off on Wednesday that Ramesh, a known anti-social, was planning to execute a crime. “When a team of police chased to catch him, Ramesh attacked the security forces. There was a scuffle between the police and Ramesh during which he sustained injuries. Some of our officers also got minor injuries. He was taken to the police station and later shifted to hospital after he complained of body pain. He was declared dead by the doctors. We are however treating the death as custodial death,” said Singh.The SP said the accused was recently released from Talcher jail and several cases were pending against him in Sadar, Sea Beach and Kumbharpada police stations in Puri.In Biramitrapur town of Sundargarh district, an irate mob tried to storm into Biramitrapur police station on Thursday after a 26-year-old youth named Tariq Salim allegedly died in police custody.Tariq worked in a garage and was picked up by cops on Wednesday in connection the case of kidnapping of a businessman. However, his health deteriorated and he was admitted to the Kuarmunda Hospital and later shifted to the Rourkela Government Hospital where he died. Following his death, hundreds of locals gheraoed Biramitrapur police station alleging custodial death.“There were injury marks on Tariq’s body and we suspect he was thrashed inside the police station. We have no idea why police picked Tariq as the officials did not inform us anything,” said a protestor.Sundergarh SP Sagarika Nath however refuted the allegation of custodial death saying the youth died in hospital after complaining of uneasiness. “On advice of the doctors, we shifted him to RGH where he was declared brought dead,” she said, adding that a DSP ranked officer will conduct a probe and strict action will be taken against those found guilty.The twin custodial deaths gave the opposition ammunition a day ahead of the winter session of the Odisha assembly with leader of opposition Pradipta Naik of the BJP demanding chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s resignation.“We would take on the government on deteriorating law and order situation in the state. CM Naveen should leave his chair at once, because he seems to have become morally bankrupt.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-seeks-naveen-natnaik-s-resignation-after-two-custodial-deaths-in-odisha/story-0VSSDsmujqE5QSkDMIDsFK.html
20-11-2020||India||India, EU condemn use of proxies for cross-border terrorism||In an indirect reference to Pakistan, India and the European Union on Thursday called on all nations to take immediate and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks on other countries. The virtual counter-terrorism dialogue between the EU and India also strongly condemned terrorism in all forms and manifestations, including the “use of terrorist proxies for cross-border terrorism”, according to a joint statement. Without naming Pakistan, the joint statement said the two sides “reviewed threats posed by UN-sanctioned terrorist entities and emphasised the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks”. The statement added: “They also underlined the urgent need for all countries to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks on other countries.” India and EU are currently negotiating a working arrangement between Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation to support law enforcement authorities on both sides in preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism. The two sides sought stronger international cooperation to combat terrorism in a comprehensive and sustained manner, and said it is crucial to bring perpetrators of violence and terrorism to justice. “India condemned the recent terror attacks in the member states of the European Union and expressed condolences to the families of the victims. The EU reiterated its condemnation of terrorist attacks in India, including 26/11 Mumbai, Pathankot and Pulwama, and reiterated its support for the people and government of India in the fight against terrorism,” the joint statement said. The two sides described counter-terrorism cooperation as an important element of the EU-India strategic partnership, and discussed the need to work together at multilateral forums such as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Global Counterterrorism Forum and the UN, including the UN High-Level Counter-terrorism Week 2021 and the upcoming review of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. They also exchanged views on counter-terrorism challenges, including radicalisation and violent extremism, terror financing, and terrorist use of the internet. “The participants also discussed sanctions as a tool to combat terrorism, including designations of certain terrorist groups and individuals. They discussed ways to deepen cooperation between Indian agencies and their European counterparts, including Europol, to enhance interaction in the sphere of counter-terrorism,” the joint statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-condemn-use-of-proxies-for-cross-border-terrorism/story-icyQSxkiZ23YukS7XU6MrO.html
20-11-2020||India||Bharat Biotech vaccine trial results out soon||Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covaxin’s phase 2 trial results are ready to be out, according to government officials familiar with the development . “We are expecting the phase 2 results of Covaxin to be made available any time now,” said a senior government official, requesting not to be identified. The company recently announced that it had started phase 3 trials for its vaccine candidate which is India’s first vaccine candidate against Covid-19. VK Paul, member (Health), Niti Aayog, who also chairs the national vaccine administration committee, in a briefing on Covid-19 situation on Tuesday had also said that they were expecting the phase 2 results soon. “For the Bharat Biotech-ICMR vaccine candidate, Covaxin, has also progressed, and phase 3 has started. The results of their phase 2 trials are expected anytime now,” Dr Paul had said. For the Phase 2 trial, Bharat Biotech had recruited 400 participants, and for its phase 1 trial 375 participants were recruited. The vaccine candidate seems to have been largely safe, and significantly triggered body’s immune response needed to fight off the infection, according to the officials. Covaxin has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV) using inactivated Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The virus was isolated in an ICMR lab. The company is looking at a production capacity of about 150 million doses annually. Five vaccines against Covid-19 are at various stages of human trials in the country, of which two candidates are currently undergoing the advanced phase 3 trials. Apart from Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India is conducting the phase 3 trial with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate. Cadila’s vaccine candidate, ZyCovD, has also completed the phase 2 trial, and is awaiting results even as the follow up period is nearing its end. The sputnik V Russian vaccine phase 2/3 trial, for which India’s Dr Reddy’s labs has tied up with the Russian vaccine developers and is moving ahead in collaboration, is going to start next week. Also, Biological E vaccine candidate will also start early phase1/2 trials soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-trial-results-out-soon/story-XkyFXE6KuDOmdhQmShynZO.html
20-11-2020||India||Feluda test kit to be made available in 8 metro cities||New Delhi Feluda, the indigenously developed testing kit for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) based on the gene-editing technology Crispr will be rolled out across eight centres of Apollo hospitals in eight metro cities, beginning with Delhi, people familiar with the matter said. The kit was launched by the Tata group in collaboration with the Apollo group of hospitals on Thursday.The test kit would first become available in Apollo labs in Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, and Ahmedabad, people aware of the matter said, identifying the first week of December for the rollout. The Apollo group has 100 clinics and 75 labs nationwide, which will progressively adopt the new technology for testing. The kit has been commercially branded as TataMD Check, and offers results within 45 minutes with accuracy levels comparable to the gold standard of Covid-19 tests: the RT-PCR method. The new test will work by collecting a swab sample from which RNA is extracted and amplified using a thermocycler. The sample is then tested using a paper strip barcoded with the Cas-9 protein of the Crispr system, which recognises the genetic material of the Sars-CoV-2 virus . The strip displays lines to show whether a person has the virus that causes Covid-19, just like a home-based pregnancy testing kit. The Tata MD Check will use an artificial intelligence based mobile application to capture a photograph of the test strip and give the results to eliminate errors. “Initially, the samples will be read both manually and with the AI technology just to be doubly sure. Eventually, the process can be completely automated,” said Chandrashekhar, CEO of Apollo Healthcare and Lifestyle Limited.  “RT-PCR tests have to be conducted in a batch and then every result has to be validated by a trained person, which takes time. In this, smaller number of samples can also be tested and the AI-based system means that the test can be quickly read and uploaded,” said Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO of Tata MD. “This is not just a test kit, it is a testing solution,” said Krishnamurthy. The test results will also have photographs of the sample collected and the sample in the laboratory to increase transparency. The kits can be monitored at every level of transportation and a sensor on the packaging checks that they were stored at the right temperature. “The addition of Tata MD Check as part of the testing arsenal will be a boost to the ongoing efforts against this pandemic. We are happy to further the cause of AatmaNirbhar Bharat in providing the launch pad for adoption of this indigenously developed test. Individuals can download Apollo 24/7 app with the benefit of availing reports within 2 hours,” said Dr Sangita Reddy, joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals. Although the Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd (TataMD) did not give the actual cost to consumers, they maintained the price would comply with “government capping” for other molecular tests such as RT-PCR, CBNAAT or TrueNat. The team of scientists that had developed the test at Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology had said that not only would the test be simpler and as accurate as RT-PCR but is likely to be cheaper than it. The new kit has a high sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 98%, meaning it can accurately detect both positive and negative cases. It was approved for use by the Indian Council of Medical Research in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feluda-test-kit-to-be-made-available-in-8-metro-cities/story-sOAr6repyHYSWkkylPsGsK.html
20-11-2020||India||Punjab farm fires up by nearly 90% over daily average of past 5 years: Study||The number of crop stubble fires in neighbouring Punjab registered an increase of 89.7% this year when compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years, according to an analysis of satellite data done by a team of scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi.Scientists at IIT-Delhi’s Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA), who did the analysis, said the number of fire counts almost doubled this year in most districts of Punjab, which contributed majorly to the high PM 2.5 levels --- the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air in October-November.. In the case of Haryana, however, the fire counts reduced by 18% when compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years.“This year, crop stubble burning started earlier than usual because of early harvest of some paddy varieties. Farm fires started from late September itself, which usually starts from the first week of October. The satellite data analysed from September 22 to November 18 of farm fires in Punjab shows there was an 89.7% increase in the number of fire counts, as compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences and coordinator, CERCA at IIT-Delhi. On any given day, Dey said, the number of daily fires was almost double the average daily count over the past five years. Between November 5 and 10, Delhi saw six consecutive days of ‘severe’ air. On November 5, the number of total fire counts in Punjab was 5,107, much higher than 3,191, the average fire count recorded on the same day during 2015-19. Similarly, on November 6 and 7 this year, the fire counts were 4,130 (against the average count of 3,043 in the past five years) and 5,076 (against the average count of 2,747).Also Read: AAP writes to air quality panel, points role of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution“The fire counts started showing a downward trend only after November 14. However, a slight increase was again noticed on November 17-18, the impact of which could also be seen in the current air quality,” said Dey. Krunesh Garg, member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said the number of fire counts this year was higher, but data was still being collated to ascertain the reasons behind the rise.“In the analysis so far, the burnt area has not increased. Even though the area under paddy cultivation was less this year than last year, what could possibly be one of the factors behind the rise (of fires) is an increase in productivity. Data is being collated to substantiate it and it will take another 8-10 days for a complete analysis,” said Garg. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the contribution of farm fires to PM 2.5 levels in Delhi’s air had peaked to around 40% in October. It came down only after Diwali (November 14). The low fire counts combined with rain and good winds post-Diwali helped clean up Delhi’s air from ‘severe’ to ‘poor’ and even ‘moderate’ for a day.Delhi’s AQI has fluctuated between poor to severe and moderate in a matter of five days between November 13 and 17. From an AQI of 435 on November 15, which is in the severe zone, the air improved to poor (221) on November 16 and moderate (171) on Tuesday. However, it fell to poor again on Wednesday (211), as the contribution of stubble fires increased.On Thursday, the air quality deteriorated further to the higher end of the ‘poor’ zone. The average air quality index (AQI) was 283 in the ‘poor’ zone. SAFAR said the deterioration in the air quality was mainly on account of a rise in the contribution of stubble fires to the city’s PM 2.5 levels to 20% on Thursday from 8% the previous day.“The overall air quality of Delhi is likely to deteriorate to very poor by Thursday evening itself. Stubble burning’s share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is estimated at 20%. The air quality may improve marginally on November 22 with good wind speed likely around this time,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.Also Read: Haryana logs 46% rise in farm fires this yearAccording to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the average wind speed has been around 12-15 kmph, which is favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. The deterioration in air quality can be attributed to a slight increase in fire counts, as the wind direction is north-westerly and is bringing fumes from Haryana and Punjab. Also, a fall in temperature may add to slow dispersion.On Thursday, Delhi recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season at 9.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The maximum settled at 25.6 degrees C, two notches below normal.“The wind speed has remained good and is likely to be the same over the next two days. A dip in mercury and continuing stubble fires may result in slight deterioration,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/punjab-farm-fires-up-by-nearly-90-over-daily-average-of-past-5-years-study/story-Ayjg3dsege2rU62Wme65rN.html
20-11-2020||India||‘Children maybe last in line to get access to Covid-19 vaccine,’ says Adar Poonawalla at HTLS 2020||Children in India may have to wait for a little bit longer to get their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine when it is available in the country since the deadly viral infection is less of a nuisance for them, Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla indicated at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday.“They can still be carriers of the contagion though and may be the last ones to be vaccinated. It will possibly take more than 4 months for the vaccine to be available for children since they are the least vulnerable,” Poonawalla said.WATCH | ‘Covid vaccine rollout likely in 3 to 4 months’: Adar Poonawalla at #HTLS2020The Serum Institute of India’s CEO was participating in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in conversation with HT’s Health Editor Sanchita Sharma. The maiden session also saw Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS and Dr Ashish K Jha, Dean, Brown University School of Public Health discussing the Covid-19 health crisis and how it had affected the entire world. Dr Guleria, who has been at the forefront of India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic since the outbreak in March 2020, also warned the population to be more cautious now than ever before since a suitable vaccine for the viral disease was just round the corner.Watch | SII’s Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine, pricing and rollout at #HTLS2020 Poonawalla has invested close to 250 million dollars to manufacture a vaccine for Covid-19. “I had no other moral choice...I felt it was almost my responsibility. If I had not taken a call then, we would have lost 6 months. I took the call to commit to manufacturing a vaccine and it has worked out for us. There was a lot of stress but it has all worked out...we are on auto-pilot now waiting for the results to come and then we can start churning out the vaccines,” Poonawalla said.He elaborated that as soon as the UK authorities approved the vaccine for emergency use and other regulatory approvals were in place, the Serum Institute of India would start rolling out the vaccines for frontline healthcare workers and the elderly, who were most vulnerable to the infection. Also Read| HTLS 2020: Dr Ashish Jha asks people not to worry about long-term immunity from Covid-19SII, which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume has entered into an agreement with the co-developer of the vaccine, British firm AstraZeneca for manufacturing of about 1 billion doses of the vaccine and its distribution and sale in India and other low-income countries.Also Read| HTLS 2020: Is India ready for another pandemic? AIIMS director Dr Guleria answersThe theme of this year’s edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020, held virtually, is ‘Defining a New Era’ as the world learns to live and deal with the Coronavirus infection and takes baby steps in controlling the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-maybe-last-in-line-to-get-access-to-covid-19-vaccine-says-adar-poonawalla-at-htls-2020/story-gtvIh9Hn4UxvcSYhm5JD5H.html
20-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Is India ready for another pandemic? AIIMS director Dr Guleria answers||Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), told Hindustan Times on Thursday that India’s journey amid the Covid-19 pandemic has been “innovative and interesting”. Describing India as a “resilient nation”, Guleria said the country has the kind of will to brave another pandemic. Dr Guleria, however, called for more investment in the public sector and the need to learn from this pandemic so that the “same mistakes are not repeated” in the future. Covid: How many Indians will get vaccine next year? Dr Guleria answers #HTLS2020“We started by panicking about enough PPEs and labs, we now have the capacity to export PPEs. We are doing 1.5 million tests a day and for our country that is a huge achievement,” he said. Also read: HTLS 2020 - ‘Thrilled with Covid-19 vaccine leap,’ says Brown University expertDr Guleria said there has been a lot of learning over the past few months and it has shown that India has the willpower to overcome another such pandemic.  #HTLS2020 | Is India ready to fight another pandemic in the future? Here’s what Dr. Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS has to say pic.twitter.com/lhA1cfZQIU“But there has to be more investment in the public sector and involvement of healthcare professionals... whenever we have another pandemic we must learn from this and not repeat the same mistakes,” he added. Dr Guleria was speaking at the opening session of this year’s Hindustan Times Leadership Summit which also saw Dr Ashish K Jha, dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health, in participation. The experts talked about the raging pandemic, converged their learnings and discussed the challenges ahead. Also Read: ‘Children maybe last in line to get access to Covid-19 vaccine,’ says Adar Poonawalla at HTLS 2020The experts shared their excitement on the breakthrough in Covid-19 vaccine recently reported by leading pharmaceutical giants Moderna and Pfizer. “We must not underestimate the challenges but we must still celebrate the scientific breakthrough and this good news,” Jha told Hindustan Times editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-is-india-ready-for-another-pandemic-aiims-dr-guleria-answers/story-ZLFdzOie0LV1Q9sWc17fxH.html
20-11-2020||India||Ready to defeat terrorism coming from sea, says Navy after PM praises forces||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised security forces for thwarting possible terrorist attacks on 26/11 anniversary, the Indian Navy on Friday said the force is fully prepared to defeat terrorism emanating from sea.Indian Navy Deputy Chief Vice Adrimal MS Pawar on Friday assured that the Navy is very well prepared to defeat every threat of terrorism at sea or from sea.“In next five days it will be 12 years since the cowardly terrorist attacks of 26/11 in Mumbai. I want to assure the country that Indian Navy together with all stakeholders is prepared to defeat every threat of terrorism at sea or from sea.” Pawar told ANI in an exclusive interaction.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi congratulated the security forces for thwarting the nefarious plot to target grassroot-level democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir by Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed.The Mumbai terror attacks lasted for four days from November 26, 2008 killing 166 people and injuring over 300. In these gruesome attacks, 9 terrorists were killed and the lone survivor, Ajmal Amir Kasab, was caught and was sentenced to death at Yerwada Central Jail in Pune in 2012. On November 11, 2012, Kasab was hanged in Yerawada Jail in Pune.MS Pawar also talked about on significance of 24th edition of Malabar exercise and said that it helped us to reassure international community about our collective commitment to a free, open, and inclusive and a rules based Indo-Pacific with the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) at its vey core.The second phase of the Malabar exercise began on Tuesday in the Northern Arabian Sea with the participation of Indian Navy aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the American aircraft carrier USS Nimitz along with other Indian, US, Australian and Japanese warships carrying out ‘Malabar-2020’ wargames.The Australian Navy is taking part with its warship HMAS Ballarat and Japan with destroyer JS Murasame. The second phase of the Malabar exercise will be conducted in the Northern Arabian Sea till November 20. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-defeat-terrorism-coming-from-sea-says-navy-after-pm-praises-forces/story-CtIKC5bq9mTrErwMQrRNoL.html
20-11-2020||India||DMK chief’s son, Udhayanidhi Stalin detained while launching poll campaign, released later||DMK president MK Stalin’s son and the party’s youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin was detained on Friday evening in Nagapattinam district of Tamil Nadu, while he was launching the DMK’s new campaign. Reports cited Covid-19 pandemic restrictions which don’t allow political meetings as the reason for his detention. “Entire Tamil Nadu is against a repressed AIADMK under the fascist BJP regime,” tweeted Udhayanidhi after being detained. “I launched this campaign to unite us in this sentiment.” DMK on Friday introduced a 75-day long statewide campaign called ‘Stalin’s voice towards a new dawn’ in the run-up to the assembly elections in early 2021 in Tamil Nadu. Udhayanidhi launched the campaign in Thirukkuvalai (in Nagapattinam) -- the birthplace of DMK patriarch and former chief minister M Karunanidhi. The two-fold objective of the campaign is to highlight “10 years of misrule under the AIADMK government” and to consult with people to shape DMK’s policies. Senior party leaders condemned his arrest and called for his immediate release. DMK MP Kanimozhi questioned how chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami travelled for meetings. As news of the arrest unfolded, AIADMK’s consultative meeting at their party headquarters in Chennai was going on, ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the city.Superintendent of Police of Nagapattinam district, Om Prakash Meena confirmed that Udhayanidhi and DMK party workers were arrested for violating Covid-19 restrictions and were later released. While they were briefly detained at a marriage hall, the party staged road blockades in different districts in the state. Udhayanidhi has said he will continue with the campaign “despite obstacles”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-chief-s-son-udhayanidhi-stalin-detained-while-launching-poll-campaign-released-later/story-pBUjUKlaSrZgad0dYygw6K.html
20-11-2020||India||Over 50 Covid-19 containment zones added in Delhi in 24 hours||Delhi recorded 6,608 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday while 62,425 tests were conducted, bringing the positivity rate down to 10.59 per cent. A total of 118 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The number of people under home isolation also came down to 24,042 from Thursday’s figure of over 25,000.The city had recorded its highest 131 single-day deaths on November 18.On Thursday, the number of containment zones in the city was 4,501. On Friday, the number shot up to 4560. South West Delhi has 743 containment zones — the highest among the districts. The AAP government on Thursday increased the fine for not wearing masks from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 and directed private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for coronavirus patients. Private hospitals have also been directed to increase the percentage of non-ICU Covid-19 beds from 50 per cent to 60 per cent.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked hospitals to postpone non-critical planned surgeries for the time being.The government also said it will increase the number of RT-PCR test to 27,000 a day in the national capital and MBBS students and interns will be engaged to tackle the Covid-19 situation.Taking part in Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Arvind Kejriwal on Friday hinted at an improvement in the Covid-19 situation of the Capital, which is being called the third wave of Covid-19. ““In the last few days, the positivity rate has dropped from 15% to 13% on November 17 and today on November 20, it is at 10.5%. So the positivity rate in Delhi has dropped by 5% in five days. This has given us hope that we may perhaps be past the peak of the third wave of infection that the city has been reeling under,” the Delhi chief minister said.The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-covid-19-containment-zones-added-in-delhi-in-24-hours/story-UI71LAiOJ0f1rq5VEWtJVK.html
20-11-2020||India||Hong Kong bars Air India flights for fifth time as passengers test positive for Covid-19||Air India has been barred from operating between Delhi and Hong Kong from November 20 till 3rd December. This is the fifth time Hong Kong put an embargo on Air India flights as several passengers have been tested Covid-19 positive in the past few months. The airline has said passengers with Covid-19 negative test reports done 72 hours prior to departure, from Labs recognised by ICMR, are allowed to board flights to Hong Kong.In October, Air India barred flights from Munbai till November 10. The previous bans were on the airline’s Delhi-Hong Kong flights during ugust 18-31, September 20-October 3, and October 17-30.All international passengers are required to undergo a post-flight Covid-19 test at the Hong Kong airport.Besides India, a pre-flight Covid-19 negative certificate is mandatory for all passengers from Bangladesh, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa, the UK and the US, according to the Hong Kong government’s rules.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hong-kong-bars-air-india-flights-for-fifth-time-as-passengers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-6rZAjUTU4ej9UMByWX1jhP.html
20-11-2020||India||IPS officer Ashok Kumar to be Uttarakhand’s new DGP, to take charge on November 30||Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashok Kumar has been appointed the new Director General of Police (DGP) of Uttarakhand The state government issued an order in this regard on Friday evening. The order issued by secretary, state home department, Nitesh Kumar Jha stated that Kumar would take charge from present DGP Anil Kumar Raturi on November 30. “Ashok Kumar was selected from a panel of three IPS officers as per the norms. The other two IPS officers in the panel were V Vinay Kumar and MA Ganapathy. Kumar will take charge on November 30 when Raturi retires,” stated Jha in the order. Confirming the development, Ashok Kumar said, “The order has been issued but I will take charge on November 30. My main focus as DGP would be to maintain the law and order in the state and efficient handling of the disasters in hilly areas.”A native of Kurana village in Haryana’s Panipat district, Kumar was born on November 11, 1963. He completed his school education from the village’s government school and then went on to pursue B.Tech and M.Tech from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. He then joined the ranks of IPS in 1989 after cracking the UPSC. Kumar had served in undivided Uttar Pradesh and is currently holding the position of Director General (law and order) in the Uttarakhand police. He has served in the Central Reserve Police Force and Border Security Force on central deputation. He also served under the United Nations in Kosovo in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-ashok-kumar-to-be-uttarakhand-s-new-dgp-to-take-charge-on-november-30/story-fiH7CvAsiHRc3c4zpzPX3K.html
20-11-2020||India||Crucial Kerala BJP meet fails to placate senior party rebels||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) core committee meeting in Kerala on Friday failed to placate a section of leaders who had raised the banner of revolt against the style of functioning of state president K Surendran, said a senior leader who attended the meet. In the midst of local body elections, considered a semi-final before the assembly election due in five months, the party central leadership had issued an ultimatum to the state unit to set the house in order and summoned Surendran to Delhi last week. Dissension in the unit came out in the open after a section was sidelined after the elevation of Surendran. Senior leaders Shobha Surendran, P M Velayudhan and K P Sreesan have expressed their displeasure openly. In the state unit there are two prominent groups-- one led by Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and the other by senior leader P K Krishnadas. The state president is reported to be close to the junior MEA and the other faction alleged that many senior functionaries were sidelined after his elevation. But Surendran denied this saying dissension in the party was the creation of a section of the media. “We had the core meeting to discuss strategy for the local body elections. Dissension is only a media creation. The state unit is united and we will face the poll as a single bloc,” he said. But a senior leader among the dissenters said if the party goes to the local body polls in the present condition, the outcome will be disastrous. There are reports that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is also upset with the growing dissension in the party. Shobha Surendran and many other leaders kept away from the core committee meeting on Friday. When contacted, Shobha Surendran refused to talk. “Some of the senior leaders who were in the party for long were sidelined for more than seven months. The present leadership failed to recognise people who really toiled. It is the duty of the leadership to take everyone along,” said the senior leader admitting the situation was fluid. He said at least 300 district and block-level leaders were keeping away from active politics. A senior RSS leader also said the political situation was fertile for the party in the backdrop of the gold smuggling and narcotics cases that had gripped the ruling dispensation but infighting is threatening to spoil the party’s chances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-kerala-bjp-meet-fails-to-placate-senior-party-rebels/story-rAxO2WnC2GzXufH18FtlcO.html
20-11-2020||India||PM Modi holds review meet to decide India’s vaccination strategy||PM Narendra Modi on Friday said that he has held a review meeting regarding India’s vaccination strategy with several senior officials including foreign secretary Harshvardhan Shringla, NITI Aayog’s VK Paul, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and principal secretary to the PM Dr PK Misra. Several officials from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), ministry of health and welfare and the department of science and technology were also present at the meeting. Reviewed various issues like prioritisation of population groups, reaching out to HCWs, cold-chain Infrastructure augmentation, adding vaccinators and tech platform for vaccine roll-out.PM Modi said, “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals and procurement were discussed.”He further added, “Reviewed various issues like prioritisation of population groups, reaching out to HCWs, cold-chain Infrastructure augmentation, adding vaccinators and tech platform for vaccine roll-out.”The Centre is in talks with several drugmakers in order to procure vaccines for the public. Government officials have said that they have contacted Pfizer as well as Moderna’s upon receiving news that their vaccines are 90% and 94.5% effective. At several events like the United Nations General Assembly and the Invest India Conference in Canada PM Modi highlighted that India has taken all steps to ensure speedy delivery of vaccines and has taken requisite steps to build cold-storage capacities for the vaccines. Earlier on Thursday union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that he was hopeful that the Covid-19 vaccine will roll out in the next three to four months. Addressing the FICCI FLO webinar he had said, “I am confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be ready in the next three-four months. Priority for the vaccine will be designed on the basis of scientific data. Health care workers and corona warriors will naturally be prioritised followed by elderly and disease-prone people.”Serum Institute of India chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla during the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit said that the nation can expect ‘a suitable and effective vaccine for the contagious viral disease by the end of the year or early next year.’ He also said that Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced between Rs 500 - Rs 600 when released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-review-meet-to-decide-india-s-vaccination-strategy/story-AY2sNHFiHbp1yPt290M9zL.html
20-11-2020||India||Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Jaipur: List of new restrictions in cities as Covid-19 cases rise||The number of fresh Covid-19 infections logged daily has come down bringing down the active number of cases below 5 lakh. But there is a surge of Coronavirus in a few cities — most of them had their first wave in June-July. Night curfews, Section 144 are coming back in several cities months after unlocking began.Here’s a city/state-wise list of all new regulations.Delhi1. Fine of Rs 5,000 for not wearing masks and for violating Covid-19 rules2. Only 50 guests allowed at wedding events.3. Markets will remain open but there will be strict surveillance.4. There will be no overall lockdown, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has said.GurgaonThe Haryana government has closed all schools in the state till November 30 as 174 students and 107 teachers have tested positive after schools were reopened. MumbaiSchools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation won’t open this year in Mumbai. The Maharashtra government left the decision of reopening schools with the local administration. Thane too has decided to not reopen schools this year.Ahmedabad1. Complete curfew from Friday 9pm to Monday 6am. Only shops selling milk and medicines will be allowed to remain open. 2. Night curfew from 9pm to 6am will continue. 3. No school, college to reopen from Novembet 23, as it was decided earlier.4. Night curfew has also been imposed in Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara from Saturday.IndoreNight curfew from 10pm to 6am to be implemented from November 21. Only people engaged in essential services and factory workers are exempted. Apart from Indore, night curfew will be in force in Bhopal, Gwalior, Vidisha and Ratlam. But there will be no overall lockdown in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said.JaipurAll districts in Rajasthan will be placed under Section 144 from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gurgaon-mumbai-ahmedabad-indore-jaipur-list-of-new-restrictions-in-cities-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-mTovnRtSxKgy4hOUXNxTqL.html
20-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Night curfew in Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara from tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Night curfew in Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara from tomorrowA day after the Gujarat government imposed a complete curfew in Ahemedabad effective from 9pm of November 20 till 6am of November 23, night curfew has been brought back in Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara between 9pm and 6am in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the state, The reimposition of night curfew will be effective from November 21. Read moreIndian-origin student wins Queen’s Commonwealth Essay contest 2020Aditya Choudhury, a 14-year-old student from Singapore and 16-year-old Ananya Mukerji from India were on Friday declared the senior winner and runner-up of the 2020 Queen’s Commonwealth Essay Competition, the world’s oldest such contest launched in 1883.  Read moreHTLS 2020: Don’t just think about T20 or IPL, look at Tests and ODIs too, says Kapil DevLegendary Indian cricketer and former captain Kapil Dev on Friday said the Indian Premier League (IPL) has strengthened Indian cricket but the board should also focus on traditional formats - Tests and ODIs - instead of only concentrating on the developement of T20 cricket, while in conversation with senior sports writer and journalist Ayaz Memon on day 2 of the 18th edition of Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. Read moreSaif Ali Khan says he’s considering cancelling his autobiography, is sure certain section of Indian audience will abuse himActor Saif Ali Khan has said that he is contemplating ‘chickening out’ of his book deal, and he hasn’t even told his publishers yet. Saif said that he isn’t prepared for the abuse that he will attract for being honest with his story. Read more‘Not the cool girl’: Hina Khan aces monochrome fashion with a twist in graphic Swapnil Shinde dress, turquoise earrings. SEE PICSHina Khan’s transformation onscreen from the sweet and simple bahu Akshara in Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai to Kasautii Zindagi Kayy reboots’s sultry vamp Komolika showcased the stunning actor’s acting prowess, range and style evolution, and much like her onscreen transformation, the 33-year-old former Bigg Boss 11 contestant’s offscreen sartorial sense is easily one of the best among television celebrities. Read moreNissan Magnite first drive review: A one-shot aim at sub-compact SUV is on pointNissan Magnite comes as yet another option for prospective buyers in the Indian sub-compact SUV segment. And while buyers are pampered and peppered with choices galore, Magnite is being widely seen as Nissan’s one-shot aim at glory after years of rather lacklustre performance here. Read moreSun sets for last time in 2020 in this Alaskan town, will rise again in 2021Have you heard about Utqiaġvik, the United States’ northernmost town? Located in Alaska, previously called Barrow, this is a place where the sun sat at 1:30 p.m. on Wednesday. Wondering why that is worth a mention? It’s because the residents of this place will not see the sun gracing the sky again until January next year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-night-curfew-in-rajkot-surat-vadodara-from-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OBXye4KUZ1flhssVtH4IBN.html
20-11-2020||India||Night curfew in Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara from tomorrow||A day after the Gujarat government imposed a complete curfew in Ahemedabad effective from 9pm of November 20 till 6am of November 23, night curfew has been brought back in Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara between 9pm and 6am in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the state, The reimposition of night curfew will be effective from November 21.“Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation declared night curfew from 9 pm to 6 am every day from tomorrow in order to control the spread of COVID-19. The situation was reviewed late night and it has been decided that a complete curfew shall be imposed from tomorrow night 9 pm till Monday morning at 6 am in the city of Ahmedabad,” an order said on Thursday.As many as 1,420 new cases of coronavirus infection were found in Gujarat in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s caseload to 1,94,402, the health department said on Friday evening. The daily figure of new infections has been increasing in the state. On Thursday, Gujarat added 1,340 cases, while on November 12, it had reported 1,120 cases.In the wake of the rising number of cases, schools and colleges in Gujarat will not reopen from November 23.“Gujarat Government decides to postpone the reopening of schools and colleges in Gujarat from November 23 in the wake of the current coronavirus situation,” Chief Minister’s Office tweeted.Earlier, the state government had planned to reopen schools and colleges across the state from November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-rajkot-surat-vadodara-from-tomorrow/story-aMyLuvFTqyTM5n5lX0PLBK.html
20-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court extends judicial custody of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam till Nov 23||A Delhi court Friday extended by three days the judicial custody of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam who were arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat extended their judicial custody till November 23 as sought by the public prosecutor.During the hearing held through video conferencing, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the mandatory time period of 90 days to complete the probe in the case will be completed on November 23 and the charge sheet has to be filed.Khalid and Imam have been arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.When the judge asked Prasad whether the police was going to file the charge sheet on Monday, he did not give any specific date and said he will let the court know on November 23.Advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, opposed the remand application saying it was “hollow” like the earlier applications.The judge then asked Khalid if he was facing the problems now in Tihar prison, as mentioned earlier by him.Khalid replied, “Besides curbing my liberties and a malicious investigation, I am not facing any other issues.” Khalid had earlier alleged that he has not been allowed to step out of his cell or meet anyone while in judicial custody.Also Read |  Delhi riots: Govt grants sanction to prosecute Umar Khalid, othersImam’s counsel Surabhi Dhar informed the court that certain documents which he had written while in custody in Assam was taken from him when he was brought to Delhi and has not been returned yet.Imam too said the documents were taken from him at the gate of Tihar prison.The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 23.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-extends-judicial-custody-of-umar-khalid-sharjeel-imam-till-nov-23/story-2LiI1CNkxBorrQcWQGNNzM.html
20-11-2020||India||Delhi raises fine for spitting, violating social distancing norms to Rs 2,000||Permitting penalty of Rs 2,000 fine on people violating quarantine rules, spitting in public spaces, not following social distancing norms among several such violations, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday amended Delhi Epidemic Disease Management of Covid-19 Regulations 2020, news agency PTI reported. The amendment empowers ‘authorised persons’ to impose Rs 2000 fine for violation of quarantine rules, social distancing norms, not wearing face masks and consumption of pan, gutka etc in public places.The national capital is battling a surge in coronavirus cases in Delhi on a war-footing, prompting the AAP government to announce sweeping measures including a steep Rs 2,000 fine for not wearing masks, reservation of 80 per cent ICU beds in private hospitals, doubling testing centres in every district and postponement of non-critical surgeries at health facilities.The hard line by the AAP government comes days after Kejriwal repeatedly appealed to Delhiites to wear masks amid a surge in coronavirus cases.The national capital has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28, when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time, and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.On Wednesday, the infection tally in Delhi rose to over 5 lakh with 7,486 fresh cases reported, while 131 new fatalities, the highest single-day death count till date, took the toll to 7,943.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-raises-fine-for-spitting-violating-social-distancing-norms-to-rs-2-000/story-ScCABovbpdwASdo2WPHtZJ.html
20-11-2020||India||‘Home isolation, plasma therapy helped Delhi battle Covid-19’: Arvind Kejriwal at HTLS 2020||Outlining a slew of innovative measures that the Delhi government had adopted earlier this year in its battle against the novel Coronavirus, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the capital city’s health infrastructure had not collapsed under the immense strain it had seen largely due to steps taken by his government. Particularly lauding the concept of home isolation, the Delhi chief minister said that a large number of people had effectively managed to recover from the viral disease since they had been put in isolation and treated within the safety net of their homes.WATCH | ‘Every Delhiite will get health e-card’: Kejriwal govt’s new plan #HTLS2020“We initiated a home isolation concept very early this year. Currently, there are 43,000 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi but I do not have that many number of beds in hospitals dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Nearly 25,000 patients of the viral disease are being treated at home under proper supervision of doctors appointed by the government,” he said.ALSO READ | Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate dipped by 5% in 5 days, says Arvind Kejriwal at HTLS 2020Plasma therapy which has been one of the key treatment strategies of Delhi’s handling of the Covid-19 health crisis also came in for a fair share of praise. The Delhi chief minister said that plasma therapy was introduced in the national capital for the first time as early as the month of May. Later, he pointed out that the therapy was also adopted by the United States for treating critically ill Covid-19 patients.The Delhi chief minister pointed out that tele-counselling was another innovation put in place by the Delhi government to provide infrastructural support to those infected with Covid-19 and placed under home isolation. Doctors have been calling such patients twice a day to monitor their health condition and offer appropriate advice. Oximeters were also provided by the Delhi government so that Covid-19 patients under home isolation could monitor their oxygen levels and alert their family members in the event of a dip in their oxygen levels.Kejriwal was participating in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) in conversation with HT’s Executive Editor Kunal Pradhan. On Day 1, held a day earlier, the virtual session saw Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS and Dr Ashish K Jha, Dean, Brown University School of Public Health discussing the Covid-19 health crisis.The theme of this year’s HTLS edition, held virtually, is ‘Defining a New Era’ as the world learns to live and deal with the Coronavirus infection and takes baby steps in controlling the pandemic and embraces the new normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-isolation-plasma-therapy-helped-delhi-battle-covid-19-arvind-kejriwal-at-htls-2020/story-fGP6ycHxRyJA0Rq2u55IvI.html
20-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Delhi’s Covid fight didn’t start from zero, yet we have done well, says Kejriwal||Under fire from several quarters for the third wave of coronavirus hitting the national capital with average new infections going way past the previous highs recorded in the city, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal defended Delhi’s record in fight against Sars-Cov-2 virus and said that despite having started with a disadvantage, the decease containment measures adopted in Delhi have worked well.The chief minister said that by the time governments could understand how to fight the disease and develop containment protocols; a large number of infected people could have already arrived in the capital.Covid 3rd wave, vaccine, pollution: CM Kejriwal on Delhi’s battle #HTLS2020“It was around March 16, when the first quarantine guidelines were released. Around 32,000 travellers had already arrived from infected countries in the capital without any screening,” the chief minister said.He added that as on March 22, when the Delhi government first asked the district officials to identify all the passengers and attempt to isolate them. It was practically impossible to identify these people,” Kejriwal reasoned.He cited the above example to argue that Delhi had faced “several extraordinary situations” during the past days and there have been several factors that were “not in our (the government’s) control” but we (the city) still stood up to the challenge.“Delhi didn’t start its fight (against coronavirus) with a zero, it started with, who knows how many thousand positive cases,” Kejriwal said.The CM was in conversation with HT’s executive editor Kunal Pradhan for 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Friday evening.HTLS 2020: Delhi likely to get cloud-based medical services next year, says Arvind KejriwalThe chief minister also stated that the rise in pollution levels in winters since October 10 due to stubble burning is another factor that is not in the city’s control but contributes to worsening of the infection in the capital.“Delhi has taken several steps to control pollution generated by the city but it has no control over pollution contributed by outside factors. All experts say that pollution has contributed in a big way in bringing the third wave of coronavirus in Delhi,” he said.Pollution also aggravates the coronavirus in patients, he said citing experts.Also Read: Lockdown was necessary, Covid-19 cases were brought under control: Arvind Kejriwal at HTLS 2020Kejriwal further claimed that despite the big peak of cases seen in the third wave, which was way bigger than the one seen in cities like New York, the city had managed the crisis well.“The third wave-- on 11th November, 8593 cases were registered in Delhi. New York City saw a peak on april 6 with 6353 cases. 575 patients died in NY city that day. Patients couldn’t find beds, they were made to lie on roads outside hospitals; there were corpses lying in a heap. NewYork, one of the best cities in one of the most developed countries, had collapsed but Delhi didn’t (during the Covid peak). Delhi is still sustaining,” Kejriwal said.“We have 7.5 thousand corona beds and 450 vacant ICU beds in Delhi as of today. We will add another 100-1500 ICU beds to this capacity in the next couple of days,” he added, backing his argument that Delhi planned and dealt with coronavirus in a much better manner.He revealed that the city’s positivity rate had come down in the last five days by 5% to around 10% and this offers hope that the third wave will blow away very soon if the trend of drop in positivity rates continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-delhi-s-covid-fight-didn-t-start-from-zero-yet-we-have-done-well-says-kejriwal/story-fsgvvvUmL4NalSKd9BY9NN.html
20-11-2020||India||Marriage between first cousins illegal: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said that marriage between first cousins is illegal.The court said that marriage which petitioner man wants to perform with a girl, who is his first cousin, was also per se illegal. “...the submission in the present petition that as and when she (the girl) attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal,” the judge said on Thursday while hearing the petition. The assertion came after a 21-year-old man moved the high court against state of Punjab seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) of the IPC at police station Khanna City-2 in Ludhiana district on August 18. The state counsel, while opposing the bail plea, contented that the girl was a minor and her parents had lodged the FIR as she and the man were first cousins and their fathers were brothers. The man’s counsel told Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan that the petitioner had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, for protection of life and liberty. The court file of the criminal writ petition was summoned during the hearing and as per its memorandum of parties, the girl was stated to be 17 years of age and the petitioner man had filed the petition with the submission that both of them were in a “live-in-relationship”. It was stated in the petition that date of birth of the girl was August 2003 and on the date of filing the petition on September 3, 2020, she was of the age of 17 years and 14 days. Along with petition, a representation was also annexed, in which the girl had stated that her parents loved their sons but ignored her, therefore, she decided to live with her friend (petitioner) and on that account, she was apprehending that her parents can harass them and disturb the peace of their mind. The court disposed of this petition on September 7. The state was directed to grant them protection if any threat was perceived to the man and the girl. However, the judge made it clear “that this order shall not be taken to protect the petitioners (man and the girl) from legal action for violation of law, if any, committed by them”. The judge, after hearing counsel for the parties in the present petition, said, “I find that in the present petition also, the petitioner has not disclosed about the fact that he is first cousin of the girl and, therefore, the submission in the present petition that as and when she attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal.” While opposing the anticipatory bail plea, the state counsel argued “that the girl was aged about 17 years and is a minor, therefore, her parents have got the FIR registered as the youth and the girl are the first cousins as their fathers are real brothers”. “Hence the petitioner has concealed the fact in the petition that they fall in the prohibited ‘sapinda’ (which prohibits marriage between two individuals if they have common ancestor) under the Hindu Marriage Act and cannot perform marriage with each other,” the state counsel argued. “Once the petitioner and the girl are prohibited from performing marriage with each other, there is no question of their being in any live-in-relationship, which is per se immoral and not acceptable in the society,” it was argued. The counsel for the petitioner has sought time from the court to address arguments and the case was adjourned to January next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-between-first-cousins-illegal-punjab-and-haryana-hc/story-QgO0F6OdyEim5TdY5WTfxH.html
20-11-2020||India||No change in foreign secy’s Nepal visit, say officials amid buzz over PM Oli’s future||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will meet Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on 26 November during his two-day visit designed to cement people-to-people ties of the two neighbours, people familiar with the matter said on Friday, insisting that there was no change in the schedule of India’s top diplomat against the backdrop of political turmoil in Kathmandu.“The foreign secretary’s itinerary is intact. There has been no change,” a top diplomat told Hindustan Times, responding to buzz in Kathmandu that New Delhi could put off Shringla’s visit amid the uncertainty around PM Oli.The visit is the first formal diplomatic contact between the two sides after relations between the two neighbours nosedived after Nepal opposed an 80 km-border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.The Indian foreign secretary’s visit is expected to help put bilateral ties back on an even keel and will focus on deepening people-to-people ties. Apart from PM Oli, Shringla is scheduled to meet his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal, who took charge just last month, foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, and call on President Bidhya Devi Bhandari as well.Shringla’s visit will take place at a time PM Oli faces the third, and according to reports from Kathmandu, the most serious challenge to his authority from within the ruling Nepal Communist Party where he is pitted against Pushpa Kamal Dahal, better known by his nom de guerre Prachanda.Pushpa Kamal Dahal, according to Kathmandu Post, has presented a political document that accuses PM Oli of failing to govern the country that has provoked a stinging response from the prime minister at a party meeting this week. The communist party’s secretariat is due to meet on November 28, which will be followed by its 44-member Standing Committee meeting on December 3. PM Oli is in the minority in these committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secy-shringla-to-meet-pm-oli-on-nov-26-to-cement-people-to-people-ties/story-ZtcCqXTCMevDPA9Bk6rqyO.html
20-11-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate dipped by 5% in 5 days, says Arvind Kejriwal at HTLS 2020||With the national capital currently battling its third wave of the Coronavirus infection, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the capital had dipped by 5% in as many days and attributed the decline to a number of innovations that his government had adopted in the fight against the viral infection.“Pollution is also exacerbating the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and the number of deaths too has increased steeply due to pollution caused by stubble burning in other states. Delhi has significantly reduced its own pollution levels, but we cannot control pollution which is spreading from other north Indian states,” the Delhi chief minister said.WATCH | ‘Every Delhiite will get health e-card’: Kejriwal govt’s new plan #HTLS2020On a more optimistic note, Kejriwal indicated that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital was 15% at the beginning of this month amid very high pollution levels. “In the last few days, the positivity rate has dropped from 15% to 13% on November 17 and today on November 20, it is at 10.5%. So the positivity rate in Delhi has dropped by 5% in five days. This has given us hope that we may perhaps be past the peak of the third wave of infection that the city has been reeling under,” the Delhi chief minister said.ALSO READ | HTLS 2020: Delhi’s health infrastructure didn’t collapse during Covid-19 peak unlike New York, says Kejriwal“Compared to other global cities like New York which have seen a massive spike in Covid-19 infections, Delhi has not collapsed in the face of a huge public health crisis. In Delhi, you will not find people lying in corridors in hospitals dedicated to treating Covid-19 patients since we have been able to arrange the requisite number of beds,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal was participating in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) in conversation with HT’s Executive Editor Kunal Pradhan. On Day 1, held a day earlier, the virtual session saw Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS and Dr Ashish K Jha, Dean, Brown University School of Public Health discussing the Covid-19 health crisis and how it had affected the entire world. Dr Guleria also warned the population to be more cautious at present than ever before since a suitable vaccine for the viral disease was just round the corner.HTLS LIVE | No need for lockdown in Delhi, says KejriwalThe theme of this year’s HTLS edition, held virtually, is ‘Defining a New Era’ as the world learns to live and deal with the Coronavirus infection and takes baby steps in controlling the pandemic and embraces the new normal.As the world grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic, which has brought nearly 200 countries face-to-face with the largest public health crisis that the world has seen in a century, this year’s edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit is a virtual event and an amalgamation of global leaders from all spheres of life. Live discussions with the celebrity participants will be spread over the span of four weeks scheduled twice a week on Thursdays and Fridays.The Hindustan Times Leadership Summit was initiated in 2003 to raise the level of discourse on crucial issues and to encourage healthy interaction among leaders in important areas and present quality thought. The last seventeen summits, held annually, have seen leaders from the country and across the world putting forth their views to build a better India in a post-modern world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-declines-by-5-in-5-days-says-arvind-kejriwal-at-htls-2020/story-xbfppT7Cb53AiChYqhYaRM.html
20-11-2020||India||Over 50,000 Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres operational across India: Harsh Varshan||India has crossed a landmark milestone on the journey of universal healthcare. More than 50,000 (50,025) Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres (AB-HWCs) are now operational across the country.“Aiming at providing Comprehensive Primary Health Care (CPHC) services to the communities closer to their homes, 1.5 lakh AB-HWCs are to be established by December 2022. With more than 50,000 having been established, one-third of the target has been met. This has led to improved access to affordable primary healthcare services for more than 25 crore people,” according to the press release issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare congratulated the States/UTs for their efforts in operationalizing the HWCs despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“This has been possible due to the joint efforts of the Center and the States/UTs in planning, monitoring at all levels, standardization of processes, the flexibility for adaptation provided to the States/UTs, and building on the health systems created thus far”, he stated.The Union Health Minister especially thanked the frontline health workers, the Medical Officers, the Community Health Officers and ASHAs for their dedication to the cause of providing Comprehensive Primary Health Care services and for supporting millions of people with necessary services in these difficult times.“They are the backbone of the healthcare delivery system. Their contribution during the Covid-19 period has been exemplary”, he said.Also Read | Elderly, those with chronic diseases to get vaccine first: Harsh VardhanHowever, the national capital, Delhi will not be implementing the program. “HWCs have helped in interventions such as risk communication, contact tracing, community surveillance and early identification of cases, and seamless provisioning of non-Covid-19 essential health services for ensuring the protection of vulnerable groups, such as the newborn, elderly and those with co-morbidities.”, the press release added.Ayushman Bharat was launched in 2018 with its twin pillars of Health & Wellness Centers (HWCs) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) with bidirectional linkages between the two for providing the full range of services across the continuum of care. The first AB-HWC was launched by Hon. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the 14th of April 2018 at Jhangla in Bijapur District of Chhattisgarh.The 50,025 operational AB-HWCs are now spread across 678 districts, and include 27,890 Sub Health Centres, 18,536 Primary Health Centres and 3,599 Urban Primary Health Centres. Together, these AB-HWC have witnessed over 28.10 crore footfalls of which over 53% per cent are women who sought care at these centres. More than 6.43 crore people have been screened for hypertension, 5.23 crore for diabetes and 6.14 crore people for cancers. About 1.0 crore people are being provided free drugs for the treatment of hypertension and about 60 lakhs for diabetes.The Health & Wellness Centers provide CPHC services to people and sustain the efforts for provision of reproductive, maternal, neonatal, child, adolescent and nutrition (RMNCHA+N) services and control of communicable diseases. They also focus on disease prevention, especially for chronic and non-communicable diseases, wellness through community engagement and creating awareness about health lifestyles, appropriate nutrition and physical activities such as Yoga.Focus on wellness is one of the novel interventions under the ABHWC Programme. Over 30 lakhs wellness sessions have been conducted at these centers including activities such as Yoga, Zumba, Community Walks, Shirodhara, Meditation etc.HWCs also provide a strong backbone for the implementation of the eSanjeevani platform of Health Ministry which includes the eSanjeevani Patient-to-Doctor OPD and eSanjeevani-HWCwhich provides Doctor-to-Doctor teleconsultation service. 23,103 HWCs have started providing teleconsultation services to citizens. More than 7.5 lakh teleconsultations have already been conducted through these platforms. The eSanjeevani-HWC was rolled out in November 2019. It is to be implemented in all the 1.5 lakh Health and Wellness Centres in a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model, by December 2022. States need to set up dedicated ‘Hubs’ in Medical Colleges and District hospitals to provide teleconsultation services to ‘Spokes’, i.e. Health & Wellness Centres (HWC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-000-ayushman-bharat-health-and-wellness-centres-operational-across-india-harsh-varshan/story-MEto2d5q0gofZq8j8qIoIL.html
20-11-2020||India||‘My stage debut in Lucknow is finally happening...’||S Farah RizviActor-creative producer Amit Behl is thrilled to be performing for a play at Lucknow University Centennial Celebrations. “Yes, I’m absolutely delighted that in all these 36 years in theatre I never got an opportunity to perform on stage in the city of nawabs, though I did shoot for a number of films here. In fact, I shot for a film in 2020 too. So, my stage debut in Lucknow is finally happening in style that too for such a wonderful cause. Being part of LU’s 100-year celebration is something that will be cherished always,” said ‘Chakravartin Ashoka Samrat’ actor.Amit has a career spanning three decades with numerous plays, shows and films but feels theatre is and will be his first love. “Theatre gives me that instant creative satisfaction that no other mediums can give — be it on the spot audience connect or using every bit of you as an actor. In TV, you have limited shots to etch your role as the show progresses. Though I do find strong synergy between theatre and cinema.”With films like ‘Shivay,’ ‘LOC-Kargil’, ‘Lakshya’ and shows like ‘Veer Shivaji’, ‘Adaalat’, ‘Savitri’ and over 75 plays Amit feels his background in Hindi due to his mother’s academic background which helped him to take up work in Hindi easily. “Not just Hindi, I have command over Marathi due to my origin so I have worked across regions be it Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi, Telugu and of course Urdu as I have worked for Ebrahim Alkazi saheb, one of the biggest theatre stalwarts in the country. So, I enjoy acting wherever I get an opportunity to outdo my earlier characters,” said the versatile actor.Amit will be performing with Salim Arif in the city for play ‘Paansa.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-stage-debut-in-lucknow-is-finally-happening/story-eBJHZfolrUbW4SmdoUHAWK.html
20-11-2020||India||‘LU days prepared my groundwork for right career growth’||Theatre personality, costume designer and actor Salim Arif credits his Lucknow University days (1977-80) for his across the spectrum growth. In his hometown, for LU’s Centenary Celebrations, he told HT City, “To do a project like ‘Bharat Ek Khoj’ contribution of Lucknow is more than my National School of Drama (NSD) training. Legends Shyam Benegal (BEK), Gulzar saheb (Mirza Ghalib), Chandra Prakash Dwivedi (Chanakya) all had confidence in me because of my groundwork that was prepared in LU campus. Thankfully, to understand them, I had a base which I learnt from my University legends.” He recalls that more than the classroom wisdom his understanding of various subjects percolated in him by the mentors in and around campus. “Campus was a bigger attraction than classroom. We learnt from Raj Bisaria saheb, Vilayat Jafri, Kunwar Narain, Raghubir Sahai, KN Kakkar, Mrs (Mohini) Manglik, Bisht and Nagar saheb.” Arif adds, “I read all classics in that period and studied paintings. My subjects were Maths, Psychology and English but my focus was extracurricular activities. During Shakespearian plays, I had an inclination towards performance studies which was a big learning for me.” During university days Arif successfully ventured into publishing a magazine. “I used to bring out a ‘jugadu’ magazine ‘Dhanakte Peepo Ka Shor’ (Echoing Drums) which I used to get typed, cyclostyled and distribute. Rakesh Chandra, Mehboob Mehndi Abdi and Sanjay Kapoor used to write while it had artwork of Madan Lal Nagar and Ranvir Singh Bisht. Those were post-emergency days and atmosphere was electric.” The playwright feels the synergy of campus with city’s cultural activity is now missing. “At campus academic is mandatory but also very important its extra-curricular activities. There was a deep bond between campus and cultural scene of the city. We need to bring that back!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lu-days-prepared-my-groundwork-for-right-career-growth/story-U4NIYHp4TjtsxlqRZ0K5EK.html
20-11-2020||India||ED files money laundering case in fake TRP scam probed by Mumbai police||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering complaint in the alleged TRP rigging scam that is being investigated by the Mumbai police, official sources said on Friday.They said the central probe agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) that is equivalent to a police FIR under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.The ED complaint was filed after studying a Mumbai police FIR that was registered in October and it had named the Republic TV channel, two Marathi channels and few other individuals.Republic TV and other accused have denied wrongdoing and manipulation of the TRP (television rating points) system.Officials of the news channels and others named in the police FIR, apart from two former employees of Hansa research agency arrested by the Mumbai police in this case, will soon be summoned by the ED for questioning and recording of their statements, they said.The ED will probe if fake TRPs were generated and if the money earned through this was used to generate illegal funds and create illegitimate assets, they said.TRP is a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most and also indicates the viewers’ choice and popularity of a particular channel.It is calculated on the basis of TV channel viewership in a confidential set of households and measuring barometers are installed at such locations.The alleged scam came to light when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Mumbai police had alleged that some channels were paying bribes to boost TRP fraudulently so as to increase advertising revenue.It was alleged that some families at whose houses metres were installed for collecting data of viewership were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.On October 8, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had said that many people in whose homes these barometers were installed, accepted that they were getting monetary benefit for keeping their TV sets on even when they did not watch it.“We suspect that if this was happening in Mumbai then it could be happening in other parts of the country as well,” Singh had said.The CBI, last month, also had registered an FIR into alleged manipulation of TRP on the basis of a reference from Uttar Pradesh Police.Sources the ED may also look at this case by filing a fresh case or including it in the present ECIR filed under the PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-money-laundering-case-in-fake-trp-scam-probed-by-mumbai-police/story-GyS99PJrPYLNce38ltCPgI.html
20-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Board exams to happen for sure, schedule to be announced soon, says CBSE Secretary||The CBSE exams for class 10 and 12 will happen for sure and a schedule is likely to be announced soon, board secretary Anurag Tripathi said on Friday. The comments by Tripathi come amid demands from various quarters for cancellation or postponement of board exams in view of rising Covid-19 cases.“The board exams will happen for sure and a schedule will be announced very soon. The CBSE is making plans and will soon reveal how it will do test assessments,” he said during a webinar on “New Education Policy (NEP): Brighter future of school education” organised by ASSOCHAM.He, however, did not comment upon whether the exams will be conducted in the same format and will be held in February-March as per schedule or will be postponed.“During March-April we were flummoxed as to how to move forward, but our schools and teachers rose to the occasion and transformed, trained themselves in using new technology for teaching purposes and within few months conducting online classes using different apps became normal,” Tripathi said. Schools across the country were closed in March in order to contain spread of novel coronavirus and opened partially in some states from October 15. However, few states decided to keep them closed or closed again in view of spike in Covid-19 cases.Also Read | Punjab CM Amarinder Singh launches mission to achieve 100% school results The board exams which had to be postponed mid-way were later cancelled and the results were announced on basis of an alternative assessment scheme. There have been demands for postponement of board exams to May in view of continued closure of schools and teaching-learning activities being completely online.Noting that a common aim of all education policies including the new National Education Policy (NEP) has been to shift students from rote learning to experiential learning, Tripathi said, “the entire NEP 2020’s thrust and main aim is to make a shift to skill and competency based education”. “We need to move students away from knowledge based education to competency and skill based learning. To implement skill-based, competency based education there is a need to transform and follow entire pedagogy based teaching-learning process be it classroom teaching, face-to-face teaching or online teaching.“The pedagogy based teaching-learning process is more about making students more curious, innovative, creative and providing them experiential learning and this can be achieved only when schools, teachers and principals change the teaching pedagogy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-board-exams-to-happen-for-sure-schedule-to-be-announced-soon-says-cbse-secretary/story-C1gC36Whax8BGy2zpkG1xJ.html
20-11-2020||India||‘Best deshbhakti’: Kejriwal urges AAP workers to distribute free masks to people||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged his party workers and MPs, councillors and volunteers to go to public places and distribute free masks to those not wearing a mask as the national capital readies for a tougher battler against the coronavirus disease outbreak. “Today, this is the best deshbhakti n manav sewa. I urge all political parties also to ask their volunteers to do this Lets join hands to stop spread of corona,” CM Kejriwal said in a tweet. Kejriwal’s tweet comes amid number of heightened measures in Delhi to fight the viral contagion. The national capital has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases since October 28, when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time, and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.Among several measures taken by the state government, the authorities have announced a steep Rs 2,000 fine for not wearing masks, reservation of 80 per cent ICU beds in private hospitals, doubling testing centres in every district and postponement of non-critical surgeries at health facilities.As of this week, Delhi accounts for 22.39 per cent of the fatalities reported across the country in a span of 24 hours by recording 131 deaths on Wednesday and has became the largest contributor to the single-day Covid-19 deaths in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-deshbhakti-kejriwal-urges-aap-workers-to-distribute-free-masks-to-people/story-o95YSASRYbmef6y1i8JuSM.html
20-11-2020||India||J&K: PAGD releases fourth list for DDC polls||Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the grouping of major regional parties of Jammu & Kashmir, on Friday released the fourth list of its 16 candidates for the District Development Council (DDC) polls. No Congress candidate is on the list, which PAGD chief Farooq Abdullah released.The list includes seven People’s Democratic Party (PDP), four National Conference, two Communist Party of India (Marxist) and one each Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, and the Peoples Movement candidates.Only second of the PAGD’s lists included Congress candidates. Congress leaders attended a couple of PAGD meetings but the party’s central leadership has denied having any alliance with PAGD. The Congress has asked its Jammu & Kashmir unit to contest the elections on its own. Congress leader Ghulam Ahmad Mir has said the party has alliances with parties, which are part of the PAGD on a seat-to-seat basis.Also read | BJP’s national leaders to oversee upcoming local elections in several statesA PAGD leader said they expected the Congress would not remain a part of the alliance. “The Congress’s local leadership, despite knowing the ground situation, cannot do anything once the central leadership has denied the alliance.” Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday attacked the six-party bloc calling it “Gupkar Gang” while asking the Congress leadership to clarify its stand on the grouping. The PAGD has said the Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to delegitimise the coalition for taking part in the democratic process.So far, PAGD has released the names of 86 candidates for the BDC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-pagd-releases-fourth-list-for-ddc-polls/story-s4j4Hke1agAjTMuxdY9gVN.html
20-11-2020||India||CAG to be external auditor of IPU, Geneva for 3 years||Comptroller and Auditor General of India has been elected as the external auditor of Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Geneva for a three-year term. Girish Chandra Murmu, the 14th Comptroller and Auditor General of India will assume the charge from Supreme Audit Institution of Switzerland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-to-be-external-auditor-of-ipu-geneva-for-3-years/story-OPKG5cbCXWWFuVrKf4iOFK.html
20-11-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul Gandhi arrive in Goa on private visit||Congress president Sonia Gandhi along with her son Rahul Gandhi arrived in Goa on Friday in what is expected to be a brief private visit to help her recuperate and escape from the toxic Delhi air, Congress party sources have confirmed. The former UPA chairperson is believed to have made the trip on doctors’ advice and will remain at a resort in South Goa, people familiar with the matter have said. Also read | Sonia Gandhi forms panels on economy, foreign affairs, national security; former PM to head all 3The Gandhis were last here on a private visit prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections which was largely a private affair with the family not entertaining guests politically or otherwise. Sonia Gandhi has been suffering from a recurring chest infection and has been in and out of hospitals for much of this year besides also keeping her public engagements to a minimum. She was discharged from hospital in August 2 this year after also having to travel abroad for medical reasons in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-gandhi-arrive-in-goa-on-private-visit/story-UELA6lFSdLL0zHYfWlDOAL.html
20-11-2020||India||Air Chief takes sortie in indigenous Light Combat Helicopter||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Friday undertook his maiden flight in the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) designed and developed Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) here. The aircraft took to the skies at 11.45 hours and remained airborne for an hour, HAL said in a release. The Chief of Air Staff was accompanied by HALs Deputy Chief Test Pilot, Wg Cdr (Retd) S P John. “It was a very good sortie.I was able to look at the important flying characteristics and status of sensors already installed. The LCH is a potent platform due to excellent D&D efforts and well supported flight test team,” the Air Chief said while thanking all stakeholders of the LCH project. The IAF was keenly looking forward to the induction of the aircraft, he said. “I am sure HAL will give required focus on productionisation at a fast pace,” he added. R Madhavan, CMD, HAL, thanked the Air Chief and said HAL was geared up for LCH productionisation to meet all the requirements of the Air Force, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-chief-takes-sortie-in-indigenous-light-combat-helicopter/story-sp4REEe5tMIWVIPwySeNdO.html
20-11-2020||India||Indo-Pacific concept a rejection of spheres of influence: Jaishankar||The concept of Indo-Pacific is a rejection of the spheres of influence and a reiteration that the world cannot be frozen for the benefit of a few even if that is the case with the United Nations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Addressing a global town hall event via video-conferencing, Jaishankar also said that the Indo-Pacific was an indication of a future not a throwback to the past and “only those harbouring a Cold War mindset will see such intentions”. His remarks come in the wake of China’s increasing military muscle-flexing in the region which has become a major talking point among leading global powers. Jaishankar said there has been a growing recognition of the logic of the Indo-Pacific in recent times and the ASEAN’s outlook on it was a notable step. “Apart from the nations of the larger region, we’ve also seen Germany, France and the Netherlands subscribe recently to this approach. The need of the day is to give it a practical shape, this can be done by plurilateral diplomatic consultations such as the QUAD or it can be furthered in a structured fashion by the Indo-Pacific Oceans initiative that India tabled at the East Asia Summit in 2019,” Jaishankar said at the town hall session, titled ‘The Indo-Pacific and the COVID crisis’. “This is built on the seven pillars of maritime security; maritime ecology; maritime resources, capacity building and resource sharing; disaster risk reduction and management; science, technology and academic cooperation; and trade, connectivity and maritime transport,” he said. Jaishankar said that from any objective viewpoint, Indo-Pacific is a more contemporary description of the current reality. Such a landscape creates an ethos for greater cooperation -- one particularly necessary at a time when global goods are in short supply, he said. Jaishankar said that when challenges multiply but capacities do not keep pace, the answer is only in more intensified cooperation. Issues like maritime security, transparent and market-based connectivity or counter-terrorism do require such solutions, he said. “Indo-Pacific is also a rejection of spheres of influence and all that this may imply. It is a reiteration that the world cannot be frozen for the benefit of a few even if that is the case with the United Nations,” Jaishankar said. “It is an indication of a future not a throwback to the past. Only those harbouring a Cold War mindset will see such intentions,” the External Affairs Minister said. Every era produces its own strategic concepts and analytical constructs and the current one is no exception, Jaishankar said, adding that after all the sharp distinction between the Pacific and the Indian Ocean theatres was only made after the World War II. On June 1, 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi outlined India’s vision for the Indo-Pacific region in his speech delivered at the Shangri La Dialogue in Singapore. India’s concept of the Indo-Pacific is inclusive in nature, and supports an approach that respects the right to freedom of navigation and overflight for all in the international seas. Jaishankar said that it was natural that different ideas and suggestions were at interplay and harmonising them was very much part of the pluralistic political culture that many support. In India’s case, the Indo-Pacific was a natural extrapolation of its Act East policy that has made China, Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and Australia, amongst others, its major partners, he said. In his address, Jaishankar also highlighted India’s effective response to the COVID crisis and its emphasis on global cooperation to deal with global challenges. Noting that India had responded with determination and discipline to the Covid-19 challenge, he said an economy which did not make ventilators, testing kits, PPEs and N-95 masks, today not only caters to its own needs, but those beyond. “By setting up more than 15,000 dedicated COVID treatment facilities, we created an infrastructure to respond effectively. A high recovery rate and low case fatality rate speak for themselves, indeed does the social distancing culture and mass adoption of preventive measures,” Jaishankar said. But, for the world what is more important is the emphasis India has put on global cooperation to deal with global challenges, he said. Covid-19 created a spike in demand for pharmaceuticals, especially for hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, and India ramped up production, as it responded to the requirement of others, he said. Pointing out that that now the focus has shifted to vaccine production and testing, he said both were essential to the return of travel normalcy. “India is deeply involved in many international collaborations and initiatives. Prime Minister Modi has committed to the UN that we will help make vaccines accessible and affordable to all,” Jaishankar said. He also said that it was revealing that in the midst of a pandemic, Indian diplomacy has put the Indo-Pacific approach into practice and provided assistance to Solomon Islands, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Kiribati, Tonga, Tuvalu and Palau for procurement of medical equipment and supplies to assist them in their response to Covid-19. “In a world where trust and transparency are now at a greater premium, it highlights the importance of building more resilient supply chains. It is also a reminder of the importance of multilateralism and that in turn requires adherence to a rule-based global order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-pacific-concept-a-rejection-of-spheres-of-influence-jaishankar/story-60qd4dhJQye8yqxcrn4fuK.html
20-11-2020||India||This village has only one Covid-19 negative man||Only a 52-year-old man has tested negative when all residents of this village in Himachal’s Lahaul opted for a mass testing, reports said. Thorang village along the Manali-Leh highway has only 42 residents as many others have migrated to Kullu because of the winter. With travel restrictions being lifted, many tourists are thronging to several locations at Himachal as the government has done away with the requirement of a Covid-19 negative certificate for tourists. 52-year-old Bhushan Thakur has been strictly following Covid-19 guidelines. He was staying with his family members until their test results came. After that, he has been staying in a separate room and cooking his separate meals.However, the case of Thorang valley indicates at community transmission and a religious gathering held a few days ago is being blamed for this widespread transmission. As of now, entry to Lahaul villages has been barred along with tourist movement to Teling nullah around the north portal of the Rohtang tunnel. Lahaul-Spiti valley is one of worst-affected districts in Himachal Pradesh,The state has reported 12 more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll in the state to 481, while 796 new cases pushed the tally to 32,198.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-village-has-only-one-covid-19-negative-man/story-i7zAkmH2ab0BajEmUgnMuO.html
20-11-2020||India||‘BJP coined love jihad to divide nation,’ says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for coining the term “love jihad” to divide the nation and create communal discord. He said there is no jihad in love while citing the term the Hindu right uses to describe marriages between Muslim men and Hindu women.“Love jihad is a word manufactured by the BJP to divide the nation and disturb communal harmony. Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional and it will not stand in any court of law. Jihad has no place in love,” Gehlot tweeted.Gehlot’s remarks came two days after Madhya Pradesh announced it will enact a law to regulate interfaith marriages with a provision of five years in jail for forcible conversion. Other BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have also said they will legislate to regulate inter-faith marriages.Also read | ‘Only Congress can keep nation united’: Gehlot attacks Sibal, takes Congress versus Congress a notch higherGehlot is the first senior Congress leader to speak out on the issue. He criticised the BJP for creating an environment, where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power for marriage.“Marriage is a personal decision and they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty,” he said. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict & disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground.”Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat reacted to Gehlot’s tweets saying will deceit after religious conversions and changing of names not be called “love jihad”.“Dear Ashok ji, Love Jihad is a trap that has thousands of young women believing the marriage is a personal affair, where later it turns out it isn’t. Also, if it is a matter of personal liberty, then why are the women not free to keep their maiden name or religion?” Shekhawat asked. “Ashok ji, Since Congress wants to support this act of deceit under the garb of personal liberty, isn’t it becomes a blatant display of its communal agenda… The BJP has believed in Sabka Vikas hence will ensure our women folk are not subject to injustice of any kind.”BJP MLA and former education minister Vasudev Devnani also asked Gehlot to bring law in state, like Madhya Pradesh, stating that ‘love jihad’ needs to be stopped. “The CM holds the home department and the matter is of serious concern. A strong law should be made against love jihad,” he said.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said an atmosphere has been created wherein it is believed that such laws would be brought for targeting a specific community. He added it is aimed at polarisation. “Gehlot, being a prominent leader of Congress, would have understood the need to speak on the issue as it was getting traction and cannot be left unaddressed. His comments come at the time when the Congress leadership is busy handling infighting after the debacle in Bihar and show Gehlot’s growing political stature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-coined-love-jihad-to-divide-nation-says-ashok-gehlot/story-e1teyTaP7eI2dLAAHUuLsK.html
20-11-2020||India||SC to hear plea on framing of rules to ensure data security on UPI platforms||The Supreme Court Friday said it would hear on November 23 the plea filed by Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam seeking direction to the RBI for framing regulation to ensure that data collected on UPI platforms is not “exploited” or used in any manner other than for processing payments.The matter came up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian which listed it for hearing next week.On October 15, the apex court had sought responses from the Centre, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and others including Google Inc, Facebook Inc, WhatsApp and Amazon Inc on the plea.Viswam, the Communist Party of India (CPI) leader, has sought a direction to the RBI and the NPCI to ensure that data collected on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platforms is not shared with their parent company or any other third party under any circumstances.“In India, the UPI payments system is being regulated and supervised by Respondent no. 1 (RBI) and Respondent no. 2 (NPCI), however the RBI and the NPCI instead of fulfilling their statutory obligations and protecting and securing the sensitive data of users are compromising the interest of the Indian users by allowing the non-compliant foreign entities to operate its payment services in India,” the plea has alleged.“The RBI and NPCI have permitted the three members of ‘Big Four Tech Giants’ i.e. Amazon, Google and Facebook/WhatsApp (Beta phase) to participate in the UPI ecosystem without much scrutiny and in spite of blatant violations of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations,” it claimed.The plea has alleged that this conduct of RBI and NPCI put the sensitive financial data of Indian users at huge risks, especially when these entities have been “continuously accused of abusing dominance and compromising data”, among other things.It said these allegations have become particularly worrisome at a time when India has banned host of Chinese applications on the ground that those applications were or could be used for data theft and could lead to security breaches.It has further sought a direction that RBI and NPCI should ensure that WhatsApp is not permitted to launch full scale operations of ‘WhatsApp Pay’ in India without fulfilling all legal compliances to the satisfaction of the court regarding requisite regulatory compliances.It said that in April 2018, the RBI, with a view to secure the data of Indian users, had issued a circular directing all system providers to ensure that entire data relating to payment systems operated by them are stored in systems only in India and they were asked to ensure compliance by October 15, 2018.The plea claimed that later, the RBI toned down the April 2018 circular by issuing Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and permitted processing of all payment transaction abroad, including domestic transactions.In the said FAQ it was clarified that in cases of data processing done abroad, the data should be deleted from the systems abroad and brought back to India within 24 hours, the plea said.It has sought the apex court’s direction to declare the FAQ dated June 26, 2019 issued by the RBI as ultra vires to the circular dated April 6, 2018.The plea referred to another pending petition in the apex court and said that in that matter, the counsel appearing for WhatsApp had undertook that his client would not go ahead with payment services without complying with all the regulation in force.It alleged that Google and Facebook already have access to “immense personal data of millions of Indian users” and if they are permitted to collect “unrestricted financial data” of Indian users while operating at the UPI platform, the same would give them “draconian control” over sensitive Indian data. PTI SJK ABA MNL SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-on-framing-of-rules-to-ensure-data-security-on-upi-platforms/story-SjlV0gRNrjqpBsrbpiDIHK.html
20-11-2020||India||India to launch Bhutan’s satellite next year, train space engineers||India and Bhutan on Thursday launched the second phase of the RuPay Card scheme as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will launch Bhutan’s satellite next year. The two sides signed a framework agreement on Thursday for enhancing cooperation in the peaceful uses of space that will foster collaboration between several institutions of the two countries. “I am happy that work is progressing fast for Isro to send Bhutan’s satellite into space next year. For this, four young space engineers from Bhutan will come to Isro in December [for training],” Modi said during the virtual launch ceremony for the second phase of the RuPay Card scheme. Also Read: PM Narendra Modi to join G20 Summit during Nov 21-22India will support Bhutan King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck’s efforts to use advanced technology, including ICT and space technology, for the development of the neighbouring country, he said. In this regard, state-run BSNL is currently working on the third international Internet gateway for Bhutan. A ground earth station in Bhutan for using India’s South Asia satellite was inaugurated during Modi’s visit to the country in August last year, and Thimphu is using the facility for broadcasting and disaster management. Bhutan launched its first nano-satellite Bhutan-1, which was built with Japan’s assistance, on a SpaceX rocket in June 2018. Modi and his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering jointly launched the second phase of the RuPay Card scheme that will allow Bhutanese card-holders to access ATMs and point-of-sale terminals across India. The project’s first phase, which enabled Indian visitors to access ATMs and point-of-sale terminals across Bhutan, was launched during Modi’s visit last year. There have been 11,000 successful RuPay transactions in Bhutan so far and the figure would have been higher if travel between the two sides hadn’t been disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said. The RuPay cards issued to Bhutanese citizens will allow them to access more than 100,000 ATMs and two million point-of-sale terminals across India. Tshering said the two countries are “connected at heart” and thanked India for support in countering Covid-19. He also said he was thankful for India’s assurance to make Covid-19 vaccines available for Bhutan once they are ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-launch-bhutan-s-satellite-next-year-train-space-engineers/story-KDBqyTHtSdCga4iZn7uwLJ.html
20-11-2020||India||Post-poll rumblings: AICC Bihar in-charge, BPCC chief offer to resign||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil and Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha have offered to resign from their respective posts in the wake of poor electoral performance of the party in recently held state assembly polls. However, both the leaders refused to comment on the development, saying that it was an internal issue of the party. “Currently, I am admitted in the hospital. It will not be appropriate to share an internal matter of the party,” said Gohil in response to an SMS. Jha also declined commenting. The Congress managed to win just 19 out of 70 it had contested under the Grand Alliance (GA) in the assembly polls, held in October-November this year. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Left parties, which are part of the GA, wrested 75 and 16 seats respectively and were left short of 13 seats from simple majority. In 2015 assembly polls, Congress had fared better and had won 27 seats out of 41 it had contested. Also read | Bihar Assembly Election 2020 Result: Were these the closest Bihar polls in 43 years?Chairman of the BPCC election campaign committee Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who did not find any reason to resign from his post, said he was not part of any of the decision-making of the AICC. “Let the Congress president discuss the causes of defeat and fix accountability. I am ready to do anything if I am held guilty,” said Singh, adding that he was not like those who step back in the face of challenge. Singh, also a Rajya Sabha member, said that he had sought an appointment with Rahul Gandhi to explain the reasons for defeat in detail. “Reviews shall be done... from identification of seats to contest to the selection of candidates to be fielded and management of campaign,” he added, apparently putting the blame on the AICC leaders involved in the process. Serious blame-game erupted in the party following the crushing defeat of its candidates in the fray. Even the RJD leaders blamed the Congress’ abysmal show in the election, which denied the GA a shot at running the state. Party insiders also felt that continued ad-hocism in the Congress from the state unit to the block-level had impacted the workers’ morale. They said the party had erred in identifying potentially winning seats and strong candidates to bet on during the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-poll-rumblings-aicc-bihar-in-charge-bpcc-chief-offer-to-resign/story-Srpb91E46LAIU7Rg00W6VK.html
20-11-2020||India||Tripura: Bru resettlement should not disturb locals, says CPI(M)||Opposition Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), has said the resettlement process of Bru migrants in Tripura should be ensured without hurting the interests of the local residents. It has urged the government to initiate a dialogue with the protesters demanding the resettlement of the refugees across the state rather than one subdivision.“ The indefinite strike organised by the two local organisations against the Bru resettlement is continuing for four days at Kanchanpur sub-division. The strike has hampered normal lives there. Violent incidents also have occurred on November 17 during the strike. Both the Centre and state ruled by BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] are responsible for the situation,” CPI(M) said in a statement.Also read | Anti-Bru resettlement protests: Tripura Police register case against protesters for violating prohibitory ordersThe statement said opposition parties were never consulted with before making the decision for the permanent settlement to the Brus.Deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma said they know there are some objections against the resettlement. “We are looking into the matter.”Over 32,000 Bru migrants have been living in six relief camps located in Tripura for over two decades after an ethnic clash in Mizoram in 1997.The Centre in January signed an agreement with the governments of Tripura and Mizoram to resettle the migrants. It has sanctioned Rs600 crore package for the resettlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bru-resettlement-should-not-disturb-locals-says-cpi-m/story-KXlHGJduJlLuivU4tHkdhJ.html
20-11-2020||India||International community will emerge stronger, more resilient from Covid-19 crisis: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday expressed optimism that the international community was very close to finding a solution to the coronavirus pandemic and will emerge stronger and more resilient from the crisis.According to an official statement, President Kovind, while addressing an event, remarked that the Covid-19 pandemic necessitates enhanced global cooperation to ensure collective health and economic well-being of humankind.“He further expressed his optimism that the international community was very close to finding a solution to the pandemic and will emerge stronger and more resilient from the crisis,” the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.In a virtual ceremony, Kovind accepted credentials from the Hungarian envoy Andras Laszlo Kiraly, High Commissioner of the Maldives Hussain Niyaaz, Ambassador of Chad Soungui Ahmed and Ambassador of Tajikistan Lukmon.On the occasion, the President conveyed his good wishes to the envoys on their appointment, the statement said. He noted that India enjoys warm and friendly relations with all the four countries and that the ties were deeply rooted in a common vision of peace and prosperity, it said. Kovind also thanked their governments for supporting India’s candidature for the non-permanent seat of UN Security Council for the term 2021-22, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-community-will-emerge-stronger-more-resilient-from-covid-19-crisis-president-kovind/story-Of4NFFTCamatvHp5vkkzXJ.html
20-11-2020||India||‘Major havoc, destruction once again thwarted,’ PM thanks security forces a day after Nagrota encounter||A day after security forces eliminated four terrorists in the Nagrota area of Jammu district, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday congratulated the jawans for thwarting major havoc and destruction. “Neutralising of four terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted,” PM Modi tweeted. 11 AK-47 rifles, three pistols and 29 grenades have been recovered from them. Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted.Also Read: Terrorists were planning major attack on 26/11 anniversary, PM holds review meet Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and top intelligence establishment over the Nagrota encounter in which four terrorists were neutralised. It has been found that the terrorists were planning a “major attack” on the anniversary of the 26/11 terror attack.“Our security forces have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir,” PM Modi tweeted.On Thursday, the encounter between terrorists and security forces broke out in the early hours near Ban Toll Plaza in the Nagrota area of Jammu district. The encounter lasted for three hours in which four terrorists were killed. The seizures have indicated that they were planning a big attack, Mukesh Singh, inspector-general of Police, Jammu Zone said. Their target could also be the DDC election in Jammu and Kashmir; the police have not ruled out the possibility. The elections will be held in eight phases between November 28 and December 19. The counting will be held on December 22.“It’s possible that they were planning a big attack. This kind of seizure is unprecedented. It is possible that they were targeting the DDC election. However, we are investigating,” Singh said.Their modus operandi was old which indicated that they were likely from the United Nations-designated terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-once-again-defeated-pak-terrorists-nefarious-plot-pm-modi/story-MAtv1xuDMfBQqvWXClp3YP.html
20-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi forms panels on economy, foreign affairs, national security; former PM to head all 3||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday constituted three committees to consider and discuss issues and policies related to economy, foreign affairs and national security.According to a press release issued by Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal, former prime minister Manmohan Singh will head all the three committees.Apart from Singh, the committee on economic affairs will have former union ministers P Chidambaram, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh, who will also be its convenor, besides former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh.In the committee of foreign affairs, Singh will be assisted by former union ministers Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid besides Saptagiri Sanka Ulaka, a Lok Sabha member from Koraput in Odisha. Khurshid has been named its convenor.The former prime minister will also head the committee on national security. Its members are Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, former union minister M Veerappa Moily, Vincent H Pala, a Lok Sabha member from Shillong in Meghalaya, and V Vaithilingam, a former chief minister of Puducherry who represents Puducherry in the 17th Lok Sabha. Pala is its convenor.Out of these, Azad, Sharma, Tharoor and Moily are part of the group of 23 leaders who wrote a letter to the Congress president in August this year, seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-forms-panels-on-economy-foreign-affairs-national-security-former-pm-to-head-all-3/story-0ScDdsRChR1vEFj5AzW5FM.html
20-11-2020||India||Nagrota encounter: Terrorists were planning major attack on 26/11 anniversary, PM holds review meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and top intelligence establishment over the Nagrota encounter in which four terrorists were neutralised, government sources said. It was found that the terrorists were planning a “major attack” on the anniversary of the 26/11 terror attack, they added. Watch: Explosion during Nagrota encounter as forces gun down 4 JeM terroristsMumbai had come under attack on November 26, 2008, when 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists targeted the city in a series of coordinated shootings and bombings that injured over 300 and claimed the lives of 166 people in India’s financial capital.On Thursday, the encounter between terrorists and security forces broke out in the early hours near Ban Toll Plaza in the Nagrota area of Jammu district. The encounter lasted for three hours in which four terrorists were eliminated. According to sources, the four terrorists are likely from the United Nations-designated terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). “These terrorists used old modus operandi and had recently infiltrated the Indian side. An investigation is underway,” they added.Mukesh Singh, Inspector General of Police, Jammu Zone had said that it was possible terrorists were planning a “big attack” and targeting the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections in the Union Territory.The DDC elections will be conducted in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases between November 28 and December 19, and the counting of votes will take place on December 22.The IG, Jammu Zone also informed that the kind of seizure from the encounter site is “unprecedented”. “It’s possible that they were planning a big attack. This kind of seizure is unprecedented. It is possible that they were targeting the DDC election. However, we are investigating,” Singh said.The encounter broke out after a truck was intercepted at 5 am on Thursday during a routine check.“During the search, CRPF soldiers and police were fired upon using heavy ammunition, and grenades were also lobbed. More forces were called in and the encounter went on for 3 hours,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagrota-encounter-terrorists-were-planning-major-attack-on-26-11-anniversary-pm-holds-review-meet-reports-ani/story-0EZnI11aKKtEmERc9XBSfO.html
20-11-2020||India||Siddique Kappan had ‘determined design’ to create unrest in Hathras: UP tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government, in its affidavit filed in the case of the arrest of Kerala-based journalist Siddique Kappan on his way to Hathra, said to the Supreme Court that Kappan was using a journalist cover to create unrest in Hathras. He had showed an identity card of a Kerala-based newspaper Tejas, which was closed in 2018, the UP government has said.On Friday, the Supreme Court allowed Kappan to meet his lawyer. The bench headed by CJI SA Bobde and comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also objected to the manner in which the case was reported in the media.Also Read: Kerala journalist PFI secretary, was using ID to create social unrest in Hathras: UP files affidavit in Supreme CourtOn October 5, Kappan, a freelance journalist was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police on his way to Hathras where a Dalit woman had died after allegedly being gang-raped. Charges of criminal conspiracy to create social unrest following the Hathras incident were brought against Kappan. The UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act) was also invoked against Kappan and other arrested along with him. “It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of Journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order situation were found carrying incriminating material,” the affidavit said.The state government earlier alleged that Kappan is the office secretary of Popular Front of India. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists opposed the arrest and appealed for Kappan’s bail. The UP government said the union has no locus standi as Kappan is already in touch with his advocates and relatives. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta is appearing for Uttar Pradesh government and Kapil Sibal is representing the union. The state government has also said that Kappan is not in “illegal custody/confinement” but is in judicial custody.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddique-kappan-was-using-journalist-cover-to-create-unrest-in-hathras-up-tells-sc/story-CSPzBzGKuQOrh9t9dbnuIP.html
20-11-2020||India||Delhi HC seeks CBI response on Maneka Gandhi’s plea against order for investigation in graft case||The Delhi High Court Friday sought the CBI response on BJP MP Maneka Gandhi’s plea challenging a trial court order rejecting its closure report in a graft case against her and two others and directing further investigation in the matter.Justice Yogesh Khanna, while issuing notice to the CBI and seeking its stand on Gandhi’s plea, also put on hold the special court’s February 4 order to the extent it directs the agency to place the material it has before the sanctioning authority for her prosecution.According to the graft case lodged against the BJP leader and two others in 2006, they had allegedly sanctioned Rs 50 lakh as grant to a trust in a fraudulent manner.The CBI told the high court during the brief hearing that the special court, on filing of closure report, has three courses of action -- accept it, reject it and order further probe or direct placing material before the sanctioning authority for sanction.The special court cannot order further probe and also direct placing of material before sanctioning authority, the CBI counsel said and added that the agency was in a way being “forced to file a charge sheet”.The agency further told the high court that the special court also did not lay down any parameters for carrying out the further investigation.The CBI counsel suggested to the high court that the special court’s observations be quashed and the matter be sent back to it.Gandhi’s counsel told the high court that this is the second time the CBI has filed a closure report in the case and the agency has stated that it has no prosecutable evidence.However, the special court rejected the CBI closure report and directed it to place the material it has before the sanctioning authority for seeking sanction for prosecution, her lawyer said.He also told the high court that subsequent to the special court direction, CBI has placed some material before the sanctioning authority.After hearing both sides, the high court stayed the special court order to the extent it directs CBI to place material before sanctioning authority and seek sanction, and listed Gandhi’s plea for further hearing on February 8, 2021.The special CBI court, in its February 4 order, had said it was of the prima facie opinion that there was criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct by a public servant and had directed the probe agency to investigate the case further.CBI had first filed a closure report in the case in 2008 as well and the special court had also rejected it then and ordered further investigation.Thereafter, it again filed a closure report which was rejected by the special court in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-seeks-cbi-response-on-maneka-gandhi-s-plea-against-order-for-investigation-in-graft-case/story-abpOeAVLj0abZN9AFfYxnM.html
20-11-2020||India||19 stuck in snowfall rescued by Jammu-Kashmir police, Indian Army||Security forces rescued 19 persons including women and a child, who were stuck in Pir Ki Gali on Michael road that connects Shopian in South Kashmir with Poonch district. Poonch district SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “19 persons have been rescued by teams of police and army from Pir Ki Gali area during a rescue operation last night, around 2 am.” They were locals who were travelling from Shopian to Poonch in two to three vehicles, he added. Also Read: Fresh snow, rainfall in upper reaches of Kashmir bring mercury further downSince heavy snow has accumulated on the Mughal Road, vehicles got stuck in it and subsequently a rescue operation was launched with the help of Army, he added. Rescued passengers were brought to Pagans in an army camp where they were provided food and shelter, said the SSP.Also Read: Five engineers stranded at Sarchu in Himachal rescued after nine-hour operation Angral advised people to avoid travelling on Mughal Road. The road has been closed for traffic due to snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-stuck-in-snowfall-rescued-by-jammu-kashmir-police-indian-army/story-wtrA3iDxXbRXh11ZNzYlXL.html
20-11-2020||India||Kerala journalist PFI secretary, was using ID to create social unrest in Hathras: UP files affidavit in Supreme Court||The Uttar Pradesh government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court alleging that the arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan was the secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) and was using his identity card that expired in 2018 to create social unrest in Hathras.On Monday, the top court had issued notice to the UP government and the state police seeking their response on a petition filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), challenging Kappan’s detention.The affidavit by the state was presented before a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde during the hearing of a petition filed by KUWJ to release Kappan, who is in custody since October 5. He was arrested while he was on his way to report the death of 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras who was brutally gang-raped in September.The state said, “The person in custody namely Siddique Kappan is the Office Secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerela based newspaper named as ‘Tejas’ which was closed in 2018. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of Journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order situation.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the top court that the bail petition of Kappan was argued for nine days and this petition ought to be dismissed as remedy lies before Allahabad High Court. Mehta said that the petition falsely alleged that neither the family members nor the lawyers were allowed access to the accused. On the contrary, the state told the top court that no lawyer or family member of Kappan had contacted jail authorities to meet him. Kappan did not express any desire to contact any relative although his call records showed that he spoke with a lawyer on three occasions - November 2, 11 and 17. This fact was also not disclosed by the accused to the authorities, the affidavit said.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for KUWJ sought time to file a response to the UP government’s reply. He further stated that the magistrate at Hathras did not permit the lawyer to meet Kappan to obtain his signature in order to represent him in a court.Mehta said there was no objection to the lawyer meeting the accused. The court recorded the statement and directed the petition to be taken up next week.Kappan has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged links with banned outfit PFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-journalist-pfi-secretary-was-using-id-to-create-social-unrest-in-hathras-up-files-affidavit-in-supreme-court/story-Uft95gBMDK37LsRtIUFvWP.html
20-11-2020||India||BJP’s Babul Supriyo takes jibe at Mamata by starting President’s Rule in Bengal debate||Union minister Babul Supriyo has triggered a row by saying that there was a dawai (medicine) in the Indian Constitution that can prevent a state government from terrorising people and hinted that it is not impossible for the Centre to adopt that path.Supriyo said this while referring to the alleged killing of Bharatiya Janata Party workers in West Bengal by the ruling Trinamool Congress. Till date, more than 100 BJP workers have been killed in the state, allegedly by TMC but the latter has always rubbished the allegations every time fingers were pointed at it. “BJP workers are being killed. If didi (Mamata Banerjee) thinks that there is a weak government at the Centre, she would be making a grave mistake. The BJP will not have to do anything because there are provisions laid down in the Constitution itself on how to stop such a destructive and fierce government. The dawai for such governments is clearly mentioned in the Constitution. It is not impossible to take that path. So didi should not think she would keep on torturing the people over the next six months to keep the people away from casting their votes,” said Supriyo. The crucial assembly elections are less than six months away in West Bengal and the BJP has emerged as the principal opposition to the ruling TMC. After its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, where the BJP bagged 18 of the 42 seats and around 40% of the vote share, it is now eyeing for the Bengal assembly. The TMC, however, has lashed out saying that the law and order situation is better in Bengal compared to Uttar Pradesh and that the party is not giving any importance to such statements. “By saying dawai, Babul Supriyo was referring to imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution in the state. But TMC is not taking this seriously. The Supreme Court has clearly stated on what needs to be done before Article 356 could be invoked. He is just making some political statements, which has no importance. If the Centre has to invoke Article 356, they first need to look into Uttar Pradesh,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP. This is, however, not the first time that Supriyo has made such remarks. In September, he had made similar statements of invoking President’s Rule in the state while referring to alleged killings of BJP workers. “The recent chain of events, ranging from the attack on a Sikh community member, the arrest of Al-Qaeda operatives to brazen murder of Manish Shukla and other political opponents, shows that it is a fit case for imposition of Article 365 in West Bengal,” Supriyo had earlier said. Political leaders said that demands made by some BJP leaders for imposition of President’s Rule would increase pressure on the TMC government. “The law and order in West Bengal has deteriorated definitely but not to the extent that President’s Rule needs to be imposed. The law and order in UP is much worse. This is just a political statement to keep the pressure up on the TMC government,” said Pradip Bhattacharya, veteran Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-babul-supriyo-takes-jibe-at-mamata-by-starting-president-s-rule-in-bengal-debate/story-uprUfxMdDlXzsasbEAQ7yI.html
20-11-2020||India||BJP-BPF alliance headed for split before Assam assembly elections||Ahead of assembly polls in Assam next year, the partnership between ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and coalition partner Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) is headed for a split. Both parties, which along with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) have been in power since 2016, are contesting next month’s polls to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) independently. On Thursday evening, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma left for New Delhi on a chartered flight to discuss the party’s strategy for the assembly polls. The leaders will meet BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday, where a decision on separation from BPF is expected to be taken. Both BJP and AGP are expected to continue the alliance and contest the assembly polls scheduled in March-April together. “Our partnership with BPF was only for five years and it won’t continue beyond that. We are contesting the BTC polls alone and will fight the assembly polls without alliance with BPF,” Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Thursday.Also read: ‘We don’t vote, but hear our voices’, Assam children tell parties ahead of pollsBJP state chief Dass also stated that he wasn’t in favour of continuing the alliance with BPF and will convey the same to the party leadership. The final decision on the partnership will be taken in Delhi, he added. “Whether we will stay with the BJP or join the Congress hasn’t been decided yet. Only after BTC polls are over, we will decide on partnerships for the assembly polls. It is for the BJP to decide whether they want to continue with us or not,” BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary told journalists on Thursday. “We have heard about a meeting between JP Nadda and Assam BJP leaders, but have no clue what it is about. They (BJP) are a national party and it’s for them to decide whom they want to join hands with. BPF will emerge stronger if the partnership breaks,” he added. Also Read: 18-yr-old student from tea garden takes control of Assam CM’s Twitter handleBJP came to power in Assam for the first time in 2016 with the help of BPF. The regional party, which has a strong presence in the Bodo-dominated districts of Kokrajhar, Udalguri, Baksa and Chirang, has 12 MLAs and three ministers in the Sonowal cabinet. BJP (60) and AGP (14) have a total of 74 legislators in the 126-member assembly. Differences between BJP and BPF intensified in March this year after polls to BTC, which was under the latter’s control, was postponed due to Covid-19 and the areas under the council were placed under governor’s rule. BPF wanted the tenure of the council extended till polls. Election to BTC will be held in two phases next month and a bitter campaign between both parties is underway to take control of the council which has a total of 40 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bpf-alliance-headed-for-split-before-assam-assembly-elections/story-Y7MeZGRLWYHP3mtgvJ8xfJ.html
20-11-2020||India||Haryana health minister Anil Vij takes trial shot of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine||Haryana health minister Anil Vij was on Friday administered a trial shot of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, as its phase three trials began in the state. On Thursday, Vij had offered to be the first volunteer for Covaxin’s trial shot. #WATCH Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij being administered a trial dose of #Covaxin, at a hospital in Ambala. He had offered to be the first volunteer for the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in the state today. pic.twitter.com/xKuXWLeFAB“Trial for third phase of Covaxin, a coronavirus vaccine product of Bharat Biotech, to start in Haryana on 20th November. I have offered myself as the first volunteer to get vaccinated,” Vij, who also holds the state home portfolio, had tweeted on Thursday. “I will be administered trial dose tomorrow at 11am , at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of Doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department. I have volunteered to take the trial dose,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had posted in a subsequent tweet. I Will be administered trial dose of Coronavirus vaccine #Covaxin a Bharat Biotech product Tomorrow at 11 am at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of Doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department. I have volunteered to take the trial dose. Trial for third phase of Covaxin a coronavirus vaccine product of Bhart Biotech to start in Haryana on 20th November. I have offered myself as first volunteer to get vaccinated .On Monday, Bharat Biotech had announced it had started phase three trials of Covaxin. The Hyderabad-based firm has developed Covaxin indigenously in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and is also conducting its trials in partnership with the government body. The trials, Bharat Biotech had said, would involve a total of 26,000 people and be conducted at 25 centres across the country.Also Read | Phase 3 trial of Covaxin to begin in Haryana on Nov 20, minister Anil Vij offers to be first volunteer“After successful completion of the interim analysis from the phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech received Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for phase 3 clinical trials in 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India,” the company had said in a statement. This will be India’s first phase 3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest such trial ever conducted in the country, the statement added.Also Read | Covid-19: Bharat Biotech begins Phase 3 trials of Covaxin in IndiaAs of November 19, Haryana had recorded 209,251 cases of Covid-19, as per the state government’s daily media bulletin. This includes 187,559 recoveries, 19,579 active cases and 2,113 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-takes-trial-shot-of-bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-OJXSxtwIsJkR14LnPOrdHK.html
20-11-2020||India||‘Jihad has no place in love’: Ashok Gehlot accuses BJP of dividing nation, disturbing communal harmony||Senior Congress leader and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday cornered the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the issue of “love jihad” and said that the BJP “manufactured” the term to divide the nation.“Love Jihad is a word manufactured by BJP to divide the Nation & disturb communal harmony. Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional & it will not stand in any court of law. Jihad has no place in Love,” Gehlot said in a series of tweets. Love Jihad is a word manufactured by BJP to divide the Nation & disturb communal harmony. Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional & it will not stand in any court of law. Jihad has no place in Love.1/“They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision & they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty,” he added. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict & disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground,” he also tweeted.Also read: Stop attacking interfaith marriages | HT EditorialThe tweets from Gehlot condemning the issue comes as states ruled by the BJP, including Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, are contemplating bringing a law against “love jihad”, saying conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation will be punishable by a maximum jail term of five years.Madhya Pradesh has proposed replacing the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act with The Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (freedom of religion) Bill, 2020. Under this bill, the offence of forceful conversion for marriage shall be cognizable -- which means that police can arrest someone without a warrant and start an investigation without the permission of the court -- and non-bailable.If such forced conversion is proved, then the marriage concerned shall be declared null and void and anyone who assisted or was a part of the conversion exercise shall be treated at par with the main accused, officials have said.Also read: Government bringing strict law against ‘forced inter-religious marriages’, warns Yogi Adityanath“Love Jihad” is a term used by right-wing workers to describe interfaith relationships between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February this year, the government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jihad-has-no-place-in-love-ashok-gehlot-attacks-bjp-for-dividing-nation-disturbing-communal-harmony/story-0xehjoyUVWJqZNDrfMujeL.html
20-11-2020||India||66.4 kg gold smuggled through Myanmar border & headed for Punjab seized||The Department of Revenue Intelligence’s (DRI) Delhi unit on Thursday caught two trucks suspected to be carrying foreign origin gold, smuggled into India through Indo- Myanmar border, an official with direct knowledge of the matter said. “The said trucks were escorted to the DRI office. Rummaging of the trucks led to the recovery of 66.4 kgs of smuggled gold which was destined for delivery in Punjab,” he said requesting anonymity.The gold was found to be concealed inside the fuel tanks of the trucks, he added. Five persons have been apprehended in the case, which is being investigated.Also Read: 39.5 kg gold robbed from Odisha IIFL, cops chase cluesThe gold was in the form of bars, each weighing 166 gms. DRI officials recovered 400 gold bars. “200 gold bars were found to be concealed inside the fuel tanks of each of the two trucks,” the official said.This major haul of smuggled gold follows another significant seizure of 504 gold bars recently that weighed 83 kg, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/66-4-kg-gold-smuggled-through-myanmar-border-headed-for-punjab-seized/story-Al5FellcxKVpFBITJYwHqL.html
20-11-2020||India||All schools under BMC to remain closed till Dec 31 amid Covid-19 outbreak, says Mumbai mayor||Schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will continue to remain shut in Mumbai till December 31 as a precautionary measure to control spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the civic body said on Friday.The state government had earlier allowed reopening of schools for Class 9 to 12 from November 23.Schools in Maharashtra, which are shut since March due to the coronavirus outbreak, were set to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, post Diwali-holidays.“Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city. Some schools were used as testing and quarantine facilities amid the pandemic.“To prevent further spread of the infection, we have decided to keep schools closed till December 31,” Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said.Meanwhile, schools in other cities of the state can reopen as per schedule, the official said.“Schools in other parts of the state can be reopened from November 23 if local conditions are favourable,” said the senior official from the school education department.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-schools-under-bmc-to-remain-closed-till-dec-31-says-mumbai-mayor/story-WmUXbj675mHMeuJzPYIrYP.html
20-11-2020||India||Complete curfew to start in Ahmedabad from tonight. Here’s what you need to know||Authorities in Ahmedabad will impose a complete curfew over the weekend from Friday night and a a night curfew from Monday in a bid to stem the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat largest city. Ahmedabad city has been witnessing a spike in coronavirus disease cases since the beginning of this month. “Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation declared night curfew from 9pm to 6am every day from tomorrow in order to control the spread of COVID-19. The situation was reviewed late night and it has been decided that a complete curfew shall be imposed from tomorrow night 9pm till Monday morning at 6am in the city of Ahmedabad,” a government order said on Thursday.The city is now witnessing more than 200 Covid-19 single-day infections from around 140 daily cases a few months ago. As many as 230 people from the city were found infected in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Thursday, the state health department said. The Gujarat government has also decided to postpone the reopening of schools and colleges in the state, which were earlier proposed to reopen from November 23, in the wake of the current situation.Also read | Health ministry rushes high-level expert teams to 4 states for Covid-19 reviewHere’s is what you need to know about the Ahmedabad curfew:1. The 57-hour-long weekend curfew will start in Ahmedabad city from Friday at 9pm and end on Monday at 6am, officials have said.2. During this “complete curfew”, only shops selling milk and medicines will be allowed to remain open.3. From Monday, a night curfew will be imposed from 9pm to 6am till further orders, he said.4. Additional 900 Covid-19 beds have been made available at four government-run hospitals in and around Ahmedabad. These are Kidney Hospital, Cancer Hospital and Sola Civil Hospital (all in Ahmedabad) and adjoining Gandhinagar Civil Hospital.5. A total of 2,637 beds for Covid-19 patients are available in the city - 2,237 in government-run hospitals and 400 in private designated hospitals.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-curfew-to-start-in-ahmedabad-from-tonight-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-1JLYFg7Ip3qh3HKG3HXxPJ.html
20-11-2020||India||18-yr-old student from tea garden takes control of Assam CM’s Twitter handle||An 18-year-old girl student took control of Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s official Twitter handle for two hours on Friday to mark World Children’s Day. Vandana Urang, a resident of Namroop tea estate in Dibrugarh district, managed Sonowal’s Twitter handle @CMOfficeAssam for two hours from 9:00 am to 11:00 am. The teenager is a first year student of BA, with honours in political science, from Namrup College. “This World Children’s Day, student Vandana Urang is taking over our Twitter handle. Join us tomorrow, November 20 from 9 am to 11 am, and know how children are re-imagining the world,” Sonowal tweeted on Thursday. The CM’s Twitter handle has over 247,000 followers while he himself follows 26 handles including those of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. “I thank the chief minister for giving me this opportunity. I will use it to speak about myself, other children and especially on the issue of education,” Urang said in a video message soon after assuming charge of Sonowal’s handle. Incidentally, while the teenager was using his handle, the CM was away in New Delhi to meet the BJP leadership and discuss the next assembly polls due in the state in March-April 2021. “I feel the environment in schools plays an important role-- good environment and innovative teaching methods, along with awareness on things like ill-effects of use of addictive substances will encourage children to continue and complete their education,” Urang tweeted. “Now that schools and colleges have reopened in Assam, I hope that we focus on these issues so that no child gets left behind,” she added in another tweet. Urang is part of Muskan, a group of adolescent girls, where she and other girls discuss topics ranging from gender equality, importance of menstrual hygiene to opportunities that concern their future. Besides a student handling the CM’s Twitter handle, other initiatives to mark World Children’s Day include handing over a manifesto prepared by children selected from all over Assam to Sonowal and other political leaders of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-yr-old-student-from-tea-garden-takes-control-of-assam-cm-s-twitter-handle/story-0V6M8viwbGhbwmNwG9WGQI.html
20-11-2020||India||‘No harm in wearing mask inside car’, says Delhi health minister as Covid-19 situation worsens||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday reiterated the need to wear masks indoors and outdoors amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths in the national capital.“There’s no harm in wearing a mask inside the car also. Citizens should make it a rule to wear a mask whenever they step outside their home,” Jain said, adding that the order copy of increasing the fine for not wearing a mask to Rs 2000 will reach everyone later in the day.Underlining the emergency measures taken by the Delhi government to contain the rising infections, Jain said that widespread contact tracing is already underway at a large scale. “House-to-house surveys would be conducted in containment zones from today to check on symptomatic patients. Government rates will be charged for 60 per cent Covid-19 beds reserved by Delhi government in private hospitals,” the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-harm-in-wearing-mask-inside-car-says-delhi-health-minister-as-covid-19-situation-worsens/story-KOz9EL4cOvFCKOQdNi4DyJ.html
20-11-2020||India||Despite Bihar win, BJP’s performance ‘declining’: P Chidambaram||Even as the Congress has come under criticism from its allies, as well as party leaders, over its show in the Bihar assembly elections, senior leader P Chidambaram on Friday pointed at the performance of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Chidambaram said that despite its win in Bihar, the “decline” in its performance since last year’s Lok Sabha polls is “visible and significant.”“Even after the Bihar Assembly elections, the decline in BJP’s performance after 2019 Lok Sabha elections is visible and significant. Of the 464 Assembly segments that the BJP contested both in 2019 and in subsequent Assembly polls and by polls, the BJP has won only 218 segments,” Chidambaram tweeted. Of the 464 Assembly segments that the BJP contested both in 2019and in subsequent Assembly polls and by polls, the BJP has won only 218 segments.On the contrary, the BJP had won 392 segments in 2019, Chidambaram posted in a subsequent tweet. “As I have pointed out, the Mahagathbandhan lost to the NDA by a whisker of 0.03%,” he added. “The elections turned on 8 seats. If the MGB had won 8 more seats, the result would have been 118 to 117 (instead of 110 to 125). Significantly, the HAM and VIP won 8 seats!,” the former Union finance minister said.Since its thumping victory in the Lok Sabha polls last year, in which it won a second consecutive time and with a bigger majority, the BJP has fared poorly in several assembly polls. While the BJP managed to retain Haryana after stitching an alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), the party failed to form a government in Maharashtra after a fallout with the Shiv Sena. The BJP then lost its incumbent government in Jharkhand followed by a second successive poor show in Delhi, where it won just eight out of 70 seats.Chidambaram’s Twitter thread comes as the Congress faces severe backlash from its Bihar ally, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Of the total 110 seats that the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance won, the Congress managed only 19 out of 70 seats. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, managed to cross the majority mark, winning 125 seats in the 243-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bihar-win-bjp-s-performance-declining-p-chidambaram/story-g8OpagzJ4UjdA2PWVpfVjN.html
20-11-2020||India||Poor air quality forces Sonia Gandhi to shift out of Delhi on doctors’ advice||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will fly out of Delhi on Friday after doctors advised her to shift out of the national capital in view of the heavy pollution and poor air quality that has aggravated her chest infection, people aware of the matter said. A senior Congress functionary said the doctors also advised her to shift to a warmer place for some time till the air quality improves in Delhi. “Two places have been identified—the outskirts of Chennai and Goa—for the purpose,” he said. Sonia Gandhi, 73, will be accompanied by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi or Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. She had made a brief appearance at the Indira Gandhi Memorial on Thursday to pay tribute to the late Prime Minister on her 103rd birth anniversary. Also Read: Tughlaqi lockdown, lip service: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at Centre on workers’ plight“Mrs Gandhi has chronic chest infection for over a month now and it is not improving because of hazardous air quality in Delhi. The heavy pollution has aggravated her asthma and her chest condition. Accordingly, doctors advised her to shift out of Delhi till air quality improves,” said the functionary on the condition of anonymity. Sonia Gandhi was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on July 30 after chairing a meeting of the party’s Rajya Sabha members. “She has been under heavy medication pursuant to her discharge from hospital in August,” added the functionary. On September 12, Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by Rahul Gandhi went to the United States for a few days for her routine medical check-up. The two missed the monsoon session of Parliament from September 14 to 23. Before leaving for the United States, Sonia Gandhi had carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters. Sonia Gandhi is going out of Delhi at a time when there are rumblings in the Congress over the debacle in Bihar assembly elections and bypolls in several states with the group of 23 dissenters, who had written a letter to the party chief in August this year, seeking organisational overhaul, calling for introspection over electoral setbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-air-quality-forces-sonia-gandhi-to-shift-out-of-delhi-on-doctors-advice/story-4OzCCg8sQIUHi9u0f6OwYJ.html
20-11-2020||India||39.5 kg gold robbed from Odisha IIFL, cops chase clues||The armed robbery on Thursday morning at the Cuttack branch of IIFL Finance, a leading non-banking finance company, may turn out to be even bigger with the officials of the finance company lodging a complaint that the robbers have looted 39.5 kg of gold jewelleries worth Rs 12 crore.Deputy commissioner of police, Cuttack, Prateek Singh said the officials of the company last evening lodged an FIR of robbery of 39.5 kg gold jewelleries and Rs 4 lakh cash when the company had just opened its doors for business.“We found around 5 kg of gold jewellery left by the robbers. However, the exact amount of looted jewellery would be known after we crosscheck the ledgers of the company,” said Singh.On Thursday morning, four armed men wearing masks and helmets had entered the office of the Nayasarak branch of IIFL Finance after it opened around 9.40 am and threatened the lone unarmed security guard at gunpoint. The miscreants, who spoke in Hindi and Odia, then rounded up the branch manager and other staff into a toilet and snatched the keys to the locker containing the jewelleries that were mortgaged by hundreds of IIFL customers for loans.Also Read: Odisha tribal killed, declared Maoist, rights body rejects theory 4yrs laterThe company’s branch manager said the entire robbery was over in 10 minutes. The DCP said seven special teams have been formed to nab the suspects and all are investigating separate leads. The borders of the city have been sealed and police from neighbouring Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Dhenkanal and Kendrapara districts have been alerted.Commissioner of police Sudhansu Sarangi said the finance company, though dealing with a large amount of gold jewelleries, violated all existing provisions of security that banks and financial companies should have taken.“The CCTV camera was not functional. The alarm system was not working. The security guard did not have any arms. The regular security guard was away as his father got infected by Covid-19. Despite our regular advice to banks and finance companies, IIFL did not seem to adhere to any of the security guidelines,” said the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-5-kg-gold-robbed-from-odisha-iifl-cops-chase-clues/story-f6ZmgeHXi0lFyjDUcqivLM.html
20-11-2020||India||Tughlaqi lockdown, lip service: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at Centre on workers’ plight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday once again criticised the Centre over the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the plight of workers across the country after its imposition. “They first brought the Tughlaqi lockdown and then left millions of workers on the road. Then made it difficult to withdraw their only support of MNREGA earnings from banks. The Modi government is only about lip service and crushing the rights of the poor,” his tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.On Wednesday, the former Congress president had criticised the central government over inflation and unemployment. Gandhi had said that the public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily.Also read | ‘Turned strength into weakness’: Rahul Gandhi aims at PM Modi over economy“Banks are in trouble and GDP too. Inflation was never so high, nor was unemployment. Public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily. Development or destruction?” he had tweeted in Hindi.The Congress leader has been targeting the Centre on various issues, including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, economic condition in the country and unemployment, among others. He and his party have time and again alleged that the government was not doing enough to resolve these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tughlaqi-lockdown-lip-service-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-at-centre-on-workers-plight/story-zWsTgwDJAN8BnPMaTtreEJ.html
20-11-2020||India||PM Modi launches RuPay Card phase-2 in Bhutan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the phase two of RuPay card in Bhutan with his counterpart Lotay Tshering. Launching the card, PM Modi said that RuPay cards issued by the Bhutan National Bank can be used at ATMs for Rs 1 lakh and for Rs 20 lakh at point-of-sale terminals.“This would make tourism, shopping and other transactions easier for Bhutanese tourists in India,” the Prime Minister said. “I’m happy to know that there have been 11,000 successful Rupay transactions in Bhutan already. Had Covid not happened, this number would have been much higher. We are launching the Phase II of the RuPay Card scheme,” he added.PM Modi also spoke about a framework signed by both the countries for peaceful usage of space and talked about the boost it will give to India-Bhutan ties. “Recently, India and Bhutan signed a framework for Peaceful Usage of Outer Space. This will help institutions in both countries and improve cooperation. India has recently opened its space sector for private enterprises. This will promote capacity, innovation and skills,” PM Modi said.During the launch, PM Modi also welcomed Bhutan’s agreement with BSNL on the Third International Internet Gateway.Bhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering thanked PM Modi for India’s leadership in handling Covid-19 pandemic. “We’re thankful to you and your government for the assurance to make the vaccine available for Bhutan, once it is ready for clinical use,” he said. “The Excellency’s (PM Modi) leadership in tackling the pandemic at home is highly commended. I am sure India will come out much stronger from the pandemic. The lead that India is taking in developing vaccines is a source of hope for all of us,” Lotay Tshering added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-rupay-card-phase-2-in-bhutan/story-Ab6ORTCeMjn3U6pQIsSUcI.html
20-11-2020||India||EPS fears Centre, says Stalin as he launches DMK’s campaign for 2021 assembly polls||DMK president MK Stalin kick-started his campaign for the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu accusing state chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) of making “a valiant state like Tamil Nadu lie down like a kitten at the BJP’s feet.In a virtual public meeting titled, Tamizhagam Meetpom (let’s reclaim Tamil Nadu), Stalin accused the Centre of snatching rights from Tamil Nadu and the AIADMK government as being subservient to the Centre by remaining silent. Stalin recalled that former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and H D Deve Gowda respected ‘Kalaigar’ (artiste referring to his father and late former chief minister M Karunanidhi) and Tamil Nadu. “Though Delhi is the capital of India, Tamil Nadu is the capital of claiming rights,” Stalin said, paraphrasing Gowda. He added that it was Tamil Nadu that exemplified how the Centre can be a coalition of parties but states should be autonomous and “we have the responsibility to bring back our state’s autonomy.”“There was a time when Delhi and the central government used to be scared of Tamil Nadu. But today EPS’s government is in fear of Delhi,” he said.Stalin accused EPS and his deputy O Paneerselvam of silence, corruption and of being negligent to people’s welfare. He attributed this to wide-ranging issues including the police firing against anti-Sterlite protestors (2018) and the custodial deaths of the traders (Jayaraj and Bennicks in June 2020) in Thoothukudi, delay in payment of GST compensation dues, the state’s low ranking in ease of doing business and imposition of Hindi through National Education Policy. Stalin criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for praising Tamil Nadu’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic saying how that is possible when the state has more than 7 lakh positive cases. “This is why I’m saying we have to reclaim Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said. “The coming elections aren’t for a change in governance. It is war.”The AIADMK accused Stalin of misleading the public. “When the DMK was in power, they never reclaimed Tamil Nadu’s rights. They surrendered our rights and are now playing a dual act with the people,” AIADMK leader and fisheries minister D Jayakumar told HT. “We lost Katchatheevu in 1974 to Sri Lanka because of which our fishermen are still affected.” This issue continues to haunt the DMK despite Karunanidhi stating that the DMK had opposed the Centre’s (led by Indira Gandhi) decision. “Didn’t Amma (Jayalalithaa) withdraw support to the (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee government in the 90s when they did not form a committee to resolve the Cauvery water dispute under the common minimum program,” Jayakumar said. “When the DMK was in power they didn’t confront the centre. They only used mild words.”Stalin began the first of his series of campaign meetings via video conferencing in Erode district on November 1. Party cadres and the public were seated following social distancing norms inside private halls at 350 places in Erode to watch Stalin’s speech on giant screens. “At least 70,000 people attended,” said S Muthusamy, DMK’s Erode south district secretary. Throughout November, the video campaigns will continue in seven other districts- Thoothukudi, Madurai, Villupuram, Pudukottai, Virudhunagar, Vellore and Nilgiris, Muthusamy said.On the ground too, Stalin has led protests focusing on social justice through reservation in education. On October 24, Stalin led DMK’s protest near the Raj Bhavan in Chennai for the urgent implementation of 7.5% reservation for government school students who clear NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) for undergraduate medical courses. This Bill was passed unanimously by the Tamil Nadu assembly in September.On October 29, the AIADMK government passed an executive order through the state health secretary J Radhakrishanan to implement this legislation in the current academic year. The following day, Governor Banwarilal Purohit-- who delayed his decision for more than a month--gave his assent after seeing legal opinion from Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India.“If DMK hadn’t consistently raised this issue, it would have been buried,” M Subramanian, DMK MLA who was in the frontlines of the protest told HT. “It’s a victory for Stalin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eps-fears-centre-says-stalin-as-he-launches-dmk-s-campaign-for-2021-assembly-polls/story-OtBdd7EN56k0XLKNgaCB7J.html
