21-11-2020||India||57 trainee IAS officers test Covid-19 positive in 2 days at IAS Training Academy in Mussoorie||A total of 57 officer trainees have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in the past two days. An official statement released by the LBSNAA on Saturday stated, “Fifty-seven officer trainees have tested Covid-19 positive at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, since November 20, 2020. A total of 428 officer trainees are on campus for the 95th ‘Foundation Course’ which is conducted for new entrants to the Civil Services.” It further mentioned, “The Academy is taking every measure to break the chain of Covid-19 spread in consonance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the District Administration, Dehradun. All Officer Trainees, who have tested positive, have been quarantined in a dedicated Covid Care Centre. Since November 20, 2020, the Academy has conducted more than 162 RT-PCR tests in coordination with the District Authorities.” Due to the rising cases, the Academy informed that all activities, including training, will take place online till midnight of December 3, 2020. Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 585 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the state’s tally to 70,863. The state also reported the death of eight Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll to 1146. Out of the 70,863, who have tested positive so far, a total of 64,851 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 91.61%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.73%. On Saturday, 458 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum of 167 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Saturday, a maximum of 210 cases were reported from Dehradun district. With five positive cases, Champawat district reported the least number of cases on Saturday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 19,920 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (11,679), US Nagar (10,055) and Nainital (8,189). The state health department has so far tested 12.36 lakh people of which results of over 17,500 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/57-trainee-ias-officers-test-covid-19-positive-in-2-days-at-ias-training-academy-in-mussoorie/story-SV46effZNcc2iKoJXij5CJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s ‘Cow Cabinet’ to hold first meeting on Sunday||The Madhya Pradesh government will hold the first meeting of its ‘Gau (cow) Cabinet’ on Sunday (November 22) in Agar Malwa. The meeting will begin at 12 noon.The state government has chosen to hold the first meeting of the special body on Sunday, which marks Gopashtami, because according to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, it is the day for the celebration and worship of cows.In his tweet, Chouhan further said that the ‘cow cabinet’ will include departments of animal husbandry, forest panchayat, rural development, home and farmer welfare.The cabinet will be headed by the chief minister himself, while home minister Narottam Mishra, forest minister Vijay Shah, agriculture minister Kamal Patel, rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia, and animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel will be a part of it, as per General Administration Department’s order.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh to get ‘gau cabinet’, announces CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan“There are three elements to fulfillment in our lives - Ganga, Gita and Gaumata. BJP has always been the protector of Indian culture and traditions and following this path we have decided to establish a cow cabinet,” Mishra said.According to an officer of the animal husbandry department, the state government will construct 4,000 cow shelters in one year and the target is to have at least one cow shelter in a village panchayat.According to an officer, a meeting of ‘Gau Cabinet’ will be held once every two months.Earlier in August, BJP-led state government faced flak for reducing the budget of cow protection by 90% from Rs 132 crore in last financial year to Rs 11 crore. Later, the state government had released some funds to feed the cows. As of now, MP has 1,300 cow shelters and per cow expenditure was less than Rs 1.6 per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-cow-cabinet-to-hold-first-meeting-on-sunday/story-CZiql9Cyt6JTqLmA6o9ijP.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Covid-19 biggest challenge since World War 2’: PM Modi at G20 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for greater transparency in governance systems and decisive action by the G20 to counter the impact of the Covid-19 crisis that should focus on both economic recovery and preserving the earth. Modi participated in the two-day virtual summit being chaired by Saudi Arabia along with the heads of state and government of the 19 member countries and representatives of the European Union and international organisations. Describing the pandemic as an important turning point in history and the biggest challenge faced by the world since World War 2, he called for decisive action by the G20 that should not be limited to economic recovery, jobs and trade, but also focus on preserving the earth. Modi called for greater transparency in governance systems to inspire people to deal with shared challenges and said dealing with the environment as “trustees rather than owners” will lead to a holistic and healthy lifestyle, a principle whose benchmark could be a per capita carbon footprint. He also sought a new global index for the post-Coronavirus world consisting of four elements – creation of a vast talent pool, ensuring technology reaches all segments of society, transparency in governance systems, and dealing with the earth with a spirit of trusteeship. This can help the G20 lay the foundation of a new world, he said. In the past few decades, there was an emphasis on capital and finance and the time has now come to focus on multi-skilling and re-skilling. This will enhance the dignity of people and make them more resilient to face crises, he said. He added any assessment of new technology should be based on its impact on ease of living and quality of life. Since “work from anywhere” is the new normal in the post-Covid-19 world, Modi suggested the creation of a G20 “virtual secretariat” as a follow-up and documentation repository. This was the third summit this month where Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same platform amid the India-China border standoff. They had earlier joined the summits of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping. The summit with the theme “Realising opportunities of the 21st century for all” has assumed importance in the wake of the pandemic, and its agenda includes two sessions focused on overcoming the pandemic, economic recovery and restoring jobs, and building an inclusive, sustainable and resilient future. There are also side events on pandemic preparedness and safeguarding the planet. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the Gavi Board chair, told the event on pandemic preparedness: “The virus is winning. Only through adequate financing for a global exit strategy like Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) can economic vitality be restored at home and catastrophe in the poorest countries averted.” A commitment by G20 leaders to invest $4.6 billion to fill the ACT Accelerator’s immediate funding gap will save lives, lay the groundwork for mass procurement and delivery of tests, treatments and vaccines, he said. In his opening remarks, Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz said the G20 countries pledged over $21 billion to support global efforts to combat the pandemic and injected over $11 trillion to support individuals and businesses. “Although we are optimistic about the progress made in developing vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics tools for Covid-19, we must work to create the conditions for affordable and equitable access to these tools for all peoples. At the same time, we must prepare better for any future pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-biggest-challenge-since-world-war-2-pm-modi-at-g20-summit/story-MKWXYFqMW206eK4ipuUVpO.html
21-11-2020||India||PM Modi at G20: Coordinated efforts by world’s largest economies will lead to faster recovery from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that coordinated efforts by the largest economies of the world will surely lead to faster recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.PM Modi made the remarks on Twitter after attending the G20 Summit virtually.“Had a very fruitful discussion with G20 leaders. Coordinated efforts by the largest economies of the world will surely lead to faster recovery from this pandemic. Thanked Saudi Arabia for hosting the Virtual Summit,” he tweeted. Had a very fruitful discussion with G20 leaders. Coordinated efforts by the largest economies of the world will surely lead to faster recovery from this pandemic. Thanked Saudi Arabia for hosting the Virtual Summit. #G20RiyadhSummit“At the G20 Summit, I put forward a need to develop a new global index based on talent, technology, transparency and trusteeship towards the planet,” he said in subsequent tweet.The prime minister also stressed on multi-skilling and re-skilling “to build a talent pool” which will enhance dignity and resilience of the workers. “Value of new technologies should be measured by their benefit to humanity,” said PM Modi.“Transparency in our processes helps in inspiring our societies to fight crisis collectively and with confidence. Spirit of trusteeship towards planet Earth will inspire us for a healthy and holistic lifestyle,” said PM Modi adding, “We offered India’s IT prowess to further develop digital facilities for efficient functioning of the G20.”This year’s G20 Summit is being held through video conferencing due to Covid-19 and hosted by Saudi Arabia. Apart from PM Modi, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Donald Trump are among the other leaders sharing the platform.During his opening remarks, G-20 president King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia said that this year has been an “extraordinary year” as the pandemic set an “unprecedented shock that affected the entire world within a short period of time, causing global economic and social losses”.“We took extraordinary measures to support our economies by injecting over US $11 trillion to support individuals and businesses. We have a duty to rise to the challenge together during this summit and give a strong message of hope and reassurance to our peoples through adopting policies to mitigate this crisis,” he said.King Salman said that while progress is being made in developing vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics tools for the coronavirus, the countries need to create the conditions for affordable and equitable access to these tools for people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/breaking-coordinated-efforts-by-world-s-largest-economies-will-lead-to-faster-recovery-from-covid-19-pm-modi-says-at-g20/story-GVZvP8YSK8LgbtW8TC3qHK.html
21-11-2020||India||There’s a lot in a name, says JP 77, a BJP nominee from Kerala’s Kozhikode||Keralites’ love for Russian and Latin American names is well known. Move around and you can still meet many Breshnev, Khrushchev, Lenin, Che Guevara and Fidel Castro in the countryside. But JP 77 is a little different. Five years ago, when JP Seventy Seven went to Dubai for a trip, airport authorities had a tough time and asked him repeatedly to reveal his full name. He convinced them with much difficulty that it was his real name. Despite such minor irritants, JP 77 basks (on his Aadhaar card it is JPseventyseven, he says space was missing in true Aadhaar style) in the glory of his name. Though his father was an ardent fan of late socialist Jayprakash Narayan his 43-year-old son belongs to the BJP camp. He is the party candidate from one of the wards in Kayanna in Kozhikode district in north Kerala. Now, how did JP 77 get his name? “I was born in 1977, the year emergency was lifted. My father was a big fan of Lok Nayak Jayprakash Narayan. It was the beginning of a new dawn after the dark days of the emergency so my father was keen to join both, emergency and JP, as a result I was named JP 77,” he said.JP 77 works in the marketing department of Janmabhoomi, the mouthpiece of the BJP. He said he’s known in his area as JP and 77 does not bother him much these days. “When I grew up many people advised me to change my name but I stick to it as it was fondly given by my late father T V Ramadas. More than one’s name, a person is known by his work, behaviour and attitude,” said JP 77. He’s locked in a fierce three-cornered contest in the local body polls. He said in the last local election the BJP came a close second and his mission is to bridge the small gap and emerge victorious. At least 30 km away from his ward, Brasilia, a former councillor of the Muslim League, is trying her luck again in Kozhikode Corporation (north Kerala). An ardent fan of the Brazil soccer team, she was named after the Brazil capital by her soccer-crazy uncle. Kozhikode’s football craze is well known. During the soccer World Cup many fans wear the jersey of their favourite player and they are known after their player till the tournament is over. And they also love to name their newborn children after their favourite soccer teams or players. Last year, the Idukki district Congress Committee had called a meeting of those who bear the name of Gandhi to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. At least 100 ‘Gandhis’ from various parts of Kerala and neighbouring Tamil Nadu responded to the invitation. Naming after all-time greats and plays is prevalent in many parts of the world. According to NBC News, more than 4,500 children in United States were named after the characters of the Game of Throne (American fantasy drama series) in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-s-a-lot-in-a-name-says-jp-77-a-bjp-nominee-from-kerala-s-kozhikode/story-Qo6QvBUZnX5OTurH66QjZJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Sustainable pricing model could’ve saved more lives: Parliamentary panel on Covid-19 deaths||A parliamentary panel on Saturday said that many deaths due to Covid-19 may have occurred due to a lack of a sustainable pricing model. The panel also highlighted that lack of specific guidelines in treating Covid-19 patients and inadequate amount of hospital beds led to private hospitals charging high fees.The report titled ‘Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 and its Management’ was submitted to Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu by Samajwadi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Gopal Yadav.The report outlined, “Cost of health service delivery increased due to absence of specific guidelines for COVID treatment in private hospitals as a result of which patients were charged exorbitant fees.”The panel, according to PTI, also pointed out that the amount of money spent to allow government-run healthcare facilities are ‘abysmally low’. It said that the ‘fragile structure’ of the Indian healthcare system led to such a response against the Covid-19 pandemic.The report advised, “The committee, therefore, strongly recommends the government to increase its investments in the public healthcare system and make consistent efforts to achieve the National Health Policy targets of expenditure up to 2.5 percent of GDP within two years as the set time frame of year 2025 is far away and the public health cannot be jeopardised till that time schedule.”The panel also highlighted that the government hospitals were ill-equipped to cater to non-Covid-19 patients as well while struggling to treat increasing numbers of Covid-19 patients.While highlighting that the sustainable pricing model could have helped save many lives the committee also noted that private-public partnership in the healthcare sector could be beneficial for the general public.The report praised all doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals for their dedication during the initial months of the pandemic. It also thanked other frontline workers for their service and proposed that doctors who died during the outbreak on the line of duty be acknowledged as martyrs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sustainable-pricing-model-could-ve-saved-more-lives-parliamentary-panel-on-covid-19-deaths/story-gEWLg9sWGYlcp4FqKoAdkK.html
21-11-2020||India||3,813 challans issued in Delhi for not wearing facemask, violating social distancing in two days||The Delhi Police on Saturday said that they issued 3,813 challans in two days for breach of Covid-19 safety protocols. People wre challaned for not wearing masks, spitting in public places and violating social distancing norms, said.The officials added that people’s behaviour towards the coronavirus disease outbreak remains casual.“As of Saturday, Delhi Police has issued 1,306 challans for not wearing facemask in public places, one challan for spitting, and 51 challans for violation of social distancing norms today,” according to news agency ANI which reported the data till 4 pm.Also read: Delhi raises fine for spitting, violating social distancing norms to Rs 2,000Additionally, 735 face masks were also distributed to needy people, ANI reported, quoting police officials.Data shared by the Delhi Police showed that a total of 2,507 challans were issued for various violations under Covid-19 guidelines (till 4 pm on Friday), of which over 2,000 challans were issued to people not wearing masks, police officials said.The revised challan of Rs 2,000 kicked in on Friday evening after Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal gave his nod to amend Delhi Epidemic Disease Management of Covid-19 Regulations 2020.The national capital is battling a surge in coronavirus cases in Delhi on a war-footing, prompting the AAP government to announce sweeping measures including a steep Rs 2,000 fine for not wearing masks, reservation of 80 per cent ICU beds in private hospitals, doubling testing centres in every district and postponement of non-critical surgeries at health facilities.As of Saturday, Delhi reported 5,879 new infections, pushing the cumulative tally to 5,23,117. The national capital also reported 111 new deaths, which took the death toll to 8,270.The positivity rate in Delhi again climbed to 12.9 per cent on Saturday after it declined 10.59 per cent a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-813-challans-issued-in-delhi-for-not-wearing-facemask-violating-social-distancing-in-two-days/story-m2AlEFAbAWm92rc7GAzOQI.html
21-11-2020||India||Security being used as pretext to impede, customise democracy in J&K, says Farooq Abdullah||The PAGD continued on Saturday with its tirade against the administration of its candidates being allegedly prevented from campaigning and security used as a “pretext to impede and customize democracy” in Jammu and Kashmir, a week before the first democratic exercise post the abrogation of its special status. People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration president Farooq Abdullah sent a two-page letter to Jammu and Kashmir Election Commissioner K K Sharma, saying providing security to a select few and “literally interning” the rest was a “gross interference” in a democracy.Also Read | J&K: PAGD releases fourth list for DDC polls“I am taking the liberty of writing to you about the upcoming DDC (district development council) elections. A strange and a unique feature has come to the fore,” the National Conference leader said in the letter. “Candidates put up by the PAGD are immediately whisked away to ‘secure locations’ in the name of security and confined to those ‘secure locations’,” he said. “They are not allowed to canvass, they are completely out of touch with those from whom they are supposed to seek votes.” The former chief minister said the current state of affairs in the realm of security was “blatantly oriented” towards providing security to a select few and confining others. “This comes across more as an attempt to interfere in the democratic process than any real concern for the wellbeing of the contestants. Security cannot and should not be used as a tool or an excuse to interfere in democratic processes,” the Srinagar MP said. The PAGD president’s letter comes amid allegations by the Valley’s major political parties, including the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party, of not having a level-playing field for the polls. The parties have accused the administration of locking up their candidates in accommodations at several places and not allowing them to campaign. The DDC polls will be held in eight phases beginning November 28 and ends on December 24. The PAGD is an alliance of several political parties seeking the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status abrogated by the Centre in August last year. Abdullah said the parties part of the PAGD had been in power in the past and were aware of the challenges posed in the realm of security in a place beset by violence. Asserting that the evolution of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir was distinctive compared to any other part of the country, Abdullah said this evolution was a “bloodied journey”, soaked in the blood of thousands of political workers who have laid down their lives for the sake of democracy. He acknowledged that security was a challenge, which should be countered by the government in a manner that was fair and transparent, but “providing security to a select few and literally interning the rest is a gross interference in democracy”. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who is also the PAGD vice president, accused the Centre of “sabotaging” the participation of political parties other than the BJP in the DDC polls by not allowing them to campaign freely. “GOI sabotaging participation of non BJP parties in DDC polls. PDPs Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations and have spoken to DC Anantnag for his release,” Mufti tweeted, tagging Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. Police have said the candidates were being provided collective security and put up in secure areas as providing protection to every candidate was difficult.Also Read | Amit Shah aims at Gupkar group on ‘foreign link’ Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the candidates were provided a double escort, and the security forces guard an area where they want to visit and campaign after leaving their secure accommodations. On Friday, PAGD convenor and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami had released a letter from Sinha, who assured a smooth campaign for the local body elections and said the polls would go a long way in strengthening panchayati raj institutions in the Union territory. The Lt governor said he had taken note of the concerns and issued “necessary instructions”. Tarigami, a former MLA from the militancy-hit Kulgam district of south Kashmir, had informed the Sinha that after filing their nomination papers, the candidates were not allowed to campaign due to “perceived threat to their lives” and had been bundled in “cluster accommodation”. “Confining candidates against their wishes has severely restricted their movement and ability to campaign. Even in some cases, they are not allowed to attend party meetings,” the CPI(M) leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-being-used-as-pretext-to-impede-customise-democracy-in-j-k-says-farooq-abdullah/story-KLTn1RusExZfkinyQAL4rI.html
21-11-2020||India||Extending our support to NC in interest of the people of Kargil: Namgyal||Despite their ideological differences, the BJP will continue to support National Conference in Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Kargil for a stable administration to ensure the development of the region, BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal said on Saturday. He also asserted that the restoration of pre-August  5, 2019 position, when Ladakh was part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, is impossible. “We extended our support to NC in the interest of the people of Kargil and its development. There is no compromise on ideological basis,” Namgyal said. The Ladakh MP’s remarks came in the bakdrop of the BJP attacking the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), led by NC leader Farooq Abdullah, which is demanding the restoration of special status and statehood to J-K. The BJP leadership including Union Home Minister Amit Shah had slammed the PAGD as a “gang” that wants foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. Replying to queries at the end of his three-day visit to Kargil, Namgyal said his party will continue to support the National Conference in the LAHDC-Kargil to ensure that it completes its full term of five years. Of the 26 elected members of the LAHDC, 10 are from the NC, eight from Congress, three from the BJP and five (Independents). The Ladakh Union Territory administration nominates four members to the 30-member council. The 2018 elections to the Kargil Hill Council had produced a hung verdict. The NC initially had an alliance with the Congress; the PDP had two councillors and the BJP had one. After the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the NC and Congress fell out, and the NC entered into a coalition with two PDP councillors and four Independents to continue in power in the Council. A few months later, both PDP councillors joined the BJP, which extended support to the NC. Responding to a question on the issue, the MP said, “The NC stitched an alliance with PDP and later PDP merged with BJP…. “We both have different ideologies. The coalition is based on BJP’s focus on the development of Kargil, welfare of its people and to ensure that the council completes its full term of five years so that people are not forced into mid-term elections.” He said the Kargil hill council had never completed its full term in the past. “We thought that there should be no betrayal with the mandate of the people and the council should complete its full term,” he said. At the same time, he said the BJP is against the Gupkar ‘gang’. He said some people are talking about the restoration of Article 370 and the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed before August 5 last year. “Both these things are impossible. All the people know it very well. The formation of Ladakh Union Territory is now a part of history and history cannot be changed,” he said, adding Ladakh got a budget of Rs 11,000 crore which was unheard of when there was Article 370. He said funds are flowing into Ladakh after it was carved out of J&K. “Ask the Chief Executive Councillor of LAHDC Kargil, (Feroz Khan), who happens to be affiliated with the National Conference, how the council budget was enhanced manifold, ask councillors whose budget was increased from Rs 18 lakh to Rs 90 lakh.” The BJP leader said people who are raising political slogans are doing so as they are no longer enjoying personal benefits. “The people from the Gupkar gang came with high hopes to Kargil but returned disappointed. They did not dare to visit Leh,” he said, referring to the visit of PAGD delegation led by former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah to Kargil recently. Referring to his meetings with officials, he said centrally sponsored schemes have not been implemented fully in the district. “I have asked the officers to speed up the implementation of the schemes so that the ordinary people including the poor, students and the sick can avail the benefits,” he said and warned stern action against officers found lacking in fulfilling their responsibilities. He said the officers were given a clear cut message that if anyone is interested in politics, he should leave the job. “We will not tolerate dereliction in duty. We have only thought of development and do not believe in dirty politics. “We have shifted the officers from the Union Territory J&K to UT Ladakh. We can transfer any officer to any other UT in the country we know they have families back home and do not want any harsh step,” he said. He said the BJP had promised to complete the Zojilla tunnel to ensure all-weather connectivity between Srinagar and Leh and it will be done well within the stipulated time. The new airport will also be completed and dedicated to the people of Kargil within five years, he said. Seeking the support of the people, he announced Haji Abdul Hussain as the BJP’s district president of Kargil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extending-our-support-to-nc-in-interest-of-the-people-of-kargil-namgyal/story-gGRIIvzbCyQngnDiHsngiM.html
21-11-2020||India||Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar summoned by CBI again in disproportionate assets case||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar who is facing a slew of cases by the IT, ED on disproportionate assets has been summoned by the Central Bureau of Investigation for questioning again on November 23. The KPCC chief himself admitted that the CBI had summoned him to appear for questioning at 4 pm on November 23.Shivakumar said that he has asked for a fresh date as he will be touring Maski and Basava Kalyan constituencies along with leader of opposition Siddaramaiah. Both the constituencies will be facing by-polls shortly and the Congress leaders are touring the constituencies to strengthen the party ahead of the by-polls.The KPCC chief said, “Yes they had come to issue summons on November 19 but we were not available at home. So they have served summons now. I have asked for a couple of days postponement to appear.” On September 3 last year, Shivakumar was arrested by the ED in a money laundering case and was lodged in Tihar jail and was finally released on bail on October 24. Shivakumar has maintained that the cases against him are borne out of political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-chief-dk-shivakumar-summoned-by-cbi-again-in-disproportionate-assets-case/story-aP7cH0HaXNj3vFPQ8vXTbO.html
21-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Study shows Favipiravir helps in mild to moderate Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Favipiravir helps in mild to moderate Covid-19 cases, reduces treatment time: StudyA study published to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Favipiravir has deduced that the drug has shown positive results in the treatment of mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 disease.The study titled “Efficacy and safety of favipiravir, an oral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor, in mild-to-moderate Covid-19: A randomized, comparative, open-label, multicenter, phase 3 clinical trial” was published in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases. Read more Noida, Ghaziabad cap number of wedding attendees to 100Noida and Ghaziabad - the twin cities bordering national capital Delhi - have re-imposed cap on the number of guests to be invited for weddings. According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, the district administration in Noida and Ghaziabad have restricted the number of guests and weddings and other functions to 100. Read more Obama’s intriguing silence on Pakistan, writes Karan ThaparOne of the most riveting chapters in Barack Obama’s autobiography, A Promised Land, is the last one. It’s the story of the Navy SEAL’s operation to eliminate Osama bin Laden in Pakistan’s Abbottabad in 2011.This chapter, number 27, starts on the 673rd page of this 902-page tome, but if you’re reading from the start it won’t be as daunting to get there as that sounds. Read more BCCI issues statement following passing of Mohammed Siraj’s fatherThe BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India) on Saturday issued an official statement after Indian cricket team fast bowler Mohammed Siraj’s father, Mohammed Ghouse, passed away on Friday at the age of 53. The BCCI informed that Siraj was offered the option of flying back for his father’s last rites, but the fast bowler opted to stay back. Read more Sana Khan turns a princess in white as she marries Surat-based Mufti Anaas, see viral videoSana Khan, who recently announced her exit from the world of films, has married a Gujarat-based man named Mufti Anaas. A viral video from their low-profile wedding has now surfaced online and shows the bride and groom dressed in white. Read more Ananya Panday-Gauahar Khan’s Dubai vacay will leave you yearning for a similar Gulf getaway this weekendhe lifting of lockdown restrictions on foreign shores came as a freedom call for B-Town birdies who instantly spread their wings and flew off to much-needed excursion trips after all that hardwork. After her stint as a senior in Bigg Boss 14 and her whirlwind engagement to Zaid Darbar, Gauahar Khan whisked away her fiance and his sister, Anam Darbar, to Dubai while Ananya Panday, whose film Khaali Peeli recently released, too followed suit. Read more Positive news alert: Karnataka’s first trans-woman doctor, Trinetra, shares her inspiring journey“Ch*kka, tr*nny, f*ggot, m*ttha, k*jja, and countless other titles were awarded” to her but none of it matters anymore as Trinetra Haldar Gummaraju is now a doctor, that too Karnataka’s first trans-woman to be credited with the post. Read more At least 8 killed after mortar shells hit Kabul residential areasAt least 8 people were killed after a barrage of rockets struck different parts of Kabul. Several others were injured in the rocket attack which took place on Saturday. Police said about 23 mortar shells slammed into different parts of the Afghan capital. The salvo slammed into various parts of Kabul including the heavily fortified Green Zone. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-study-shows-favipiravir-helps-in-mild-to-moderate-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oORT21Wo3aZAajxNKTWtdN.html
21-11-2020||India||5 TMC MPs could resign any moment, says BJP MP Arjun Singh in poll-bound Bengal||At least five Trinamool Congress MPs in West Bengal may resign from the party any moment, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Arjun Singh said on Saturday. The list includes TMC party veterans and heavyweights such as Saugata Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, Singh added. “At least five TMC MPs could resign any moment. Saugata Roy maybe speaking on behalf of the TMC in front of the camera but he would also join the list once the camera is removed,” Singh told the media on Saturday. “In the coming days, the BJP will form the government (in West Bengal). The day Suvendu Adhikari joins BJP; the present TMC government will not be able to remain in power. The government will fall,” he added. Roy, however, has rubbished the claims as BJP propaganda and said that he would either quit politics or die but would never join the BJP. “Arjun Singh is a known Bahubali and an accused. It could be his dream or a part of the BJP propaganda. I will quit politics and die but I will never join BJP. I am not a saleable commodity,” Roy said. Adhikari, who also holds the portfolio of state transport minister, has been throwing a veiled challenge at the TMC leadership over the past few days. Adhikari, however, could not be contacted. Senior TMC leaders had earlier said that Adhikari was particularly unhappy with organizational decisions taken by Abhishek Banerjee, Lok Sabha member and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Causing embarrassment for the ruling TMC some of its party legislators have already spoken out against election strategist Kishor, while one MLA, who was branded a rebel last month, has said that Mamata Banerjee is no more in control of the party. Firhad Hakim, a minister has accused the BJP of playing dirty politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-tmc-mps-could-resign-any-moment-says-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-SHzPy0b2ChGrwkYGww0kTN.html
21-11-2020||India||BJP victory in Bihar polls approval of PM’s Covid-19 management: JP Nadda||The BJP’s victory in the Bihar assembly elections and bypolls in other states is a stamp by the public on “successful” Covid management by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said the party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda at Bilaspur’s Lehnu on Saturday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 The BJP president is on a two-day visit to his home state. Recounting various steps taken by Centre to tackle coronavirus, Nadda said the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations have praised Modi for it. Later, Nadda along with Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the construction of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kothipura in Bilaspur district, an official spokesman said. While holding a meeting with the Director, PGIMER, Chandigarh, and other senior officers and representatives of the construction company, Nadda said there should be no compromise with construction quality. Nadda expressed satisfaction over the fact that despite the Covid-19 crisis, the construction of AIIMS is likely to be completed by December next year. He stressed that efforts should be made to start MBBS classes this December. It is a matter of proud that 18 doctors from Himachal Pradesh have been selected for this health institute, he added. On this occasion, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda for approving AIIMS for Himachal Pradesh and making adequate budgetary provision for its construction. He said the institute would prove to be a milestone in strengthening the health services in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-victory-in-bihar-polls-approval-of-pm-s-covid-19-management-jp-nadda/story-6RES62XOFrbEekp5shsgHI.html
21-11-2020||India||Kerala govt launches twin attacks against opposition, Centre as probe agencies close in||With central agencies tightening the noose around the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala over a number of issues including the gold smuggling case, the worried government has launched a twin attack against the Congress-led opposition and the Central government. After the arrests of former party secretary Koderiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in a narcotics case and the CM’s former secretary M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned another secretary of the chief minister, C M Raveendran. He was summoned last month but he could not appear after he tested positive for Covid-19. In trouble, the government has devised a counter–attack. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday gave the nod for vigilance to register a case against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and two former ministers in the previous Oommen Chandy government. The vigilance case is based on the revelations of a controversial businessman Biju Ramesh. The liquor baron had claimed last month that he had mobilised Rs 10 crore on the instruction of then excise minister K Babu for a favourable liquor policy during the last UDF regime. He said the first installment of Rs one crore was paid to Chennithala, Rs 50 lakh to Babu and Rs 25 lakh to another minister V S Sivakumar. But Congress leaders said it was a desperate attempt to distract attention from serious trouble that had gripped the government. “It is nothing but a witch hunt. The central agencies have reached the CM’s office so the government will have to save its face somehow. We are not worried and we will take legal recourse to challenge the retrograde step,” Chennithala said. The LDF has also announced a series of steps against the central agencies. On November 25, it will organise a state-wide protest before the local and civic body headquarters. “The central agencies are being misused to weaken a democratically- elected government. Deviated from the gold smuggling case it seems they have a one-point agenda to implicate the state government. We will oppose it,” said the LDF. On November 16 also the LDF had organised a protest meet against the Union government. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after the seizure of 30 kg of smuggled gold from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage at the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later, the CM had written to Prime Minister Modi seeking a central agency probe. A multi-agency team headed by the NIA is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far. While investigating the gold smuggling case, probe agencies also came across alleged irregularities and commissions in some pet projects of the government. When Sivasankar was arrested on October 28, the government quickly distanced itself from him but in Raveendran’s case it will be difficult for the party to drop him. Besides the government, the party also drew enough flak after the arrest of party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drugs case. Later, Balakrishnan was forced to proceed on leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-launches-twin-attacks-against-opposition-centre-as-central-agencies-close-in/story-kgjfuHa9PF6c3FA2yO3sJJ.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Campus connect was our network set-up in those days’||Known author, poet and cinema scholar Yatindra Mishra feels he will always nurture memories of his good-old Lucknow University days that is celebrating its centennial year. “I vividly remember coming to LU for my Masters in Humanities in the year 1998. After completing my graduation in Industrial Biology and I left my PG midway to pursue Hindi literature from the University that had given us names like Ali Sardar Jafri, Kunwar Narayan, Pandit Pradeep and many more,” said Mishra, a gold medalist in his course from LU.Talking about his period in LU, “My head of department for the first year was Surya Prakash Dixit succeeded by Indu Prashar. I enjoyed those days as it was deeply associated with my inclination towards literature and writers. As I was an avid reader and book lover, I spent a lot of time in library reading and discussing the subjects with my professors. The LU library was well-equipped for book enthusiasts like me.”For Mishra the campus connect does help in the long run, “Yes, I believe campus interaction helps every student in one way or the other as it does give them opportunity to meet and work together with so many people, which otherwise is not possible. Campus connect you can say was our network set up in those days,” he shares.Mishra who has already penned books like ‘Yada-Kada’, ‘Ayodhya Tatha Anya Kavitayen’, ‘Devpriya’, ‘Sur Ki Baradari’ a book on the life of thumri singer Girija Devi, dancer Sonal Mansingh and shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan along with notable ‘Lata: Sur Gatha’. He is currently working on Gulzar’s authorised biography slated to be launched next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/campus-connect-was-our-network-set-up-in-those-days/story-Mcnb2i9jX8qF1YOHXuFK5J.html
21-11-2020||India||‘I will always cherish those LU days’||Folk singer and Padma Shri recipient Malini Awasthi, during the IIT-Kanpur Fest, randomly acted in skit to fetch those vital five team points which eventually helped Lucknow University get the winner’s shield that year. A victory march was taken out to celebrate the achievement on the university campus. “Sushain Bhatnagar directed the play and we were competing with strong teams like IIT-Delhi, Lady Shriram and others. I would like to mention that as an artiste anyone who has been on stage for student festivals will be able to perform in front of any audience. My stage exposure did help me while acting too,” remembers the singer, as LU celebrates its centenary year. From 1984 to 88, she studied in LU and completed BA (Hons.) in History with Political Science and Sanskrit as subjects. Reminiscing her University days, she said, “From Balrampur Hospital campus we used to go on rickshaw to first LU and in evening to Bhathankdey Music Institute. I remember the old Monkey Bridge (parallel to Hanuman Setu) was there. As a girl it was my first opportunity to study in a co-education practice. While queuing to deposit fees, boys used to come up to us and ask ‘laiye fees jama kara de’. It used to be an awkward moment for we girls and initially scared us too but today I have a hearty laugh at it.” While in University she presented a ghazal ‘Aap humse agar na bolengey, apni palkon ko hum bhigo lengey’ at Lucknow Mahotsav then, “Next day it got featured in newspapers with a my photo and the same headline. And when I reached my department that day, boys in the class started singing that ghazal loudly which made me numb. Nowadays, it’s considered as a fun incident but then it was surely a big deal for girls.” She also remembers her ragging day. “For many days I saved myself from being ragged. But one fine day I was caught. One of the senior said: ‘Bada ghazalein gaa rahi kuch suniye’. Since performing was no big deal for me so I sang a few lines and thereafter I was never caught.” “Those were very beautiful days as there were no mobiles and all. Making notes, going to libraries, travelling on rickshaw and performing at student fests — I will always cherish those LU days,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-will-always-cherish-those-lu-days/story-Ol902wln89gTME9JYhu9yL.html
21-11-2020||India||‘I’m thrilled to perform in Lucknow for the first time’||Actor Bakul Thakkar feels theatre is and will be an integral part of his life. “I’m all because of theatre and I can never think of going away from the stage. In fact, I was shooting for a TV show in Mumbai but when I got a call to perform in Lucknow for my play ‘Paansa’ during LU centennial celebrations I couldn’t stop myself to get back on stage after a gap of ten months due to lockdown. I’m thrilled to perform in Lucknow for the first time in all these years,” said ‘Mumbai Matinee’ actor. Bakul lived in Kanpur in his early days before his family shifted to Mumbai. Telling more about his journey, he said, “I have beautiful memories of the place and as we got to travel frequently to Lucknow. It was so much fun. When I reached Mumbai, it was during my graduation at Narsee Monjee College I became part of theatre and since then it was no looking back. As theatre took me to TV and then films so I have been all over the place.”With shows like ‘Kkusum,’ ‘Siddhant,’ ‘Piya Ka Ghar’ and films including ‘Yeh Hai Chakkad Bakkad Bumbe Bo,’ ‘Bum Bum Bole’, ‘Agnipankh,’ he wants to continue working across mediums, “I love to act irrespective of mediums. I have been in the industry for decades now and have witnessed it going through so much change for good. Hopefully more good projects come my way in future too.” Bakul will be performing for Salim Arif’s play along with actors like Amit Behl, Lubna Salim and more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-thrilled-to-perform-in-lucknow-for-the-first-time/story-iX3FtsTc8tSM4l7JBWihhO.html
21-11-2020||India||LU years have been instrumental in my life, says DJ Narain||Lead vocalist of the band ‘Aryans,’ Dharmendra Jai (DJ) Narain says that it has been 33 years since he left Lucknow University but those four years remains most influential, instrumental and exhilarating in his life. Ahead of his performance on the campus (Tuesday), the civil servant turned singer said, “I sum it like: Four years of Lucknow and how it outweighs all the best moments of my life everywhere else! I got my calling — be it for music, academic interests or other abilities in this university. LU laid the foundation stone of my existence, music and friendships.” DJ completed his graduation (1983-87) in Economics and Mathematics followed by Masters in Economics. He also did a part-time lectureship for a year in LU. The ex-director of Film Television Institute of India (FTTI) said, “I was lucky to witness the renaissance period at LU. A lot of norms were being challenged — student politics, idealism, social sector, music and culture. The campus provided me platform to grow in all directions. Today it’s easy to start but then it was not so.” The singer-musician reminisced good old days and shared, “There were around 15 good pop and rock group within the LU. Each department used to have musical festival. We were group of people who were composing original music, experimenting and had dreams to reach the sky. I was playing with different amateurish groups and then we formed ‘The Dreams’ in 1987 with my musical soulmate Gullu (Dinesh Khushwaha) and others. We dreamt of becoming Beatles of India.” Ten years after Aryans was formed, which became a rage with ‘Ankhon Main Tera Hi Chehra.’ “We are presently on our own individual soul trips. Hopefully we will jam together again. We remain in touch and are great friends,” he said. DJ is dedicating his show to his father JN Srivastava, a freedom fighter, who unfurled Tricolour in 1937 at the same LU campus during the British raj. DJ remembers what his teacher once said, “Prof NN Srivastava got a bit philosophical and said something that people come and go every year but you need to leave an impact that remain for years. That left a deep effect on me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lu-years-have-been-instrumental-in-my-life-says-dj-narain/story-YaVQiZZix5nERWKcVfEUwJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Favipiravir helps in mild to moderate Covid-19 cases, reduces treatment time: Study||A study published to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Favipiravir has deduced that the drug has shown positive results in the treatment of mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 disease. The study titled “Efficacy and safety of favipiravir, an oral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor, in mild-to-moderate Covid-19: A randomized, comparative, open-label, multicenter, phase 3 clinical trial” was published in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases. The significant improvement in time taken for clinical cure suggests that favipiravir may be beneficial in mild-to-moderate Covid-19, the study states. Intake of favipiravir has improved the clinical cure by around three days and cleared the infection two days faster than those on standard treatment. Noting that favipiravir, a drug under investigation in many countries for treatment of Covid-19, treatment led to significant improvement in time to clinical cure and it may be a safe and effective treatment in mild-to-moderate of the coronavirus infection. Stating the method, study mentions that it was carried out on adults of age group 18-75 years who had tested positive for Covid-19 with RT-PCR testing mechanism and showed mild-to-moderate symptoms. The study also included people who were asymptomatic through their course of infection. It concludes that dosage of 1800 mg on day one and 800 mg of the drug spanning over a period of 14-days course ideally can prove to effective. The study has also measured the time a patient takes for their clinical cure.“While a statistically significant difference in the primary endpoint was not achieved, statistically significant results were observed on the clinically meaningful secondary endpoint of time to clinical cure,” the study highlights.It adds: “ There also was a statistically significant difference in time to first use of oxygen, although this observation must be interpreted with utmost caution because of the small number of patients (7 in each treatment group) who required supplemental oxygen suppport in this population. In addition, when evaluating by Covid-19 severity, patients with moderate Covid-19 showed a statistically significant benefit with respect to time to clinical cure.”Favipiravir, according to the study, was found to be safe and well tolerated in this study, despite the potential bias for overreporting of TEAEs in open-label trials. “There were no new safety signals, and no adverse events that led to drug discontinuation or change in dosing regimen; a single patient in the control group experienced an SAE, acute respiratory distress syndrome, which led to death,” it states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/favipiravir-helps-in-mild-to-moderate-covid-19-cases-reduces-treatment-time-study/story-XOPRPkzRRIqYLZysWM39SP.html
21-11-2020||India||Gurugram, Faridabad begin random Covid-19 testing at Delhi border||With Delhi battling the massive third wave of Covid-19, its neighbours have started taking precautions in border areas to test people coming from the capital.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19After Noida, the authorities in Haryana’s Gurugram and Faridabad have begun random testing of commuters travelling from Delhi. People are being tested randomly on Delhi-Gurugram borders; 400 people have been tested so far with three resulting Covid-19 positive. According to the authorities, random testing on borders will help in identification of the most affected areas.Noida was the first district near Delhi to launch random Covid-19 checks at the borders on Wednesday. As per the officials, Noida’s Delhi border reported higher positivity rate of Covid-19 in comparison to the other areas of the district.The Delhi government, meanwhile, has put in place stringent measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has asked for strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol and increased the fine for not wearing a mask, spitting in public or not following social distancing from Rs 500 to Rs 2000.Also Read | Punjab ready to help Delhi govt to fight Covid-19 crisis: Amarinder SinghDelhi in November broke its previous records by reporting more than 8,000 cases on a single day while also surpassing the five lakh-mark. The surge in number of Covid-19 cases is reported when the national capital is struggling from paucity of hospital beds, fighting immense air pollution and approaching chilly winter waves.With this huge rise and struggles, Delhi’s adjoining areas are fearing spillover of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurguram-faridabad-begin-random-covid-19-testing-at-delhi-border/story-Gz47Jqx7O6P8yc1xsIV7cI.html
21-11-2020||India||Country’s first moss garden comes up in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district||The Uttarakhand forest department on Friday dedicated the newly-built Moss Garden to the people, claiming that it is the country’s first such garden, spread over 10 hectares in Kumaon’s Nainital district. The moss garden, which took nearly a year to build, was inaugurated by Water Man of India Rajendra Singh. Singh said it is a good initiative taken by the Uttarakhand forest department and will go a long way in mending the relationship between mankind and Nature. “Now, it is time to rekindle the relationship between people and Nature. If we don’t take any initiative now to rectify our errors, we will be treading the path of destruction,” he said. Last year, the state forest department had approved research projects to study moss species, considered the most significant indicator of ecosystem fluctuations as they are more sensitive towards habitat and climate changes. Of the 2,300 moss species found in India, 339 are found in Uttarakhand according to experts. Mosses are non-vascular plants that belong to Bryophyta division. They are small flowerless plants that typically grow in damp and shady locations. They play a very important role in maintaining and developing the ecosystem and biodiversity including soil formation, water retention, checking erosion and acting as nutrient sink. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and in-charge of the state forest research wing said it is the country’s first moss garden spread over 10 hectares, with an interpretation centre, 30 representative moss species and other bryophyte species, including two species listed in IUCN Red List (Hyophila involuta and Brachythecium buchananii ) and a moss trail nearly 1.25 km long. Chaturvedi said the Moss Garden built near Khurpatal under the CAMPA scheme was developed under a project approved in July 2019, with the aim to conserve various species of moss and other bryophytes and to make the people aware of ecological and other useful roles of moss in our environment. “Moss gardens are very popular in Japan and are the craze there but in India, we have neglected this side so far,” he said. “It has an interpretation centre, in which different aspects of Moss are displayed through models, including First World War paintings showing the use of Sphagnum moss as a dressing for wounds as it absorbs liquids about three times more quickly than cotton, is cooler, softer, and less irritating than cotton and has antiseptic properties. There is also a Dinosaur model showing the existence of Moss since the Jurassic era. Then there are nests of birds using moss for temperature regulation and antibacterial purposes,” he said. The CCF said the moss species are pioneer species, and the first plants to grow on rocky land by breaking down the rocks and the soil they help create a suitable environment for other plants to grow. “They also act as bio-indicators for environmental pollution because they get most of their nutrients directly from the air and rain, rather than the soil,” he said. Chaturvedi said, unfortunately, these species face a threat from mounting pressures of urbanization, habitat destruction, deforestation and pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-s-first-moss-garden-comes-up-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-district/story-ef282Q4p9qHQ0nm5RyL2uI.html
21-11-2020||India||Nagrota attack: MEA expresses ‘serious concern’, says attempt to derail DDC election||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Saturday released an official statement conveying India’s strong concerns about the terror attack that unfolded in Nagrota, Jammu and Kashmir, on November 19. “Initial reports indicate the attackers to be members of Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a terrorist organization proscribed by the United Nations and several countries. The Government of India expressed its serious concerns at continued terror attacks by JeM against India,” it said in the statement.The MEA also vocalised their concerns about any disruptions to the safe and peaceful elections that the government is aiming to conduct in Jammu and Kashmir. “JeM has been part of several attacks in India in the past, including the Pulwama attack in February 2019. The huge cache of arms, ammunition and explosive material indicate detailed planning for a major attack to destabilise the peace and security in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, in particular, to derail the ongoing democratic exercise of conduct of local District Development Council (DDC) elections” the ministry added. Four JeM terrorists were gunned down in a three-hour-long gunbattle, which started early on Thursday at the Ban toll plaza on the highway near Nagrota town in Jammu district. Two policemen of the Special Operations Group (SOG) were injured in the exchange of fire. The gunfight began after security forces successfully intercepted a truck carrying the terrorists. Officials suspect that the slain terrorists were planning “something big” ahead of the DDC polls, scheduled to be held from November 28 to December 22.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday congratulated the Indian troops for neutralising the terrorists. He said that the attackers belonged to Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed.“Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted” said his tweet. In light of the incident at Nagrota the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission was summoned by the MEA and it was made imperative that Pakistan “desists from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagrota-attack-mea-expresses-serious-concern-says-attempt-to-derail-ddc-election/story-N30qcovj3krksnmkcwK4ZJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Goa to adopt curbs like Maharashtra on arrivals from Delhi, says health minister Vishwajit Rane||The Goa government will adopt protocols similar to those of Maharashtra for flights and trains coming from Delhi, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, said on Saturday amid fears that a second wave of Covid-19 cases could emerge in the state in the wake of increased movement. Rane, who earlier this week had said that there wasn’t any need to test or ban people coming in especially from Delhi, however, changed track after holding an ‘emergency meeting’. “In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the Government of Goa will adopt SOPs of [the] Maharashtra government and other state governments for flights and trains coming from Delhi. Secretary Health to have an emergency meeting on protocols for people coming in from the state of Delhi,” Rane said. “With the end of Chhath Puja, a large number of migrant workers will start coming to the state. In view of the same, a note has been sent to the Secretary Health for immediate deliberations on protocols for labourers, SOPs for Industries and for the state with regards to testing,” Rane said. Earlier this week, Rane had said that “as long as the state had the capacity to treat patients”, there would not be any need to impose restrictions on people coming from Delhi. He instead suggested that hotels keep aside a few rooms for isolating those tourists who might develop symptoms or if they get themselves tested and are found positive. Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state by the Covid-19 pandemic said it was considering banning flights and trains coming from Delhi as the capital has begun witnessing what some say is a third wave of coronavirus cases. “We are also bringing new SOPs, so that every hotel will now have to have some isolation rooms. They need to maintain such rooms. Suppose they have some guests, who turn positive, it is their responsibility to isolate them,” Rane said, while speaking on Wednesday. Goa is recording between 100-150 Covid-19cases per day down from 500-700 cases a few months ago, but has seen an influx of tourists across the month of November as the state reopened in a bid to revive the tourism dependent economy. More than 46,000 people have contracted the disease in the state so far while 672 people have succumbed to the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-adopt-curbs-like-maharashtra-on-arrivals-from-delhi-says-health-minister-vishwajit-rane/story-oens9SpIxse7qWZibkcVwJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Bru resettlement issue: Heavy security deployed in North Tripura as protesters block national highway||Clashes broke out between Tripura police officials and locals of Dolubari village of North Tripura district on Saturday over the proposed rehabilitation of Bru refugees from Mizoram. Protesters set fire to vehicles and blocked the national highway which led police officials to fire tear gas shells in order to disperse the protesters.Several local organisations under the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) were protesting against the resettlement of Bru-Reang refugees in Kanchanpur sub-division and they had demanded that the state government resettle the members of the displaced community equally among Tripura’s eight districts. They had also called for a districtwide shutdown on November 16.The Brus are a displaced community who have been living across several relief camps in Tripura and Mizoram since 1997 after ethnic clashes broke out between Mizo tribes and Brus. Close to 30,000 Bru tribals had fled the state due to the tensions in Mizoram.The process to resettle the Bru community had begun in 2009 by the governments of Tripura and Mizoram but did not result in any success. In November 2018 Centre decided to resettle Bru refugees in Mizoram but due to protests by the Bru community that plan was too left unimplemented.In 2020 a fresh agreement was signed which said the Brus will not be forced to return to Mizoram. The Centre has also sanctioned a Rs 600 crore rehabilitation package to help resettle the displaced community and along with Tripura government decided to rehabilitate the Brus across North Tripura, Dhalai, Unakoti, Sipahijala and Khowai districts.The locals protesting against the resettlement have complained that the government is trying to resettle all 6,000 displaced families in the Kanchanpur sub-division itself. Speaking to PTI, JMC chairman Zairemthiama Pachuau said that despite assurances that not more than 1,500 families would be settled in the area the numbers have now gone up. He said, “The government is trying to settle 6,000 families. If they go ahead with this, the entire sub-division will be affected environmentally, ecologically, socially and demographically which is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bru-resettlement-issue-heavy-security-deployed-in-north-tripura-as-protesters-block-national-highway/story-MK8SCACsvXzMyS82uKmrYK.html
21-11-2020||India||MHA approves study to probe radicalisation in India, suggest amends in UAPA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has approved a study to analyse radicalisation in India, suggest practicable solutions to remedy and/or prevent the problem and also indicate how the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act can be amended. The study ‘Status of Radicalisation in India: An Exploratory Study of Prevention and Remedies’ will be done under the leadership of GS Bajpai, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice who is also the Registrar of National Law University.According to Bajpai, the study will focus on the process of radicalisation, its actors, target youths and will be probably conducted in four states like Maharashtra, Assam, Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir where cases of radicalisation have been reported.Currently, there is no clear definition of radicalisation in the legal system. On the basis of the study’s findings, Bajpai said that changes in UAPA Act will be suggested to the government.“This study is about the status of radicalisation in India. This study will analyse the pattern and dynamics of radicalisation. Also, we will study actors of radicalisation and how they are targeting youth,” Bajpai told ANI.“Thirdly we will study who are vulnerable targets. These targets are selectively identified by actors of radicalisation. Fourthly, we are interested in the idea of de-radicalisation. We need the blueprint to counter radicalisation,” Bajpai said.On giving suggestions to amend UAPA Act on the basis of study’s findings, Bajpai said, “We will also critically reviewing the current legal aspects, UAPA Act primarily. We would study to define radicalisation and de-radicalisation.”“Approximately 75 radicalised individuals, those undergoing de-radicalisation and de-radicalised individuals shall be sampled from each state. Similarly, 75 functionaries from law enforcement agencies, officers of correctional services and judges will be interviewed from each state,” Bajpai said.“Lastly, approximately 50 relatives of the individuals, psychologists, psycho-social workers, counsellors, religious and community leaders will be sampled from each state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-approves-study-to-analyse-phenomena-of-radicalisation-recommend-changes-in-uapa/story-ifvLL8TFxnrTZAfDmjt83M.html
21-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate multi-storeyed flats for MPs on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate multi-storeyed flats, which have come in place of old bungalows, here for members of Parliament on November 23 via video-conferencing.A PMO statement on Saturday said that these flats are located at Dr B D Marg in the national capital. Eight old bungalows, which were more than 80 years old, have been redeveloped to construct these 76 flats. The construction of these flats has been completed with savings of about 14 per cent from the sanctioned cost and without time overrun despite the impact of Covid-19, it added.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will also be present during the inauguration.The statement said several green building initiatives have been incorporated in the construction, including bricks made from fly ash and construction and demolition waste, double glazed windows for thermal insulation and energy efficiency, energy efficient LED light fittings, occupancy based sensors for light control, air conditioners with VRV system for low power consumption, low flow fixtures for conservation of water, rainwater harvesting system and rooftop solar plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-multi-storeyed-flats-for-mps-on-monday/story-ZPLRoKtkZv4S5IjGgW8CkO.html
21-11-2020||India||Centre asks states, UTs to ramp up Covid-19 testing||The Centre has advised states and Union territories to ramp up testing as part of measures to keep the increase in Covid-19 cases in check.“With a continuous surge in daily cases in European and the American countries, India is taking all cautionary steps to bring the trajectory of the disease under control. In view of the increase in Covid cases in some of the north Indian states, the Centre has advised all states and UTs [Union territories] to ramp up testing,” Union health ministry said in a statement.After dropping to 3.4%, India’s daily positivity rate, or the number of samples that test positive among those tested, has remained at just over 4%. Experts say the spread of the infection is under control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for around two weeks.India has been conducting one million tests daily and performed 130 million since the country started testing in mid-January.Delhi has reported a third surge in the number of cases since the second-week of October. The highest--8,593--cases were recorded on November 11 and most deaths in a day (131) were reported on November 18. Delhi has been conducting the highest number of tests per-million population.States like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and Rajasthan have reported the highest new cases but conduct fewer tests per-million than the national average of 94,679, as per the health ministry data.Of the 564 deaths reported on Friday, 83% were in 10 states. Maharashtra topped the list with 155 deaths, followed by Delhi (118), and West Bengal (50).With the number of cases and positivity rate slightly lower than last week, experts believe the higher number of deaths in Delhi is because of the cases that had been reported earlier. “The increase in the number of deaths is not unexpected. There is always a lag between the spike in the number of cases and deaths. It is the time between people getting diagnosed; their hospitalisation and death. Also, when...the number of cases is huge, the number of deaths will also be more. But the case fatality ratio continues to be 1.57%,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija of the Lady Hardinge Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing/story-ZNgkCvk0j5tycmMejOKMJK.html
21-11-2020||India||13 tribal children being trafficked to Gujarat rescued in Udaipur||Udaipur: A 15-year-old girl was among 13 tribal children rescued from Rajasthan’s Udaipur while they were being allegedly trafficked to Gujarat on Friday in two buses to work as bonded labourers, officials said on Saturday.“We have been getting information about children being trafficked to Gujarat from Gogunda and Saria blocks of Udaipur in private buses. On Friday night, we got a tip-off that 10 private buses were carrying 10 to 15 children. We immediately took action to rescue them,” said District Legal Services Authority secretary Ridhima Sharma.She said check posts were set up at various points with the help of police to intercept a few buses. “A team was sent to Balicha circle of the city for checking. From there 10 boys and a girl were rescued from a private bus, and two more boys were found in another bus,” Sharma said.Sharma said over 100 children have been rescued over the last year in Udaipur. “In some parts of Rajasthan, parents force their children to work as labourers mainly because of poverty and unemployment. The children are made to work in fields, especially those of BT cotton, in parts of Gujarat.”The children have been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-tribal-children-being-trafficked-to-gujarat-rescued-in-udaipur/story-e9njvLW6qeCs2byBcKP3cL.html
21-11-2020||India||Prayagraj spurious liquor death toll rises to six, seven held||The toll from alleged spurious liquor consumption in Prayagraj’s Phulpur rose to six with two more deaths on Saturday.District magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami said a man running a liquor shop and supplier are among those arrested for the tragedy and a probe was on. He said those found responsible for the tragedy would not be spared.Police superintendent Dhawal Jaiswal said around 10 people, who also consumed the spurious liquor, are admitted to a hospital. “A First Investigation Report has been lodged and seven people have been arrested.”Some residents of Amilia, Arwasi, Khansar, Mailhan villages fell sick after having liquor brought from the shop in Amilia. Four of them died on Friday night.District excise officer SB Modwel said the licence for the shop was given to one Sangeeta Jaiswal through a lottery system on July 24. “Samples of the liquor collected from the shop have been sent to a forensic lab in Lucknow for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagraj-spurious-liquor-death-toll-rises-to-six-seven-held/story-0g1SGlO4ss4Gd3lmSrE2VI.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Should interfaith marriages performed by BJP leaders be called love-jihad?’ asks Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||A day after Rajasthan chief minister Ashik Gehlot said that ‘love jihad’ is a term created by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel said if interfaith marriages of BJP leaders will come under the same definition.“Family members of several BJP leaders have also performed inter-religion marriages. I ask BJP leaders if these marriages come under the definition of ‘love jihad’,” the Congress was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A war of words over ‘love jihad’ began when Gehlot took to Twitter on Friday to say that the BJP has ‘manufactured’ the term ‘love jihad’ to divide the nation and curb individual rights of citizens.Gehlot also said that the marriage between two individuals should be a personal matter to those individuals concerned and the government has no part to play in it. The BJP’s Rajasthan chief Satish Poonia lashed out at Gehlot and accused him of ignoring “the plight of our daughters” and said the comments display his “small thinking”.The row over ‘love jihad’ has gained momentum as several BJP-ruled states like Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are considering a ban on religious conversion for the purpose of marriage.Several right-wing organisations believe ‘love jihad’ is a ploy to get more Hindus converted to Islam using love and marriage as a tool to lure Hindu women into marriage with Muslim men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-interfaith-marriages-performed-by-bjp-leaders-be-called-love-jihad-asks-chattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel/story-MCSNfhlStiPOXGuWxfHoNL.html
21-11-2020||India||13 crore Covid-19 tests done so far, cumulative positivity rate falling steadily: Health Ministry||The total number of tests conducted in India for the detection of Covid-19 infection has crossed the 13-crore mark with last one crore done in just 10 days, while the cumulative positivity rate remained low and continues a downward trajectory, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), over 13.06 crore samples have been tested till November 20 with 10,66,022 being tested on Friday.The cumulative national Covid-19 positivity rate has declined and stood at 6.93 per cent as on date while the daily positivity rate on Friday was just 4.34 per cent.Higher volumes of testing eventually lead to low positivity rate, the ministry said. “An average of more than 10 lakh tests conducted daily has ensured that the cumulative positivity rate is sustained at low levels and is presently following a downward trajectory,” the ministry underlined.The last one crore Covid-19 tests were conducted in a span of just 10 days.Twenty-four states and Union Territories have conducted more tests per million population than India as a whole. Twelve states have lower tests per million population than the national average and they have been advised to substantially ramp up the levels of testing, the ministry underscored.According the the health ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday, 46,232 people were found to be infected with Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours. “The daily positivity rate of 4.34 per cent point out that a comparatively huge volume was tested to detect these cases from the population. With a continuous surge in daily cases in European and the American countries, India is taking all cautionary steps to bring the trajectory of the disease under control. “In view of the increase in coronavirus cases of some of the north Indian states, the Centre has advised all states and Union Territories to ramp up testing,” the ministry said.India’s current active caseload of 4,39,747comprises 4.86 per cent of total cases. The country has registered 49,715 new recoveries in a day taking the total recovered cases to 84,78,124 which exceed active cases by 80,38,377. The recovery rate has improved to 93.67 per cent as on date. The health ministry said that 78.19 per cent of the new recovered cases was contributed by 10 states and UTs.Delhi saw 8,775 people recovering from COVID, while Maharashtra and Kerala reported 6,945 and 6,398 new recoveries, respectively.Besides, ten states and UTs have contributed 77.69 per cent of the new cases of coronavirus infections. Delhi reported 6,608 cases in a day. Kerala recorded 6,028 new cases while Maharashtra reported 5,640 cases on Friday.Of the 564 new fatalities, 82.62 per cent have been reported from 10 states and UTs. With 155 deaths, Maharashtra reported 27.48 per cent of the new fatalities, Delhi accounted for 20.92 per cent of the daily toll with 118 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-crore-covid-19-tests-done-so-far-cumulative-positivity-rate-falling-steadily-health-ministry/story-pvRsXOvE8xSwO8pW4BQdgL.html
21-11-2020||India||Hathras rape victim’s kin living in conditions akin to house arrest: Civil rights body||A civil rights body on Saturday claimed that members of the Hathras rape victim’s family are living in conditions akin to house arrest and they fear for their lives once the CRPF cover given to them is withdrawn. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) also released a report on the state of investigation into the case. The organisation demanded security for the family and their rehabilitation through the Nirbhaya fund. The whole family is in a way under house arrest conditions and their normal social life has been cut off, PUCL members Kamal Singh, Farman Naqvi, Alok, Shashikant, and K B Maurya told reporters here. The victim’s family members fear for their lives once the CRPF protection is withdrawn, they said. The PUCL members said cases must be lodged against officials for a hurried cremation of the victim. Action should be taken against District Magistrate Praveen Kumar, SP Vikram Veer, and the area SHO in this regard. The 19-year-old Dalit woman died at a Delhi hospital a fortnight after her alleged rape by four men from her village in Hathras district on September 14.She was cremated in the middle of the night in her village. Her family members claimed that the cremation, which took place well past midnight, was without their consent and they were not allowed to bring home the body one last time. The PUCL members said action should also be taken against those responsible for “defaming” the woman’s family.They demanded that cases lodged for the alleged bid to incite violence in the name of the incident should be brought under the ongoing CBI investigation. Currently, these cases are being probed by the state’s Special Task Force(STF), they added. Alok and Farman Naqvi alleged that the name of the Popular Front of India (PFI) has been dragged into the controversy to create a Hindu-Muslim chasm and divert attention. Kamal Singh said the PFI is not on the list of banned organisations but Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath calls it an extremist body. If that is so, then why a ban has not been imposed against it, he asked. Four people, said to be members of the PFI, were arrested in Mathura while on their way to Hathras last months. The Uttar Pradesh police had said the four, including a journalist, had links with the Popular Front of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-victim-s-kin-living-in-conditions-akin-to-house-arrest-civil-rights-body/story-3QGmcZtcSaL6oGqA8urLBM.html
21-11-2020||India||Punjab ready to help Delhi govt to fight Covid-19 crisis: Amarinder Singh||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said Punjab was ready to provide all possible help to the Delhi government to combat the Covid-19 threat. “Delhi is fighting a tough battle, and we are there to help if needed. I have said that earlier also,” he said. Singh lauded the healthcare and frontline workers of Punjab for their “excellent” work in handling the pandemic in the state. He assured full preparedness by his government to augment healthcare facilities to prepare for a possible second wave of the pandemic. Singh said while nobody knew when the second wave of infection would strike Punjab, the experience of the NCR and other states and regions showed it was almost certain. The chief minister expressed confidence that the health department will once again rise to the occasion to meet any challenge, a government release issued here said. It was the duty of the state government to support the healthcare and other frontline workers, many of whom have got infected and some have even lost their lives to Covid-19, Singh said. He also exhorted the people to actively help the state in the fight against the pandemic by strictly following all safety norms. “Mask hi vaccine hai” (mask is the vaccine), as a resolve for the next few months till a vaccine against infection finally is available, Singh said. The chief minister also launched 107 health and wellness centres to boost the healthcare infrastructure in the state and to provide health services to patients at their doorsteps in both rural and urban areas. He said these new centers would take the state’s health infrastructure to a new level of efficacy amid the pandemic. Of the 3,049 centres planned in the state, 2,046 were now operational and 800 more would become operational in the next two months, with the remaining to be opened in 2021, Singh said. He said the state government was focused on strengthening healthcare facilities, especially levels two and three, with the aim to save lives through early testing and treatment. Urging people to avoid crowded places and not have large gatherings and social functions indoors, he stressed the need to observe all precautions, especially washing hands and wearing face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-ready-to-help-delhi-govt-to-fight-covid-19-crisis-amarinder-singh/story-ZvfrqhDycdQyOcWsXyH6eK.html
21-11-2020||India||Health ministry says COVIN app will ensure last-mile delivery||The Centre will shortly roll out the COVIN app which will be used to ensure last mile vaccine delivery as several drugmakers report the effectiveness of their vaccine candidates.The COVIN app will digitally track stocks of vaccines and help stakeholders access data on availability, procurement and also keep track of beneficiaries who have been chosen/will receive the vaccine.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the COVIN app will be a faster, better and fully repurposed version of the eVIN system which was earlier used during the Universal Immunisation Programme.While addressing the National Council of Confederation of Indian Industries, the Union Minister said, “The entire eVIN platform is being repurposed as COVIN Network. All movement of stock can be digitally tracked and those receiving vaccines can also be traced after two to three weeks if the vaccine requires two shots. This will ensure last mile vaccine delivery.”Prime minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting on Friday with NITI Aayog member VK Paul, foreign secretary Harshvardhan Shringla, principal secretary to the prime minister Dr PK Misra and several other senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the health ministry to review the country’s preparation ahead of a vaccine rollout.After the meeting he tweeted, “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals and procurement were discussed.”He further said, “Reviewed various issues like prioritisation of population groups, reaching out to HCWs, cold-chain Infrastructure augmentation, adding vaccinators and tech platform for vaccine roll-out.”India is in talks with several drugmakers and has also signed deals with pharmaceutical companies in order to provide vaccines to every Indian.India has recorded more than nine million Covid-19 cases and over 1,30,000 people have died due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-says-covin-app-will-ensure-last-mile-delivery/story-WXG5m3ytAxcEpMgbd89rBK.html
21-11-2020||India||Tibetan administration head Lobsang Sangay invited to White House||The head of the Tibetan administration in exile visited the White House on Saturday for talks with American officials in response to the first such invitation in six decades, with the development coming against the backdrop of heightened tensions between the US and China. The visit by Lobsang Sangay, president of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), to the White House was described by the Tibet.net website run by CTA as a “historic feat”. Last month, Sangay became the first CTA chief to be invited to the state department to meet assistant secretary Robert Destro, the special coordinator for Tibetan issues. “In the last six decades, the head of CTA was denied entry to the US State Department and White House; the logic for both denials was that the US government does not recognise the Tibetan government in exile,” a report on the website said. “Today’s visit amounts to an acknowledgement of both the democratic system of the CTA and its political head,” it added. Sangay met White House officials and the meeting “will set an optimistic tone for CTA participation with US officials and be more formalised in the coming years”, according to the report on Tibet.net. There was no official word from the White House on the meeting. Earlier, Sangay met White House officials at undisclosed locations more than a dozen times in the past 10 years since he became the CTA’s president in 2011. Earlier this week, Sangay held several virtual meetings with US officials and lawmakers. During meetings with Jim McGovern, chair of the Congressional executive commission on China, and senior Republican and Democratic staffers of the Senate foreign relations committee, Sangay discussed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2019 and other matters. These developments have come against the backdrop of heightened tensions between the US and China on key issues such as trade, human rights, Beijing’s assertive actions in the South China Sea and elsewhere and the India-China border standoff. The Chinese government has reacted angrily to Sangay’s meetings with the American officials and called on Washington to stop interfering in Beijing’s internal affairs and undermining the stability of Tibet. This week, the US House of Representatives passed a resolution on the significance of advocacy for “genuine autonomy for Tibetans” and the work done by the Dalai Lama to promote global peace and harmony. The resolution, tabled by Congressman Ted Yoho, recognised the “cultural and religious significance of a genuinely autonomous Tibet” and commended the Dalai Lama for his commitment to peace and non-violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tibetan-administration-head-lobsang-sangay-invited-to-white-house/story-e9HV0pOZTrMJxrifBDi6cJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court dismisses bail plea of man seen rioting, firing gunshots||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail plea of an accused allegedly seen rioting and firing gunshots at public persons and police officials during the violence that took place in northeast Delhi in February this year.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat on Friday dismissed the bail plea of Vikram Singh noting that he was allegedly the part of the unlawful assembly which in the prosecution of the common object had committed the offence of rioting and firing gunshot injuries on the public persons and police officials during the violence.“In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and the material available against the accused, no case for bail is made out. Accordingly, the present bail application of Vikram Singh under Section 439 Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) stands dismissed,” the court held.Advocate Ashok Kumar, appearing for the accused, had submitted that Singh has nothing to do with the alleged offence and that he has been falsely implicated by the police. It was further submitted that the accused has clean antecedents and is the sole bread earner of his family.Special Public Prosecutor Saleem Ahmad while opposing the bail plea submitted there is a CCTV footage of the incident, in which the accused was seen present in the street and holding brick and stone in his hands. He was shouting and pelting stones on other groups, Ahmad submitted.Singh was identified by complainant assistant sub-inspector Dharambir for allegedly “actively participating” in the riots. It was further submitted that as per Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code(IPC), every member of unlawful assembly is guilty of offence committed by every member of unlawful assembly in prosecution of common object.According to the police, the present case was registered on the statement of ASI Dharamvir Singh of Welcome police station who was present at Shiv Mandir, Babarpur on February 25, 2020, when people had gathered there to protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).However, the crowd was very aggressive, had danda and stones with them and proceeded towards Shiv Mandir, 100 foota road from Kabir Nagar ready for violence, the police submitted.It said the unlawful assembly of the first community unanimously started pelting stones and hitting dandas on the other community, which was also present at the spot, and there was violence by both which led to injuries to several persons.A chargesheet was filed in the matter against Shamshad, Shoaib, Junaid Khan, Gurmeet Singh, Gaurav, Vishal Verma, Samim, Mohd Asif, Raj Kamal, Deepak Tomar, Vikram Singh, Sheer Miyan, Vikas Gupta, and Anees Ahmad.More than 750 cases were registered over the northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others were injured. So far, over 250 chargesheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-man-seen-rioting-firing-gunshots/story-ZnX9OWZlfAYZ4uOlbaBH0L.html
21-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti stopped from visiting Rambiara Nalla, alleges Jammu-Kashmir ‘turned into open air prison’||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said that she was stopped from visiting a site where she claimed illegal sand mining is carried out. Taking to Twitter, Mufti lashed out at the Centre, saying while Jammu and Kashmir’s resources are being plundered, the government of India has “nothing but contempt for us”.“I was stopped from visiting Rambiara Nalla today by local admin. This is where sand extraction through illegal tenders has been outsourced to outsiders & locals are barred from the area. Our land & resources are being plundered by GOI that has nothing but contempt for us,” the PDP leader tweeted.Alleging violation of rights by Centre, Mufti said in a subsequent tweet, “This is their warped idea of Naya Kashmir. Sand mafia is operating in broad daylight yet we are expected to remain quiet. As a leader, its my responsibility to articulate these grievances. But BJP is brazenly violating my rights & curbing my movements under guise of ‘security’.”She also alleged that Jammu and Kashmir has been turned into an open air prison. I was stopped from visiting Rambiara Nalla today by local admin. This is where sand extraction through illegal tenders has been outsourced to outsiders & locals are barred from the area.Our land & resources are being plundered by GOI that has nothing but contempt for us pic.twitter.com/dF7KnZqMG0Mufti, who was recently released from detention, formed an alliance of regional parties called Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). Apart from PDP, National Conference, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference and COmmunkst Party of India (M) are some of its other constituents. The alliance has announced it will fight the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir and has received Congress’ backing.Earlier today, Mufti had accused the Centre of “sabotaging” the participation of political parties other than the BJP in the DDC polls by not allowing them to campaign freely.In repeated attacks at the Centre, the PAGD has accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of “going out of its way” to help the Bharatiya Janata Party by “locking up” its candidates citing security concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-stopped-from-visiting-rambiara-nalla-alleges-jammu-kashmir-turned-into-open-air-prison/story-llFSYcfhm4Hx52kD2ZB9lJ.html
21-11-2020||India||NCB raids comedian Bharti Singh’s residence, seizes marijuana||Mumbai: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday raided comedian Bharti Singh’s residence in Mumbai and said it has seized marijuana from there. NCB’s zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, confirmed the recovery but refused to provide more details. He added raids were going on at some other places across Mumbai.Another NCB officer said Bharti and her husband Harsh were being questioned about the contraband.The NCB is probing the drug angle to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14.It earlier raided residence of actor Arjun Rampal and his partner, Gabriella Demetriades, and questioned them. The NCB has arrested Gabriella’s brother, Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national, and allegedly seized drugs from him.Rampal has maintained the drug found at his place was prescribed and he has submitted a prescription to NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-raids-comedian-bharti-singh-s-residence-seizes-marijuana/story-hNIfz09RO4mWVHLj3umWIL.html
21-11-2020||India||Murder and rape accused out on bail rapes 75-year-old woman in Tripura||A 25-year-old murder and rape accused out on bail was on Thursday arrested for allegedly raping his 75-year-old neighbour in Tripura’s Dhalai district, police said on Saturday. The accused has been sent in judicial custody until December 3.Police said that the accused raped the woman, who lives alone, on Wednesday night. They added the accused was released on bail in May three years after he was arrested for raping and murdering a 56-year-old woman in 2017.“During the investigation, we found he [the accused] had a previous criminal record,” said Lakshabir Jamatia, a local police officer.Earlier this month, a 32-year-old man allegedly raped his 90-year-old neighbour in Tripura’s North district.Separately, three men have been booked for abducting and sexually harassing a 19-year-old intern at a hospital in Tripura’s Unakoti district on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-and-rape-accused-out-on-bail-rapes-75-year-old-woman-in-tripura/story-7OeBJua5PWMVLhRDJQdJCI.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Why no action?’: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra questions UP govt over ‘poisonous liquor’ deaths||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday hit out at the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh, saying that deaths due to consumption of “poisonous liquor” in the state were on a rise and the government was unable to handle the problem. “Several deaths due to poisonous liquor have taken place in UP in Lucknow, Firozabad, Hapur, Mathura and Prayagraj. There were also deaths in Agra, Baghpat and Meerut. Why has the government failed to take action against the poisonous liquor mafia, apart from some pretentious steps? Who is responsible?” Vadra tweeted, along with an image of newspaper articles about the incidents. In the last couple of days, it was claimed that atleast 10 people have died due to consumption of illicit liquor.As many as six people died on Friday after allegedly consuming illicit liquor in the Brajpuri and Garh Mukteshwar areas of Hapur. While families of the deceased claimed that the deaths were due to the liquor, the UP Police have dismissed them.In a separate incident on the same day, four people died and at least five were admitted to a hospital after consuming illicit liquor in Amilia village under Phulpur police station jurisdiction in Prayagraj, District Magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami said. In both the cases, samples of liquor have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-action-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-questions-up-govt-over-poisonous-liquor-deaths/story-dXwIHGEsIulYbHkhhRuRbN.html
21-11-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah in Chennai, will inaugurate development projects and hold key meeting with state unit||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday reached Chennai where he will take part in three events.According to Shah’s scheduled for Chennai released by his office, the home minister will first pay floral tributes to MG Ramachandran and former chief minister, late Jayalalithaa at 4:30 pm. Ten minutes later, Shah will inaugurate and lay foundation stone for various development projects worth Rs 67,000 crore, including Phase 2 of Chennai Metrol Rail.Finally, at 6 pm, he will meet office-bearers and district presidents of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tamil Nadu, and is expected to discuss Tamil Nadu elections due next year. He is on a two-day visit to Chennai. Schedule of public programmes of Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah in Tamil Nadu.மத்திய உள்துறை அமைச்சர் திரு.அமித் ஷா அவர்களின் நிகழ்ச்சி நிரல் pic.twitter.com/kz9ISBsHcPAt the airport, Shah was received by Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, senior cabinet members and BJP state president L Murugan among others.As soon as Shah’s convoy left the aiport, the home minister sprang a surprise when he virtually broke protocol, got out of his vehicle and walked on the busy GST Road outside the airport to greet supporters. He warmly waved at the overjoyed supporters who had thronged the airport since the morning.The video of Shah walking on the GST Road was tweeted by his official handle. It is always great to be in Tamil Nadu. Thank you Chennai for this love and support. https://t.co/pxl5EaZ6onShah’s vsit comes at a time when BJP’s relationship with its southern partner All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) is strained over the former’s Vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march). The state government has denied permission citing the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, and AIADMK’s mouthpiece called it “divisive”. However, BJP members have continued with the yatra across Tamil Nadu since November 6, courting arrests and being let off later.A crucial consultative meeting was also held on Friday where the BJP showed its reluctance to accept chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami (EPS) as the candidate for the top job in the 2021 Assembly election, said a party leader on the condition of anonymity.Last month, after days of internal power tussle, Paneerselvam had officially announced Palaniswami as the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate.A heavy security cover has been provided in Chennai for Shah’s visit. He will leave for New Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-in-chennai-will-inaugurate-development-projects-and-hold-key-meeting-with-state-unit/story-keYMVYDMuFjoUByMFOQnSM.html
21-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh, husband arrive at NCB office in Mumbai||Comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa arrived at Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai on Saturday after they were summoned by the agency earlier in the day.The NCB had conducted raid at their residence, earlier today.It has recovered a small quantity of cannabis from the place, an official said, according to news agency PTI.The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the NCB into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, he said.“A team led by NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information.The agency is also carrying out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added.Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows.This is the latest in a series of raids conducted at residences of big names associated with Bollywood. Actor Arjun Rampal and film producer Firoz Nadiadwala were also raided by the agency earlier this month in connection with a drugs probe.The NCB launched an investigation into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comedian-bharti-singh-husband-arrive-at-ncb-office-in-mumbai/story-g21cDnuP7N7nlEC8GUsjdL.html
21-11-2020||India||NCB raids comedian Bharti Singh’s house: All you need to know||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted a search at the residence of comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa and recovered small quantity of cannabis from the place, an official said.The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the NCB into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, he said.“A team led by NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information.Bharti Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows.The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs.The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act.Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.All you need to know about Bharti Singh’s case:1. The NCB has summoned Singh and her husband hours after conducting a raid at their residence in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.2. A small quantity of cannabis was recovered from her place. Singh’s name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler,” the official said.3. The agency is also carrying out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-raids-comedian-bharti-singh-s-house-all-you-need-to-know/story-MKgUW6uT85ohOxx28lmm5N.html
21-11-2020||India||#MeToo: Court asks MJ Akbar, Ramani if there is scope of settlement in defamation case||A Delhi court on Saturday asked former Union minister M J Akbar and journalist Priya Ramani whether there was a chance of settlement between them in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against her. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Ramani had said the allegations against Akbar, made in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018, were her truth and were made in public good. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Ravindra Kumar Pandey posed the query on Saturday as he started hearing afresh the final arguments in the case since the previous judge hearing the matter was transferred to another court on Wednesday.  Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for Akbar, said she needed time to talk to her client before making a decision on the issue. The counsel for Ramani, advocate Bhavook Chauhan, said there was less chance of any settlement since the facts of the case were peculiar. The court asked both the parties to respond on the point of settlement and get back on November 24, the next date of hearing. The previous judge, ACMM Vishal Pahuja, had started hearing the final arguments in the case on February 7 this year. Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him adjectives such as ‘media’s biggest predator’ that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment by women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by M J Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing”” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metoo-court-asks-mj-akbar-ramani-if-there-is-scope-of-settlement-in-defamation-case/story-gMqRZCwsX3SY3wooVBRg7O.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Whisper a prayer’: Good samaritan leaves clothes for needy in Kohima||Amid the day to day hustle, an unidentified good samaritan(s) mysteriously left used but reusable items, including clothes of varying sizes, bags and purses etc., on a pavement in Kohima with a simple message - “Pick any and whisper a prayer”. The phrase “good samaritan”, meaning someone who helps a stranger, derives from the parable told by Jesus Christ in the Gospel of Luke in the Holy Bible. It tells about a traveller who was beaten and left half-dead on a road. A Jewish priest and a Levite who passed by him avoided him but a Samaritan helped the injured man even though he did not know him.A photograph of the items was posted on a popular social networking platform by a youth who saw the giveaway items lying on the streets. The youth, Chenio N Odyuo, who is the sports ambassador of Aainball Federation of India, said he was returning from a friend’s house on Friday night when he spotted the items laid out on a pavement. Also read: ‘Desist from policy of supporting terror’ - India slams Pak over JeM attack“It grabbed my attention so I thought why don’t I capture this (with phone camera) and share it on social media for awareness,” he told Hindustan Times. Odyuo posted the pics on different groups on Facebook with the caption “Whoever did this, God bless you”. The post has so far garnered more than 5,000 likes and still counting. Facebook users reacted enthusiastically to the post. Some are even suggesting to make it a trend to donate reusable items to the needy across different locations to spread goodwill.“I am touched by the fact that humanity still exists,” commented a user while another said, “It is truly heartwarming to see such an act of kindness towards the needy. May God bless the cheerful giver”. “Now this is what making a difference looks like,” another remarked. Although Nagaland has the distinction of not having beggars or homeless roaming about the streets in any of its towns, except for the Dimapur railway station area where some beggars could be spotted occasionally, there are, as in any other society, needy people who barely get by. This incident has grabbed the attention of many and is being seen as an apt action with the onset of the festive season. Christmas season is usually considered as a time of goodwill and cheer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whisper-a-prayer-good-samaritan-leaves-clothes-for-needy-in-kohima/story-lZdFOY8fp70yBMwnbeuX8J.html
21-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti blames BJP for lack of level-playing field in J-K DDC polls||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday accused the Centre of “sabotaging” the participation of political parties other than the BJP in the District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir by not allowing them to campaign freely.Mehbooba’s allegations came as major political parties in the Valley, including the NC and the PDP, blame lack of a level-playing field for the elections, accusing the administration of locking up their candidates in accommodations at several places and not allowing them to campaign. “GOI sabotaging participation of non BJP parties in DDC polls. PDPs Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations & have spoken to DC Anantnag for his release @manojsinha_,” the PDP chief said on Twitter.Police have said the candidates were being provided collective security and put up in secure areas as providing security to every candidate was difficult.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the candidates are provided a double escort and the security forces guard an area where they want to visit and campaign after leaving their secure accommodations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-blames-bjp-for-lack-of-level-playing-field-in-j-k-ddc-polls/story-8onSci8mOoZRaZ9rlWOV6O.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Your responsibility to shape India’s present and future’: PM Modi’s message to students||Building up to the 100th anniversary of the country’s independence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India is going through an important phase of change and the next 25 years will be an important period for the nation. Addressing Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University’s (PDPU) students virtually during the convocation ceremony, he said, “Today’s India is going through an important phase of change. You have a responsibility to shape the current and future of the country. Think for a second, we are living in a golden period. You may have not thought about this but you are.”While addressing the students, PM Modi said, “India is completing its 75 years of independence in 2022. And we will complete 100 years of independence in 2047. This means these 25 years will be the most important years. India’s most important 25 years is in tune with your important years.”He further said that only those people succeed in life who ingrain a sense of responsibility. “Success begins when one takes up the responsibilities, and those who feel a sense of burden, fail,” he said. The Prime Minister also spoke about the ongoing pandemic situation, while keeping the spirit of optimism high: “Major changes are taking place around the world and there are several opportunities available for the growth of entrepreneurship and employment. It is not an easy thing to graduate at a time when the world is facing such a big crisis. But your abilities are much bigger than these challenges.”He will also lay the foundation stone of a 45 MW Production Plant of Monocrystalline Solar Photo Voltaic Panel and Centre of Excellence on Water Technology at the university, and inaugurate the Innovation and Incubation Centre - Technology Business Incubation, Translational Research Centre and Sports Complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-responsibility-to-shape-india-s-present-and-future-pm-modi-s-message-to-students/story-TqkOOzO5rMUxwod7vmGNQO.html
21-11-2020||India||ICMR increases RT-PCR testing capacity on Amit Shah’s directions||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Saturday the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has increased RT-PCR testing capacity from 27,000 tests per day to 37,200 on the directions of Union home minister Amit Shah.Shah, on November 15, had announced a number of measures to bring Delhi’s coronavirus situation under control. The measures announced by Shah include, among others, doubling of RT-PCR tests and deployment of mobile testing vans belonging to the Union health ministry and ICMR, in vulnerable places in the national capital.“ICMR has increased RT-PCR testing capacity from 27,000 tests/day to 37,200 RT-PCR tests per day on directions of HM @AmitShah. 30,735 RT-PCR samples collected in Delhi on 19 Nov as compared to 12,055 RT-PCR samples on 15 Nov,” MHA tweeted on Saturday.Shah had also said doctors and paramedical crew from the Central Armed Police Forces will be flown into Delhi to enhance capacity. In cases of severe Covid-19 infection, protocols are to be prepared to allow plasma donation, he added. The meeting was convened to devise a strategy to contain the spread of the coronavirus in Delhi amid the festive season.The government has said that the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country have crossed the 130 million mark, adding that of these, the last 10 million came in just 10 days. “India has crossed the landmark milestone of 13 crore tests. The last 1 crore tests conducted in just ten days,” the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) tweeted on Saturday.India’s total Covid-19 cases on Saturday stood at 9,050,598 after 46,232 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, health ministry’s data showed. This includes 8,478,124 recovered cases, 439,747 active cases and 132,726 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-increases-rt-pcr-testing-capacity-on-amit-shah-s-directions/story-SjBPArx79TFSqWI2c4iUbO.html
21-11-2020||India||Woman dentist’s throat slit, children attacked in Agra||A 38-year-old woman dentist was brutally murdered at her home in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Friday afternoon by a man who gained entry to the house on the pretext of recharging the family’s set-top box, reports have said, prompting the opposition to attack the government on rising crime graph in the state.Reports said Agra Police have caught the attacker, who was identified from CCTV footage, after a brief exchange of fire on Saturday. “Teams were assigned to probe. We traced his bike and caught him. The suspect opened fire on police and was injured in the shooting. He has been admitted to the district hospital,” A Satish Ganesh, inspector general of Agra range, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The man attacked Dr Nisha Singhal with a knife and slit her throat even as her children were in another room, according to reports. Her two children, who witnessed the crime, were also attacked by the man. The children received knife wounds and are being treated in a hospital, reports said.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and the Congress’ women’s wing tweeted about the crime as they questioned the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s stance on crime in the state.“The state is stunned by the incident in Agra where the throat of a woman doctor slit inside her house in a busy residential area. The BJP government is busy protecting corrupt officials and trapping opposition leaders in false cases. The government should focus on crime in UP instead of campaigning on TV,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.“A 38-year old woman dentist stabbed to death in her house in Agra, U.P. There is ZERO safety for women in BJP ruled Uttar Pradesh. Law and Order is at its pits. While the Ajay Bisht ji claims that “Crime is at a Minimum in UP,” All India Mahila Congress posted on Twitter referring to chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dentist-s-throat-slit-in-agra-children-attacked/story-ie9bDmflb3x1krvLrG4ccP.html
21-11-2020||India||4 dead, five hospitalised after consuming illicit liquor in UP’s Prayagraj||Four people died and at least five were admitted to a hospital after consuming illicit liquor in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district, reported news agency ANI. Prayagraj District Magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami said that the incident took place in Amilia village under Phulpur police station limits.“A team of district officials reached Amilia village after receiving information about the deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor. We have been informed about four deaths, while five to six people are admitted in the hospital,” said Goswami.The samples of the spurious liquor were sent for testing, the official said, adding that the culprits will be punished as per the law.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-dead-five-hospitalised-after-consuming-illicit-liquor-in-up-s-prayagraj/story-xX7EnnFTahA4aAtzAcBZDJ.html
21-11-2020||India||India crosses 130 million Covid-19 test mark, last 10 million in 10 days: Govt||Amid a fresh surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in several states, the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country have crossed the 130 million mark, the government said on Saturday, adding that of these, the last 10 million came in just 10 days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“India has crossed the landmark milestone of 13 crore tests. The last 1 crore tests conducted in just ten days,” the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) posted on Twitter. It also attached a graph showing India’s progression from 10 million tests to 130 million along with the tweet. #Unite2FightCorona #IndiaFightsCorona India has crossed the landmark milestone of 13 cr tests.The last 1 cr tests conducted in just 10 days. https://t.co/ZdwttcTAM6 pic.twitter.com/Iz0xcrDumKThe number of tests done so far - 130,657,808 - is almost one-tenth of the country’s total population. Of these, 1,066,022 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, government data showed. The progression of India’s Covid-19 testing is as follows: 10 million (July 7), 20 million (August 3), 30 million (August 17), 40 million (August 29), 50 million (September 8), 60 million (September 17), 70 million (September 26), 80 Million (October 6), 90 million (October 14), 100 million (October 23), 110 million (November 2), 120 million (November 11) and 130 million (November 21).India, the world’s second worst-affected country, is third in terms of total tests done. The United States, the worst-hit, has also tested more than any other country, having conducted nearly 180 million Covid-19 tests so far. China, where the virus originated and spread from last year, is second with 160 million tests. Russia, which has the fifth-highest number of cases, has also, at 71 million, conducted the fourth-highest number of tests. The United Kingdom is next with 40 million tests.India’s total Covid-19 cases currently stand at 9,050,598 with 46,232 infections in the last 24 hours, health ministry’s data showed on Saturday. This includes 8,478,124 (93.67%) recovered cases, 439,747 (4.86%) active cases and 132,726 (1.47%) fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-130-million-covid-19-test-mark-last-10-million-in-10-days-govt/story-XkqRfmncY7nSsAkRGEzZzI.html
21-11-2020||India||UP home department sends proposal to law ministry for tough law against ‘love jihad’: Official||The Uttar Pradesh Home Department has sent a proposal to the state’s Law Ministry for a stringent law to deal with the alleged religious conversion of women in the name of marriage, which the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leaders refer to as “love jihad”. The development follows an announcement by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during recent election rallies that his government would come out with a law to deal with the “love jihad”. A proposal for strict law against “love jihad” has been sent to the Law Department, a government spokesman confirmed on Friday.Stressing on the need for a strict law to deal with “love jihad”, UP Law Minister Brijesh Pathak on Friday told PTI. “There has been a rise in such cases in the state which have caused social disharmony and enmity. These incidents are also bringing a bad name to the state and therefore a strict law is the need of the hour.” “We will do whatever is required as soon as we receive a proposal from the Home Department as we have already made all necessary preparations,” Pathak said.  Addressing by-elections rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria on October 31, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had said his government would come out with a law to deal with ‘love jihad’ and used the Hindu funeral chant ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ to threaten those who don’t respect their daughters and sisters.Welcoming the Allahabad High Court ruling which had declared that conversion for the sole purpose of marriage is not valid, the chief minister had also said posters would be put up of those involved in ‘love jihad’, a derogatory coinage referring to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.“We will bring an effective law. It is my warning to those who play with the honour and dignity of sisters and daughters by hiding their real names and identities. If they do not mend their ways, their ‘Ram Naam Satya’ journey will start,” Adityanath had said. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had submitted a report last year suggesting a new law to check the forcible religious conversions.“The commission is of the view that existing legal provisions are not enough to check religious conversion and on this serious matter, a new law is needed like in some other states,” the report said.The report was submitted by the Law Commission along with draft legislation, Uttar Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2019.  In Kanpur, accotding to officials, the police had earlier set up a Special Investigation Team to look into reports of “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-home-department-sends-proposal-to-law-ministry-for-tough-law-against-love-jihad-official/story-joVHXezLiQeKm6E0g7VjKN.html
21-11-2020||India||‘Desist from policy of supporting terror’: India slams Pak over planned JeM attack in Nagrota||India on Saturday summoned Pakistan’s senior-most diplomat in New Delhi and lodged a strong protest over an attempted attack by the UN-designated terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) that was recently foiled by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir.The external affairs ministry summoned Aftab Hassan Khan, chargé d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission, and demanded that “Pakistan desists from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups operating from its territory and dismantle the terror infrastructure operated by terrorist outfits to launch attacks in other countries,” according to an official statement.Khan was told the Indian government is “firmly and resolutely committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security in the fight against terrorism”.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said security forces in Jammu and Kashmir had foiled a plan by JeM to “wreak major havoc and destruction” by killing four members of the group and seizing a large cache of weapons and explosives. The four terrorists were gunned down during a three-hour gun battle on the Jammu-Srinagar highway on Thursday.The statement said security forces had thwarted a “major terror attack” in Nagrota, and that initial reports indicated the attackers were “members of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a terrorist organization proscribed by the United Nations and several countries”. Also read: 4 Jaish terrorists killed in Nagrota got orders from Masood Azhar’s brotherThe huge cache of arms, ammunition and explosives seized on Thursday indicated “detailed planning for a major attack to destabilise the peace and security in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, in particular, to derail the ongoing democratic exercise of conduct of local district development council elections”, it added.“The government of India expressed its serious concerns at continued terror attacks by JeM against India,” the statement said. India’s long-standing demand that Pakistan “fulfil its international obligations and bilateral commitments to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner” was reiterated to the Pakistani chargé d’affaires.The statement said the JeM has been part of several attacks in India in the past, including the suicide attack in Pulwama in February 2019 that killed 40 Indian troopers and triggered a standoff between the two sides. India had carried out an airstrike on a JeM facility in Balakot in retaliation for the suicide bombing.On Friday, Pakistan had rejected allegations levelled by the PM Modi and contended they were part of “India’s desperate attempts to divert international attention from” the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. A statement issued by the foreign office in Islamabad also accused India of involvement in “state-sponsorship of terrorism against Pakistan”. “It is evident that India has stepped up anti-Pakistan propaganda, following presentation of the dossier by Pakistan providing irrefutable evidence of India’s state-sponsorship of terrorism,” it said, referring to a dossier that was unveiled earlier this month by the civilian and military leadership.Pakistan claimed the dossier contained proof of the alleged involvement of Indian intelligence operatives in acts of terrorism but the allegations were rubbished by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/desist-from-policy-of-supporting-terror-india-slams-pak-over-planned-attack-by-jem/story-RFa20R5d8SpOsAT3QxZSIK.html
21-11-2020||India||‘India has set target of cutting carbon footprint by 30-35%,’ says PM Modi||The country has set a target of reducing its carbon footprint by 30-35%, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Efforts are being made to increase the use of natural gas capacity four times in this decade, and work is also on to nearly double the oil refining capacity in the next five years, PM Modi added.“Today you are entering the industry at a time when due to pandemic, major changes are taking place in the energy sector of the whole world. In these times, there is potential for growth in the energy sector in India today, and in entrepreneurship too,” he said while addressing the convocation ceremony of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU).Also Read: India enters crucial phase in fight against Covid-19; can’t let guard down at this juncture: Mukesh AmbaniPM Modi encouraged the students to have faith in their purpose, and face challenges with confidence. “It’s not that successful people don’t have problems. But he who accepts challenges, confronts them and defeats them, he who solves problems, succeeds,” he said. “Only those who have a sense of responsibility are successful in life. Those who have a sense of burden always fail,” he added.PM Modi also said that work is underway to strengthen the start-ups in the energy sector, and a special fund has been allocated for the purpose. “If you have any idea, product or a concept that you want to incubate, then this fund will be a good opportunity for you, and a gift from the government,” he said.“The youth of the 21st century has to move forward with a ‘clean slate’. The mindset of some people. that nothing will change for the better, is problematic and has to be changed. A clean heart means clear intentions,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-set-target-of-cutting-carbon-footprint-by-30-35-says-pm-modi/story-Tyw8dOJBYAcYsPNA3m6NqL.html
21-11-2020||India||Mumbai civic body asks people not to visit Ambedkar memorial on his death anniv amid Covid||Civic authorities in Mumbai have asked people to pay homage to Bhimrao Ambedkar virtually on his death anniversary on December 6 instead of thronging his memorial in the city’s Dadar area in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tens of thousands of people annually on December 6 visit Chaityabhoomi in Dadar to pay their respects to the iconic leader, who headed the Indian Constitution’s drafting committee.Bhimrao Ambedkar’s grandson, Anandraj, has also cited the pandemic and appealed to people not to visit Mumbai in large numbers. “I appeal all followers to organise events at a smaller scale in districts and towns to ensure the safety of all the citizens.”The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said no arrangements have been made for visitors this year at Chaityabhoomi. The civic body would set up temporary sheds and make arrangements for drinking water, mobile toilets, etc, at the memorial on December 6. A webinar is being arranged this year to pay tributes to the iconic leader.Kiran Dighavkar, BMC’s assistant municipal commissioner, appealed to people to pay their tributes from their homes. “We are also making sure that we are prepared with complete crowd controlling measures at the site.”Nearly 500 stalls are set up for selling books, lamps, calendars, decorations, posters, T-shirts, and watches bearing images of Ambedkar annually at Chaityabhoomi on December 6. No permission for setting them up will be given this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-civic-body-asks-people-not-to-visit-ambedkar-memorial-on-his-death-anniv-amid-covid/story-Xs4gggLnhE6RLNBrXibKLK.html
21-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt may approach ICAI for action against 3 CAs over GST frauds and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt may approach ICAI for action against 3 CAs over GST fraudsThe Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) is likely to ask the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to take action against three chartered accountants (CAs) arrested for their alleged involvement in generating bogus bills to fraudulently avail input tax credit (ITC) under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, two officials said. Read MoreIndia summons Pak high commission official over Nagrota encounter, conveys strong concernThe ministry of external affairs (MEA) summoned an official of the Pakistan high commission in Delhi over the encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Nagrota where four terrorists were killed in a gun battle with security forces on Thursday, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. Read MoreArmy personnel killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan in J-K’s Rajouri districtA personnel of the Indian Army was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Saturday.“The unprovoked firing from across the border in Lam area of Nowshera sector took place around 1 am, resulting in critical injuries to a havaldar, who died later,” officials said. Read MoreThe importance of being IshantVirender Sehwag watched with pride the skill and discipline of a young teammate making his presence felt on one of the toughest assignments you can get as a cricketer.Here was a lanky 19-year-old fast bowler Sehwag knew well as the rookie from Delhi’s Ranji side—a boy he and his other Delhi mates had tritely nicknamed as “lambu”—whizzing balls past Ricky Ponting at the Waca, Australia’s Perth fortress. Read MoreTorbaaz trailer: Sanjay Dutt wants to rescue refugee children from terrorism, save their lives with cricket. WatchNetflix has shared the first trailer for their upcoming film Torbaaz. Starring Sanjay Dutt in the lead, Torbaaz is about a man who changes the lives of a few kids from refugee camps in Afghanistan by teaching them cricket.The trailer opens with Rahul Dev as a menacing head of a terrorist group. Read MoreCouture’s new afflatus: Veiled Shraddha Kapoor looks ethereal as a lockdown bride in Falguni Shane Peacock bridalwear. SEE PICSShraddha Kapoor is an absolute stunner, and the petite Saaho actor looks ethereal in almost everything she wears. Most recently, Shraddha graced the cover of Falguni and Shane Peacock’s Peacock Magazine for the month of November, and the designer duo shared glimpses of the Baaghi actor all dressed up in the most gorgeous of traditional Indian wear along with snippets of her interview. Read MoreMan performs magic tricks underwater, creates record. Guess how many?It’s fascinating and it’s exciting. Wondering what we’re talking about? It’s a video of a man performing magic tricks underwater. Shared on Guinness World Records’ official Facebook page, the clip is not just unusual but absolutely entertaining too. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-may-approach-icai-for-action-against-3-cas-over-gst-frauds-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3eLtIjYP6x819BwzjPkayH.html
21-11-2020||India||CPI (M) writes to LG over ‘confinement’ of Gupkar alliance candidates ahead of J&K local polls||Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), leader Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami has cited alleged confinement of candidates of a grouping of major regional parties ahead of the District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu & Kashmir against their wishes and urged lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to ensure free and fair elections.The CPI(M) is contesting the polls as part of the grouping called People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which was formed last month to fight for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir special status that was revoked last year with the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370.In a letter to Sinha, Tarigami wrote a number of candidates of the grouping have been kept away from their constituencies and “bundled into cluster accommodations”. He added they are not allowed to campaign due to perceived threats to their lives. “Confining candidates against their wishes has severely restricted their movement and ability to campaign.”Tarigami said in some cases, the candidates are not even allowed to attend the meetings of their parties. “Some cases have surfaced where opposite candidates are sent in the same vehicle to a village for campaigning and are asked to campaign together. Several candidates from far off places were sent to hotels in Srinagar soon after they filled the nomination forms last week. Not just the voters, but the families of the candidates are also concerned.”Tarigami called it a big concern and said there is a lot of dissatisfaction over such arrangements.“Who wins and who loses, the decision must lie with the electorate. Democracy must finally win. For that, the process must be made secure and credible. It is advisable not to put avoidable restrictions on the contesting candidates and instead their legitimate movement for the campaigning in their respective areas must be effectively facilitated. Ensuring a free and fair environment for this process is essential.”Former chief ministers Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah earlier accused the police of harassing their workers ahead of the polls from November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-writes-to-lg-over-confinement-of-gupkar-alliance-candidates-ahead-of-j-k-local-polls/story-19nHKN6ESv2cnXSTKUwyLI.html
21-11-2020||India||Two militant associates arrested in Kashmir||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Saturday said they have arrested two “militant associates” Bilal Ahmad Chopan and Mursaleen Bashir Sheikh.“As per the investigations, they were providing logistic support, shelter besides transporting of arms/ammunition of the terrorists in Pampore and Tral areas,” the police said in a statement. It added they were allegedly involved in passing sensitive information to militants. “Incriminating material has been recovered from their possession...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militant-associates-arrested-in-kashmir/story-VRjs4AoET90ClJw01F9r8J.html
21-11-2020||India||From 5-year jail term to non-bailable offence: What states say on ordinance against ‘love jihad’||Several states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, have said they will bring in laws to check “love jihad”, described by Hindu activists as an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriages and bring about a demographic change.The Madhya Pradesh government said on Tuesday that a bill will be passed in the next session of the state assembly against “love jihad”. It will a provision of five years in jail for forced conversions for marriage. The Haryana government also indicated on the same day that it will constitute a committee of officials to study and draft law to that effect. Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have also said they will bring in legislation to end love jihad.However, according to experts, the charges of “love jihad” are bogus and that adult men and women are free to convert under the right to freedom of religion. In February, the central government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.Congress-ruled states have opposed the introduction of such legislation.Also read | ‘Love Jihad’ a term created by BJP to divide nation: GehlotHere’s what the states want to do against “love jihad”:Uttar PradeshUP’s home department has sent a proposal to the state’s law ministry for a stringent law to deal with the alleged religious conversion of women in the name of marriage. News agency PTI citing a government spokesperson that a proposal for strict law against “love jihad” has been sent to the law department.This has come after chief minister Yogi Adityanath said earlier this month that his government is planning to introduce a law to regulate interfaith marriages involving Muslim men and Hindu women, citing a high court order to promise that his administration would secure and protect women in the state.Also read | In defence of the right to choose one’s love“Taking a serious note of such incidents [of forceful conversion and cruelty], the CM has directed that a concrete strategy be made to control such incidents. It has often been seen that this is being done in an organised manner. If required, an ordinance can be brought for it,” an official earlier told news agency PTI. Last year, the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission submitted a report to Adityanath, suggesting “a new law to check forcible religious conversions.” Kanpur Police had also set up a special investigation team to look into “love jihad” cases.Madhya PradeshThe central state’s home minister Narottam Mishra had said on Tuesday the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (freedom of religion) Bill, 2020, will be passed in the next session of the state assembly. Mishra said the law -- with a provision of five years in jail for forced conversions for marriage -- was necessitated because of rising cases of love jihad. He insisted that the BJP government was not against interfaith marriages but only against incidents of love jihad.Also read | New Madhya Pradesh bill likely to replace 1968 law“We are going to table the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey Bill, 2020, in this winter session in December against love jihad, which means a woman is forced or lured by a person of other religion for marriage and later she is tortured for conversion,” said Mishra.The proposed law doesn’t mention any religion in particular in its provisions. Mishra said the bill proposes rigorous imprisonment for five years for “luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion”. Other proposed provisions include making it mandatory for kin of the person being converted for the purpose of marriage to file a complaint.“The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring such marriages null and void,” said Mishra. Besides, those assisting in such acts will be made co-accused in the case, he added.HaryanaHaryana home minister Anil Vij said the state government intended to constitute a committee of officials to study and draft law against love-jihad. “We will first have a discussion with the chief minister, ML Khattar, in this regard,’’ Vij said. Vij said a representative of the advocate general’s office would also be a part of the committee. This committee will study similar laws enacted by other states, he added.KarnatakaThe BJP national general secretary CT Ravi said on Friday that a ban on “love jihad” and cow slaughter would be a reality in Karnataka very soon. Ravi, a former Karnataka minister, said a law banning both practices would be passed in the upcoming assembly session. He said there are serious deliberations going on in government circles as BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel has also urged chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take steps in this regard.Also read | RSS push for law on interfaith marriage“Love Jihad and cow slaughter ban have been approved by the BJP core committee. The clamour to bring in a law banning cow slaughter has grown louder. We intend to do so,” the Chikkamagaluru legislator said during a press conference.Ravi had said earlier this month that on the lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka would enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. Allahabad High Court had said in its October 31 order that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was not valid. “We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of our sisters,” Ravi had said, adding that anyone involved in any act of conversion would face severe and swift punishment.Also read: Stop attacking interfaith marriages | HT EditorialBiharUnion minister Giriraj Singh on Friday supported the implementation of law against “love jihad” in Bihar and claimed that the subject has become a cause of trouble in many states. The BJP leader requested the Nitish Kumar government to understand issues like “love jihad” and population control have nothing to do with communalism, but that they are a matter of social harmony.Singh told reporters “love jihad” should be seen as a problem not only among Hindus but also among all non-Muslims in all states of the country. He said that in Kerala where there is a large population of Christians, community members have expressed concern over this development.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-5-year-jail-term-to-non-bailable-offence-what-states-say-on-ordinance-against-love-jihad/story-0JwKeeXzMFCTZBA38OVU5H.html
21-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 33 trainee IAS officers test positive in Mussoorie’s Lal Bahadur Shastri Academy||Authorities at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Uttarakhand’s Mussoorie have said 33 officers training at the institute have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There are 428 officers training under the 95th foundation course on the campus that started on October 13.“33 Officer Trainees have tested Covid positive at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration. A total of 428 Officer Trainees are on campus for the 95th Foundation Course. Academy is taking every measure to break the chain of Covid-19 spread in consonance,” LBSNAA tweeted. “...with guidelines of Government. Food and other necessities are being delivered to the Officer Trainees in their hostels by staff who have been equipped adequately in protective gear,” it added.The academy was sealed for two days on Saturday after the officers were found Covid-19 positive, according to news agency ANI. Officers found infected have been quarantined and 150 people have been examined while the remaining staff was also investigated. “A team from the health department has been sent to the academy campus from Dehradun. Medicines and other essentials have also been sent,” Dr Ashish Srivastav, Dehradun’s district magistrate, said according to news agency ANI.All the officers who are taking part in the four-month-long foundation course are new joinees in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), and cadets of various other central government services.There are 4,674 active cases of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, 64,393 people have recovered so far and 1,138 have succumbed, bringing the total to 70,205, according to data published by the Uttarakhand government.The Uttarakhand government recently postponed the decision to reopen colleges in the face of rising Covid-19 cases. This comes on the heels of 80 teachers in 84 schools in five blocks of Pauri District in Garhwal Division testing positive for the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-33-trainee-ias-officers-test-positive-in-mussoorie-s-lal-bahadur-shastri-academy/story-fKn1kF5bNOm4dXbQJjBCKP.html
21-11-2020||India||BHU to reopen from November 23 in phased manner||Banaras Hindu University (BHU) will reopen in a phased manner as per the UGC guidelines in this regard from November 23, said, BHU public relations officer Dr Rajesh Singh. In the first phase, the final year students of PhD programmes of science streams will be permitted to visit their respective departments/labs for their research work. Dr Singh said that the core committees are being constituted for implementation and monitoring of guidelines/SoPs (standard operating procedures). Each faculty will constitute a core committee to develop an SoP to be followed during the reopening of the university and for its effective implementation and monitoring.Also read: Narcotics Control Bureau conducts raid at comedian Bharti Singh’s residence in MumbaiThese committees will assess the situation periodically. Keeping in view the situation, further reopening of the departments of other streams will be decided, he added. The SoP shall be based on the on Central and state government guidelines on safety measures for preventing the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhu-to-reopen-from-november-23-in-phased-manner/story-PksvWoE53AE1oGujGlUqEO.html
21-11-2020||India||NCB summons comedian Bharti Singh, husband hours after raiding their Mumbai residence||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday summoned comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa hours after conducting a raid at their residence in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.This is the latest in a series of raids conducted at residences of big names associated with Bollywood. Actor Arjun Rampal and film producer Firoz Nadiadwala were also raided by the agency earlier this month in connection with a drugs probe. The NCB launched an investigation into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for him.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-control-bureau-conducts-raid-at-the-residence-of-comedian-bharti-singh-in-mumbai/story-nMoo7UF6DTz6RVGhdK1fPI.html
21-11-2020||India||Over 500 killed by wild animals in Bengal since 2015, govt to give jobs to their kin||The West Bengal government has started providing jobs to the next of kin of people killed by wild animals, mostly elephants and tigers, in West Bengal since 2015.“At least 584 people were killed by wild animals in the state between 2015 and 2020 [till October 31]. In the first phase at least 434 people would be provided the jobs of home guards,” said an official of the state forest department.Between 2014 and 2019, the state accounted for the highest number of people killed by tigers and the second-highest by elephants after Odisha.West Bengal has over 700 elephants and around 100 tigers. Often wild animals are killed in the human-animal conflict. According to forest department data, at least 47 elephants have been electrocuted in West Bengal since 2015. “Till date villagers killed by elephants used to get a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakhs. We have taken a policy decision that henceforth we will provide a member of the victim’s family a job of the home guard,” said the official.The move to provide jobs comes six months before the assembly elections. The Bharatiya Janata Party is posing a tough challenge to the ruling Trinamool Congress. The state government has also started providing jobs to family members of untraceable people abducted by Maoists. around a decade back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-500-killed-by-wild-animals-in-bengal-since-2015-govt-to-give-jobs-to-their-kin/story-bw7dARNAqTkpKDlkvhFGYN.html
21-11-2020||India||India summons Pak high commission official over Nagrota encounter, conveys strong concern||The ministry of external affairs (MEA) summoned an official of the Pakistan high commission in Delhi over the encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Nagrota where four terrorists were killed in a gun battle with security forces on Thursday, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.“India conveyed strong concern to Pakistan over terror attack planned by JeM in J-K. Strong protest lodged demanding Pakistan stops supporting terrorists operating from their territory. The government of India is firm and resolute in taking all the necessary measures to safeguard national security,” ANI quoted sources as saying.The four Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists were killed in the fierce three-hour-long gun battle, which started early on Thursday at the Ban toll plaza on the highway near Nagrota town in Jammu district. Two policemen of the Special Operations Group (SOG) were injured in the exchange of fire. The gunfight began after security forces intercepted a truck carrying the terrorists.Mukesh Singh, inspector general of police (Jammu zone), said later that 11 AK-47 assault rifles, three pistols, 29 live grenades, six UBGL grenades, mobile phones, compass and other ammunition were recovered from the terrorists. Singh added that the security forces were getting inputs about possible infiltration by Pakistani terrorists ahead of the upcoming local elections.Officials suspect that the terrorists were planning “something big” ahead of the district development council (DDC) elections in the Union territory, which will be held from November 28 to December 22.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday congratulated security forces for killing the terrorists. “Neutralising of four terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted,” PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi also held a review meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and top intelligence establishment over the Nagrota encounter. Officials have said that the terrorists were planning a “major attack” on the anniversary of the 26/11 terror attack.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-summons-pak-high-commission-official-over-nagrota-encounter-conveys-strong-concern/story-M43KJWUHezC4kXrEBvDgaM.html
21-11-2020||India||Armed robbers loot Rs 60 lakhs from bank in Assam, one injured in shooting||Armed robbers looted nearly Rs 60 lakhs from a Punjab National Bank branch in Assam’s Nalbari district on Friday. One person was injured in shooting during the incident. According to the police, the incident took place around 12:30 pm at a branch of the bank at Amayapur, nearly 7 kilometres from the district headquarter Nalbari. “As per the initial investigation, at least four robbers came in motorbikes and entered the branch. They cornered the branch manager and took the cash from him before fleeing,” said Amanjit Kaur, superintendent of police, Nalbari. Also read: Google, Facebook and Twitter threaten to leave Pakistan over new rulesOnce they came out of the bank, the robbers started firing indiscriminately in which one bystander injured his leg. The robbers fled from the spot soon after. The injured has been shifted to Guwahati for treatment and his condition is stated to be stable. “Our investigations are underway. We have found certain leads and are working on them. Hopefully, the persons involved in the robbery will be nabbed soon,” said Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-robbers-loot-rs-60-lakhs-from-bank-in-assam-one-injured-in-shooting/story-RFmkS4Svb44acdQtIY0z5L.html
21-11-2020||India||Govt may approach ICAI for action against 3 CAs over GST frauds||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) is likely to ask the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to take action against three chartered accountants (CAs) arrested for their alleged involvement in generating bogus bills to fraudulently avail input tax credit (ITC) under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, two officials said.The three have been arrested as part of the government’s nationwide drive against the GST frauds, the officials added requesting anonymity.ICAI is a statutory body established under the Chartered Accountants Act for regulating chartered accountancy in the country. The Institute functions under the administrative control of the ministry of corporate affairs. The ICAI is the second largest professional body of CAs in the world.The DGGI and the Central GST Commissionerate continued their drive against fraudsters. It has arrested 41 people, including three CAs and a Chennai-based businesswoman, as part of the drive. The three CAs are from Hyderabad and Ludhiana.DGGI (Hyderabad) arrested one CA for his role in arranging and organising fake invoices of fictitious firms for one company that led to fraudulent claims of ITC worth Rs 27.4 crore. Another CA from Hyderabad was arrested for a similar crime resulting in fraudulent claims of ITC worth Rs 10.37 crore.A Ludhiana-based CA was arrested for his role in creating three fake firms, through which he fraudulently availed of ITC and monetisation of ITC through refunds and bogus billing.Using tools such as artificial intelligence and data analytics on the e-way bill portal, it could be established that these firms had a common set of ghost partners. They generated bogus bills worth Rs 158 crore, involving fake ITC of more than Rs 21 crore and monetisation of fake ITC of over Rs 5 crore through cash refund, one of officials said.The second person, who works for DGGI, said, “With total 41 arrests of GST fraudsters so far, the agency has filed 577 cases against 2,221 identified entities in the eighth day of its drive against the GST fake invoice frauds.” Recent arrests were made in Gurugram, Nagpur, Kolkata and Mumbai, he added.The government is also tightening the procedure for new GST registration to check frauds. “The businesses, whose owners or promoters do not have commensurate income-tax payment records, will require physical and financial verification before their companies can be given GST registration,” the first person said.Explaining the menace, he said, fake invoices were not only issued for availing ITC fraudulently but also for activities leading to tax evasion, bank loan fraud, money laundering, and hawala transactions. “These activities have been largely carried out by non-existent or fly-by-night firms and by using a network of firms to game the system to usurp ITC on the commission basis,” he added.These activities have been carried out, primarily, by those elements who have exploited the ease of doing business conveniences in the existing system by getting a GST registration easily and quickly. They took advantage of the liberalised norm for grant of registration in GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-approach-icai-for-action-against-3-cas-over-gst-frauds/story-bqOOHvZ2tAj4ysJEAGTyeO.html
21-11-2020||India||Army personnel killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan in J-K’s Rajouri district||A personnel of the Indian Army was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Saturday.“The unprovoked firing from across the border in Lam area of Nowshera sector took place around 1 am, resulting in critical injuries to Havaldar Patil Sangram Shivaji, who died later,” officials said. Shivaji hailed from Maharashtra.The Indian Army retaliated strongly to silence the Pakistani guns, and cross-border firing between the two sides continued for quite some time, officials added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-personnel-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-in-j-k-s-rajouri-district/story-RXRdMbiCZAz55kQ5HtfiZM.html
21-11-2020||India||Man dies at Samajwadi Party lawmaker’s flat||LUCKNOW: A 35-year-old man was killed at Samajwadi Party lawmaker Amit Yadav’s flat in Lucknow during a midnight birthday celebration, police said. Rakesh Rawat, the 35-year-old, accidentally shot himself while fiddling with a pistol of the lawmaker’s nephew, Pankaj Yadav,Pankaj Yadav and three others, Vinay Yadav, Gyanendra Kumar, and Aftab Alam, have been taken into custody for further questioning in the matter. Deputy police commissioner Somen Barma said Rawat worked as an executive with a private company in Lucknow. He added Rawat and friend, Vinay Yadav, were at the flat to celebrate the birthday of a friend. He cited the preliminary probe and added all of them, including Rawat, was drunk when Pankaj Yadav started flaunting his pistol. Barman said Rawat started fiddling with the pistol out of curiosity and accidentally fired when someone tried to snatch it. Rawat was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed.Barman said the lawmaker’s nephew has failed to produce the license of the pistol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-at-samajwadi-party-lawmaker-s-flat/story-dzwbiPLX8Kwq32kNSuvmUK.html
21-11-2020||India||Sore over inaction on land issue grievance, Odisha youth sets tehsil office afire||Frustrated over his attempts of removing encroachment over his land, a youth in Sambalpur district of Odisha on Friday torched a Tehsil office gutting valuable land documents.Officials said a man named Rajiv Kisan of Tileimal village on Friday morning reached the tehsil office of Rengali in autorickshaw carrying diesel in plastic cans. “The watchman was sweeping the office when the youth sprinkled diesel inside the office and set fire to it before anyone could react. In no time several files were up in smoke,” said Rengali tehsildar Sunil Meher.The man then went live on Facebook showing the tehsil office in fire which soon attracted the attention of other officials. In his Facebook live video, the youth kept on ranting about the injustice done to him by the Tehsil officials over a person encroaching his land.Also read: Tracking the coronavirus pandemic - First signs of a 2nd wave“When I came to the office, several rooms were burning and files were already gutted. I informed the fire brigade,” said Tehsildar Sunil Kumar Meher. “Our staff caught hold the youth. He has been arrested by the police,” he added.The tehsildar said the quantum of loss is yet to be ascertained but the record room containing the digitised land documents is safe.Sources said the youth was upset over his land being encroached by another man and he had lodged a complaint in the tehsil office several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sore-over-inaction-on-land-issue-grievance-odisha-youth-sets-tehsil-office-afire/story-VZhZAUUji1cmMkoWOn5kWO.html
21-11-2020||India||India reports 46,232 new Covid-19 cases, 564 deaths; tally over 9 million now||With 46,232 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 564 related deaths, India’s tally rose to 9,050,598, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the country’s preparedness of vaccine delivery, distribution and administration. The country’s death toll has mounted to 132,726 and the number of active cases of Covid-19 stands at 439,747. There were 45,522 Covid-19 cases and 584 deaths across the country on Friday.According to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, there have been 8,478,124 recoveries from the viral disease so far with 49,715 new discharges in the last 24 hours. The national recovery rate improved to 93.67% on Saturday and the gap between recovered and active cases of the coronavirus disease widened to 8,038,377. The health ministry has said that 28 states and Union territories have less than 20,000 active cases and that 20 of them were reporting a cumulative positivity rate lower than the national average of 6.95% as on Friday.Also read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal hopes 3rd wave may recede if trend holdsPrime Minister Modi on Friday reviewed India’s procurement and delivery strategy of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals and procurement were discussed,” Modi tweeted after the meeting. “Reviewed various issues like prioritisation of population groups, reaching out to HCWs (health care workers), cold-chain Infrastructure augmentation, adding vaccinators and tech platform for vaccine roll-out,” he added.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Prime Minister, according to officials who did not want to be named, was apprised of the progress on the research related to Covid-19 vaccine candidates within the country and also globally. “It was a review meeting of almost all departments that are involved in various stages — be it vaccine research, procurement, delivery and administration,” said a senior government official in the know of things.Five vaccine candidates are at the human clinical trials stage in the country at the moment. The PM was informed about the trial results and what is expected in weeks to come and regulatory approvals, the official added. The progress of talks with other countries and foreign vaccine manufacturers was also discussed.Meanwhile, the Centre is considering rushing expert teams to other states and Union territories (UTs) reporting a rise in new Covid-19 infections to assist the local administration in disease management. The ministry had announced on Thursday that it was sending teams to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur to take stock of the situation. “The teams will visit the districts reporting high number of COVID cases and support the State efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases,” it said in a statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-46-232-new-covid-19-cases-564-deaths-tally-over-9-million-now/story-kLXP6zNKJwDWEfv0st7HSP.html
21-11-2020||India||Mumbai Police register FIR in death case of TV actor Akshat Utkarsh||Mumbai Police have registered a First Information Report based on a Zero FIR filed by their counterparts in Bihar in connection with the death case of 26-year-old television actor Akshat Utkarsh in the capital of Maharashtra. Bihar Police had registered a zero FIR at Utkarsh’s hometown of Muzaffarpur based on his family’s complaint against his girlfriend and her sister.Officials say it is unusual for the police in one state to try to investigate a crime that primarily relates to another. But Bihar Police had departed from this standard practice in August this year when it registered an FIR for abetment to suicide, dishonestly inducing delivery of property and breach of trust in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in Mumbai on a complaint from his father KK Singh.The zero FIR has been transferred to Amboli Police from Bihar according to the procedure. The FIR was registered in Mumbai’s Amboli police station under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (acts by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), according to police officials cited by news agency ANI.Amboli Police officials said that they are investigating the matter and booked a struggling actress and her sister on Thursday for allegedly killing Utkarsh.Utkarsh was found dead in his rented apartment in Mumbai’s Andheri area on September 27. According to Amboli Police officials, he died by suicide and was depressed due to lack of work. His family, however, had dismissed claims, saying Utkarsh was murdered. Amboli Police had initially registered an accidental death record (ADR) in connection with the case.Akshat’s father Vijaykant Chaudhary had said in a written complaint that a struggling actor who was a friend of Akshat wanted to marry him. But when he refused to marry her, she with the help of her sister killed him, said Amboli Police officers.An FIR can be filed in any police station irrespective of the place of incident or jurisdiction. The FIR is filed at a police station that does not have jurisdiction over the incident and is known as a ‘zero FIR’. The zero FIR is then transferred to the appropriate police station, which files an actual FIR and investigates the case.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-register-fir-in-death-case-of-tv-actor-akshat-utkarsh/story-2tjYhKfI8gXXZio3FA7J0K.html
21-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre may rush teams to more states experiencing Covid-19 surge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt may rush Covid teams to more statesAfter sending high-level teams to four states to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, the Centre is considering rushing more expert teams to other states and Union territories (UTs) reporting a rise in new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections. Read moreChhath Puja concludes, devotees offer ‘arghya’ keeping Covid-19 protocols at bayDevotees gathered to offer morning prayers to the rising sun on the last day of Chhath Puja on Saturday. Most people across the country stuck to the traditional practice of offering prayers at river banks on the concluding day of the four-day Puja, flouting the guidelines issued to curb the spread of Covid-19. Read more4 Jaish terrorists killed in Nagrota got orders from Masood Azhar’s brotherEarly Thursday morning, an encounter between a group of terrorists and security forces happened at the Ban toll plaza near Nagrota. By the end of it, four terrorists were dead, but it wasn’t just a chance encounter. This was an intelligence-based operation that was aimed at blocking what security forces believed could be a major attack. Read moreHTLS 2020: ‘Young man was fearless,’ Kapil Dev reveals his ‘hero’ from IPL 2020Former India captain Kapil Dev has revealed that fast bowler T Natarajan was his ‘hero’ from the IPL 2020. In conversation with senior sports writer and journalist Ayaz Memon on Day 2 of the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Kapil said he was highly impressed with the 29-year-old fast bowler from Tamil Nadu. Read MoreAishwarya Rai Bachchan remembers her dad on his birth anniversary, calls him her ‘guardian angel’Actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan took to Instagram to remember her late father Krishnaraj Rai on his birth anniversary. She called him her ‘guardian angel’. Sharing a picture of her father, she wrote: “HAPPY BIRTHDAY Daddyyy- Ajjaaa Our Ever- Smiling Guardian ANGEL LOVE YOU ETERNALLY.” Read moreRemembering Princess Diana: How the people’s princess broke royal protocol with her fashionTwenty-three years after her death, Princess Diana continues to be remembered as so much more than just a member of the British Royal Family. From being a philanthropist and humanitarian, to a loving mother and style icon, the late Princess was constantly in the public eye. Read moreVinagte snapshot shows Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip on honeymoonOn the occasion of Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip’s 73rd wedding anniversary, which was on November 20, The Royal Family’s official Instagram account shared some entertaining content to celebrate the lovely couple. Amongst the pictures and videos they posted, one, in particular, may bring a sweet smile to your face. Read morePM Modi holds review meeting to discuss India’s vaccine strategyPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting regarding India’s vaccination strategy. The PM virtually met officials including foreign secretary, NITI Aayog member. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and principal secretary to PM also attended the meet. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-may-rush-teams-to-more-states-experiencing-covid-19-surge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PardMk8LXXYDnmtjq5TWyL.html
21-11-2020||India||Chhath Puja concludes, devotees offer ‘arghya’ keeping Covid-19 protocols at bay||Thousands of devotees gathered to offer morning prayers to the rising sun on the last day of Chhath Puja on Saturday. Most people across the country stuck to the traditional practice of offering prayers at river banks on the concluding day of the four-day Puja, flouting the guidelines issued to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Lucknow’s Gomti riverfront, the Ganga banks in Varanasi and Patna and other places in Mumbai, Delhi and Bhubaneswar were abuzz with devotees despite the Covid-19 restrictions, according to news agency ANI. However, many devotees decided to stay back home to offer ‘arghya’ to the rising sun from temporary water bodies, made specifically for the festival inside their campuses.Also Read: This year, most celebrate Chhath Puja from their building terraces in Thane, KalyanBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar too celebrated the festival at his official residence. He offered ‘arghya’ to the setting sun, a tradition he has been following since he became the CM 15 years back, but refrained from stepping out to take stock of the ghats like he earlier used to, PTI reported. Deputy chief minister Renu Devi also performed Chhath at her home town Bettiah.The four-day celebration period of Chhath Puja, dedicated to the Sun God, see rituals known as Prathihar, Dala Chhath, Chhathi, and Surya Shashthi.On the first day, ‘Nahay Khay’, a traditional meal, is prepared and served in the afternoon. On the second day of the Puja, worshippers observe ‘Nirjala Vrata’ (fast without drinking even a drop of water) and they break their fast only in the evening after worshipping the sun during sunset. The third day of the Puja is called ‘Sandhya Arghya’ and devotees again observe a day-long fast and break it only the following day after sunrise.Also Read: Crowds, many without masks, at ghats of Hindon as devotees offers prayers for ChhathThe festivities conclude on the fourth day after devotees perform the ‘Usha Arghya’ (offering prayers to the rising sun). The Chhath Puja is celebrated on the sixth day of the Kartik month of the Hindu calendar, which is also the fourth day after Diwali.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-concludes-devotees-offer-arghya-keeping-coronavirus-protocols-at-bay/story-lpVNGSLoaJEAnk0EhuBreP.html
21-11-2020||India||5 days after ‘stealing’ newborn, woman leaves him near police station in Madhya Pradesh||Five days after a woman allegedly stole a newborn, impersonating a nurse, from Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore on November 15, she left the baby at the gates of Sanyogitaganj police station on Friday morning, police said.Indore Deputy Inspector General of Police Harinarayan Chari Mishra said that the newborn has been reunited with his mother at the government hospital.“We took the case as a challenge. We searched for the accused woman based on the CCTV footage of the hospital. In the footage, it was seen that the woman fled on a two-wheeler. We searched and identified around 450 such two-wheelers. But, we could not find the woman. We have also announced Rs 20,000 prize for giving information about that woman,” Mishra told reporters.“Fearing police investigation and actions, the accused woman has left the child at the gates of Sanyogitaganj police station. The newborn is fine and he has been under observation at Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital where his mother is also admitted. They have been reunited,” he added.The search for the accused woman will continue, the officer added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-days-after-stealing-newborn-woman-leaves-him-near-police-station-in-madhya-pradesh/story-76ui7cxnCgm7FUY0y9CofK.html
21-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: Bharat Biotech to recruit volunteers for trial, Pfizer files for emergency use authorisation||Trials of different vaccine candidates against the Covid-19 continue as people across the globe are contracting the coronavirus disease, which has claimed millions of lives as well. With many countries, especially in Europe, experiencing a second wave of the pandemic, the need for a Covid-19 vaccine is being increasingly felt.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn what offers a glimmer of hope, India’s Bharat Biotech International Limited, which is conducting phase three trials of its vaccine candidate in the country, has said it plans to enrol 1,000-2,000 volunteers each in metros like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Also, America’s Pfizer Inc and Germany’s BioNTech SE have applied for emergency use authorisation in the United States for their joint vaccine candidate.Here are the latest updates on a potential Covid-19 vaccine:1. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, whose vaccine candidate is called Covaxin, said in a statement to Mint that interested volunteers staying near the trial site can meet the principal investigator for participating in the trial. People below 18 years of age, as well as those who earlier tested positive for Covid-19, will not be eligible, the company said. Bharat Biotech began phase three trials of Covaxin earlier this week in what is the largest efficacy trial ever in India. The company is also in touch with Brazil, the world’s third worst-hit country, to offer the South American nation its vaccine candidate, executive director Sai Prasad told Reuters.2. The emergency use authorisation (EUA) sought by Pfizer and BioNTech comes just days after the two companies reported their vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, was found 95% effective without any major safety concerns. In a video posted on the company’s website on Friday, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla confirmed an application has been made to the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with regards to emergency use authorisation.3. Britain-based AstraZeneca on Saturday started late-stage trials of an experimental long-acting monoclonal antibody combination drug it hopes could be used to protect those at risk of contracting coronavirus for up to 12 months. A total of 5,000 people from European countries and also from the US will be recruited for phase trials of the drug, called AZD7442. The treatment from the said drug would differ from that through a vaccine in that it introduces antibodies, rather than prompting the body’s immune system to make them.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-bharat-biotech-to-recruit-volunteers-for-trial-pfizer-files-for-emergency-use-authorisation/story-f4QeoFebgnw2kLs1d2LaqN.html
21-11-2020||India||4 Jaish terrorists killed in Nagrota got orders from Masood Azhar’s brother||Early Thursday morning, an encounter between a group of terrorists and security forces happened at the Ban toll plaza near Nagrota. By the end of it, four terrorists were dead, but it wasn’t just a chance encounter. This was an intelligence-based operation that was aimed at blocking what security forces believed could be a major attack, being planned from across the border. According to people familiar with the matter, initial data from a global positioning system (GPS) device and mobile phones carried by the four terrorists shows that they were in touch with Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) operational commanders Mufti Rauf Asghar and Qari Zarar with the objective of wreaking havoc in the Valley. Mufti Asghar is the younger brother of JeM chief and UN designated global terrorist Masood Azhar.Also Read: ‘Major havoc, destruction once again thwarted,’ PM thanks security forces a day after Nagrota encounterOn Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefed about the entire operation by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and the two intelligence chiefs. Following this, the PM said in a tweet: “Neutralizing of four terrorist belonging to Pakistan based terrorist organizations JeM and the presence of large cache of explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted.” Thanking the security forces for their brave action, PM Modi said that their alertness had scotched a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercises (reference to the Panchayat elections) in Kashmir.The people familiar with the matter added that the Pakistani deep state is, as is its wont, using pan-Islamist jihadist groups such as JeM to target India by sending in suicide attackers across the border. HT learns that Pakistani agencies have decided to hand over the Balakot terror training facility to JeM, more than one and a half years after it was bombed by IAF jets.NSA Doval was informed about the Ban toll plaza encounter early on Thursday morning as soon as the firing started at 4.50 am. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the four terrorists, all from Pakistan’s Punjab Province, moved from across Shakargarh bulge and crossed over to India in the Samba sector. Also Read: France turns the screws on Imran Khan, declines upgrade for Mirage, subs and moreWhile top counter-terrorism experts are still investigating the possible targets of terrorists, the weapons, ammunition, grenades and explosives (RDX) carried by them clearly indicates that they had a big strike planned in the Valley. Eleven AK-series rifles, 30 Chinese grenades, 16 AK ammunition clips and 20 kilograms of RDX were recovered from the bodies. The terrorists were battle trained as despite repeated attempts of the J&K police to capture one of them alive, they refused to give in and fought till the end.Indian intelligence officials say that apart from being an attempt to sabotage the electoral exercise underway in the region, the aborted attack may also be a diversionary tactic by the Pakistani army and ISI chiefs, under pressure from Opposition parties in the country, to bring the focus back on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-jaish-terrorists-killed-in-nagrota-got-orders-from-masood-azhar-s-brother/story-kKe6ImIr1rhQSdWztyHD4I.html
21-11-2020||India||Major attack foiled with killing of JeM terrorists: PM Modi||Security forces foiled Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM)’s terror plot to wreak “major havoc” and target “grassroots level” democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, a day after four suspected infiltrators were gunned down in a three-hour encounter on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. Modi held a review meeting with home minister Amit Shah, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and top intelligence officials to take stock of the security situation in the Union Territory, where investigators said that the Jaish plan had a dual objective: to carry out a strike on the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and to fan fear ahead of the upcoming local body polls in the region. “Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicates that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted,” Modi tweeted after the review meeting. Also Read| Nagrota: Truck driver still absconding, police intensify searches“Our security forces have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir,” he added, referring to the district development council (DDC) elections, which will be held from November 28 to December 22. The four Jaish terrorists, believed to be Pakistani nationals, had sneaked into India from the Samba sector in the early hours of Thursday along with a huge consignment of arms and ammunition, including six AK-56 rifles, five AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 16 AK magazines, a packet of RDX, 20 Chinese hand grenades, six UBGL grenades and 20 kgs of explosive, according to security officials in J&K who did not want to be named. Acting on intelligence inputs, security forces intercepted the truck ferrying the terrorists to the Kashmir Valley around 4.50am at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota in Jammu district. The terrorists were shot dead in the gun battle that followed. Two security officials suffered injuries in the operation. They are said to be stable. The driver of the truck is on the run. “A few days ago, (Jaish founder Masood Azhar’s brother) Abdul Rauf Asghar aka Rauf Lala was seen across the International Border in Shakargarh area of Narowal district. The area has launch pads (to push terrorists into India),” said one of the officials cited above, requesting anonymity. Intelligence agencies had warned of a possible infiltration bid and a major terror attack on November 26 (coinciding with the 2008 Mumbai attacks and just before the beginning of the local body elections), this official said. He said that the Special Operations Group of the Jammu and Kashmir Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were ready. The truck that was carrying the terrorists had a fake number plate, according to the officials who have identified the vehicle. It was spotted at 8.31pm on November 1 at Lakhanpur (in Kathua district bordering Punjab) and was headed for Punjab. It returned (to Lakhanpur) with rice grains around 10.33am on November 9, they added. The truck was not seen on the highway from November 10 to November 18. On November 19, it was seem in Samba district on the Pathankot-Jammu highway at 3.43am, where it paid toll tax, the officials said. It reached the Ban toll plaza, the site of the encounter, around 4.45am via Bajalta Chowk on Sidhra by-pass of Jammu district, according to the investigators. “The driver fled from the spot as security personnel approached the vehicle; they came under heavy fire,” the official cited above said. According to investigators, the terrorists were asked to surrender but they fired at the forces and threw grenades at them. The truck, loaded with rice sacks, caught fire during the encounter. As guns fell silent, the bodies of the terrorists were recovered from inside the truck. Officials said that medicines with Pakistani markings found on the terrorists proved they infiltrated from across the border. “These terrorists usually use rivulets and marshy land along the 198-km International Border in the winters, when fog reduces visibility, to sneak into the Jammu region,” an Indian Army official who did not want to be named said. “Once into the Indian territory, it is not a big deal for these terrorists, trained in guerrilla warfare, to cover the distance from the International border to Jammu-Pathankot highway (10-15km),” this official added, pointing out that they also get help from sleeper cells on the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-attack-foiled-with-killing-of-jem-terrorists-pm-modi/story-z2WICbBvyTvuJqBaMJPv4H.html
21-11-2020||India||ED registers money laundering charges in TRP manipulation case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered a money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation case.ED’s case is based on Mumbai police’s FIR that is being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT) of Mumbai Crime branch. SIT officials previously claimed that Republic TV’s distribution head paid ₹15 lakh a month for seven months to a fixer to boost the viewership of the channel. SIT officials also suspected some Hawala transactions took place between the executives of some channels and vendors to boost the viewership of their channels illegally. ED may look into these suspicious financial transactions.ED is the second central agency to get involved in a case concerning TRPs. Interestingly, soon after the Mumbai Police launched its investigation, the Central Bureau of Investigation registered a case on a TRP racket in Uttar Pradesh. A senior ED officer confirmed to HT that an EICR has been registered in the TRP manipulation matter and the probe has begun. HT learns that the probe will cover all the channels named in the original FIR and not just Republic TV. ED officials said senior executives of all these channels will be summoned for questioning by ED officials.Mumbai police had begun investigation in the matter after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group. In October, while sharing details of the findings of preliminary inquiry, the Mumbai police claimed that TRP ratings, which decide who will get the biggest share of advertisements, were being manipulated by three channels, two regional channels and Republic TV. Later, 12 people were arrested by the SIT in connection with the manipulation. Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing. SIT also arrested Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh, from his Thane residence. Singh allegedly paid monthly ₹15 lakh for seven months to a vendor to boost viewership of his channel, the crime branch claimed in the remand copy filed before the court. Police also claimed that hawala channels were also used for these transactions. “Relentless attack on Republic Media network continues; Republic Distribution head AVP Ghanshyam Singh detained by crime branch; Ghanshyam had been cooperating in the Mumbai police’s fake TRP case probe,” the channel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-registers-money-laundering-charges-in-trp-manipulation-case/story-Qwag6ea01JVXsU9aLfwlLJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Nagrota: Truck driver still absconding, police intensify searches||A day after security forces gunned down four suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) operatives on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway near Nagrota, the truck driver who was ferrying them to the Kashmir Valley remains on the run, officials familiar with the investigation said on Friday.“Either he is hiding in the area or might have been picked up by another vehicle. At this moment, we don’t know his identity as well,” inspector Mohammad Showkat, the Nagrota station house officer, said.Senior superintendent of police Shridhar Patil, the Jammu district police chief, said that police teams were searching for the driver. Thursday’s encounter broke out at around 4.50am at Ban toll plaza on the highway in Jammu district following specific inputs, officials have said. The gunfight began after security forces intercepted a truck carrying the terrorists.While the JeM terrorists were killed in the fierce three-hour-long gun battle, two policemen of the Special Operations Group were injured in the exchange of fire. The wounded securitymen have been identified as Kuldeep Raj (32) of Akhnoor in Jammu district and Mohammad Ishaq Malik (40) of Neel Qasim Banihal in Ramban district. Both have been admitted to Jammu’s Government Medical College and are said to be stable.Mukesh Singh, inspector general of police (Jammu zone), said on Thursday: “In the exchange of fire, four terrorists were eliminated and two constables injured. Terrorists lobbed grenades on security forces during checking (of the truck). The truck also caught fire and few grenades also exploded inside it during the exchanges”.He said that 11 AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 29 live grenades, six UBGL grenades, mobile phones, compass and other ammunition were recovered from the terrorists. Singh added that the security forces were getting inputs about possible infiltration by Pakistani terrorists ahead of the upcoming local elections.Officials suspect that the terrorists were planning “something big” ahead of the district development council (DDC) elections, which will be held from November 28 to December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagrota-truck-driver-still-absconding-police-intensify-searches/story-siowVLM6lPTNXinLroUvFJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi reaches Goa as Delhi air quality drops||Congress president Sonia Gandhi reached Goa on Friday after her doctors advised her to shift out Delhi in view of the heavy pollution and poor air quality that aggravated her chest infection, people aware of the matter said. A senior Congress functionary said the doctors had advised her to shift to a warmer place till the air quality in the national capital improves. “Two places had been identified – outskirts of Chennai and Goa -- for the purpose,” he said. Sonia Gandhi, 73, arrived in Goa with her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is likely to join the two later, the functionary cited above said on the condition of anonymity.“Mrs Gandhi has chronic chest infection for over a month now and it is not improving because of hazardous air quality in Delhi. The heavy pollution has aggravated her asthma and her chest condition. Accordingly, doctors advised her to shift out of Delhi till air quality improves,” said the functionary.“She has been under heavy medication pursuant to her discharge from hospital in August,” the functionary said. Sonia Gandhi was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on July 30 after chairing a meeting of party’s Rajya Sabha members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-reaches-goa-as-delhi-air-quality-drops/story-IKFsPVQGXXM6OeSTA5BOfI.html
21-11-2020||India||IAF helps Sri Lankan women pilots break glass ceiling||Rangana Weerawardhana and Pavithra Gunaratne, the first women pilots in Sri Lanka’s air force, expressed gratitude to the Indian Air Force on Friday for helping them script military history in the island nation. The two pilot officers were commissioned as military pilots in Sri Lanka earlier this week, a year after they completed a crucial part of their flying training at the Dundigal-based Air Force Academy near Hyderabad in 2018-19.“Becoming a military pilot was a childhood dream,” said Weerawardhana. “We never thought we would get an opportunity to pursue flying training at AFA, Hyderabad. We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to IAF for helping us achieve our dreams,” she said. “Watching the Su-30 and other fighter aircraft was like a dream come true. It further strengthened our resolve to become military pilots,” she said, recalling a study tour to Pune where they saw the IAF’s Sukhoi-30 fighter planes for the first time.Weerwardhana also became the first woman in SLAF’s history to command a parade at the commissioning parade on November 16 at the SLAF Academy in China Bay. The pilot officer was also awarded the Sword of Honour for outstanding all-round performance.The two women, who were among the 53 cadets commissioned as officers this week, started training with the SLAF in July 2017 and were sent to India after they completed a basic combat course. At AFA, they completed their basic flying training on the Pilatus PC-7 MkII aircraft, before returning to Sri Lanka last year, for their advanced training on the Chinese Y-12 light transport aircraft. Ahead of joining the AFA in June 2018, Weerawardhana and Gunaratne said, they watched several documentaries on the AFA to get a sense of the IAF’s training activities and the challenges they would be up for in Hyderabad.Recalling their visit to India as their first trip abroad, the two women fondly recalled their IAF instructors. “The specialty of military flying is to achieve expected levels of performance in a limited time. These levels cannot be achieved individually,” Gunaratne said. The performance of a cadet is a not just the reflection of his or her effort but also the effort of the instructor, she said. “The perfect guidance given by our instructors raised our confidence. We should also not forget the contribution of the methodical training programme towards the performance of the student,” Gunaratne said. Both agreed that despite excitement for the training in India, they were also uncertain about what would follow. “We had a feeling of uncertainty when we started our basic flying training. The PC-7 is a sophisticated aircraft with modern systems. We felt proud when we got into the cockpit first time. We worked really hard to complete the basic flying course successfully. Methodical use of flying simulators helped a great deal,” said Weerawardhana. Gunaratne fondly remembered her fellow Indian cadets at the AFA, and said, “They were like our brothers and sisters who made us feel at home throughout the training period. Their smiling faces gave us extra strength during the rigourous training. The stories we shared during leisure gave us an opportunity to have a great understanding of each other’s cultures and traditions.” “We had great excitement when we stepped into the AFA. The feeling we had was totally opposite on the day we had to return to our country. With all the memories of the academy and India, it was not easy for us to leave,” Gunaratne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-helps-sri-lankan-women-pilots-break-glass-ceiling/story-EovP2VNZP3UM1VmvKzAMDK.html
21-11-2020||India||NIA conducts raids in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday carried out searches in five places in Kerala in connection with the gold smuggling case relating to the seizure of 30 kg gold in July this year, its spokesperson said here.The searches were conducted at the residences of five accused -- Mohamed Aslam, Abdul Latheef, Nazarudheen Sha, Ramzan P and Muhammed Mansoor.These accused conspired with the already arrested accused and facilitated smuggling of gold through import cargo addressed to the UAE Consulate General, and its disposal, the agency aid.During searches, several electronic items and documents have been seized, the spokesperson said. The NIA has so far arrested 21 people in the case so far.The NIA registered a case to probe the international ramification of the gold smuggling case pertaining to the seizure of 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore on July 5 this year at Trivandrum International Airport from the baggage addressed to the UAE Consulate in the Kerala capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-conducts-raids-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-CShiemrNRDY3lpHB5k7BAJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Probing financial links between Bhim Army and PFI, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it is investigating “financial links” between the PFI and Bhim Army and it is set to intensify its money laundering probe to investigate allegations of illegal funds being used to “fuel” anti-CAA protests. The agency, officials sources said, will initiate a fresh round of questioning of the suspects.They said the agency has unearthed some mobile phone communication between some senior office bearers of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, and it will seek clarifications from them.“The ED is investigating financial links between PFI and Bhim Army on the basis of credible evidence recovered from senior PFI officials,” the agency tweeted.The tweet was in response to a news report that said the ED has found “no links” between the Bhim Army and the PFI.While the PFI has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, the Bhim Army said it was ready for all kinds of probe. “We are ready for every kind of investigation, you (ED) should investigate and if no link is found then you should publicly apologise for spreading false propaganda,” All India Bahujan Coordination Committee and Bhim Army coordinator Kush Ambedkarwadi said. The central probe agency is also expected to question some other linked people in this case which it is probing under the criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probing-financial-links-between-bhim-army-and-pfi-says-ed/story-470EKxmCr0RoXoCHoA5yXI.html
21-11-2020||India||Kerala HC rejects plea seeking trial transfer||The Kerala high court on Friday declined to transfer the trial in the case of alleged abduction and sexual assault of an actress in which Malayalam actor Dileep is among the accused.The actress, who was allegedly assaulted in 2017, and the Kerala government had sought the transfer of the case, alleging “a discriminatory approach” by special judge Honey M Varghese. The prosecution contended that the trial judge remained a “mute spectator” when the victim was “harassed and intimidated” by the lawyers of the accused during cross- examination.Dismissing the pleas, the court said unless the court and the prosecutor work in sync it results in the guilty escaping the clutches of law and innocent being punished.In her plea, the actress alleged she was aggrieved by the biased and hostile attitude of the trial court and that it sat like a mute spectator when she was being examined and harassed by the counsel for Dileep.She complained that the court failed to restrict the number of lawyers for the accused present inside the court hall when she was being examined and failed to uphold the spirit of in-camera trial.The state government, in its October 27 memorandum seeking transfer of the trial, submitted it was aggrieved by the “biased, hostile and partisan” conduct of the trial court.The actress, who has worked in Tamil and Telugu films, was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area. The accused also filmed the incident to blackmail the actress.There are ten accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people.Dileep was arrested subsequently and let out on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-trial-transfer/story-s1mRIhFBw1b1lrOIc2Ss9H.html
21-11-2020||India||Marriage between first cousins illegal: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that marriage between first cousins is illegal.The observation came on the plea of a 21-year-old man, who had approached court seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366A (procuration of minor girl) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against him. The man is accused of kidnapping his minor cousin, and according to the petition, they were in a “live-in relationship”.The court said that marriage which petitioner man wants to perform with the girl, who is his first cousin, was also per se illegal.“After hearing learned counsel for the parties, I find that... the petitioner has not disclosed about the fact that he is first cousin of .... (of the girl) and, therefore, the submission in the present petition that as and when she attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal,” the bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan said. The state counsel, while opposing the bail plea, contented that the girl was a minor and her parents had lodged the FIR as she and the man were first cousins and their fathers were brothers.The man’s counsel told justice Arvind Singh Sangwan that the petitioner had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, for protection of life and liberty. The court file of the criminal writ petition was summoned during the hearing and as per its memorandum of parties, the girl was stated to be 17 years of age and the petitioner man had filed the petition with the submission that both of them were in a “live-in-relationship”.The judge, after hearing counsel for the parties in the present petition, said, “I find that in the present petition also, the petitioner has not disclosed about the fact that he is first cousin of the girl and, therefore, the submission in the present petition that as and when she attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-between-first-cousins-illegal-punjab-and-haryana-hc/story-mQPsdWDzBtyBUJWkncikKL.html
21-11-2020||India||Schools across Mumbai, Haryana shut As Covid-19 cases surge||Schools in Mumbai will remain closed till the end of the year, while education institutes in Haryana will remain shut till the end of November amid a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that schools in Mumbai will be shut till December 31, a change from the earlier decision to reopen them from November 23. However, schools in other cities of Maharashtra can reopen as per schedule taking into account local conditions and the prevailing pandemic situation, an official said.“Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Mumbai. Some schools were used as testing and quarantine facilities amid the pandemic. To prevent further spread of the infection, we have decided to keep schools closed till December 31,” Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said.After recording 409 new Covid-19 cases on November 16, the lowest daily count since April, the city registered 541, 871 and 924 fresh infections on November 17, 18 and 19, respectively.The Haryana government, meanwhile, closed all schools and colleges till November-end as the state recorded 9,377 new Covid-19 cases in the last four days. “In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and keeping in mind the health of the students, it has been decided by the Haryana government that all government and private schools in the state will be closed till November 30,” said a letter issued by the state education department to all district education officials.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said at present only four districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak -- were severely affected. “The four districts collectively accounted for about 66% of the total active cases. As per past trends, it is expected that the virus will surge again in the northern districts after November 25,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-across-mumbai-haryana-shut-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-cFkcr0GncXhKEEWAhBoPrN.html
21-11-2020||India||Narendra Modi reviews India’s vaccination strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reviewed India’s procurement and delivery strategy of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals and procurement were discussed,” Modi tweeted. “Reviewed various issues like prioritisation of population groups, reaching out to HCWs (health care workers), cold-chain Infrastructure augmentation, adding vaccinators and tech platform for vaccine roll-out,” he added. The meeting was attended by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, principal scientific advisor Vijay Raghavan, and Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, among others. According to officials who did not want to be named, the PM was apprised of the progress on the research related to Covid-19 vaccine candidates within the country and also globally. “It was a review meeting of almost all departments that are involved in various stages — be it vaccine research, procurement, delivery and administration,” said a senior government official in the know of things. Five vaccine candidates are at the human clinical trials stage in the country at the moment. The PM was informed about the trial results and what is expected in weeks to come and regulatory approvals, the official added. The progress of talks with other countries and foreign vaccine manufacturers was also discussed. Since India is looking at vaccinating 250-300 million people by July next year, Modi was also informed about the priority list that has so far been drafted to administer vaccine in the initial phase. “The states have been asked to draw up a list of health care and frontline workers who will essentially be given the vaccine in the first phase. The number comes to about 30 million as it is being estimated for now,” said the official quoted above. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said at the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Thursday that he hoped at least 30% to 40% Indians will get the vaccine by the end of next year. Corona warriors and people above 65 years of age, and those between 50 and 65 years and less than 50 years with chronic diseases are expected to be given priority. Another important aspect of cold storage management as well as the human resource factor that would be involved in vaccine delivery was also discussed at Friday’s review meeting. “Vaccinators are being trained; and for cold chain there have to be deep freezers, vans and other facilities to be put in place. Private players are also being roped in,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-reviews-india-s-vaccination-strategy/story-kLTtSRE3feVGYR4DSSr5hJ.html
21-11-2020||India||Govt may rush Covid teams to more states||After sending high-level teams to four states to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, the Centre is considering rushing more expert teams to other states and Union territories (UTs) reporting a rise in new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections. These teams will assist the local administration in disease management. “The teams will visit the districts reporting high number of COVID cases and support the State efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Friday. On Thursday, the ministry announced it was sending teams to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur to take stock of the situation. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, is leading the three-member team to Haryana. Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, is heading the Rajasthan team. Dr SK Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), is leading the Gujarat team, while Dr L Swasticharan, additional deputy director general, directorate general of health services of the health ministry, is heading the team to Manipur. In at least two of the states — Haryana and Manipur — Covid-19 cases per million is higher than the national average. While the national average stood at 6,492 cases per million, the figure in Haryana and Manipur was 7,341 and 7,219, respectively. While Gujarat has 3,000 cases per million, the number in Rajasthan stands at 2,867. “With the surge in the daily new cases and the spike in the daily fatalities in UT of Delhi, the spillover effect is being observed in the NCR regions within the states of Haryana and Rajasthan where the number of COVID positive patients is on the rise,” the statement added. The health ministry also advised states on Friday to adopt aggressive and widespread testing to ensure that undetected positive Covid-19 cases are promptly identified for timely and effective tracing, containment and subsequent treatment. “There is no other way to pick up infections early but to increase testing. The more you test, better are the chances of not missing the infected, especially asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients who otherwise will be moving within society and spread infection,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head, department of virology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore (Tamil Nadu). High levels of widespread testing have ensured that the cumulative positivity rate across the country is sustained at low levels. According to government data, the cumulative national Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 6.95% as of Friday. According to experts, higher volumes of testing eventually lead to a low positivity rate. And for disease transmission to be termed under control, the positivity rate ideally should be either 5% or below. At least 20 states and Union territories currently are reporting a cumulative positivity rate lower than the national average of 6.95%. Six states are reporting a positivity rate below 5%. These are Bihar (1.81%), Uttar Pradesh (2.95%), Jharkhand (2.99%), Gujarat (3.09%) where certain districts are reporting higher number of cases, Assam (4.84%), and Punjab (4.93%). “As an ongoing effort to strengthen efforts of various State/UT Governments for COVID management, the Central Government has been deputing Central teams from time to time to visit various States/UTs. These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any,” the health ministry said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-rush-covid-teams-to-more-states/story-K2Vgu3lnuLCE1aHwQiTa7J.html
21-11-2020||India||Day before Amit Shah’s visit, AIADMK holds meet||Veteran AIADMK leaders expressed their dissatisfaction during the consultative meeting of the party on Friday the that their ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is reluctant to accept chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami (EPS) as the candidate for the top job in the upcoming 2021 assembly elections, said a party leader on the condition of anonymity. This leader was part of the high-level meeting. The timing of the consultative meet of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) with Palaniswami, his deputy O Paneerselvam (OPS), senior ministers, district secretaries and zonal in-charges at the party headquarters holds significance as it comes a day ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Chennai to participate in government programmes and hold internal meetings with the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit.“Only those who accept EPS as the chief ministerial candidate can remain with us,” a veteran leader reportedly said in the meeting. But Palaniswami pacified the situation and maintained that their relationship is cordial and that the BJP’s state and central leadership had not caused them any trouble or obstructions, the party official said.Last month, after days of internal power tussles, Paneerselvam officially announced Palaniswami as the AIADMK’s chief minister candidate as they made their bid to secure a third consecutive term in Tamil Nadu. Friday’s meeting focussed on enumeration of voters amongst other election related matters, the party leader cited above said. The party planned to introduce a special women’s booth-level committee. “This is a first in the history of the AIADMK,” said steering and manifesto committee member JCD Prabharkar. “Normally there is a general booth committee that includes men, women and young cadre. We are going to introduce an exclusive booth committee of women.” The aim, he said, is to appease women voters who outnumber the male electorate in Tamil Nadu. Apsara R, who identifies as a transgender woman, re-joined the AIADMK on Friday after quitting the Congress.“Both EPS and OPS are confident of the party coming back to power because people are comfortable with us, particularly in our handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The leaders reiterated that we have to stick together,” said the senior party leader.The deliberations come at a time when the relationship of the AIADMK and the BJP is strained over the saffron party’s Vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march). The state government has denied permission citing the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, and AIADMK’s mouthpiece called it “divisive”. However, BJP members have continued with the yatra across Tamil Nadu since November 6, courting arrests and being let off later. “AIADMK would have wanted to set its house in order so that they don’t speak in two voices when they meet Amit Shah,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administrations department, University of Madras.However, party leaders who were part of the meeting said they didn’t speak on the alliance, meeting with Shah or on the impending release of expelled leader VK Sasikala (late chief minister J Jayalalitha’s close aide) early next year. “We instructed district and regional secretaries on how to coordinate and effectively patrol the booths,” said Prabhakar. Earlier in the day, in an interview to a vernacular media, AIADMK spokesperson and minister for fisheries D Jayakumar had said that they would raise the issue of the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case in their meeting with Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-before-amit-shah-s-visit-aiadmk-holds-meet/story-d9xj9cCftM7fqTe385cRDM.html
21-11-2020||India||Winter arrives early in north as mercury dips||Winter has arrived in many parts of northwest India, both in the hills and the northern plains, with the minimum temperature dipping below 5 degrees Celsius below normal in several cities, according to scientists.On Friday, Gulmarg (Jammu and Kashmir) recorded a minimum temperature of -7° C, 5.5 degrees below normal. In Palampur (Himachal Pradesh), the minimum temperature was 3° C, 6.4 degrees below normal.In the plains, town such as Hisar (Haryana), Churu (Rajasthan) and Adampur (Punjab), too, recorded minimum temperatures that were 4-5 degrees below normal. The Regional Meteorological Centre has warned that Delhi, Haryana and north Rajasthan could experience cold wave conditions for the next two days. A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is under 10°C and the departure from normal is 4.5° C for more than a day. The onset of winter, which usually takes place around mid-December, seems to be happening earlier due to the influence of back-to-back western disturbances, according to scientists.They also said that La Nina, a global weather pattern which is prevailing this year, is also linked to substantially below normal temperatures in northwest India in winters. According to them, a colder than normal winter is expected this year. “Winter months are January and February but normally cold is felt in December when both maximum and minimum temperatures are under 22° C and 10° C respectively,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.  Moderate La Nina conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune’s El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bulletin.“After the western disturbance, which brought widespread snowfall to the entire western Himalayan region last Sunday, snowfall has continued in certain parts of the Himalayas. Again, a western disturbance will affect the region on November 22; it will bring widespread snowfall. So there is a substantial fall in temperature in the hills. In the plains, northwesterly cold winds are blowing and there are clear skies. So heat is radiating back at night, making mornings really cold. We are seeing minimum temperatures fall significantly quite early this year,” Shrivastava said.He added that due to back-to-back western disturbances, the weather department expects snowfall in the hills to continue. This means that minimum temperatures will gradually fall further after the next western disturbance passes, he added.Also Read: Finer, deadlier PM1 shoots up in Delhi due to crop burning, crackersAccording to IMD’s weekly weather report, northwest India recorded 220% excess rain in the week ending November 18 due to the influence of a western disturbance. For the next two weeks, the minimum temperature is likely to be 2°-5° C below normal. A cold wave is likely to prevail in isolated pockets of northwest India between November 20 and 26.El Nino and ENSO are a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-arrives-early-in-north-as-mercury-dips/story-syQaIYTZ5E1a79so2A6CbN.html
21-11-2020||India||ED assures SC of no coercive action against Chanda Kochhar||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday assured the Supreme Court that it would not take any coercive action against former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar in a money laundering case.A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the agency would not take any coercive step in pursuance of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) registered in the ICICI Bank-Videocon Group loan case. ECIR is equivalent to a police FIR. “Although there is a sword hanging on your head, there is no hurry as such,” said the bench, also having Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy.In the hearing, the former ICICI Bank CEO was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and lawyer Vijay Aggarwal. The top court was hearing three separate pleas filed by Kochhar. One plea sought quashing of the money laundering case against Kochhar on various grounds including that the probe was “violative of the procedures established by law”.“The petitioner is invoking the writ jurisdiction of this court while impugning the investigation proceedings in the ECIR...which have been commenced and continued against her under the PMLA without following the procedure established by law. Whereas Deepak Kochhar, the husband of the petitioner, has already been arrested in these investigations, the petitioner has also been summoned and apprehends the arrest,” the plea said.The bench adjourned the hearing on two separate petitions filed by Chanda Kochhar against the arrest of her husband Depak Kochhar in the money laundering case and challenging her termination from the services as the CEO of ICICI Bank. Rohatgi said Deepak Kochhar’s regular bail plea is coming up for hearing before a trial court on Monday. He urged the bench to make an observation to ensure that hearing on the bail plea of Deepak Kochhar before the special judge does not get affected on account of the pendency of plea in the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-assures-sc-of-no-coercive-action-against-chanda-kochhar/story-EzxmSHca2ey411LmGGq3LP.html
21-11-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh calls farmers for talks today amid stir||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has invited leaders of farm unions for a meeting on Saturday to resolve ongoing standoff over stoppage of passenger trains by the trade unions in the state.The farmers are up in arms against three farm laws passed in Parliament. They say these laws are a deterrent to their interest.Since October 7, the Centre has imposed restrictions on movement of freight trains asking the unions to allow movement of passenger trains if they want the goods trains to run in the state.“We are hopeful of resolving the standoff. I am sure they (farm unions) will show regards towards the CM’s initiative by resolving the matter,” said minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who is a part of three-member ministers committee to talk to protesting farm unions.The invitation was sent to the leaders of all 31 farm bodies in the state.People aware of the matter said the chief minister was keen to resolve the standoff. He has also sought appointment from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah. State authorities are expecting a confirmation from the Centre by Saturday.Also Read: Famers plan protest in Delhi from Nov 26Due to the restrictions on freight trains, urea stocks for wheat crop has not arrived, coal supplies have dried up leading to shutting down of two thermal plants and food grain stocks are also piling up in the state.Saturday’s meeting with the farm unions will be the second such initiative taken by the CM. Last meeting was held on September 29, in which the CM promised farmers to bring laws to counter the three central laws. The state committee of ministers, however, has met the farm unions a number of times.Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakounda), said: “We have held meetings with office bearers of our union and a near agreement has reached to allow freight trains for the good of Punjab. We are in touch with other farm bodies also who are thinking on similar lines.”The farm unions are expecting that Amarinder Singh will press for opening of toll plazas as a number of them are on state highways and the state government is incurring heavy losses.Jagmohan Singh said all 30 farm bodies will hold a meeting before meeting the CM.In a meeting with the unions on November 13, union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal asked them to vacate the properties of railways and allow movement of passenger trains only after which the freight be permitted to enter Punjab. In their meeting on November 18, the farm bodies asked the Centre to first send freight trains, after which they will let passenger trains run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-calls-farmers-for-talks-today-amid-stir/story-GkvjzTw8UcTjRTfYPXTX5I.html
21-11-2020||India||Tracking the coronavirus pandemic: First signs of a 2nd wave||Delhi is in the midst of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of daily new confirmed cases in Delhi has been rising for about a fortnight now. The Union territory reported more than 7,500 new cases on Thursday. As the focus continues to stay at the national capital, data from other states suggests that India may be beginning to see the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayDaily new cases have stopped droppingIndia saw an increasing trend of daily new confirmed Covid-19 cases for about six months after the infection first started spreading in the country. The number of daily new cases peaked just short of the 100,000 mark on September 10 (when 99,181 new cases were reported). This was followed by a decreasing trend in the daily new cases till the end of October before the rate of decrease slowed and the curve of daily new cases flattened. To be sure, the daily new cases significantly decreased earlier this week, mainly due to a decrease in the number of tests conducted over the weekend, which coincided with the festival of Diwali. An average of 45,800 new cases were reported in India on Wednesday and Thursday, which is a little more than the average of daily new cases reported on weekdays last week. Recorded cases typically lag tests by a day. Only 735,551 tests were conducted on Sunday as compared to an average of 1,09,8200 every weekday last week. How this is a sign of the second waveThe trajectory that the graph of the daily new cases in India is following — it first rose to a peak, then decreased and is now stagnant — has been similar to that in other big countries which have seen subsequent waves of the pandemic as well. This has been seen in the US (it is in its third wave of the pandemic now), the United Kingdom (which seems to be near the peak of the second wave), Russia and Italy (both are seeing much stronger second waves). The subsequent waves in the US and Russia came almost immediately after the daily new cases from the previous wave stopped dropping. In the case of Italy and the UK, there was a longer gap between the first and the second wave. Cases are again increasing in some big statesTime will tell how the case trajectory in India moves, but data from several of India’s big states other than Delhi shows that the cases there have started to increase in the last fortnight. These states include Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab. Union territory Chandigarh has also shown a slightly increasing trend in daily new cases. These states and Delhi are home to nearly a quarter of India’s population. Three of these states — Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan — were among those that led the first wave of the pandemic in the country. These are big states, so a sharp increase in cases there is bound to increase the national case tally. To be sure, there are other big states where the trajectory of daily new cases continues to decrease, such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.  How bad will the wave be?India is far better prepared to handle a surge in Covid-19 cases than it was when the infection first started spreading. The country also has more resources for testing. The world in general is now better aware of what treatments work and how to handle the symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. India’s monthly case fatality rate — new deaths as a share of new cases — has been decreasing over time: It was 3.24% in April but fell to 1.15% in October. But even as the country may be better prepared and more aware, a steep surge in cases could overburden the country’s health care infrastructure and thereby lead to higher fatality rates. This makes it all the way more important to take precautions such as wearing a face mask and maintaining social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-the-coronavrius-pandemic-first-signs-of-a-2nd-wave/story-GqqlGjcHRBhJFbPrmBbzrI.html
21-11-2020||India||Police constable, sister and mother hacked to death over petty fight in Banda||A police constable, his sister and mother were killed over a petty fight on Friday evening in the Banda district of Uttar Pradesh. The victims were identified as Abhijeet Varma (25), his mother Rameshwari (52) and sister Nisha (19). Abhijeet was posted in Naini Prayagraj and had come home in the afternoon.Inspector General (IG) Chitrakoot Dham K Satyanarayana said two of the accused have been arrested adding that raids were on to nab the third one. The two accused, Devraj and Shiv Pujan are Abhijeet’s cousins. According to the police, Devraj said that his daughter threw food in a ditch close to Abhijeet’s house. An argument broke out as Abhijeet objected to the throwing of food which further enraged Devraj and others who attacked him. Abhijeet’s mother and sister were also killed while trying to save him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-constable-sister-and-mother-hacked-to-death-over-petty-fight-in-banda/story-42hXmU6yMxv574zV2E1D1L.html
21-11-2020||India||Congress’ new internal panels include old guard||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday constituted three committees to consider and discuss issues and policies related to economy, foreign affairs and national security, accommodating some Congress members who have in recent months raised issues about the functioning of the party. All committees will be headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Apart from Singh, the committee on economic affairs will have former Union ministers P Chidambaram, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh, who will also be its convener, besides former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh. Chidambaram was one of those who expressed concern over the party’s performance in the Bihar elections. In the committee on foreign affairs, Singh will be assisted by former Union ministers Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid besides Saptagiri Sanka Ulaka, a Lok Sabha member from Koraput in Odisha. Khurshid has been named its convener.Tharoor and Sharma were among the 23 signatories of a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi in August this year, seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul. The former PM will also head the committee on national security. Its members are Ghulam Nabi Azad (another signatory of the August letter), former Union minister M Veerappa Moily (also a signatory), Vincent H Pala, a Lok Sabha member from Shillong in Meghalaya, and V Vaithilingam, a former chief minister of Puducherry. Pala is its convener.The committees should help the party come up with consistent messaging on important issues. For instance, the Congress position on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership has come across as confused. While Ramesh said India has done the right thing by not joining the grouping, Sharma, a former trade minister termed not joining the grouping “a strategic blunder”. The appointments come against the backdrop of rumblings within the Congress over the outcome of the assembly elections in Bihar, and by-polls to 58 seats across 11 states.Out of these, the Congress won just 12,while the BJP won 40, comfortably retaining power in Madhya Pradesh and getting a majority on its own in Manipur. The Congress held 44 of these 58 seats earlier and failed to win any seat in the by-elections to Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana. In Bihar, the Congress won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested and, according to some analysts, impacted the chances of the opposition alliance to oust the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.In the wake of the outcome, a war of words erupted in the Congress. Senior leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories, questioned the leadership on the poll debacle and asked if it was “business as usual”.Sibal was countered by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former Union ministers Salman Khurshid and Mallikarjun Kharge, and the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Youth Congress president Srinivas BV, Delhi unit chief Anil Chaudhary and other leaders.In an interview to Dainik Bhaskar earlier this week, Chidambaram said the party’s performance in the assembly elections in Bihar and by-polls show that there is either “no organisational presence on the ground, or it has weakened considerably”. He said the Congress fought more seats in Bihar than its organisational strength, and called for a “comprehensive review”. Chidambaram added that he was “more worried” about the by-election results.Chidambaram, a former finance minister, on Monday tweeted, “RCEP born, it is the world’s largest trading body. 15 nations in our region are members of RCEP, India is not among them. There are pros and cons to India joining RCEP, but the debate has never taken place in Parliament... It is another bad example of centralised decision-making unacceptable in a democracy.”The Congress president had last year stated that signing RCEP will deal a “body blow” to the economy. After India walked out of the mega free trade agreement last year, the Congress claimed victory, saying its forceful opposition had ensured that the BJP-led government backed out from the deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-new-internal-panels-include-old-guard/story-oCvt6puzKhuvRMAzSUALyK.html
21-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Friday was an important day in the world’s fight against Covid-19. The day saw an informal meeting of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Council to discuss a proposal made by India and South Africa in October, and which has since been supported by around 100 other countries. The proposal, also supported by many leading non-governmental organisations working in the area of public health, calls for a waiver of intellectual property rights on several products related to protection from and treatment of Covid-19 – from masks to vaccines – till the worst of the pandemic passes. But the move isn’t supported by many first-world nations including the US, the UK, Japan, and many countries from the European Union. The discussion comes amidst a scramble by countries to secure vaccines for their population – through pre-approval deals with companies developing vaccines. Announcements by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna on the efficacy of their vaccines – both came in the past fortnight – have only served to intensify the scramble. Nature reported back in August that rich nations have signed deals to buy at least two billion doses of vaccines. According to that article, based on data from health care analytics firm Airfinity, the UK has struck deals to cover its populations five times over. And that was three months ago.Also Read: One in five US hospitals face staffing crises within a weekOver the past month, countries have finalised their positions on the India-South Africa proposal – reiterated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a meeting of the Brics grouping earlier this week – based on internal discussions. But Friday’s meeting, details of which were awaited when this column was being written, is unlikely to be the last word on it, although it is important from the perspective of understanding the support for the proposal. The lines are clearly drawn. The Wall Street Journal, in an editorial titled “A Global Covid Vaccine Heist” accused India and South Africa of wanting to “obtain this [vaccine] technology without paying for it and then use their generic-drug manufacturing base to produce, distribute and sell copycats worldwide”. “This is theft, not sharing,” it wrote. Yet, keeping these vaccines out of reach from the global south – most vaccine capacity for next year has been booked by the global north – will only deepen existing divides. Still worse, vaccinating only part of the world is unlikely to solve the problem, unless countries with access to the vaccine create bubbles around themselves, placing significant restrictions on movement of goods and people across their borders.Interestingly, this isn’t the first time such a request is being moved at WTO. In 2001, following long-drawn and sometimes bitter discussions surrounding treatment for HIV/AIDS, WTO’s Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health established that countries had the right to disregard patents and other intellectual property rights in case of national health emergencies. Some believe that the resulting wave of generics helped many countries get HIV/AIDS under control. In 2003, an amendment was made to allow inexpensive generics to be exported to countries that did not have capacity to manufacture the medicines. The main flexibility allowed by the 2001 declaration was compulsory licensing, which entails the patent-holders being compensated adequately.Also Read: PM Modi holds review meet to decide India’s vaccination strategyBut what of companies that have spent billions on research? Will they be happy with such compensation? And will it be fair to them?There are no easy answers. But the debate, and the divide it is threatening to exacerbate, point to why it would have been better for everyone – rich, developing and poor countries, and vaccine developers – if WHO’s Covax facility had managed to sign on more rich countries, and also struck deals with vaccine developers. In the absence of a mechanism such as this, it was always going to get messy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-a9Q9cyRfkkjElMa2SwR75J.html
21-11-2020||India||AG Venugopal grants consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra||Attorney General KK Venugopal on Friday granted consent to initiate contempt proceedings against comedian Kunal Kamra for his November 18 tweet, saying it was “grossly vulgar and obnoxious” and tended to lower the Supreme Court’s authority.Venugopal’s response came after a contempt request was filed by Allahabad-based lawyer Anuj Singh on Thursday.Granting his approval, the AG said, “…is to deliberately insult the CJI which would equally be an insult to the Supreme Court of India itself, which the CJI heads.”“The said tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious. I have no doubt that it (tweet) would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public have in the institution of the Supreme Court itself….I accordingly grant consent,” the AG said.The AG’s fresh consent for contempt has come close on the heels of another contempt petition being filed against Kamra for a series of tweets where he criticised the Supreme Court’s favourable ruling on Arnab Goswami’s bail request.In his letter dated November 12, AG Venugopal had said the tweets were a “gross insinuation” against the Supreme Court. “...the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972,” the AG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-venugopal-grants-consent-to-initiate-contempt-proceedings-against-kunal-kamra/story-B9GgouBOnCiZEE1O9DZQYL.html
21-11-2020||India||Odisha IPS officer transferred over custodial death in Puri||The Odisha government on Friday transferred the Superintendent of Police of Puri district amid allegations of the custodial death of a 33-year-old man who was picked up from his home on Wednesday night but died a few hours later after reportedly getting injured in a scuffle with the police.The home department transferred Puri SP Akhileswar Singh and attached him to police headquarters in Cuttack. Sambalpur SP Kanwar Vishal Singh has been transferred to Puri in his place. The DGP also suspended a sub-inspector and two constables of the police station in Puri town where the 33-year-old man was taken after being arrested.The transfer came on the day the Orissa High Court sought a detailed report from the state government over the alleged custodial death while the National Human Rights Commission issued a notice to the state expressing its displeasure that such custodial deaths are still occurring despite the Supreme Court’s guidelines on custodial treatment of accused.On Thursday, 33-year-old Telugu youth K Ramesh, a resident of Lokanath Road area of Puri town was picked up by police over some old cases. While being arrested he allegedly had a scuffle with the police following which he was hospitalised where he died. His family members alleged that his body was cremated without being handed over to them.Following the death, Puri-based lawyer Sarat Kumar Rayguru on Friday filed a PIL with the Orissa High Court seeking a court-monitored probe into the matter demanding stringent action against the errant police officials and compensation for the deceased’s family.In New Delhi, NHRC directed the Odisha Chief Secretary and DGP to submit detailed reports on the matter within four weeks while expressing its displeasure over the fact that custodial deaths are still occurring despite the Supreme Court’s guidelines on custodial treatment of accused. “This is not acceptable in a country governed by the rule of law,” the Commission pointed out while taking a veiled dig at the state government over its failures to adhere to the SC guidelines,” said the NHRC responding to a petition by BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra on the issue. BJP had threatened agitation if the Puri SP was not transferred immediately.“The way Ramesh was tortured by police personnel in custody is not justified. We have demanded punitive action against the officials involved in the brutal murder. I complained about the inhuman way the deceased’s parents have been picked up by the local police and are being held at some undisclosed location. The NHRC assured us help,” said Patra.The NHRC directed the state government to submit the copies of the FIR, arrest and inspection memos of the person who allegedly died in police custody. The Commission has also asked the government to notify whether the family members of the victim were informed about his arrest. In another case of alleged custodial death, human rights activist Prabir Das filed two separate petitions seeking Odisha Human Rights Commission probe in the alleged custodial deaths in Puri and Sundargarh. He also urged the OHRC to direct the state government to pay Rs 10 lakh compensation to family of each deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-ips-officer-transferred-over-custodial-death-in-puri/story-nmJwCIjYuSpEqZhQuzPOhM.html
21-11-2020||India||IAS toppers Tina Dabi, Athar Khan file for divorce in Jaipur||Two years after wedding, Tina Dabi, who topped the Union Public Service Commission examination (2015 batch), and husband IAS Athar Khan have filed for divorce with mutual consent in a family court in Jaipur. Their relationship which apparently started at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy for Administration in Mussoorie and subsequent wedding grabbed the attention of the nation for more than one reason. While Tina ranked first, Athar ranked second. Many people hailed their wedding as a symbol of communal harmony. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had congratulated the IAS couple and had tweeted, “May your love grow from strength to strength and may you be an inspiration to all Indians in this age of growing intolerance and communal hatred. God bless you.”Venkaiah Naidu, Sumitra Mahajan, Ravi Shankar Prasad had attended their wedding reception in Delhi. There were three wedding receptions — the first in Jaipur which was simple court ceremony, the second in Pahalgam and the third in Delhi. Both Dabi and Athar were allocated to the Rajasthan cadre of the IAS. Individually too, both of them represent heights of achievement as Tina Dabi was the first ever Dalit woman to top the UPSC examinations. Athar, who is a year older than Tina, is from restive South Kashmir. Tina Dabi hails from Bhopal and both his parents are in the Indian Engineering Services. She studied Political Science at Lady Shri Ram College. Athar is a BTech from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Mandi, Himachal Pradesh.Initially, both of them were in the same city, but Tina Dabi was later posted to Sri Ganganagar as Chief Executive Officer, Zila Parishad. Athar was posted to Jaipur as the CEO of Zila Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-toppers-tina-dabi-athar-khan-file-for-divorce-in-jaipur/story-e76Tci9UM8cFcWFqmMchNK.html
21-11-2020||India||Karnataka’s Malenad region can support 1,300 tigers, estimates study||Though the area under tiger habitat did not increase in Karnataka’s Malenad region between 1970 and 2015, the number of tigers rose from 70 to 391 there due to strong law enforcement, interventions by non-government organisations, and voluntary relocation of people from wildlife reserves, according to a paper published in Elsevier’s Journal of Biological Conservation on November 16.The paper said the Malenad landscape, which includes 14 protected areas including Bandipur, Nagarhole, Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BRT), and Anshi-Dandeli wildlife sanctuaries, has a potential tiger habitat of 21,000 km. The area can potentially support 1300 tigers. The paper however has ignored the social consequences of voluntary relocation of forest dwellers who have a right to live in and conserve forests, independent experts said.Also Read: Delhi zoo’s 15-year-old tiger B-2 diesIndia recorded a 33% increase in tiger numbers between 2014 and 2018, according to the All-India Tiger Estimation Results released on Monday. The tiger census released last year indicated there were 2,967 tigers in India in 2018, compared to 2,226 in 2014. The paper authored by veteran wildlife biologist K Ullas Karanth, N Samba Kumar, and conservation scientist Krithi Karanth is based on field data and practical experience gained in the Malenad Tiger Programme (MTP). MTP is a multi-disciplinary initiative by the Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS)’s Ullas Karath. The programme consisted of a series of inter-related projects focused on the recovery and rigorous monitoring of wild tiger populations in the landscape.The study found that tiger recovery in Malenad region has occurred amid significant human population growth, increased life expectancy, and overall poverty reduction in the region.“From our analyses, we conclude that despite fragmented habitats, tiger populations have been able to recover in regions of India with high human population densities, economic growth, and development. In contrast, other tiger landscapes in Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and the hills of North-eastern India support more extensive, less-fragmented forests and have lower levels of human population density and development,” the paper said. It added this may be due to factors that do not promote the effective law enforcement which can lead to tiger conservation.The authors of the paper recommend conservation interventions that are kept in the context of people’s aspirations and socio-economic development. Their main recommendations include focusing on future tiger recovery efforts and investments in wildlife areas currently well below their carrying capacities. Currently, the focus is limited to older reserves such as Nagarahole and Bandipur.Second, earlier tiger recovery patterns in Malenad also show that effective law enforcement and voluntary village resettlements are two key interventions that increase prey and tiger densities. It is essential to focus on these two interventions by prioritising them in budgets and action plans for tiger recovery, the authors have concluded. According to the paper, Anshi-Dandeli, Bhadra-Kudremukh, Nagarahole-Bandipur and BRT Cauvery clusters are currently at 96%, 72%, 39%, and 76% below their respective carrying capacities.“The key to bringing back tigers and other such threatened species lies in apportioning the land wisely separating nature preservation and human development, recognising the continued need for effective law enforcement, encouraging rather than stifling non-governmental conservation efforts, and, accepting the reality that wildlife conservation must succeed under the broader societal mandate for economic and technological progress” said K Ullas Karanth, the lead author of the study.Independent experts said the paper fails to capture the conservation efforts by tribal communities living in the forests and their rights over forests.“The authors rely on very little evidence for their two key suggestions that resettlement and law enforcement works for tiger conservation. This anti-human position ignores the fact that tiger numbers have doubled in landscapes such as the Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple Tiger Reserve in which Adivasis have acquired forest rights for residence and use. The people that the authors hope to see evicted and dispossessed are the poorest and most disenfranchised of all citizens in these forested landscapes. That they would ignore the social implications of their recommendations defies social justice norms. The paper invokes colonial era tropes of local people being the main problem and ironically offers eco-modernist mantras such as tourism and technology as solutions for tiger conservation. I am particularly surprised that a peer-reviewed journal would publish such recommendations given that they are based not on evidence, but on imagined, racial and neo-colonial ideas,” said Nitin D. Rai, fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE).“The current approach of relocating tribal and forest-dwelling communities from tiger reserves is in violation of laws and in fact defeats the purpose of tiger conservation. Communities in India have a long history of forest and wildlife conservation. The community conservation efforts have been recognised and strengthened by FRA. The very few examples of recognition of community forest rights in tiger reserves such as in Simlipal of Odisha and BRT of Karnataka have led to the strengthening of conservation efforts,” said Tushar Dash, member of Community Forest Rights, an advocacy group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-s-malenad-region-can-support-1-300-tigers-estimates-study/story-fq5Kc6aUULDsUsE0B41xgN.html
