22-11-2020||India||Kerala CM defends new law to check cyber bullying; very few are convinced||Amid growing protest over the Kerala Police Act amendment ordinance which the government claimed is intended to check cyber bullying, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday defended it saying fears that it will curb press freedom and free speech are baseless. Despite the CM putting up a brave face, the CPI(M) central leadership and junior left partner CPI are wary over the provisions of the ordinance signed by governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Saturday. The issue kicked off a nationwide debate with Congress and BJP criticising the left which always championed the cause of individual and media freedom. What really irked social media activists, journalists and others is that the ordinance covers any means of offensive communication or criticism on any platform and not just social media alone and they fear it can be used to target opponents and trap innocents. Any person who creates or sends any information that is considered offensive or is intended to offend or threaten another person through any means of communication is liable to face imprisonment of three years or a fine of Rs 10,000 or both, according to the 118 (A) amendment to the Police Act 2011. Unlike the defamation case (Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC) which needs a petitioner, the proposed amendment makes it a cognizable offence and any person can file a complaint or a police officer can register a case suo motu against the accused. Many experts have warned that it will be misused by political leadership and police and it won’t stand scrutiny before the court. But the chief minister brushed aside criticisms saying the decision was guided by growing abuse on social media targeting individuals and their personal freedom. “The new amendment will no way be used against impartial journalism. Apprehensions to the contrary are unfounded,” he said in a statement after it triggered a controversy. “Within the contours of our Constitution and legal framework, everybody has the right to make the strongest criticism. The new amendment will not hamper that freedom in any way. The government will consider all creative opinions and suggestions that are being aired in this regard,” he said, adding that such a law was necessary because the number of cyber attacks was increasing alarmingly. But the CM failed to convince even some of his allies. “There is a fear that the new amendment will muzzle free speech, jeopardise civil liberties and reverse media freedom. All apprehensions in this regard will have to be addressed” said CPI mouthpiece “Janayugam” in one of the articles. Also Read: There’s a lot in a name, says JP 77, a BJP nominee from Kerala’s Kozhikode In 2015, when the Supreme Court struck down the controversial Section 66 A of the Information Technology Act that made posting of offensive comments online a crime punishable by jail or fine, communist parties were quick to welcome it. But now, the lone communist government in the country has introduced a more stringent law to deal with cyber bullying, its critics said.Experts are also doubtful of the legal standing of the new ordinance. “It is an assault on freedom of speech and expression as guaranteed by the Article (19) (1) (a) of the Constitution. The law is loosely drafted and there are enough chances of misuse,” said Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash. Also Read: Kerala Governor signs controversial police act amendment ordinance The BJP and Congress leaders also came down heavily on the CPI(M). “Shocked by the law made by the LDF government of Kerala, making the so-called offensive post on social media punishable by three years in prison,” tweeted former minister and senior Congress leader P Chidamabaram. Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor also criticised the move saying “it was loosely drafted and it could be used against political opponents.” BJP central leaders also slammed the move. The Kerala Union of working journalists dubbed the ordinance “undemocratic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-defends-new-law-to-check-cyber-bullying-very-few-are-convinced/story-YJbEaUc9Ivy5M4Nx9BtuQJ.html
22-11-2020||India||Air quality ‘poor’ in Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad||The air quality remained “poor” in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Sunday, a government agency said.Presence of pollutant PM 2.5 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Sunday was 242 in Gurgaon, 234 in Faridabad, 288 in Ghaziabad, 273 in Noida and 270 in Greater Noida, according to the CPCB’s Sameer app.On Saturday, it was 256 in Gurgaon, 246 in Faridabad, 238 in Ghaziabad, 231 in Noida and 228 in Greater Noida.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “poor” category may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while that in the “very poor” zone may cause respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure.The average AQI last Sunday was 448 in Ghaziabad, 441 in Noida, 417 in Greater Noida, 425 in Gurgaon and 414 in Faridabad.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-poor-in-noida-ghaziabad-gurgaon-and-faridabad/story-l5H6YLYRiPi49DEqg2OK4L.html
22-11-2020||India||Mercury dips in most parts of north India, Delhi records coldest Nov morning since 2003||Minimum temperatures dipped in most parts of north India on Sunday with Srinagar recording a low of minus 3 degrees Celsius, while a cold wave swept parts of Delhi which recorded its coldest November morning since 2003.The national capital’s minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius while the air quality remained “poor” and government agencies said it is likely to deteriorate further due to unfavourable meteorological conditions.“The Safdarjung Observatory which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius. It is Delhi’s lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a low of 6.1 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre.The mercury dropped to 6.1 degrees Celsius at the Palam weather station.For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than the normal for two consecutive days.“However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day,” Srivastava said, adding icy cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury.The minimum temperature will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next four to five days under the influence of a fresh western disturbance.Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season as the minimum temperature dropped several degrees below the freezing point across Kashmir region, while the weather department predicted a spell of wet weather in the Valley from Monday.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 3 degrees Celsius on Saturday night which is the lowest so far this season, a weather department official said, adding the minimum temperature settled below zero degree across the Kashmir valley.The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district was the coldest recorded place in the valley at minus 7.4 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at a low of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, he said.The official said a spell of rain and snow, especially over the higher reaches, with light to moderate intensity is most likely to occur between November 23-25.“Snowfall over the higher reaches of north-west J-K and Sonmarg-Zojila area is likely to commence from November 23 morning and is likely to affect both UTs till November 25,” he said.Cold conditions continued to sweep a few districts of Himachal Pradesh with the meteorological department forecasting rain and snowfall in the state on Wednesday.The Shimla Meteorological Centre had earlier forecast rain and snowfall from Sunday-Wednesday. However, its director Manmohan Singh said on Sunday that a ‘yellow weather’ warning had been issued for heavy rain at isolated places in the mid-hills and snowfall in high hills of the state for Wednesday.The weather office issues colour-coded warnings to alert people ahead of severe or hazardous weather that has the potential to cause damage, widespread disruption or danger to life. Yellow, the least dangerous of all the warnings, indicates the possibility of severe weather over the next few days.Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest place in the state at minus 6.4 degrees Celsius. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature in Manali in Kullu district was at 0.2 degrees Celsius, while Kufri and Dalhousie recorded 3.6 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius respectively.Shimla recorded a low of 5.1 degrees Celsius. The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Una at 23.2 degrees Celsius.Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar recorded the lowest temperature in the state at 6.2 degrees Celsius with cold weather conditions prevailing in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Allahabad and Kanpur divisions.The mercury fell to 7.3 degrees Celsius in Bareilly and state capital Lucknow recorded a minimum temperature of 9.5 degrees Celsius, while both Agra and Meerut registered a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius. Allahabad recorded a minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius, followed by Kanpur where the mercury settled at 10 degrees Celsius. The weatherman has forecast mist or shallow fog on Monday morning and dry weather across Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday and Wednesday.Maximum and minimum temperatures hovered below normal limits across Haryana and Punjab, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 22.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.Amritsar’s night temperature settled at 5.4 degrees Celsius, down one notch, while Narnaul in Haryana recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius, down three degrees against the normal.The mercury also dipped in parts of Rajasthan with Churu recording a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in the state.The minimum temperatures in Sikar, Bhilwara, Pilani, Chittorgarh, Dabok and Ganganagar were recorded at 5.5 degrees Celsius, 6.5 degrees Celsius, 6.6 degrees Celsius, 7.4 degrees Celsius, 8 degrees Celsius and 8.8 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the IMD, scattered to fairly widespread rain and snow are very likely over the Western Himalayan Region during November 23 and 26 while isolated parts of Himachal Paradesh and Jammu and Kashmir may witness heavy snowfall on November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dips-in-most-parts-of-north-india-delhi-records-coldest-nov-morning-since-2003/story-30o8TjW8xUsc5KuRST9IpK.html
22-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Police file charge sheet before court against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam in UAPA case||The Delhi police Sunday filed a charge sheet before a court here against former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to the “conspiracy” behind the February communal violence in the northeast part of the city.The police filed the charge sheet before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat against Khalid and Imam under relevant sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The have also been accused of rioting, unlawful assembly, criminal conspiracy, murder, promoting enmity on the ground of religion, language, caste etc and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.The offences entail a maximum punishment of death penalty.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between those who supported amendments in the citizenship law and those who opposed them.The violence left at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-police-file-charge-sheet-before-court-against-umar-khalid-sharjeel-imam-in-uapa-case/story-XYYndA0uD0Xm78BED2arZN.html
22-11-2020||India||Safety drill begins as train services to Punjab likely to resume from Monday||Inspection of railway tracks began in Punjab today under the supervision of railway authorities as the goods train services are likely to restore from Monday late night after nearly two months of suspension due to rail rook protests by farmers in the state.Sources say the freight trains may be a given priority whereas passenger train services may resume operations from Tuesday.Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) GM Singh said the railway board may release a detailed train schedule on Monday.“After nearly two-month-long train blockade in Punjab, a safety audit of tracks started today by a joint team of the government railway police of Punjab government, railway protection force and technical teams. They are examining to ensure tracks have no damage. Light engines are also put on tracks to gauge the strength of rail lines in the state,” said Singh.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee had started the ‘rail roko’ agitation on September 24 to oppose the central farm laws. Later, various farmer unions extended their support to the rail blockade.Sources said about 2,300 passenger trains were cancelled or diverted since farmers began the protests in September.Also Read: 50 trains to run from new Yog Nagri railway station in Rishikesh during KumbhOn Saturday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced the unanimous decision by leaders of 31 farmer unions to withdraw the ‘rail roko’ agitation.Unions have already announced that train blockade will be lifted only for 15 days and if the centre government does not withdraw the three farm laws, they will restart the agitation.Also Read: Students appearing for board exams can travel in Mumbai local: Western RailwayAmbala DRM said the railway board will take a final decision on the 15-day window notice by the farmer unions.According to Firozpur DRM Rajesh Agarwal, the GRP authorities started issuing security clearance reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safety-drill-begins-as-train-services-to-punjab-likely-to-resume-from-monday/story-0bhUhUcIvn0vHApXfHxb3N.html
22-11-2020||India||Decision on Maharashtra Covid-19 lockdown in 8-10 days, says Ajit Pawar||A decision on imposing a lockdown in Maharashtra due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation could be expected in 8-10 days, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Sunday.“There were huge crowds during the Diwali period. Even at the time of Ganesha Chaturthi, we saw crowds. We are speaking to relevant departments. We’ll review the situation for next 8-10 days and then a decision will be taken about the lockdown,” Pawar said in Pune.He added, “During Diwali, there was a huge crowd as if corona itself died due to heavy crowd. Now there are predictions that a second wave may come. Government has made a lot of regulations to start schools which includes different ways as to how they should be sanitised.”The statement from Pawar comes at the time Maharashtra is contemplating a state-wide strategy to deal with a rise in Covid-19 cases, including introducing travel curbs on people travelling from virus hot spot states like Delhi.Pawar assured people that authorities are taking stock of the Covid-19 infection spread in Pune.He also said that the lockdown in Pune will vary largely on the kind of situation that prevails.“The positivity rate in Pune district is around 13 per cent. We will see how the situation turns up after another 8 to 10 days. Lockdowns have been imposed in other countries.It depends on what kind of situation prevails in Pune district,” Pawar said.Maharashtra government has allowed reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 from Monday depending on the Covid-19 situation in local areas.As of Sunday, Maharashtra added 5,753 cases of infection, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 17,80,208. The death toll in the state rose to 46,623 after 50 more people died due to the viral contagion in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate is now 92.75 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.62 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-maharashta-covid-19-lockdown-in-8-10-days-says-ajit-pawar/story-tZLjPBngRjTvFKNsCasc6H.html
22-11-2020||India||PM Modi lists India’s progress on climate change targets on G20 sidelines||The world community can’t afford to shift its focus from the challenge of climate change even as it works to protect people and economies from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Addressing a virtual event on safeguarding the planet that was held on the margins of the G20 Summit, Modi called for collective efforts by countries to address the effects of climate change and to ensure that green technologies and finances reached developing countries. “Today, we are focused on saving our citizens and economies from the effects of the global pandemic. Equally important is to keep our focus on fighting climate change. Climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way,” he said. Calling for enhanced research and innovation in new and sustainable technologies, he added: “We should do so with a spirit of cooperation and collaboration. The entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to the developing world.” In keeping with its traditional ethos of living in harmony with the environment, India has adopted low carbon and climate resilient development practices, he said. India is also exceeding targets set under the Paris Agreement and will reach its goal of generating 175 GW of renewable energy before the target date of 2022, he added. The popularisation of LED lights is helping cut 38 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions a year, while smoke-free kitchens have been provided to 80 million households. Efforts are also on to eliminate single-use plastics, and 26 million hectares of degraded land will be restored by 2030. Also Read: PM Modi calls for decisive action by G20 to counter Covid-19 impactThe International Solar Alliance (ISA) initiated by India is among the fastest growing international organisations with 88 signatories, while 18 countries, including nine from G20 and four international organisations have joined the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). The event was also addressed and chaired by Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz, who said the pandemic has demonstrated that global cooperation is the optimal way to overcome crises and the G20 focus on the most vulnerable segments. Also Read: Trump skips G20 session on Covid-19 to play golfOther leaders who addressed the event included Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lists-india-s-progress-on-climate-change-targets-on-g20-sidelines/story-8NUmhD8q9yTeMOtUgZwi3N.html
22-11-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray on Covid-19: ‘Many people don’t wear masks, this is upsetting’||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday addressed the people on Covid-19 situation in the state. He said it is upsetting that people have stopped wearing masks and following social distancing norms.“We will have to take more precautions after Diwali. The threat of coronavirus has not passed. Several countries are seeing the second wave,” said Thackeray.He added: “We are standing at a dangerous turn. We have to decide whether we want to go for a lockdown or follow all the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocols.”Thackeray said that Delhi is facing a third wave and due to ongoing disease outbreak, Ahmedabad and other cities are seeing night curfews.“The spiralling cases in Delhi is a cause of concern and there is a night curfew in Ahmedabad. I don’t want another lockdown, but you should also understand the gravity of the situation,” the Maharashtra chief minister said.He also urged people not to crowd temples even as the state government has gone ahead with opening them and asked people to avoid moving around unnecessarily.“Unlock process did not mean that the pandemic is over. Even though the places of religious worship have been reopened, avoid crowding there. Several festivals passed off during the pandemic with majority people celebrating it without crowding. We have been able to control the spike, but we can’t be careless,” the chief minister said.Underlining his concern, Thackeray said, “Today the count of cases has come down but we are at a crossroads. Which way do we want to go? We need to keep our actions in check.”The chief minister urged people to avoid crowding, wear masks and keep their hands sanitised to fight the viral contagion and added that while he has been advised to impose a night curfew, he does not think anything can be achieved by imposing such restrictions.Adding that confusion still lingers on over availability of Covid-19 vaccine, Thackeray said that people have no option but to have mandatory use of masks, physical distancing and hand sanitisation. He also informed people about post-Covid-19 side effects and said, “Post-Covid-19 side effects are severe and can be seen impacting the brain, lungs, kidney among other organs. Pollution is also impacting people with co-morbidities.”On Sunday, Maharashtra added 5,753 cases of infection, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 17,80,208. The death toll in the state rose to 46,623 after 50 more people died due to the viral contagion in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate is now 92.75 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.62 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-on-covid-19-outbreak-you-take-precautions-we-take-the-responsibility/story-nupCyBeThBdHU3ETZeWRUJ.html
22-11-2020||India||14 more cows die at cowshed in Rajasthan’s Churu||As many as 14 more cows were found dead due to food poisoning in a shelter home in Rajasthan’s Churu, taking the total count of cow deaths to 94 on Sunday. But on Saturday at least 80 cows died at the shelter in Bilyoobas village of Churu. “The matter is being investigated to ascertain if the deaths were due to food poisoning, any disease or other reason,” Sardarshahar Tehsildar Kutendra Kanwar told ANI yesterday.“The samples of the food were given to the cows have been sent to a lab for a test,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-more-cows-die-at-cowshed-in-rajasthan-s-churu/story-RJ0ITZ8qCETlrsCL7ozS4O.html
22-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccines: How does the emergency use authorisation work in India?||The government of India is mulling over the modalities of emergency use authorisation of Covid-19 vaccines pending completion of phase-three trials. India has been reporting thousands of coronavirus cases and hundreds of related deaths every day, prompting the government to find a way to provide emergency authorisation to Covid-19 vaccine candidates.According to people aware of the developments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also wanted to know the details about the emergency authorisation process at a review meeting on Friday on procurement and delivery strategy of Covid-19 vaccines. “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to the progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals, and procurement were discussed,” PM Modi tweeted after the meeting.Also Read | Government exploring modalities of emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccineHow does the emergency use authorisation work in India?In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) grants emergency use authorisation (EUA) and a process has been laid out for the same. US biotech firms Moderna and Pfizer have announced impressive early trial results from phase 3 trials and the latter has already submitted to the FDA for EUA.According to a PTI report, Vaccine Task Force (VTF) will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation in India, and the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) will decide on vaccine pricing. India’s existing legal framework, which includes the Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020; National Disaster Management Act, 2005; and New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019; provide for granting authorisation, officials aware of the developments said.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is conducting the phase-three trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, while Bharat Biotech and ICMR have started the phase-three trial of the indigenously developed COVAXIN jab. SII CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla recently announced that India will have the vaccine for vulnerable population by January-February if it gets satisfactory trial results by November or early December.On November 21, India recorded 45,209 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 501 related deaths, taking the country’s tally to over 9.09 million. The union health ministry’s data showed that the number of infections and deaths were less than Saturday’s 46,232 and 564 respectively.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccines-how-does-the-emergency-use-authorisation-work-in-india/story-IU4fXKQtTR5ndDFYN4DNMK.html
22-11-2020||India||Cross border tunnel, half a dozen other proof, give away Pak hand in Ban toll plaza encounter||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday detected a trans-border tunnel in Samba sector that was used by four Jaish terrorists, who were eliminated at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota on Thursday, said top police officials.BSF inspector general NS Jamwal said, “The tunnel, which has entered around 160 meters inside Indian territory, has been detected near Regal post in Samba sector on Sunday.”The IGP further said, “It was used by the four Jaish terrorists, who were eliminated at Ban toll plaza on Thursday morning.”“The tunnel originated from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers and it was strengthened by small wooden planks. It was dug 20 feet deep beneath the ground and has a diameter of three feet,” he informed.“We have recovered ropes and 10 to 15 sand bags that were used to give support to it (at its mouth), “ said the BSF IG. He added that the sand bags bore markings of Karachi, Pakistan. The BSF detected it around 12.30 pm on Sunday.Jamwal further said that the tunnel established Pakistan’s involvement beyond any doubt in the Ban toll plaza encounter.“We are going to lodge a strong protest with the Rangers with all the evidence and pictures,” he added. A senior intelligence official said that the four terrorists were in constant touch with their handlers in Pakistan via digital mobile radio.“Kahan pahunche, kya soorat e haal hai. Koi mushkil toh nahi,” these texts were sent to the four terrorists.The handlers, in Shakargarh area of Punjab’s Narowal district in Pakistan, had asked the terrorists about their whereabouts and if they had reached safely. The recovered digital mobile radio has been manufactured by a Pakistani company ‘Micro Electronics’ and QMobile smartphone.“The messages were sent by a handler in Shakargarh,” said the official.In addition, a wireless set and a GPS device have also been recovered.The four Jaish terrorists, believed to be Pakistani nationals, had sneaked into India from the Samba sector on Thursday night along with a huge consignment of arms and ammunition, including six AK-56 rifles, five AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 16 AK magazines, a packet of RDX, 20 Chinese hand grenades, six UBGL grenades and 20 kgs of explosive.Also Read: BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain says Article 370 not there now, it will never beActing on intelligence inputs, security forces intercepted the truck carrying theterrorists around 4.50am at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota in Jammu district. The terrorists were shot dead in the gun battle that followed. Two security officials suffered injuries in the operation. They are said to be stable. “A few days ago, (Jaish founder Masood Azhar’s brother) Abdul Rauf Asghar aka Rauf Lala was seen across the International Border in Shakargarh area of Narowal district. The area has launch pads (to push terrorists into India),” said one of the officials cited above, requesting anonymity. Intelligence agencies had warned of a possible infiltration bid and a major terror attack on November 26 (coinciding with the 2008 Mumbai attacks and just before the beginning of the local body elections), this official said. He said that the Special Operations Group of the Jammu and Kashmir Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were ready. Also Read: Nagrota encounter: India pulls up Pakistan envoy on J&K plotThe truck that was carrying the terrorists had a fake number plate, according to the officials who have identified the vehicle. It was spotted at 8.31pm on November 1 at Lakhanpur when it crossed over to Punjab. It returned to Lakhanpur with rice grains from Punjab around 10.33 am on November 9, they added. The truck was not seen on the highway from November 10 to November 18. On November 19, it was seen at Sarore toll plaza in Samba district on the Pathankot-Jammu highway at 3.43am, where it paid toll tax, the officials said. It reached the Ban toll plaza, the site of the encounter, around 4:45 am via Bajalta Chowk on Sidhra by-pass of Jammu district, according to the investigators. According to investigators, the terrorists were asked to surrender but they fired at the forces and threw grenades at them. The truck, loaded with rice sacks, caught fire during the encounter. As guns fell silent, the bodies of the terrorists were recovered from inside the truck. Officials said that medicines with Pakistani markings found on the terrorists proved they infiltrated from across the border. “Once into the Indian territory, it is not a big deal for these terrorists, trained in guerrilla warfare, to cover the distance from the international border to Jammu-Pathankot highway and the possibility of sleeper cells on Indian side helping them is also not ruled out,” this official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cross-border-tunnel-half-a-dozen-other-proof-give-away-pak-hand-in-ban-toll-plaza-encounter/story-yYWTzIpmbIeDwtO2sldlGL.html
22-11-2020||India||Sibal, Chidambaram not wrong, retrospection does not mean removal of Gandhis, says Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday said that what party leaders P Chidambaram and Kapil Sibal have said about the need for retrospection in the party is not wrong but it also does not mean changing the top leadership.Azad, who was among 23 Congress leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi earlier this year calling for major changes including full-time and effective leadership, told ANI in an interview that the “medicine for the party” is to conduct organizational elections at block, district and state level. Asked about remarks made by Sibal and Chidambaram in the wake of party’s dismal performance in the Bihar assembly elections and its poor performance in the assembly bye-elections across 11 states, Azad the two leaders have not said anything wrong.“Both Sibal and Chidambaram have not said anything wrong but retrospection does not mean that anyone is against Sonia Gandhi. It does not mean that Rahul Gandhi is bad. Retrospection means there should be a discussion on why we lost in Bihar, why we won few seats in Madhya Pradesh. And after a discussion on these, how to apply the conclusion we get from the discussion on these issues-- this is what we have to do,” he said.“The medicine for the party is to conduct block level, district level and PCC elections. I won’t blame the leadership because the elections could not take place but they will have to be conducted in the future. Second, the leaders who get elected will have to leave the five-star culture,” he added.Sibal had said in an interview to a national daily that people of the country not just in Bihar but wherever bye-elections were held do not consider Congress to be an effective alternative.Sibal was also among 23 leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi demanding sweeping changes in the party. He had also said that time for “introspection” was over.Chidambaram had also expressed concern over results of bypolls and said there was a need for comprehensive review to see why RJD-Congress alliance lost despite being so close to victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sibal-chidambaram-not-wrong-retrospection-does-not-mean-removal-of-gandhis-says-ghulam-nabi-azad/story-3apJu5ds7iARbzrzmYf1nN.html
22-11-2020||India||India’s manufacturing poised to witness recovery in July-Sep: Survey||India’s manufacturing sector is poised to witness recovery in the July-September quarter, even as hiring outlook for the segment remains bleak, according to a survey. Industry body FICCI’s latest quarterly survey on manufacturing points towards recovery of the manufacturing sector in the second quarter ended September as compared to the previous quarter, with a rise in percentage of respondents reporting higher production. The proportion of respondents reporting higher output during July-September rose to 24 per cent, as compared to 10 per cent in the previous quarter. Besides, the percentage of respondents expecting low or same production is 74 per cent in the second quarter which was 90 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21. However, hiring outlook for the sector, though improving slightly, shows a bleak picture as 80 per cent of the respondents mentioned that they are not likely to hire additional workforce in the next three months. “This presents slightly improved situation in the hiring scenario as compared to the previous quarter Q-1 of 2020-21, where 85 per cent of the respondents were not in favour of hiring additional workforce,” FICCI said. Moreover, the average interest rate paid by manufacturers has reduced slightly to 9.2 per cent per annum as against 9.4 per cent per annum during the last quarter and the highest rate is reported to be 12.5 per cent. The recent cuts in repo rate by the RBI has not led to a consequential reduction in the lending rate as reported by 55 per cent of the respondents, found the survey. Based on expectations in different sectors, all the sectors except medical devices are likely to register low growth in Q-2 2020-21. The primary reason for such depressed expectations seems to be the imposition of lockdown, subdued demand, restricted exports and other guidelines in place as a response towards Covid-19 outbreak. The survey covered wide areas of relevance for manufacturing like exports, capacity utilisation, ongoing restrictions, availability of labour/workforce and others. In many of these areas there are signs of operations inching towards normal and in coming months could see better performance. The survey assessed the sentiments of manufacturers for July-September 2020-21 for 12 major sectors namely automotive, capital goods, cement and ceramics, chemicals, fertilizers and pharmaceuticals, electronics & electricals, leather and footwear, medical devices, metal & metal products, paper products, textiles, textile machinery, and miscellaneous. Responses were drawn from over 300 manufacturing units from both large and SME segments with a combined annual turnover of around Rs 3 lakh crore. The survey showed that overall capacity utilisation in manufacturing has risen to 65 per cent as compared to 61.5 per cent in Q4 2019-20. The future investment outlook, however, is subdued as only 18 per cent respondents reported plans for capacity additions for the next six months as compared to 22 per cent in the previous quarter, the survey revealed. High raw material prices, high cost of finance, shortage of skilled labour and working capital, high logistics cost, low domestic and global demand due to imposition of lockdown across several countries, lack of financial assistance, are some of the major constraints affecting expansion plans of the respondents. Significantly, the percentage of respondents expecting increase in exports in July-September has increased substantially to 24 per cent when compared to the previous quarter, wherein merely 8 per cent respondents were expecting a rise in exports. Also, 19 per cent are expecting exports to continue to be on same path as that of same quarter last year, the survey noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-manufacturing-poised-to-witness-recovery-in-july-sep-survey/story-DSsOkQ6nJt1l61kaps1eSI.html
22-11-2020||India||BJP says ‘love jihad’ serious problem, states should act||The BJP on Sunday termed ‘love jihad’ a “serious problem” and backed the decision of its state governments to enact laws against it.BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have expressed their intention to bring a law against ‘love jihad’, a term coined by Hindutva groups for Hindu girls being allegedly forced to convert to Islam in the guise of marriage.Opposition parties have dismissed this as an attempt by the BJP to divide the society and said any such law will be violative of the Constitution.“Love jihad is a serious problem. Many mothers and sisters have suffered its bad consequences. This is a state matter and state governments should enact law against it,” BJP general secretary Arun Singh told reporters at a press conference.Some state governments are working in this regard and will continue to do so, he added.About Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s attack on the saffron party over the issue and his reference to interfaith marriages of some BJP leaders, Singh said Baghel should first answer whether his government has fulfilled the promises like waiving farm loans and starting unemployment allowance the Congress had made during the Assembly polls in 2018.His government has become synonymous with corruption and malgovernance, the BJP general secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-love-jihad-serious-problem-states-should-act/story-lve8y9Hz3lla2yXbc9PhzI.html
22-11-2020||India||BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain says Article 370 not there now, it will never be||The BJP Sunday said Article 370, which granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was “buried” by Parliament following proper procedures of law, and expressed hope that it will not be restored by the Supreme Court.Several mainstream parties from Jammu and Kashmir have challenged in the Supreme Court the Centre’s August 5, 2019 decision to withdraw Article 370 and also divide the state into two union territories.“I do not want to discuss anything on the SC (Supreme Court), the judiciary. But, (Article) 370 is gone. The ‘Gupkar gang’ is sure it (Article 370) will be restored, but I am also sure it will not be restored. The way they are making a claim, I too am.“We have abrogated it according to proper procedures and both the houses of the Parliament have passed it. Parliament frames laws and it (Art 370) has been abrogated,” BJP national spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain told PTI.He was recently appointed the BJPs in-charge for the elections in Kashmir.The special status of the erstwhile state was abrogated at the highest temple of democracy and the law was repealed by the “makers of Constitution”, he said, referring to the Parliament.“The BJP has done nothing. It is the Parliament which has done it...Was it done at the BJP’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg office? It was abrogated at the highest temple of democracy. The makers of the Constitution abrogated it,” he said.Asked about the challenge ín Supreme Court, the BJP leader said, “When some decision is taken, we will see it. But as of now, it (Article 370) has been buried in a grave”.Hussain said no power in the world, including the United Nations, can restore the special status of J-K.“Article 370 is gone and even the UN, the whole world, does not have the courage (to restore it). Pakistan pleaded before Saudi Arabia, the Organisation of Islamic Countries, but has anyone said anything?... Article 370 is not there now and it will never be. It is gone forever,” he asserted.Asked how was the party sure that Article 370 will not be restored when the case was sub-judice and the Supreme Court was still hearing the matter, the BJP national spokesperson said every issue is being taken to the court nowadays. “The Article has been revoked. If it is sub-judice, does it mean Article 370 is there? It is not. Every issue is taken to court...If the court has granted a stay, then it is a different issue, but there is no stay from anywhere. “If (PDP president) Mehbooba Mufti is saying they will get it back, then let them hold on to their belief, I will hold on to mine,” he said.Hussain said the government and the Attorney General of the country will respond to the issue in the court. Referring to the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls in J-K, the BJP leader said the whole election is about development. “We are pro-development and we will undertake development in J-K. It is a question of our credibility. The Prime Minister loves J-K and this whole election is on development. We want to live in the hearts of the people of Kashmir. “We want the youth who have gone astray and picked up guns to hold pens in their hands. We will respect the aspirations of the people of J-K and we will win Kashmir through love,” he said. Asked about the concerns raised by political parties about their candidates not being able to campaign, the former Union minister said the administration must take care of their security. “When elections took place in Punjab after terrorism, the candidates were taken in police protection. If they go separately, they will become the target of the terrorists. So, Mehbooba’s allegations are wrong. BJP candidates are being given the same treatment as those of the Gupkar gang.“The BJP candidates are also complaining about the same thing. It is the responsibility of the administration to protect their lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-shahnawaz-hussain-says-article-370-not-there-now-it-will-never-be/story-TKYc4h4bDYFSFdgUrXglwM.html
22-11-2020||India||Government exploring modalities of emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine||The government is exploring the modalities of emergency authorisation and usage of anti-coronavirus vaccines pending completion of phase-three clinical trial and regular licensure.The issue of advance purchase commitment for vaccines, including pricing, was also discussed in a recent meeting attended by NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government K VijayRaghavan and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan.“It was decided that the PMO-constituted Vaccine Task Force (VTF) will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation while the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) should take the lead in setting the principles for advance market commitment, including vaccine pricing,” a source said.These developments assume significance against the backdrop of Pfizer seeking emergency use authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine from the US regulators. Another US-based biotechnology giant, Moderna, said it also intends to apply for an emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) in the coming weeks. Meanwhile, five vaccines are under different phases of clinical trials in India. Also Read | At review meet, PM asked about emergency authorisation process of vaccines: OfficialsThe Serum Institute of India is conducting the phase-three trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, while Bharat Biotech and ICMR has already started the phase-three trail of the indigenously developed COVAXIN jab. An indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed phase-two clinical trial in the country. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will soon start combined phase two and three trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India.According to the source, an urgent meeting of the vaccine task force (VTF) with experts will be convened to review the scientific status of vaccines globally and whether, if so how and when should the decision on emergency authorisation of vaccines be taken.The terms of references for two major bodies dealing with vaccine introduction -- the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO) -- will be set and their roles clearly defined for authorisation and emergency authorisation.It was also agreed at the meeting that one point of contact will be responsible for examining and responding to authorisations given (or in the pipeline), globally, the source said.Towards advance market commitment, NEGVAC should lay down principles for procurement and price negotiations. Using these principles, negotiations should be speedily initiated. It was also decided at the meeting that a NEGVAC group should be proactively reaching out to each company as their results from phase three are announced, a source said.Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech have announced that its vaccine appears 95 per cent effective at preventing mild to severe Covid-19 disease in a large, ongoing study. Moderna has also announced that its Covid-19 vaccine has shown to be 94.5 per cent effective in preventing the deadly disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-exploring-modalities-of-emergency-authorisation-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-Q8YcaQH0BNFjVwRUoQHPaM.html
22-11-2020||India||‘India not only meeting Paris Agreement targets, but exceeding them’: PM Modi at G20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday emphasised on keeping the focus on climate change, saying it is an issue which needs to be fought in an integrated manner.“It is equally important to keep our focus on fighting climate change. Climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way,” he said while addressing the G20 Summit virtually.“We aim to restore 26 million hectares degraded land by the year 2030. We are encouraging a circular economy,” he added.Watch: PM Modi at G20 summit: ‘Important to keep focus on fighting climate change’ The prime minister said that every single human being must prosper if the humanity as a whole aims to prosper.“Inspired by our traditional ethos of living in harmony with the environment and commitment of my government, India has adopted low carbon and climate-resilient development practices. India is not only meeting our Paris Agreement targets but also exceeding them,” said PM Modi.Saudi Arabia, which assumed the G20 presidency this year, is the host of the virtual summit that is bringing together leaders from the world’s richest and most developed economies, such as the US, China, India, Turkey, France, the UK and Brazil, among others.Speaking at the summit on Saturday, PM Modi had called for a global index for the post-Covid-19 world based on four key elements - creation of a vast talent pool, ensuring reach of technology to all segments of society, transparency in systems of governance and dealing with Mother Earth in a spirit of Trusteeship.He had also termed the Covid-19 pandemic as an important turning point in the history of humanity and the biggest challenge the world is facing since World War II.PM Modi also called for greater transparency in governance systems which will inspire citizens to deal with shared challenges and enhance their confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-only-meeting-paris-agreement-targets-but-exceeding-them-pm-modi-at-g20/story-qW9if7PH4uFFAuq9tfMhgP.html
22-11-2020||India||‘Giving clean chit to Gandhis because...’: Azad on criticism of Congress leadership||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday reiterated his demand for overhaul of the party and said there is no change in his demand for holding internal elections. He said these elections are necessary if Congress wants to become a national alternative.“Congress is at its lowest in 72 years. Congress does not have even the post of Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha during the last two terms. But Congress won 9 seats in Ladakh hill council elections even as we were not expecting such a positive result,” Azad said while speaking to news agency ANI.Watch | ‘To revive Congress…’: Ghulam Nabi Azad on elections within party, leadership Speaking about the party’s leadership, Azad said, “Till the time, we change our way of functioning at every level, things won’t change. Leadership needs to give a programme to party workers and hold elections for posts. One should be so indispensable that leadership asks for you in your absence.”He added, “I’m giving a clean chit to Gandhis due to Covid-19 pandemic as they can’t do much right now. There’s no change in our demands. They’ve agreed to most of our demands. Our leadership should hold elections if they want to become a national alternative and revive the party.”Also read: Congress at its historic low, needs 24x7 leader, says Kapil SibalAzad, along with 22 other leaders, had rebelled earlier this year on August 7 and sent a letter to Congress chief, calling for a “visible”, “effective” and “full-time” leader; elections at all levels in the party; and establishing an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party, among other steps.Four of the 23 leaders - Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada - were then members of the party’s working committee CWC. Other senior leaders who have signed the letter included Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and Prithviraj Chavan.The letter had sparked stormy and marathon session of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body in the party, followed by heavy criticism of those who signed the letter, and the focus of the discussion was largely on its timing, and its leak, rather than on its substance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-at-its-lowest-in-last-72-years-says-rebel-leader-ghulam-nabi-azad/story-RHRJ2ARNeVobYzfIwMw5PJ.html
22-11-2020||India||Massive operation on to find tunnel suspected to have been used by Jaish terrorists killed in Nagrota||A massive operation is underway near the International border in Samba sector to unearth an underground tunnel which was suspected to have been used by four Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists to sneak into the country from Pakistan, said officials on Sunday.All the four terrorists were killed in a gunfight when a Kashmir-bound truck, in which they were travelling, was stopped for checking at Ban toll plaza on Jammu-Srinagar national highway on Thursday.A huge cache of arms and ammunition including 11 AK assault rifles, three pistols, 29 grenades and six UBGL grenades were recovered from the possession of the slain terrorists, who, according to police, had come to execute a “big plan” to disrupt District Development Council polls, slated to be held in eight phases beginning November 28.Based on the material recovered from the slain terrorists, it was suspected that the terrorists infiltrated into this side from Pakistan through an underground tunnel in Samba district, the officials said.They said a massive anti-tunnelling operation is being carried out by the BSF since Friday and presence of a tunnel is suspected near Regal village in Samba district.The Army and police have also joined the operation, which is still underway, the officials said. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-operation-on-to-find-tunnel-suspected-to-have-been-used-by-jaish-terrorists-killed-in-nagrota/story-5xUx0eyozWCedmEVOWkpeN.html
22-11-2020||India||In MP cabinet meet on cows, a host of key decisions||Use of cow-dung cakes to fuel kitchen stoves and to replace chemical fertilizer; cow urine as a pest control treatment and medicine; cow milk to improve the health of malnourished children; and the opening of 4,000 cattle shelters that will be run by self-help groups to generate an income. And a likely cow cess to fund the plans.The decisions were made at the first Madhya Pradesh cabinet meeting on the cow held on Saturday by video link that decided to brand the cow as a “holy mother” with the potential to solve problems confronting women, children, farmers and the environment, officials said on Sunday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, home minister Narottam Mishra, forest minister Vijay Shah, agriculture minister Kamal Patel, rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia, and animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel participated in the meeting that decided to launch an awareness campaign to educate people about the many beneficial properties of the cow and its by-products.“The conservation of the cow is important for environmental conservation. Cow milk will be used to improve heath of malnourished children. Cow dung will be used as a replacement for the wood and chemical fertilizer to save the environment. Cow urine will be used as pest control and medicine,” Chauhan said.“The 4000 cow shelters will be opened in the state where production units for making cow-dung cakes, organic manure, pesticide and milk powder will be set up in public-private partnership (PPP) mode. Self-help groups will run the cow shelters. The government’s focus is on making people, especially women self-reliant, through the cow shelters,” said a senior officer who attended the meeting, requesting anonymity.Madhya Pradesh already has 1,300 cow shelters for 180,000 cows. The CM also announced that his government would to develop India’s first cow sanctuary in Agar Malwa district as a cow research institute. After the cabinet meeting, Chouhan visited the cow sanctuary and offered prayer a on the occasion of Gopashtami.Animal husbandry department Prem Singh Patel said the meeting also discussed levying a cow cess but a final decision on it will be taken at a later date. In November 2019, the then Congress-led-state government also decided to levy a cow cess in the face of a funding crunch. Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “The BJP-led-state government’s decisions are a duplication of plans proposed by previous Congress-led state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-brand-cow-as-holy-mother-cm-after-gau/story-n4AbYqfIx7IH5oKbQITd8N.html
22-11-2020||India||New amendment made to Kerala Police Act won’t be used against free speech: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said that the Kerala Police Act will in no way be used against free speech or impartial journalism and apprehensions to the contrary are unfounded.“The State Government was repeatedly receiving complaints against the wide misuse of social media, especially by certain online channels. Even prominent public and cultural figures had made such complaints. They have brought to the notice of the Government instances where inhuman and vile cyber attacks were carried out by some in the guise of journalism and how it even harmed the family lives of many. It has often turned into targeted attacks using untruths and even sleazy content. Many families are bearing the consequences of such attacks,” Vijayan said, according to news agency ANI.He added that the use of personal likes or dislikes, political or non-political interests which can unsettle the peaceful atmosphere, and those being used to settle scores arising out of revenge cannot be allowed.“In several instances, such cyber attacks have resulted in heart-wrenching tragedies. Such attacks that are carried out without hearing the side of those who are being attacked do not fall under the category of journalism. They are simply personal vendetta in action. Many a time, monetary interests are behind such devious designs,” he added.Vijayan further said that along with ensuring the freedom of the press, the government also has the responsibility of upholding a citizen’s individual freedom and his/her dignity as enshrined in the Constitution. The popular idea that one’s freedom ends where the other’s nose begins needs to be respected. One has the liberty to swing one’s fist, but it ends where the other’s nose begins. However, there have been instances of this idea being repeatedly violated,” he added.Asserting that in the name of freedom of the press, individual freedom cannot be violated, Vijayan said in the name of individual freedom, the freedom of the press cannot be violated. “The government is duty-bound to protect both. It is in this context that even at the international level measures are being put in place against the infringement of personal dignity. The amendment in the Kerala Police Act is only those that are in tune with such measures,” he added. The Kerala CM said a person’s respect and dignity are essential in modern society, adding that it has constitutional validation as well. “The government has the responsibility to ensure it. In general, traditional media functions within these constitutional limits. However, certain online media have scant regard for such constitutional provisions and behave as if anything goes, creating an atmosphere of anarchy. This will alter our social order, and it cannot be allowed,”he added. “Within the contours of our Constitution and the legal framework, everybody has the right to make the strongest criticisms. The new amendment will not hamper that freedom in any way. If seen in a positive light, no one can perceive infringement of freedom in it. Only those who think that it is their freedom to wreak havoc in others’ lives, can see this as an affront on their freedom. And that is not something that modern society would allow anywhere in the world,” said the Kerala CM. He further added, “Personal defamation and attack on dignity have even resulted in suicides and it has been brought to the attention of the Government by those in responsible positions. In such circumstances, the Government cannot simply ignore it. Our effort to ensure the respect and dignity of each individual should not create any apprehension in the minds of the media and the general public. The amendment only has clauses that are in tune with the sections that ensure the freedom of the press and individual liberty.”Vijayan said the amendment has been introduced also in the context of the cyber-attacks being faced by women and transgenders, adding that the government will certainly consider all creative opinions and suggestions that are being aired with regard to this amendment.Amid resistance from the opposition parties, Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan has signed the Kerala Police Act amendment ordinance.The law aims to stop bullying, insulting or disgracing individuals through any content and circulating the same through any communication medium. The offenders will be awarded a sentence of three years/penalty of Rs 10,000 or both.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-amendment-made-to-kerala-police-act-won-t-be-used-against-free-speech-pinarayi-vijayan/story-ay1vS0SjYScsVFkFnTg1mK.html
22-11-2020||India||Pak opens fire along border in Rajouri district, India retaliates||Pakistan opened heavy fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector in Jammu division’s Rajouri district on Sunday, which prompted India to hit back in equal measure. Defence spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said: “At about 11.15 am, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and then resorted to shelling with mortars along the LoC in Nowshera Sector. Indian Army retaliated befittingly.” Security forces launched a search operation in the Mendhar sector of Poonch district after a Pakistani drone was noticed along the LoC on Saturday evening. The search operation was launched at Basoni, Dharana, and adjoining areas shortly after the detection of the Pakistani drone, the officials said. They said Pakistan increased the use of drones to airdrop weapons and narcotic substances along the LoC and the International Border (IB) over the past six months, prompting a high alert along the red-hot frontier areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-opens-fire-along-border-in-rajouri-district-india-retaliates/story-9P0wbMwfrdbdptkwBSX2kI.html
22-11-2020||India||Sub-zero temperatures across Kashmir; coldest night of season in Srinagar||Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season as the minimum temperature dropped several degrees below the freezing point across Kashmir on Sunday, even as the meteorological department has forecast a spell of wet weather in the Valley from Monday. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 3 degrees Celsius Saturday night which is the lowest so far this season, a MeT official said, adding the minimum temperature settled below zero degrees Celsius across the Kashmir valley. The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district was the coldest recorded place in the valley at minus 7.4 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at a low of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, he said. The official said a spell of rain and snow, especially over the higher reaches, with light to moderate intensity is most likely to occur between November 23-25. “Snowfall over the higher reaches of north-west J-K and Sonmarg-Zojila area is likely to commence from 23rd morning and is likely to affect both UTs till 25th,” he said The official, however, said there is no forecast of any widespread heavy snowfall or rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sub-zero-temperatures-across-kashmir-coldest-night-of-season-in-srinagar/story-ojynedbMdtb1Tl0DkHhzmI.html
22-11-2020||India||Snowfall likely in Uttarakhand districts over next few days: IMD bulletin||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted that light snowfall is likely to occur in five districts of Uttarakhand over the next few days, starting from Monday.In a bulletin issued by the IMD authorities on Sunday afternoon, it predicted that very light to light rainfall or snowfall is likely to occur at a few places of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Bageshwar, and Pithoragarh districts and at isolated places in Dehradun and Tehri districts of the hill state from Monday onwards. Dry weather is likely to prevail in the remaining eight districts of the state. On Sunday, the maximum temperatures remained appreciably below normal to normal in plains and below normal to normal in hills of Uttarakhand. The minimum temperatures remained markedly below normal to below normal in plains and appreciably below normal to below normal in hills of Uttarakhand. The highest maximum temperature at 28 degrees Celsius (C) was recorded at Khatima and the lowest minimum temperature at 1 degree C was recorded at Ranichauri. Data showed that the state has a cumulative rainfall deficit of 85%, as three out of the 13 districts received zero precipitation. Uttarakhand has received 6 millimeters (mm) of rainfall from October till November 18, as compared to 40 mm, which is the normal range for this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-likely-in-uttarakhand-districts-over-next-few-days-imd-bulletin/story-tN1jJYxmJjQSp05gUoKKgM.html
22-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Covid-19 tests for people travelling from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP govt to test people coming from Delhi amid rise in Covid-19 casesThe Uttar Pradesh government officials on Sunday said they will be testing people travelling to the state from the national capital amid the coronavirus disease outbreak. Read moreAmit Shah tells Tamil Nadu unit to work toward capturing power in stateUnion home minister and BJP’s election strategist Amit Shah has urged the party’s Tamil Nadu unit to work harder so the party can capture power on their own in the next five years in the Dravidian state. This comes a few hours after the AIADMK announced that it will continue its alliance with the BJP for the 2021 assembly polls in the presence of Shah in Chennai during a state government event on Saturday. Read moreBharti Singh, husband Harsh sent to 14-day judicial custody by Mumbai courtA court in Mumbai sent comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa to judicial custody till December 4 in connection with the seizure of ganja from their residence. Read moreSonakshi Sinha gives a glimpse of ‘shaadi vibes’ in a fusion of burgundy cape and kite pantsThe winter wedding season coupled with months of quarantine have inevitably brought out the creative side of fashionistas and Sonakshi Sinha is no different as she gave a glimpse of “shaadi vibes” in fusion wear. Stepping out for a friend’s wedding with her fashion foot forward, the Dabangg star was seen giving a sartorial twist to traditional Indian wear and we can’t help but take note, future planners that we are. Read moreSana Khan shares first pic with husband Anas Sayed after marriage: ‘Married each other for the sake of Allah’Actor Sana Khan shared the first picture after marriage to Anas Sayad in a private and low-key ceremony in Surat. Videos from the wedding went viral on Saturday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘No one is ever ready for short ball,’ Sunil Gavaskar on Steve Smith’s challenge to Indian pacersAustralia batsman Steve Smith raked up headlines the past week after he ‘dared’ the Indian pacers to come at him with short balls. Smith, who has faced troubles with the short deliveries in the past, and found it particularly challenging to face fast bowler Jofra Archer in the Ashes Test series last year in England, insisted that he is prepared to face off against Indian seamers if they bowl bouncers to him. Read moreFemale pilot’s tweet on elderly woman’s reaction on seeing her in cockpit is now viralAn elderly woman’s reaction on seeing a female pilot in the cockpit has now created a stir online. The pilot Hana Khan took to Twitter to share the incident and now the post has gone all sorts of viral. It has also prompted people to share various reactions. Read more‘Congress has double standards on Gupkar Alliance’: Manohar Lal KhattarHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar hit out at the Gupkar alliance in Jammu and Kashmir. Haryana CM also accused Congress of siding with those talking in ‘anti-national language’. Khattar slammed Cong for becoming part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. Khattar added that the PAGD’s agenda is to restore the provisions of Article 370 in J&K. Earlier on Tuesday, Congress had asserted that it was not a part of the Gupkar alliance. It, however, will contest District Development Councils elections in J&K to ‘expose’ BJP. DDC polls will be conducted in J&K between Nov 28 and Dec 19, results on Dec 22. PAGD is a conglomerate of J&K-based political parties, including National Conference and PDP. It was formed to seek the restoration of autonomy for the region under Article 370. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-covid-19-tests-for-people-travelling-from-delhi-to-uttar-pradesh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wX44RqGOwTCjYyQwscU3lO.html
22-11-2020||India||Parliamentary panel underscores need for govt to formulate laws to counter bio-terrorism||A parliamentary panel has highlighted the need for the government to formulate effective laws to counter bio-terrorism, stating the adverse effects of Covid-19 pandemic have taught a lesson on the importance of controlling biological agents and the need of strategic partnerships among different nations. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health, in its report “The Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 And its Management”, underlined the need of bio-safety to prevent the world community from any activity signalling bio-terrorism. The chairperson of the parliamentary standing committee, Ram Gopal Yadav, submitted the report to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday.  The committee’s attention has been drawn to the fact that novel coronavirus, like viruses infecting large populations across the globe and emerging as pandemics, can be used as biological weapons against enemy nations. Bio-security, therefore, is a critical area of concern, the report said. The Department of Health and Family has submitted that a holistic approach is needed for ensuring bio-security against biological weapons, that inter-alia include approach for deterrence, prevention, protection and response against biological weapons, engagement with agencies and active participation in ongoing international treaties and strengthening bio-safety and bio-security platforms in India. It also has pitched for instituting robust bio-repositories for high-risk emerging/ reemerging infectious pathogens, strengthening disease surveillance including at animal-human interface, training and capacity building for management of public health emergencies arising from use of bio-weapons and strengthening research and surveillance activities related to development of diagnostics vaccines and drugs.  “The adverse effects of Covid-19 pandemic have taught the lesson on the importance of controlling biological agents and the need of strategic partnerships among different nations.  “The committee, therefore, feels that the present time is the most appropriate for the government to formulate effective laws to counter bio-terrorism,” the committee said in its report. The panel stated it also believes that with the expanding network of VRDLs, ICMR would serve as an important platform for diagnosis and surveillance of existing as well as emerging viral infections and thus make the country bio-secured against life-threatening viruses and the menace of bio-terrorism.   The committee agreed with the Department of Health Research that a holistic approach is needed for ensuring bio-security against biological weapons. The ministry should also engage with agencies and actively participate in ongoing international treaties.  The committee strongly recommended the ministry to conduct more research and work towards training and capacity building for management of public health emergencies arising from use of bio-weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-underscores-need-for-govt-to-formulate-laws-to-counter-bio-terrorism/story-u6g31PJLdornbPowsTKZ1O.html
22-11-2020||India||UP govt to test people coming from Delhi amid rise in Covid-19 cases||The Uttar Pradesh government officials on Sunday said they will be testing people travelling to the state from the national capital amid the coronavirus disease outbreak “We will be testing people coming from Delhi via flight, bus or train, in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. We are discussing on the number of people allowed to attend wedding or event,” UP Chief Secretary RK Tiwari told ANI.The country’s worst hit city New Delhi has been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks in what has been called as the third wave of Covid-19 in the national capital. States like Maharashtra have said that they are contemplating travel curbs on people travelling from Delhi in order to avoid transmission of infection to their states. The move comes days after Noida began random tests at the border on people coming from Delhi.After Noida, the authorities in Haryana’s Gurugram and Faridabad also started random testing of commuters travelling from Delhi.District authorities in the two states said such tests were being carried out to stop Covid-19 cases from spiralling out of control as Delhi remains one of the worst affected hot spots of the infectious disease in the country, recording 8,593 cases in a day recently.The spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi has been witnessed since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.Delhi recorded 5,879 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday and a positivity rate of 12.90 per cent, while 111 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,270.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-test-people-coming-from-delhi-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-1vQbA7LBG6BGA3ZagSWXWI.html
22-11-2020||India||Rajasthan Zila Parishad, Panchayat Samiti elections to be held in 4 phases from November 23||The polling for Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad members in 21 districts of Rajasthan will be held on Monday. The campaigning for the same ended on Saturday.According to state election commissioner P S Mehra, 72.38 lakh will exercise their franchise to elect 1,310 members of 65 Panchayat Samiti and related Zila Parishad members.The districts where the election will take place are Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.The polling will take place from 7.30 am to 5 pm on November 23 under tight security arrangements. Over 25,000 EVMs will be used in at 10,131 polling stations and more than 50,000 employees will be deployed, Mehra added.The counting of votes will take place on December 8.The state election commissioner appealed to the candidates and their supporters to strictly follow Covid-19 related guidelines during the poll process. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-zila-parishad-panchayat-samiti-elections-to-be-held-in-4-phases-from-november-23/story-gFdRVHyI5gU7wbqxCj26PM.html
22-11-2020||India||Universities, colleges in Uttar Pradesh to reopen from November 23||Universities and degree colleges across Uttar Pradesh will reopen from November 23, but only with 50% attendance of students on roster basis, according to the guidelines issued by the state government.The state government had on November 17 notified these guidelines for reopening of the universities and colleges, which have been closed since March in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika Garg, in her order sent to all district magistrates and registrars of universities said the higher educational institutions were asked to resume classes in a phased manner to avoid crowding on campuses.The classes may start with 50% attendance, the order said and added that all students have to wear mask, use hand sanitiser and maintain social distancing to prevent spread of the virus.Know all the guidelines here:1. According to the guidelines, the universities and colleges have to make provision for thermal scanning and hand wash for students and staff.2. Vice chancellors and principals have been asked to lay down standard operating procedures (SOPs) to run the institutions.3. To combat Covid-19, educational institutions can also enter into a tie-up with nearby hospitals, NGOs working in health sector, etc.4. As per the guidelines, parents have to ensure that their wards follow health protocol while away from home. If a student is not keeping well, parents must ensure they do not step out of their house. All students are required to download the Aarogya Setu App.5. Students, teachers and staffers living in containment zones will not be allowed in the institutions, which are required to publicise Covid-19 helpline numbers.6. At the entry points, educational institutions must avoid overcrowding of students and that they may enter through a disciplined line. In the classroom, students will be required to sit at a 6 feet distance and they will not be allowed to share books, notes and laptops.7. Universities will be allowed to reopen hostels where all health protocols can be followed. Students having Covid-19 symptoms will not be allowed to stay in hostels. 8. Dining tables should be avoided and hostellers should be asked to take meals in small groups. Students visiting common areas must wear mask. Swimming pools will continue to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/universities-colleges-in-uttar-pradesh-to-reopen-from-november-23/story-Cy7LYIEkfgDprmPFnQJ7UN.html
22-11-2020||India||Jeweller’s son abducted in Bihar, kidnappers demand Rs 1 crore||A well-known jeweller’s teenage son (15) was abducted from Begusarai in Bihar on Sunday morning with the kidnappers demanding a ransom of Rs 1 crore for his safety and release. The son of the jeweller was abducted in the morning when he and his friend, 21, was practising for an upcoming cricket tournament at Railway Inter College in Garhara. Eyewitnesses recounted that armed men abducted both of the jeweller’s son and his friend from Bado Bazar area in the district town and the latter was set free near Simaria railway cabin. The kidnappers sped off in a sports utility vehicle (SUV), they added. Panic-stricken members of kidnapped boy’s family started looking for him after he did not reach home.However, he could not be traced, despite frenetic bids. Soon, they got a call from his mobile phone, and the caller -- one of the kidnappers -- demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore. Awakash Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Begusarai, said the jeweller, a resident of Beehat under the jurisdiction of Garhara police station, informed him about the ransom demand. “Police are trying to trace the kidnappers on the basis of their SIM (subscriber identification module) card location and close circuit TV (CCTV) footage from the abduction spot,” said a police officer. Negotiations between the kidnappers and the family members are said to be still in progress. Traders of Beehat protested against local police authorities alleging that security in the area is lax. The agitators blocked the busy Begusarai-Patna road and shouted anti-police slogans. Rajesh Kumar, deputy inspector-general of police (DIG), Begusarai, said that a special investigating team under the supervision of SP Kumar has been formed to rescue the abducted boy.Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the leader of the main opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), weighed in on the abduction incident. He alleged that Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, which was sworn in last week after winning the three-phase Bihar assembly polls on November 10, had no right to be in power, as it failed to protect the children of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jeweller-s-son-abducted-in-bihar-kidnappers-demand-rs-1-crore/story-ZlcW9EXayMtv7q6lzAIOxN.html
22-11-2020||India||Anti-Bru resettlement clash claims another life as fireman succumbs||A fire service personnel succumbed to severe injuries received in the clash between police and anti-Bru resettlement protesters at Panisagar sub-division in North District of Tripura on Saturday, taking the death toll to two. As many as 23 persons including 15 police and security personnel were injured in the clash. Two security personnel including Biswajit Debbarma were referred to Govind Ballabh Pant hospital in Agartala on Saturday in critical condition. Biswajit later succumbed to the head injury received in the clash, said a police official on Sunday. Two local organisations namely Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention, under the banner of Joint Movement Committee, started an indefinite strike at Kanchanpur in North district against permanent resettlement of Bru migrants on November 16. They want Bru migrants to be settled in all the eight districts of the state and not be concentrated in Kanchanpur sub division. The movement later spread to different parts including Panisagar, Pecharthal and Kailashahar in Unakoti district. They blocked National Highway-8 at Panisagar on Saturday where the protesters turned violent and tried to snatch weapons from the security personnel. The police had to resort to lathi charge, and then open fire to bring the situation under control, said police. 46-years-old carpenter, Srikanta Das, also a protester, died in the firing. Over 32,000 Bru migrants have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions in North District for over two decades after they came here from Mizoram’s Mamit, Kolasib and Lunglei districts in 1997, escaping an ethnic clash. Also Read: Tripura: Bru resettlement should not disturb locals, says CPI(M)After these years, In January, the Centre signed an agreement with the governments of Tripura, Mizoram and the Bru migrants for their permanent settlement in Tripura. The Centre also announced a Rs 600 crore package for their resettlement. The state government has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the violent clash, to be done by North District Magistrate Nagesh Kumar and the report would be submitted within one month. The government also announced Rs. 5 lakh as compensation for the dead carpenter’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-bru-resettlement-clash-claims-another-life-as-fireman-succumbs/story-Xezj37PGxj6v1QCMu1mJtL.html
22-11-2020||India||Terrorist apprehended in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district||A terrorist was apprehended in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district following information from the interrogation of his associate, army officials said on Sunday.Chinar Corps tweeted that the security forces launched a joint operation on Saturday night at Chatpura Mohalla of Pulwama and detained a person.“A joint operation was launched late evening on 21 Nov 20 based on intelligence inputs about the presence of a person from Handwara, who was actively involved with terrorists. Cordon was established and the person was apprehended,” it said.The army said that the spot interrogation of the person revealed the presence of a terrorist in a nearby religious school.Also read: Indian Army takes a leaf out of Chinese warfare, deploys tunnel defences in Ladakh Op Chatpura Mohalla, #Pulwama.A joint operation was launched late evening on 21 Nov 20 based on intelligence inputs about the presence of a person from #Handwara, who was actively involved with terrorists.Cordon was established and the person was apprehended.#Kashmir@adgpi pic.twitter.com/FXtPbAmMYt“During further search operation, a terrorist (name withheld) was apprehended,” it said.The joint operation has ended.On Saturday, police in South Kashmir’s Awantipora arrested two militant associates linked to proscribed terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM).Identified as Bilal Ahmad Chopan, resident of Wagad Tral, and Mursaleen Bashir Sheikh, resident of Chatlam Pampore, the police said that they were providing logistic support and shelter besides transporting of arms and ammunition to the militants in Pampore and Tral areas.The police said they were also found involved in passing sensitive information to the JeM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-apprehended-in-south-kashmir-s-pulwama-district/story-15LGMdrginNmGdpRtMBxMI.html
22-11-2020||India||Bengal: Couple held for murder of 20-year-old woman||The Kolkata Police’s detective department arrested a couple in the early hours on Sunday on charges of the murder of a 20-year-old woman in the city’s Ekbalpore area on November 19. Saba Khatoon’s body was found inside a white polythene sack that local residents spotted at night and informed the police. Initially, Sheikh Sajid alias Rohit (30), a resident of Maulana Mohammad Ali Road at Ekbalpore, was arrested and later, his wife, Anjum Begum (26), was also taken into custody, said Murlidhar Sharma, joined commissioner of police (JCP), (crime), Kolkata Police. An officer, who is probing the murder case, said on condition of anonymity that Sajid was having an extramarital affair with Khatoon and allegedly murdered her. Begum broke down during interrogation and confessed to the crime and said that she helped Sajid dump the body, the officer said. Investigations revealed that for the last couple of months Khatoon was living with a friend. Khatoon’s mother died years ago and later she was abandoned by her father. Khatoon lived with her grandmother. On November 18, Khatoon received a call on her mobile phone around 7:30 pm and left her friend’s house. She could not be contacted on her phone thereafter. Hours later, local residents spotted the polythene sack on the road, from which a woman’s feet were jutting out. “There was a non-continuous ligature mark around the victim’s neck, which suggested that she was strangulated. There were also some abrasion marks on her elbow,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-couple-held-for-murder-of-20-year-old-woman/story-TULDMRBgjuHKFeQ7lk2eUJ.html
22-11-2020||India||Deep depression in Bay of Bengal, Cyclone Gati in Arabian Sea approach India||The extreme south peninsula of India is expected to receive heavy rainfall from Monday due to a low-pressure area which is likely to concentrate into a depression over Southwest Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. It is expected to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during subsequent 24 hours, it further said.“Rainfall activity is likely to increase over extreme south Peninsula from November 23 onwards with fairly widespread to widespread activity over Tamil Nadu during 24th-26th November, over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Telangana on November 25 and 26,” the weather department said in its bulletin.It has also predicted “isolated extremely heavy rainfall” over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 24 and 25.“The low pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has become well marked low pressure area and persists over the same region. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Southwest Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during subsequent 24 hours,” the weather department said in its bulletin issued at 1 pm.“It is very likely to move northwestwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mahabalipuram around 25th November 2020 noon/afternoon,” the bulletin said.The fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea till November 25 as the approaching depression will increase the wind speed, especially in the coastal areas. On November 25, when the cyclonic storm is expected to make the landfall, the wind speed is expected to go up to 80-90 kmph gusting 100 kmph from the current 40-50 kmph.A cyclonic storm named GATI is also hurtling towards the Indian coast from the Arabian Sea side, the IMD forecast said. The storm is currently 210 kilometres south of Socotra (Yemen) and is likely to move west-southwestwards, according to IMD.It further said that the system is very likely to move away from the Indian coast and no adverse weather associated with this is expected over the west coast of India. The IMD, however, said that ship and fishermen should avoid venturing into the open sea as precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-depression-in-bay-of-bengal-cyclone-gati-in-arabian-sea-approach-india/story-uu007C1IyeCBls3ZcZ5wgK.html
22-11-2020||India||Quota for Covid-19 warriors’ children: Minister thanks PM||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for introducing quota for children of Covid-19 warriors in the medical and dental colleges under the central pool. “Thank you PM @narendramodi Ji for introducing a new quota for ‘Wards of Covid-19 Warriors’ in MBBS and BDS seats under the central pool. It is a great honour for the sacrifice of #CovidWarriors who selflessly dedicated their lives for the service of the nation in these difficult times,” Sudhakar tweeted. Announcing the quota in recognition of the service rendered by the Covid-19 warriors during the pandemic, the Centre said it would mention the reservation in the guidelines for selection and nomination of candidates for MBBS seats for the financial year 2020-21. The Centre said the five MBBS/BDS seats have been reserved. Selection of the candidates would be made through online application on the basis of rank obtained in the NEET-2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quota-for-covid-19-warriors-children-minister-thanks-pm/story-JNgkFqdIexKPe5kfAkJpXM.html
22-11-2020||India||Season’s first cyclone to cross Tamil Nadu coast on November 25||This season’s first cyclonic storm will cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mahabalipuram around November 25 afternoon.Under its influence, heavy rainfall activity will increase over south peninsular India November 23 onwards with widespread rain and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal between November 24 and 26 and over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema and Telangana during November 25 and 26.The low-pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has become a well-marked low-pressure area. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over southwest Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours.Sea condition will be rough to very rough over the equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal, Southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts are also likely to witness rough sea conditions on November 2 and very rough to high over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. South Andhra Pradesh coasts and Gulf of Mannar are likely to be impacted on November 24 and 25.Also read: Declared dead, Covid patient returns home after recoveryFishermen are advised not to venture into the equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal on November 22; over Southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts during November 22 to 25.“We are expecting extremely heavy rain along the Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema region. There may be some damage due to strong winds and rain when the storm moves inland,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.Meanwhile, a deep depression over southwest Arabian Sea moved rapidly west-southwestwards with a speed of 45 kilometres per hour (kmph) during past 6 hours and has intensified into a cyclonic storm ‘Gati.’ It lay centred at 8:30 am over southwest Arabian Sea. It is very likely to move west-southwestwards and intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours and cross Somalia coast during early hours of November 23 as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/season-s-first-cyclone-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-on-november-25/story-vaxWt0wATNALRlazlkbsxI.html
22-11-2020||India||‘Is NCB giving publicity to drug traffickers by arresting people from film industry?’: Nawab Malik||After the arrest of comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged consumption of cannabis, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said drug addicts should be sent to rehabilitation centres and not jail. Malik, who is Maharashtra’s minority development minister asked if the central agency is protecting drug traffickers by giving them publicity by putting people of the film industry behind bars. “The way NCB is arresting who consume drugs. They are addicts who should be sent to rehab, not jail. NCB’s duty is to track down drug traffickers but no action is being taken against them. Is NCB protecting them by giving publicity, arresting drug addicts especially from film industry?” he asked, according to news agency ANI.“There is something wrong within the system. They must see from where the drugs are coming. Who were the traffickers and peddlers? There is no action against them,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader added.In the latest raid by NCB in its probe launched into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in Bollywood, officials searched Singh and Limbachiyaa’s office and house on Saturday and recovered 86.5 gram of cannabis, according to reports.The agency started probing the drugs case after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June this year.Actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh were also questioned in relation to the case in September. Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late actor and a few others were arrested under various sections of the NDPS act. Rhea Chakraborty is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-ncb-giving-publicity-to-drug-traffickers-by-arresting-people-from-film-industry-nawab-malik/story-0pUgW9mtTYtZpDOFs36TKK.html
22-11-2020||India||At review meet, PM asked about emergency authorisation process of vaccines: Officials||At a recent review meeting on procurement and delivery strategy of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to know the details about a vaccine’s emergency authorisation process.According to some officials present in the meeting, the discussions underlined how the country’s top leadership is getting ready as possible vaccine candidates race towards the finishing line. On Friday, the PM chaired a meeting of experts on procurement and delivery strategy of Covid-19 vaccines.Later, he tweeted: “Held a meeting to review India’s vaccination strategy and the way forward. Important issues related to the progress of vaccine development, regulatory approvals, and procurement were discussed.” Modi specifically asked about the process involved in the emergency authorisation of any new vaccine. His intent, the officials suggested, was to ensure that the government was not caught off guard or tangled in legal or bureaucratic processes during approval. Two officials informed the PM that rules were in place for the emergency authorisation of vaccines. “We said our existing legal framework is sufficient for granting such an authorisation. The Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, gives power to the states to take any measure to prevent an epidemic. It can be used for vaccines as well,” an official said. The PM was also informed that the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, was widely used during the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions and in Covid-19-related containment zones. The Act can also come in handy to roll out vaccines.“Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, it shall be lawful for the Central Government to issue direction in writing to the Ministries or Departments of the Government of India, or the National Executive Committee or the State Government, State Authority, State Executive Committee, statutory bodies or any of its officers or employees, as the case may be, to facilitate or assist in the disaster management and such Ministry or Department of Government or Authority, Executive Committee, statutory body, officer or employee shall be bound to comply with such direction,” the Act states. The Centre is also armed with the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, which mentions “special situations for a new drug where relaxation, abbreviations, omission, or deferment of data may be considered”, said another official. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, principal scientific advisor Vijay Raghavan, and Dr. VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, among others, had attended the meeting. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the PM was apprised of the progress on the research related to Covid-19 vaccine candidates both at home and abroad. The PM was informed that emergency authorisation for an anti-Covid-19 jab was yet to be issued by any country in the world. Pfizer, which has developed a vaccine with its German counterpart, BioNTech, announced on Saturday that it would seek the US Food and Drug Administration’s (USFDA) approval for emergency authorisation. The PM was told that emergency authorisation would require some more time and could not be granted immediately after a vaccine candidate’s appeal. The PM was also apprised of the status of the domestic vaccine makers. In India, five Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development. Four of the vaccine candidates are undergoing the phase II and III and another one phase I and II of trials. The PM was informed about the trial results and what could be expected in the coming weeks and regulatory approvals, the official added. The progress of talks with other countries and foreign vaccine manufacturers were also discussed. Initially, the country is looking at administering vaccines to up to 300 million Indians by next July and the PM was informed about the priority list in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-review-meet-pm-asked-about-emergency-authorisation-process-of-vaccines-officials/story-zCEcyRSHlpsKB5GIs1ZbVP.html
22-11-2020||India||Bharti Singh, husband Harsh sent to 14-day judicial custody by Mumbai court||A court in Mumbai sent comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa to judicial custody till December 4 in connection with the seizure of ganja from their residence.The couple was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While Bharti was arrested on Saturday, her husband was placed under arrest on Sunday after being questioned for 12 hours.They were arrested after seizure of ganja (cannabis) from her house in suburban Andheri by NCB sleuths. Both Singh and her husband are accused of consuming ganja, an NCB official said.They have been booked under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Also Read: What we know about the case so farActing on a tip-off, the NCB had on Saturday conducted search at Singh’s office and residence as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, and seized 86.5 gm of cannabis during the search.“Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja,” a statement from the NCB said.The quantity allegedly seized from Singh’s possession is considered as “small quantity” under the NDPS Act, as against “commercial quantity”, an NCB official said.Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity, which attracts jail term up to six months and/or fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity - 20 kg or more - can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail.Bharti Singh has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on TV and also hosted a few such shows.The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs.The central agency earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act.Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharti-singh-husband-harsh-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-by-mumbai-court/story-C40CGEMogrJXcUxmHHnxdK.html
22-11-2020||India||Declared dead, Covid patient returns home after recovery||Shibdas Banerjee,75, was infected by the coronavirus and subsequently declared dead and cremated on November 13. But then, Banerjee returned to his family at Birati in Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district on Friday night while preparations were on for his shraddh following Hindu rituals. There is more to what is being described as faux pas and apathy by the staff at the Balaram Basu hospital in Khardah, located in the same district, where Banerjee was admitted on November 4. The state health department is conducting an inquiry into it. The man who died and was cremated on November 13 by Banerjee’s son Sanjib was one Mohinimohan Mukherjee, 75, a resident of Khardah in the same district and a retired employee of the local civic body. Mukherjee, too, was admitted at Balaram Basu hospital on November 4 but was transferred to the Covid-19 hospital at Barasat in North 24 Parganas on November 7, health department officials said. However, the medical records that were sent with him to the Barasat hospital belonged to Banerjee. The records got swapped and Banerjee remained under treatment as Mohinimohan Mukherjee till he recovered. The truth came to light on Friday when the Balaram Basu hospital staff called up Mukherjee’s family to inform that he was ready for discharge as he had tested negative for Covid-19 after treatment. “When I went to the hospital I was shocked to see a different person sitting in a wheelchair,” Mukherjee’s son Sandip told the local media. “The hospital authorities realized that they had made a faux pas and informed Banerjee’s family,” he added. Banerjee’s family took him home late on Friday night. The district health department has formed a four-member committee to inquire the incident. “This is indeed unfortunate. The inquiry committee’s report has been sent to the state health department and necessary action will be taken,” district chief medical officer of health (CMOH) Tapas Roy said while talking to the media. Banerjee’s family did not talk to the media till Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declared-dead-covid-patient-returns-home-after-recovery/story-bOW9LUfcWKLtGIEH9EuaGP.html
22-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre rushes high-level teams to Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, UP||High-level central teams have been deputed to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to support them in Covid-19 response and management.  These states have been either reporting a rise in the number of active cases -- those who are hospitalised or are in home isolation under medical supervision, or demonstrating a rise in the daily new cases of coronavirus infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.  Earlier, high-level teams were sent to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Manipur and Chhattisgarh. “These three-member teams will visit districts reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases and support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” the ministry said.India’s present active caseload has further declined to 4,40,962 and comprises 4.85 per cent of the total cases while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.69 per cent  with the country registering 43,493 new recoveries in a span of 24 hours taking the total recovered cases to 85,21,617.  “The gap between recovered and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 80,80,655,” the ministry highlighted.The ministry said that 26 states and UTs have less than 20,000 active cases, as on date while 7 states and UTs have active cases between 20,000 and 50,000 whereas Maharashtra and Kerala are reporting more than 50,000 caseload.Ten states and UTs contribute to 77.68 per cent of the new recovered cases.Delhi saw 6,963 persons recovering from Covid-19. Kerala and Maharashtra reported 6,719 and 4,088 new recoveries respectively.Ten states and UTs have contributed 76.81 per cent of the new cases.In a span of 24 hours, 45,209 persons were found to be infected with coronavirus.Delhi reported 5,879 cases in a span of 24 hours. Kerala recorded 5,772 new cases while Maharashtra reported 5,760 cases on Saturday.Fifteen states and UTs are reporting less than the national average of cases per million population.Also Read: Covid-19: Maharashtra govt mulls halting flights, trains from DelhiBesides, 76.45 per cent of the 501 case fatalities that have been reported in a day are from ten states and UTs.   Of the new fatalities, 22.16 per cent are from Delhi which reported 111 deaths. Maharashtra saw a fatality count of 62 while West Bengal reported another 53.Thirteen states and UTs are reporting higher than the national average of fatality rate (1.46%), the ministry said.  Twenty-one states and UTs are reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (96). Fourteen states and UTs have more deaths per million population than the national average (96).    India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 90,95,806 with 45,209 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,227 with 501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-rushes-high-level-teams-to-himachal-pradesh-punjab-up/story-A7Wu2vC2puW4kIVKaOYv8N.html
22-11-2020||India||Number of Covid-19, ICU beds increased in Delhi hospitals, says Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the number of Covid-19 and ICU beds have been increased in the city hospitals to ramp up medical infrastructure in order to deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases.“We have increased the number of beds in hospitals. As many as 17,292 Covid-19 beds available in Delhi out of which 7,700 beds are empty as of now. Intensive care unit (ICU) beds have also been increased by 400, more will be added in the days to come. Around 250 ICU beds will be increased in private hospitals too,” Jain said.He said the national capital registered 5,879 new Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate was around 12 per cent.Delhi has 39,741 active Covid-19 cases till Saturday, as per the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). A total of 4,75,106 recoveries and 8,270 deaths were recorded in the national capital so far. Meanwhile, for the first time, the number of RT-PCR tests in Delhi exceeded Rapid Antigen Tests and as many as 250 new ventilators were delivered to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) hospital to expand the Covid-19 treatment capacity in Delhi, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Sunday.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-icu-beds-increased-in-delhi-hospitals-says-satyendar-jain/story-G6oaJ6uz2QOd7w3aBA6kwN.html
22-11-2020||India||Odisha Cong MLA threatens to slit his throat if school closure move is not reversed||Congress Odisha MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati on Saturday created a flutter in the Assembly threatening to slit his throat if the state government went ahead with its decision to shut down 14,000 schools primary and upper primary schools across the state in the name of consolidation and rationalisation.“The decision to shut down the schools violates the right to education. I have told the Assembly Speaker that if the schools are closed, I will take my life in the Assembly,” said Bahinipati.However, school and mass education minister Sameer Dash said 7,772 schools and not 14,000 schools would be closed down for imparting quality education to the students. “It is not possible to provide those students even a classroom and a class teacher. Suppose there are 15 students in a school studying in Class I to Class V. How is it possible to impart quality education,” he asked. He, however, said a memorandum in this respect, following a meeting of all parties, will be submitted to the chief minister.In two separate notifications issued by the state school and mass education department during August and September this year, the government had decided to shut down the schools with student strength less than 20. The government argued that it would lead to improvement in the learning environment, better infrastructure facilities, better academic environment and co-curricular facilities for the students.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav faces corruption charges, must not become leader of opposition - JD(U)The move termed “Consolidation and rationalisation” under Niti Aayog’s Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital in Education (SATH-E) project is already under implementation with several such schools being merged with the nearest bigger schools called Lead Schools over last few months.At an all-party meeting organised in Bhubaneswar by Odisha Abhibhabaka Mahasangha, the BJP demanded that when the pandemic is yet to subside this kind of decision to close down government schools is not acceptable. The party threatened to protest in front of block education offices across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-congress-mla-threatens-to-slit-his-throat-if-school-closure-move-is-not-reversed/story-BZa5TcQ54jV2XtkNiIjHQN.html
22-11-2020||India||PM Modi greets Mulayam on his 81st birthday, prays for his healthy life||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to Samajwadi party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav on his 81st birthday and said the latter is one of the senior-most and experienced leaders of the nation.“Spoke to Mulayam Singh Yadav and greeted him on his birthday. He is one of the senior-most and experienced leaders of our country who is passionate about agriculture and rural development. I pray for his long and healthy life,” PM Modi tweeted.Earlier in the day, the party workers celebrated Mulayam Singh’s birthday outside his residence and the party office in Lucknow.The area around Singh’s residence was decorated with poster greetings and the party workers were seen reaching the party headquarters in large numbers to congratulate their leader.Union minister Nitin Gadkari took to Twitter and wished Singh for his long and healthy life.“Happy Birthday to the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and founder of Samajwadi Party, Mulayam Singh Yadav Ji. On this day, I pray to God for your healthy and long life,” Gadkari wrote in Hindi.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also took to Twitter to wish the leader. “Happy birthday to senior politician and Lok Sabha MP from Mainpuri (Uttar Pradesh) Mulayam Singh Yadav Ji. Wish you good health and long life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-mulayam-on-his-82nd-birthday-prays-for-his-healthy-life/story-yu1dvKFeQqOo4xSrbjkTIM.html
22-11-2020||India||Indian Army takes a leaf out of Chinese warfare, deploys tunnel defences in Ladakh||While the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) propaganda machinery has reported frying of Indian troops by futuristic energy weapons on August 29 in East Ladakh, the Indian Army has dug into Chinese warfare manuals and deployed “tunnel defences” to pre-empt any further transgressions from the adversary. On August 29-30, the Indian Army troops along with Special Frontier Force (SFF) occupied positions on the Line of Control (LoC) south of Pangong Tso lake on the Kailash Range ridgeline for the first time since 1962. Indian Army has already dismissed the PLA energy weapon report as fake news.Also Read: Indian troops hold positions at LAC in Ladakh braving PLA and polar temperaturesThe Chinese successfully used tunnel defences against Japanese in Second Sino-Japanese war, the Vietcong used the same tactics at against Americans in the guerrilla war and North Korean in Korean war in 1960s. The PLA has built tunnel shelters to house aircraft at Lhasa air base and underground pens to house nuclear ballistic missile submarines in Hainan Islands in South China Sea.Also Watch | Indian Army sets up modern habitats for troops deployed in Ladakh According to senior military commanders, the Indian Army has deployed large diameter Hume reinforced concrete pipes in dug in tunnels to shelter the troops from enemy attack and surprise the adversary in the case of a worst -case scenario. The reinforced concrete pipes have diameter from six to eight feet, which allows troops to easily move underground from one location to other without being exposed to enemy fire. The other benefit of tunnels is that they can be heated and shelter the troops from polar temperatures and snow blizzards.Also Read: China is fortifying defences across Ladakh border, not prepping to disengageWhile the ninth round of India-China military dialogue to disengage and de-escalate from the friction points is expected to take place soon, the Indian Army has settled down to defend the LAC from any further transgression by the PLA. The Indian security planners are quite clear that the restoration of status quo ante has to begin with PLA, which started the entire build-up by transgressing on the north banks of Pangong Tso early May 2020. The PLA then followed the Pangong Tso aggression by making similar moves in Galwan river valley and Gogra-Hot Springs area near Kongka La.The Indian Army is not only defending the Ladakh LAC but also keeping a close watch on PLA moves in Central, Sikkim and Eastern sectors with the Chinese army continuing to build military infrastructure in Tibet.The Indian diplomacy is also in no hurry to negotiate an early withdrawal of PLA from east Ladakh and believes that restoration of status quo ante is the only just solution even if it takes a long time. “The PLA always like a staring match waiting for adversary to blink. But this aggressive tactic will not succeed with India,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-take-a-leaf-out-of-chinese-warfare-deploys-tunnel-defences-in-ladakh/story-4RVVPMjeofhzB9kUQCKTeL.html
22-11-2020||India||Delhi ranks 62 in list of world’s best cities: Here are the 10 best cities||Delhi has featured in the list of World’s Best Cities for 2021 and is the only Indian city to rank among the 100 best cities across the world. Delhi, the national capital of India, has been placed at the 62nd position in this list of the world’s best cities for 2021.Last year, Delhi was at the 81st position and has significantly improved its ranking this year. The ranking has been done by Resonance Consultancy Limited, a Vancouver-based company which has specialities in destination development, branding, marketing, design, tourism, data, and travel reports.Apart from Delhi, the other cities that have been featured in the list include San Francisco, Amsterdam, Rome, Washington DC, Abu Dhabi, Toronto, Prague, St Petersburg, among others.The ranking of the best cities across the world is done based on the quality of place, reputation and competitive identity of global cities based on the perceptions of the people who matter most–talent, tourists and business leaders.Retweeting Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s post, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote, “Such a good news for all Dilliwalas. All dilli walas have worked so hard in the last six years to make it happen. The world is noticing the positive changes happening in Delhi.”The world’s 10 best cities for 2021 are:1.London2. New York3.Paris4.Moscow5.Tokyo6.Dubai7.Singapore8. Barcelona9. Los Angeles10. Madrid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ranks-62-in-list-of-world-s-best-cities-here-are-the-10-best-cities/story-IVz5xCbhEmiIc9zoBcVKFM.html
22-11-2020||India||‘Such a good news’: Arvind Kejriwal tweets after Delhi ranks as one of world’s best cities||As Delhi was ranked at the 62nd position in the list of the world’s best 100 cities for 2021, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal congratulated the residents of the national capital. Delhi made it to the ranking done by Resonance Consultancy Ltd and is the only Indian city to feature in the list of cities across the world. It has jumped to the 62nd place this year from last time’s 81.“Such a good news for all Dilliwalas. All dilli walas have worked so hard in the last six years to make it happen. The world is noticing the positive changes happening in Delhi,” Kejriwal tweeted. Such a good news for all Dilliwalas. All dilli walas have worked so hard in the last six years to make it happen. The world is noticing the positive changes happening in Delhi. https://t.co/e0kLWkb4whThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also tagged his deputy Manish Sisodia post in his tweet. “Congratulations to all the proud people of Delhi and @ArvindKejriwal for the leadership. Our beloved Delhi is ranked 62 in World’s Best cities. The only Indian city in the list. There is significant improvement from the past ranking i.e. 81,” Sisodia has posted on Twitter earlier in the day.Resonance Consultancy said it ranked the world’s best 100 cities with populations of more than a million, using a “combination of statistical performance and qualitative evaluations” by locals and visitors in 25 areas grouped into six core categories. The cities, with London on the Number 1 spot again for the sixth year in a row, were ranked on the basis of diversity, weather, number of parks and tourist attractions, the number of social media hashtags and check-ins and other points. It also included factors like Covid-19 infections as of July, income incongruity and unemployment for the first time this year to rank these cities. New York, Paris, Moscow and Tokyo followed on the second, third, fourth and the fifth positions respectively.Also read | Delhi ranks 62 in list of world’s best cities: Here are the 10 best citiesIndia’s Capital was described as one of the “few places on earth with the hectic, pulsating pace of Delhi, which explains its #18 spot for Place, including a #29 ranking for Sights & Landmarks.” “Indeed, Delhi is a city built upon or near the ruins of a previous city, and today visitors can trace through the eras, exploring centuries-old forts, tombs, shrines and mosques. Old Delhi is where to soak it all in while weaving in and out of the chaos, shopping for trinkets and handicrafts in the frenetic street bazaars and gaping in wonder at the Red Fort,” it added.“Unsurprisingly, Delhi also ranks highly (#17) for Restaurants, and sampling everything you can is a must. Now, add a “click” to Delhi’s cacophony: despite its ancient roots the city is bursting into the new millennium with a #23 ranking for Promotion. Its rankings in Facebook Check-ins (#14), Google Trends (#13) and Google Search (#9) all reveal a city eager to show itself off to the world,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/such-a-good-news-arvind-kejriwal-tweets-after-delhi-ranks-as-one-of-world-s-best-cities/story-wsUSEpZF94QfbInGkW98CN.html
22-11-2020||India||Bharti Singh, husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa arrested by NCB: What we know so far||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have arrested comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa after it seized drugs from their house in Mumbai on Saturday. The central agency had searched the couple’s office and house and recovered 86.5 gram of cannabis from both the places, according to reports.The agency, acting on a tip-off, had on Saturday conducted search at Singh’s office and residence as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in the entertainment industry. “Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja,” an NCB release earlier said.Here is what we know so far:1. Singh, who has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on television and also hosted such shows, was arrested by NCB after the seizure of cannabis from her house in suburban Andheri on Saturday. The comedian was arrested under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.2. Her husband was arrested on Sunday after more than 12 hours of questioning.3. Singh and Limbachiyaa were taken to a hospital for medical examination on Sunday.The couple along with two others arrested in the case would be produced before a court in Mumbai after their medical examination.4. The quantity of drug allegedly seized from Singh’s possession is considered as “small quantity” under the act, as against “commercial quantity”, an NCB official said.5. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity, which attracts jail term up to six months and/or fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity -- 20 kg or more -- can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail.6. “Singh’s name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler,” the official said.7. NCB had earlier raided a place in Khar Danda area and nabbed a 21-year-old trafficker with various drugs including 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), ganja (40 grams), and Nitrazepam (psychotropic medicines).8. NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year on the basis of WhatsApp chats.9. The central agency earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late actor and a few others under various sections of the NDPS act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail. 10. Actor Arjun Rampal’s house was also searched after which he and his girlfriend were summoned by NCB for questioning.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharti-singh-husband-haarsh-limbachiyaa-arrested-by-ncb-what-we-know-so-far/story-UxWrYIrkmiDFeCQQUNLWWL.html
22-11-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s health remains critical despite minor improvement||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi continues to remain critical despite minor improvement in his health parameters, doctors said on Sunday. The 86-year-old was admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) on November 2 following breathing problems because of post-Covid-19 complications. Presently, he is on a mechanical ventilator with multi-organ dysfunction (MOD) and is experiencing difficulty in passing urine normally. “Since Saturday, there has been no deterioration in his health and his laboratory parameters have improved marginally. But his condition is still critical and we will observe him closely for another 48 hours,” Dr Abhijit Sarma, superintendent of GMCH, told journalists. “At present, he is passing around 100-120 ml of urine in 24 hours. It would be good if the quantity increases. A large group of specialists from various disciplines are constantly monitoring his health and we are also in touch with experts from AIIMS, Delhi, and they are satisfied with the treatment protocol,” he added. Also read: At 6.9°C, Delhi feels the chill as November cold breaks recordsSarma said that Gogoi is not in a condition to be moved to Delhi or some other place for treatment. The former CM is stated to be oscillating between consciousness and semi-consciousness and opened his eyes briefly for a short time on Sunday morning. Gogoi was diagnosed with Covid-19 in August and was admitted to GMCH. He was released from the hospital on October 25 but was admitted again of November 2 after he complained of breathlessness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-minor-improvement-in-lab-results-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-health-remains-critical/story-FPctrmf39usIki0oLT5NfK.html
22-11-2020||India||Amid pandemic, 56% of Indians believe technology will boost their confidence to travel: Study||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, more than 56 per cent of Indian travellers believe that technology will increase their confidence to travel in the next one year, according to a report released on Wednesday. A study by global travel technology company, Amadeus, found that technology plays a crucial role in supporting recovery amid the pandemic.40 per cent of Indians said that they want an effective test, track and trace programmes to contain infections. Mobile applications that provide on-trip notifications and alerts emerged as the most appealing technology to increase confidence for Indian travellers. Ability to have boarding passes on their mobile phones would also avoid any physical or face-to-face contact.The company collected data from over 6,000 travellers across India, Singapore, France, Germany, UK and US. Indian respondents said that access to technology that reduces human contact, queues and physical touchpoints was the ultimate factor for getting them travelling again. This was most important for baby boomers, where 73 per cent of respondents cited it as their top concern compared with 28 per cent of Generation Z. This was followed by the assurance of sanitisation, hygiene and safety measures in hotels and accommodations and limiting the number of passengers on flights.Also read: PM Modi launches ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojna’, 3,000 villages in UP to benefit34 per cent of the Indian respondents said that they want to minimize face-to-face or physical contact with others, 32 per cent of them said that they would want such a technology that would reduce queues and congestion in public places, compared to 45 per cent in Singapore. 31 per cent Indians want to minimize the requirement of physical documents.Cyril Tetaz, executive vice president of airlines Amadeus Asia-Pacific said, “Beyond technology, collaboration across industry and governments will continue to be key to this recovery. We need to educate travellers with the right information around safety and sanitisation measures during the stages of their journey, despite recent research from the International Air Transport Association (IATA) on the extremely low rates of transmissions onboard aircraft due to cabin air filtering systems and other protection measures.”On the other hand, AirAsia India conducted a study to identify the ‘travel intent’ among the Indian consumers who flew in the last 24 months to understand their travel purpose and preferences - pre and post Covid. The airline’s collected data stated that ‘while the demand has been slowly and steadily recovering post-Covid lockdown, it is encouraging to see optimism for travel over the next three months. 50 per cent of surveyed respondents stated that they definitely planned to travel over the next 3 months with another 36 per cent indicating that they are considering travelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-56-of-indians-believe-technology-will-boost-their-confidence-to-travel-study/story-tP8MqLr1RHRFoSO4yn2tZJ.html
22-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Delhi records minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At 6.9°C, Delhi feels the chill as November cold breaks recordsDelhi on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius, breaking the previous November record of 7.3 degrees Celsius witnessed in 2006, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Read moreDelhi-born MIT scholar’s AI-headset is one of Time’s 100 Best Inventions of 2020Delhi-born Arnav Kapur’s Artificial Intelligence-enabled headset, which “augments human cognition and gives voice to those who have lost their ability to speak”, has been named as one of the 100 Best Inventions of 2020 by Time. Kapur, a 25-year-old post-doctoral scholar at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), invented the device called AlterEgo at the MIT Media Lab. He made it to the list under the experimental category. Read moreRaju Srivastav, Sunil Pal react to Bharti Singh’s arrest by NCB: ‘All these stars like Bharti, Shraddha should do yoga if they have free time’Comedians Raju Srivastava and Sunil Pal have reacted to Bharti Singh’s arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau. Raju and Sunil have said that they are shocked at her arrest and disappointed at more and more names from showbiz getting embroiled in the drugs case. Read moreElon Musk replies to question on how people will live on Mars. Any guesses?SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, in a Twitter conversation, recently shared his version of civilization on Mars. To be precise, he shared how he thinks the first humans on the Red Planet will live. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Virat Kohli’s absence creates a big hole in India batting order,’ says Ian ChappellBefore India travelled to Australia for the upcoming series, a big news came out from the BCCI camp. India captain Virat Kohli was granted paternity leave in December which meant that he will only play the first Test against Australia and will miss the remaining Test matches. Read moreTwitter Fleets bug lets you see it even after 24 hoursTwitter has just rolled out Fleets feature to the rest of the world after testing it in India and select countries for months. While some like it, many call it as just another attempt by the microblogging website to join the short video posting format already given by YouTube, Instagram and Facebook. However, it has already encountered its first bug. As per the bug, Fleets were still visible by some after 24 hours, post which they are supposed to get deleted. Read morePM Modi says India set to double oil refining capacity in five yearsIndia plans to nearly double its oil refining capacity in the next five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, offering a much more aggressive timeline than previously despite the coronavirus pandemic blighting the economy. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-6-9-degrees-celsius-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6mRIMKtmL5VZjPNVzIfeVN.html
22-11-2020||India||Petition in SC alleges lack of publicity of Bihar poll candidates’ criminal past||A contempt petition has been filed in the Supreme Court (SC) against the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) and prominent political parties in the fray in the Bihar assembly elections, which concluded on November 7, for allegedly flouting the mandatory direction of the apex court to widely publicise criminal antecedents of candidates, who had contested the polls. Brajesh Singh, a Nalanda-based lawyer, moved the SC, seeking that contempt proceedings be initiated against CEC Sunil Arora, Bihar’s Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) HR Srinivas, KC Tyagi of the ruling Janata Dal (United), Jagdanand Singh of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Abdul Khalik of the Loktantrik Janta Party (LJP), Randeep Singh Surjewala of Indian National Congress (INC) and BL Santhosh of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The petition has accused these political parties of not complying with the direction to give publicity of criminal antecedents of candidates in widely circulated newspapers, social media platforms, and their respective websites. The SC had given this direction on February 13 while deciding on a contempt petition urging political parties to comply with the law laid down by a five-judge constitution bench in September 2018, which had ordered candidates to mandatorily disclose their criminal cases before polls. In February, the apex court had directed what the form and content of such disclosure should be. It even required political parties to give compelling reasons for selecting such persons with criminal antecedents. The contempt petition stated that most political parties published details of criminal cases against their candidates in less circulated newspapers instead of leading dailies in Bihar. According to the petition, this amounted to contempt of the court orders, which required publicity to be done through widely circulated newspapers and that, too, at least three times after filing of nomination papers of a tainted candidate. The petition pointed out that “political parties mainly published the criminal antecedents of their candidates on their websites and in some less circulated based newspapers and some in a limited manner on social media but nobody got it published in any national newspapers as directed by the apex court”. The petition further stated that some political parties fielded candidates with dozens of criminal cases against them, including serious offences. Such brazen violation of the SC direction was cocking a snook at the apex court’s order, which had sought to create checks and balances while nominating a candidate. A survey, which was conducted by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a non-partisan, non-governmental organisation (NGO) that works in the area of electoral and political reforms, has revealed that of the 241 elected candidates in the 243-member newly constituted Bihar Assembly, 163 have pending criminal cases pending against them. The figure translates to 68% of the elected lawmakers are tainted. Of this 68%, over 50% or 123 legislators have serious criminal cases pending against them such as murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, and crimes against women. In the previous Bihar legislative assembly, 142 lawmakers were tainted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-sc-complain-about-lack-of-publicity-of-bihar-poll-candidates-criminal-past/story-JDxTd9ZhurB7wf87rSgTJI.html
22-11-2020||India||Special summary revision of electoral rolls: All you need to know||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced a drive for a special summary revision of electoral rolls with reference to January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date. All electors and eligible citizens who will turn 18 as on January 1, 2021, and those who missed enrolling themselves earlier, can file their applications for enrolment, objections and corrections from November 17 till December 15. All applications can be filed online on www.nvsp.in.All you need to know about the revision of electoral rolls:1. A special drive for summary revision of electoral rolls is currently underway in different states.2. The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi has initiated a special summary revision of electoral rolls with reference to January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date. The city residents, who are of 18 years of age on that day, can apply for inclusion of their names in the electoral rolls.3. As per the schedule released by the ECI, the CEO of Punjab has initiated a special summary revision of the electoral rolls, which will be concluded on December 15.4. Draft electoral rolls in Andhra Pradesh have been published on November 16. Claims and objections on the draft rolls will be received till December 15 and after disposal of these claims and objections, final electoral rolls will be published on January 15, 2021.5. A special summary revision of photo electoral rolls began on November 16 in Puducherry. CEO Shurbir Singh said in a release that as per the direction of the Election Commission, summary revision of photo electoral rolls for the union territory would begin on November 11 keeping January 1, 2021, as qualifying date for all the 30 assembly segments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls-all-you-need-to-know/story-WuCauhgStUGuQ8rjHvPZbL.html
22-11-2020||India||Ayurveda, Yoga to help deal with post-Covid-19 problems: Shripad Naik||Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik has said Ayurveda, Yoga and other systems will be greatly helpful for the entire world in dealing with the post-Covid-19 difficulties.In a series of tweets on Saturday, Naik said a new model of healthcare delivery with more emphasis on preventive measures is needed for effectively countering such a crisis in future.The profound impact of the pandemic will lead to fundamental changes in society and healthcare system, he said after addressing through virtual mode a global web conference on ‘Post Covid-19 Era - Health & Humanity Impact on Human and Societies’.“I am sure that Ayurveda, Yoga and other systems will be greatly helpful for the entire world in dealing with the Post Covid difficulties,” tweeted Naik, who himself recovered from the coronavirus infection in September.He said Ayurveda and other traditional systems of medicines by virtue of their holistic approach towards health and disease and cost effectiveness have an edge in dealing with health problems with primary prevention of disease.“These systems also have solutions for combating the psychological and emotional problems arising after the pandemic,” he tweeted.Ayurveda has been included in the national treatment protocol jointly launched by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of AYUSH, he said.“India is not only taking effective measures to prevent and treat this disease in the national context but is also a strong supporter of joining international efforts,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurveda-yoga-to-help-death-with-post-covid-19-problems-shripad-naik/story-MFevLMfSyjJKNW3IaQKY4K.html
22-11-2020||India||PM Modi launches ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojna’, 3,000 villages in Uttar Pradesh to benefit||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojna’ (tap water to every household), for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur in Vindhya region of Uttar Pradesh via video conference on Sunday, while chief minister Yogi Adityanath was present in Sonbhadra.The scheme worth Rs 5,555.38 crore is aimed at providing water to over 41 lakh villagers in two districts.“This region is full of natural resources but is has been always ignored since independence. Despite the region having many rivers, it is known for draught. However, this government addressed the problem of water scarcity and as a result, ‘Har Ghar Jal Yojana’ was launched today,” PM Modi said.The PM also said that all villages are being empowered under this government, adding that priority is being given to making villagers, tribals and the poor self-reliant.“Self reliant villages give strength to a self-reliant India,” PM Modi added.According to a press statement by the government, under ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojna’, Yogi Adityanath government will ensure water supply through pipelines to 2,995 villages in two districts in the region.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, since independence till date, only 398 villages got pipe water supply. Now, 2,995 villages are going to be benefitted by ‘Har Ghar Nal scheme’ under Jal Jeevan mission. The scheme will benefit 21,87,980 villagers in Mirzapur. In Sonbhadra, 19,53,458 families will be benefitted by the scheme. The water of lakes and river will be purified and supplied to the families in Sonbhadra.Rs 3212.18 crore and Rs 2343.20 crore will be spent under the scheme in Sonbhadra and Mirzapur respectively. The total cost of the scheme is Rs 5555.38 crore.Also read: Human trials of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate to begin in India this weekAccording to engineers of Jal Shakti Ministry, a total of 41,41,438 families will be benefitted from the scheme in both the districts. The scheme will be completed within the next two years and water supply will be started, he added.After the event, CM Yogi will participate in Gopastami event at Tada Falls Go Ashray Sthal in Mirzapur.In the event, the CM will hand over a cheque of honorarium to women who make school uniforms under Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Antyoday Yojna. He will also offer prayers at Maa Vindhyavsini temple and will also inspect some under-construction projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-har-ghar-nal-yojna-scheme-to-ensure-water-supply-to-nearly-3-000-villages-in-up/story-fwsoLcg5jLVaP5cYJpGuXP.html
22-11-2020||India||Maoists kill two villagers in Gaya, their commander gunned down by forces||A group of left-wing extremists (LWEs) gunned down two villagers and a commander of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), who carried a Rs 10-lakh bounty announced by the Jharkhand government, was killed by security forces in retaliatory firing in Bihar’s Gaya district at around midnight on Saturday.Two rifles -- Avtomat Kalashnikova (AK)-47 and Insas each -- and cartridges were recovered from the slain Maoist commander, identified as Alok Yadav alias Gulshan, who belonged to neighbouring Jharkhand’s Chatra district.Four jawans of Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) --- a special operation unit of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) who are proficient in guerrilla tactics and jungle warfare --- and three civilians were injured during the retaliatory firing.The jawans are undergoing treatment at Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital in Gaya. “Around midnight on Saturday, around a dozen Maoist rebels targeted a Chhath-Parv function at Mahuari village, which is located adjacent to national highway (NH)-2 and under the jurisdiction of Barachatti police station. They gunned down two villagers, who have identified as Birendra Yadav and Jai Ram Yadav. The rebels opened fire about 50 rounds of bullets,” said Rajiv Mishra, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Gaya. The CoBRA battalion, which was conducting an area domination operation about 500 metres (m) away from the spot, took on the Maoist rebels after hearing gunshots.The Maoist commander was killed in the retaliatory fire, while four CoBRA jawans and three civilians sustained injuries. Soon, the Maoist rebels beat a hasty retreat in a bid to escape the CoBRA jawans’ line of fire.“The injured civilians are out of danger. Bloodstains were found at the spot, which indicated some of the Maoist rebels might have been killed or wounded by gunshots. Search operations are in progress in the area,” the SSP.The incident spot is located about 150 kilometres (km) away from the state capital, Patna.“The pre-meditated attack is a fallout of the frustration among the rank and file of the Maoist rebels, who don’t see any future in their violent mission against the state. They tried to target villagers in a bid to unleash a reign of terror in a bid to dissuade their members from laying down arms and joining the mainstream,” the SSP said.“The deceased Birendra was a Maoist sympathiser and his sister-in-law heads the Nadarpur panchayat. Earlier, his elder brother, brother, Sambhu Yadav, was killed by the LWE ultras in 2005 and his house was also set on fire,” the SSP added.Police suspect that the recovered Insas and AK-47 rifles might have been looted from security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-two-villagers-in-gaya-their-commander-gunned-down-by-forces/story-HqfOC2d4NXyGHX1h2vrv2K.html
22-11-2020||India||Assam-Nagaland border row: Deputy commissioners trying to resolve tensions||Tension along the border between Nagaland and Assam remained palpable on Saturday as several Assam organizations continued to impose a total blockade on the vital Mariani (Assam)-Mokokchung (Nagaland) road in Jorhat district since November 15.Nagaland MLA and advisor Border Affairs, Mhathung Yanthan told Hindustan Times that it was a law and order issue, and the deputy commissioners (DCs) of Mokokchung and Jorhat were in contact, trying to manage the situation.“As of now, the situation is under control,” he said. The legislator added that there was not much the state governments could do as the border issue between the two states was pending in the Supreme Court.Yanthan also reiterated what Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma recently reported to have said, that once a settlement comes vis-à-vis the Naga political issue, the border matter would also be resolved.Also read: Human trials of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate to begin in India this weekMeanwhile, when contacted, deputy commissioner (DC) Mokokchung Limawabang Jamir said although no untoward incidents were reported, the public were getting restive due to the economic blockade and authorities were apprehensive that the situation may flare up if the indefinite blockade continued.The official informed that he was in touch with his Jorhat counterpart and there will be a DC/SP level meeting on November 25 in Jorhat to discuss the issue and de-escalate the tension.“I have spoken to DC Jorhat this morning telephonically, requesting her to intervene and convince the blockade enforcers to call off the indefinite blockade. She (DC Jorhat) assured that she will discuss with the organisations,” Jamir said.The current issue is stated to have escalated after Assam organizations accused Nagaland of setting up a police camp inside Dissoi Valley Reserved Forest and deployed armed Assam police to the area and also erected a temporary camp near the disputed area.Nagaland and Assam share a 512-kilometre boundary and a dispute that has been going on for over five decades. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nagaland-border-row-deputy-commissioners-trying-to-resolve-tensions/story-L2m1bhtkJcI6QAh5USfaKJ.html
22-11-2020||India||‘Interfaith marriages in families of BJP leaders examples of Love Jihad?” questions Bhupesh Baghel||Raising questions on the senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and law on inter-faith marriages, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday asked whether inter-religion marriages in families of BJP leaders fall under the definition of ‘’love jihad’’.“Family members of several BJP leaders have also performed inter-religion marriages. I ask BJP leaders if these marriages come under the definition of ‘love jihad’?” Baghel asked while speaking to media persons on Saturday.The statement came after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently announced that his government will bring a strict law to curb “love jihad” and forcible religious conversion.Also read: Human trials of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate to begin in India this weekEarlier, Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government in Madhya Pradesh had said the state would soon have a law against ‘’love jihad’’.Commenting over CM’s statement, senior BJP leader and former minister Ajay Chandrakar said that the CM should not make personnel comment over the issue.“The law is yet to be formed by the governments and without reading the draft of the law, Chhattisgarh CM should avoid making personal comments... The statement made by the CM is below the belt,” said Chandrakar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interfaith-marriages-in-families-of-bjp-leaders-examples-of-love-jihad-questions-bhupesh-baghel/story-XGTziUSzujCnQgc2ZAP8WL.html
22-11-2020||India||SITMEX 2020: India, Singapore, Thailand naval exercise begins||A trilateral naval exercise involving India, Singapore and Thailand commenced in the Andaman Sea on Saturday. The two-day long exercise, SITMEX-2020, is scheduled in a “non-contact, at sea only format”, in wake of the Covid-19 restrictions.The primary aim of the exercise is to further consolidate interoperability between the three navies and also enhance understanding, sharing best practices and procedures for multi-faceted maritime operations.This edition of the exercise would involve a war-at-sea exercise, naval manoeuvres, weapon firing on the surface and aerial targets, seamanship evolutions, and coordinated navigation operations.The Indian Navy is represented by two indigenous warships -- an ASW corvette, INS Kamorta, and a guided Missile corvette, INS Karmuk. The force would also include the ships’ integral air assets.The Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN) is represented by RSS Intrepid, a formidable class stealth frigate, and RSS Endeavour, an Endurance class landing platform dock. The Thailand Navy is being represented by HTMS Kraburi, a Chao Phraya class frigate.The exercise despite the challenging times posed by the pandemic is a direct testimony to India’s long-standing friendship with Singapore and Thailand with special emphasis on strong military cooperation in the Maritime domain. The exercise is envisaged to see greater cooperation in the coming years with the participation of advanced platforms in complex exercises spanning over the entire spectrum of warfare at sea. On conclusion of SITMEX, participating ships from RSN will exercise with the Indian Navy as part of SIMBEX 20, in the Bay of Bengal.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his keynote address at Shangri-La Dialogue in June 2018, announced the conduct of a trilateral naval exercise between India, Singapore, and Thailand.The maiden edition of the exercise was conducted off Andaman and Nicobar Islands in September 2019 with the harbour phase conducted at Port Blair and a sea phase in the Andaman Sea spanning over five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitmex-2020-india-singapore-thailand-naval-exercise-begins/story-zwfE9hUcZk7iFxGgRTAcHM.html
22-11-2020||India||India needs to orient its political system to deliver on governance | Opinion||Governance in India over the years exemplifies the proverb ‘plus ca change, plus c’est la même chose’, the more it changes, the more it remains the same.India has been ruled by political parties across the spectrum, from the left to right, and, everything in between. Yet, the picture of governance overall remains dismal. Idealists have headed the government, pragmatists have headed the government, and, so have sheer opportunists. But the end result has been no different. At one end, the party with overwhelming majority has headed the state, and, at the other, a single member party has held the reins of power. All permutations and combinations have been tried at various times but good governance has been conspicuous by its absence.Good governance, reduced to its essence, has only three-fold function.The first is to maintain law and order, the second, to assure justice and fair play, and the third, to provide civil amenities required for proper living. With these three assured, developmental activities normally generate themselves.On the economic front, we started with Soviet-style five-year-plans which, of late, are being rolled back once too often. The massive investments in the public sector enterprises not withstanding, these enterprises have, by and large, become loss-making units. The ‘Nava Ratna’ group apart, the public sector has actually become the private sector of the politician. We have played with the public sector, private sector, public-private partnership and what not, making changes all along. But the economy is nowhere near the level required for the population of one and a quarter billion and growing.On the political front, we have a working parliamentary democracy, Westminster style. Style yes, but working, no. Close to half of our parliamentarians have criminal cases of all hues against them. They have not become the members of the august house by themselves but have been elected by the people. The same is true of the gram panchayat at the lowest end of the democratic governance as the gram pradhan is no saint and yet chosen by the village folk.Governance has failed across the board and the question is why? The answer, if we look for it, is obvious.Our leading lights, political, social and the whole ‘think tank’, in the cricketing parlance, have read the pitch wrong and overestimated the batsmen.The best bowling of the finest ideas is ineffective on a dead pitch. To quote the famous philosopher Kant, “laziness and cowardice are the reasons why so great a portion of mankind, after nature has long since discharged them from external direction, nevertheless remains under lifelong tutelage and why it is so easy for others to set themselves up as their guardians”. Our society is the pitch, full of the slush of laziness and cowardice, not allowing any ball of ideas, pace or spin, to move any further than the first drop.This civilization, several millennia old, is tired, and the people unresponsive; are resigned to fate.The people’s representatives, elected or selected, are a weak batting side unable to face the in-swingers of greed, or the out-swingers of ambition, or the googly of flattery. As John Adams, the successor of George Washington put it: “It is in vain to say that democracy is less vain, or less avaricious than aristocracy or monarchy . It is not true and nowhere appears in history. Those passions are the same in all men, under all forms of simple government. When unchecked, they produce the same effects of fraud and cruelty. When clear prospects are opened before vanity, avarice or ambition for their easy gratification, it is hard for the most considerate philosophers and the most conscientious moralists to resist the temptation.”Our representatives are neither philosophers nor moralists, and can resist, in the words of Oscar Wilde, anything but temptation. In mathematical language, one can define human frailties as a tensor, an entity which is invariant of the coordinate system. Changing the political frame of reference only changes its projection on a preferred axis but the entity remains the same. The administrators swear by the constitution in public, but swear at it in private. Manifestos change, slogans change, and the color of the cap changes but the wearer is still a wolf in sheep’s clothing who, given half a chance, would devour Little Red Riding Hood.Let us face facts, the noble concept of democracy had a short run even in the city state of Athens and Socrates was sentenced to death for being truthful. The dictatorship of the proletariat mutated into power in the hands of the communist party, and labour camps in Siberia for the dissenters. Likewise, the national socialism of Hitler resulted in world war and gas chambers for an entire race. It is high time that we accept that concepts of absolute liberty, absolute justice, economic, social or whatever, absolute equality and absolute fraternity, like absolute alcohol, get badly diluted when put to practice out in the open. The best we can attempt is to orient the political system so that the projections on the good axes exceed those on the bad ones.(The writer is Vice Chancellor Emeritus of Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-to-orient-its-political-system-to-deliver-on-governance-opinion/story-EpeVrU1KwpxPOYYdKiNgVL.html
22-11-2020||India||3 Maoists killed in encounter in Bihar’s Gaya||Three Maoists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Bihar’s Gaya district on Sunday, officials said.The encounter took place around midnight in the Barachatti forest area of the district, that is about 100 kms from the state capital here. The Maoists were killed in the early hours.Three bodies of Naxals have been recovered from the encounter spot that includes zonal commander Alok Yadav, they said.An AK series assault rifle and an INSAS rifle have been recovered from the spot. The encounter was led by the 205th battalion of the CoBRA that also had state police personnel, they said.The CoBRA or the commando battalion for resolute action is a special jungle warfare unit of the Central Reserve Police Force that is deployed in the state for anti-Naxal operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-bihar-s-gaya/story-FXoRXwzUAhdKSaeCgOtrhL.html
22-11-2020||India||Human trials of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate to begin in India this week||Human trials for Sputnik-V, Russia’s vaccine candidate against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is likely to start in India in the middle of this week, according to government officials.“All necessary requirements are in place, especially the mandatory regulatory approvals, for human trials to start. It is likely to commence this week,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Dr. VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, had also confirmed the development last Tuesday. “The phase II and III will be a combined trial. We have received permission from drug regulators and trials will start by next week,” he had said. Moscow-based Gamaleya Institute has developed Sputnik-V. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) had inked a deal with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, an Indian multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Hyderabad, for trials and distribution of its vaccine candidate in the country. The RDIF is to supply Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories 100 million doses of the vaccine. Russia has also submitted applications to the World Health Organisation (WHO) for accelerated registration -- Emergency Use Listing (EUL) -- and prequalification of its vaccine candidate. WHO manages the Prequalification of Medicines Programme, the one-of-a-kind global initiative that assesses the quality, safety, and efficacy of drugs. Biological E vaccine candidate is also in the early phase I and II of human trials. In India, five Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development. Four of the vaccine candidates are undergoing the phase II and III and another one phase I and II of trials. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the largest vaccine manufacturer in the world, is conducting the phase III trial in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate. The phase III trial has also started for Covaxin, the Bharat Biotech and ICMR vaccine candidate. While Cadila Healthcare’s ZyCovD, another indigenous vaccine candidate, is undergoing the phase II trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-trials-of-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-to-begin-in-india-this-week/story-3ypLWF6ElndTK6UjDYzUSL.html
22-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 9.09 million; recovery rate at 93.68%||There were 45,209 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 501 related deaths in the last 24 hours across India, taking the country’s tally to over 9.09 million, Union health ministry’s data showed on Sunday. The number of infections and deaths were slightly less than Saturday’s 46,232 and 564 respectively. The total infections are at 9,095,806 and the death toll has risen to 133,227.The surging cases have prompted several states to impose restrictions, penalties and defer reopening of schools. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan have imposed a night curfew in several districts and Delhi has raised the fine for not wearing masks in public places. There are 440,962 active Covid-19 cases and 8,521,617 people have recovered from the viral disease, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The gap between active and recovered cases has gone and so has the national recovery rate at 93.68%.Also read | As Covid-19 cases surge, these states have imposed night curfew“The Daily Positivity Rate of 4.34% point out that a comparatively huge volume was tested to detect these cases from the population. With a continuous surge in daily cases in European and the American countries, India is taking all cautionary steps to bring the trajectory of the disease under control. In view of the increase in COVID cases of some of the north Indian States, the Centre has advised all states and UTs to ramp up testing,” the health ministry had said on Saturday.Also read | Regeneron gets emergency US clearance for Covid-19 therapyIt had said that 24 states and Union territories have conducted more tests per million population than India as a whole. “12 States/UTs have lower tests per million than the national average, and have been advised to substantially ramp up the levels of testing,” it added.“India has crossed yet another landmark milestone in the fight against the global pandemic. Keeping in line with its commitment to conduct more than one million tests every day, 10,66,022 samples were tested in the last 24 hours which has increased India’s total cumulative tests to 13,06,57,808,” the ministry had said on Saturday. The last 10 million tests were conducted in a span of just 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-9-09-million-recovery-rate-at-93-68/story-SfDhas9VPndTlkMwOrJbyH.html
22-11-2020||India||NCB arrests Bharti Singh’s husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa for possession of cannabis||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested comedian Bharti Singh’s husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa for possession of cannabis. Bharti Singh was arrested by the agency on Saturday. The NCB raided the production office and the comedian’s residence in Mumbai and recovered 86.5 gram of Ganja from both places. Both Singh and Limbachiyaa accepted consumption of Ganja, according to news agency ANI.This is the latest arrest made by the NCB in probe launched by the agency into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the actor’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for him.Earlier this month, residences of actor Arjun Rampal and film producer Firoz Nadiadwala were also raided by the agency in connection with the drugs probe.While Rampal and his girlfriend were summoned by the NBC for questioning in the matter, Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed was arrested before being granted bail on November 10.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharti-singh-s-husband-haarsh-limbachiyaa-arrested-by-ncb/story-P8SguTa8uBbS738RweQgKJ.html
22-11-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases surge, these states have imposed night curfew||Several states have decided to bring in curfew during the night in districts witnessing a spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among other measures to contain the spread of infections. Authorities in several districts of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan have imposed night curfew. Under the Union home ministry’s orders states cannot impose a complete lockdown without its permission.Here are the details of the night curfews in place in these states:Madhya PradeshThe Madhya Pradesh government has decided to impose night curfew in five districts, including Covid-19 hotspots of Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior, from Saturday as the state reported 1,500 cases on Friday – the highest for the state in the past 40 days. The government also decided to close schools up to Class 8 till December 31.The night curfew will be observed from 10pm to 6am in the five worst-affected districts of Bhopal, Ratlam, Vidisha, Indore and Gwalior from Saturday. The night curfew will not be applicable to people engaged in essential services, transportation of goods and night shifts of factories. The district administrations have also been asked to ensure implementation of Covid-19 guidelines and also asked people to use mask and sanitiser.Official data shows the positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh on Friday doubled to 4.8% from that on November 5, which was about one percentage point higher than the national average. Most number of Covid-19 cases were being reported from Bhopal and Indore, which had witnessed first wave of Covid-19 in May and June, a health department official, who is privy to the data, said.GujaratAuthorities have imposed a 57-hour curfew in Ahmedabad amid the surging cases of the coronavirus disease, which are being described as the third wave of infections. The government has also announced a night curfew between 9pm and 6am in Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara from Saturday. A night curfew has been already announced in Ahmedabad from 9pm next Monday.In addition to the curfew, the state government has also put off its decision to reopen schools and colleges from November 23. The Gujarat Public Services Commission (GPSC) has also postponed exams to recruit medical teachers, which were to begin on November 22, official statements said.Also read | Gujarat brings in restrictions to check spread of Covid-19The decision to impose night curfew was taken after the state recorded 1,340 cases, the highest surge in infections in 47 days. In the 24 hours to Friday, Gujarat recorded 1,420 Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 194,402. It also recorded seven new fatalities due to the virus, with the death toll now at 3,837, according to the health bulletin released by the state government on Friday.RajasthanIn Rajasthan, the government has imposed a night curfew in the eight most affected districts and a Rs 500 fine on those not wearing masks. Markets, restaurants, shopping malls and other commercial institutions in the urban area of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar and Bhilwara will be open till 7pm.Night curfew will remain in place in the urban areas of these districts from 8pm to 6am. Those going to attend a wedding ceremony, people related to essential services, and those travelling on buses, trains and planes will be exempted during the period. The presence of personnel in government and private institutions, which have more than 100 personnel, shall not exceed 75% in these districts. Employees of the state government will be called on a rotational basis.Rajasthan recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day on Saturday with 3,007 people testing positive. The state reported an 8.8% increase in Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which took the total number of infections to 240,676.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-these-states-have-imposed-night-curfew/story-gVxdiU20XsoBecK9AWoDNL.html
22-11-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stones of water projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday digitally lay the foundation stones for rural drinking water supply projects worth ₹5,555 crore in Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts of Uttar Pradesh.On completion within two years, the two projects will provide piped-water supply to over 42 lakh people in 2,995 villages of the two districts of the Vindhyachal region which along with Bundelkhand is among India’s most water-scarce areas.After inaugurating the projects through video conference, Prime Minister Modi will also interact with water and sanitation committee members of various villages in the two districts, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement on Saturday.In all the project beneficiary villages, the Uttar Pradesh government had earlier formed water and sanitation committees whose members will shoulder the responsibility of operating and maintaining the water supply lines and systems.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also be present on the occasion, the government statement added.The Uttar Pradesh government said once the project becomes functional, villagers of Vindhya region will not have to struggle for drinking water and rural women will get rid of their arduous chores of fetching water from miles away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-lay-foundation-stones-of-water-projects/story-avlzA65k1ENn2MERoHHosN.html
22-11-2020||India||Congress panel holds its first meet, expresses concern over economy||The newly formed Congress panel on economic affairs met on Saturday to discuss the state of the country’s economy and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on it, people aware of the development said.The panel on economic affairs, headed by former PM Manmohan Singh, held its introductory meeting and discussed the overall state of the economy, expressing concern that for the first time it has gone into a recession. The other members of the committee are former Union ministers P Chidambaram, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh, who is also its convener, and former Madhya Pradesh CM Digvijaya Singh.A Congress functionary said the leaders during the meeting discussed the strategy to be adopted by the party in putting pressure on the government to revive the economy.Congress leaders asserted that the government should initiate steps to revive the economy with fair and remunerative prices to farmers for their produce; implementation of the NYAY scheme to put money in the hands of the poor; and creation of jobs as the unemployment rate stood at 6.4%, apart from giving more money to the states. The Nyay scheme, a kind of universal basic income programme, was part of the Congress’ manifesto in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Apart from this panel, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday also formed committees on foreign affairs and national security.In the panel of foreign affairs, Singh will be assisted by former Union ministers Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid besides Saptagiri Sanka Ulaka, a Lok Sabha member from Koraput in Odisha. Khurshid has been named its convener. Manmohan Singh will also head the panel on national security. Its members are Azad, former Union minister M Veerappa Moily, Vincent H Pala, a Lok Sabha member, and V Vaithilingam, a former chief minister of Puducherry who represents Puducherry in the 17th Lok Sabha. Pala is its convener.Gandhi also accommodated Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Shashi Tharoor, who were among the 23 signatories of a letter to the party president in August this year seeking an organisational overhaul, in the panels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-panel-holds-its-first-meet-expresses-concern-over-economy/story-w8aLDCj651dYETR4RH4ZFK.html
22-11-2020||India||UP govt checked cow slaughter, smuggling: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the state government has taken adequate steps to protect cows in the state. He said the government not only succeeded in preventing cow slaughter but also effectively checked their smuggling to other states and countries. “The cows were even being sent to other countries before I took over as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. It was a challenge before me to protect the holy animal which I did to my full ability,’‘ Adityanath said.He said the steps taken to protect stray cattle too have borne fruits and about 524,000 cows are kept in government-run shelters, while more than eight lakh of them have been housed in ‘Kanha Upvan’, the cow shelters being run by local bodies in the state.Speaking at a book release function at his official residence on Saturday, the chief minister also underlined the religious importance of cows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-checked-cow-slaughter-smuggling-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-QqxLDJfwdrI3JXMIF7yKrL.html
22-11-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi to address meeting of Speakers||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 80th edition of All India Presiding Officers Conference that will discuss the theme of “Harmonious Coordination between Legislature, Executive and Judiciary- Key to a Vibrant Democracy” at Gujarat’s Kevadia. “November 26 is the 71st anniversary of Constitution Day. On this occasion, the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference is being organized in Kevadia, Gujarat. It will be held from November 25 to November 26,” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced on Saturday. The theme of harmonious coordination between legislature between judiciary and legislature assumes importance amid an increasing instances of presiding officers being pulled up courts, especially on the anti-defection laws. The legislation had come up for an intense discussion at the earlier meetings of the presiding officers. President of India will inaugurate the session and the Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will also address a session, officials added. Birla also said that during the conference, presiding officers of legislatures will discuss the need for better cooperation and coordination between the three pillars of democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-to-address-meeting-of-speakers/story-UqGQIL45cYgrEZK3feCcGO.html
22-11-2020||India||Gujarat: Seven charred to death in car-dumper truck collision||Seven persons, including three children, were charred to death on Saturday when their car caught fire after colliding with a dumper truck in Gujarat’s Surendranagar district, police said.Occupants of the car, all members of two families, were returning to their homes in Patan district when the incident occurred in early hours near Kherva village, deputy superintendent of police P K Patel told reporters.A woman was rescued from the SUV and admitted to a hospital, the officer said, adding that she is the lone survivor.“Members of two families had gone on a three-day trip, and were on their way from the temple town of Chotila in Surendranagar district when the accident occurred,” the DySP said.The deceased are identified as Ramesh Nai (38), his wife Kailashben (35) and their children Sunni (12) and Shital (8)--all from Korda village, and their relatives Haresh Nai (35), his wife Sejalben (32) and son Harshil (6), who hailed from Nanapura village, he said, adding that investigation is underway. PTI COR KA PD ARU NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-seven-charred-to-death-in-car-dumper-truck-collision/story-MA5z49T5JqUBzAACcWQKrK.html
22-11-2020||India||Farmers agree to let trains run in Punjab||Punjab’s farmer unions announced on Saturday that they will completely lift their nearly two-month-long rail blockade against the Centre’s new agriculture laws from Monday, clearing the way for movement of goods and passenger trains to ply in the state. However, the unions have given 15 days’ time to the Centre to take a decision on the withdrawal of the laws; if that doesn’t happen, they have threatened to restart the blockade.Saturday’s announcement came after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh invited leaders of all 31 farmer unions to Chandigarh for talks to break the deadlock over resuming train services in Punjab. Also Read | Famers plan protest in Delhi from Nov 26“Had a fruitful meeting with Kisan Unions. Happy to share that starting from November 23, unions have decided to end rail blockades for 15 days. I welcome this step as it will restore normalcy to our economy. I urge the Centre to resume rail services to Punjab forthwith,” the chief minister tweeted soon after the meeting. Amarinder urged the Centre to support his government in creating a congenial environment for ending the agitation, which he said had grave repercussions for the state and the nation. Punjab farmers’ bodies initially said on Wednesday that they would consider allowing passenger trains to run in the state if the Centre started running the goods trains first. However, the railways refused, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none. The suspension of goods trains has hit supplies of fertilisers for the agriculture sector and coal for thermal power plants, besides adversely affecting industry. The decision to lift the rail blockade was announced by Bharti Kissan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal at a meeting of representatives of the farmer unions with the chief minister to resolve the imbroglio.“If the Centre fails to address our issues and clarify its stand on withdrawal of bills within 15 days, we will again start our agitation,” said Rajewal. Also Read | Rice procurement up 18%, as government seeks to calm farmer protestsThanking the unions for accepting his request, the chief minister assured the farmer leaders that he would meet the Prime Minister and the Union home minister soon to press for their demands. Singh also promised the farmer representatives that he would look into their other demands, including those related to a sugarcane price hike and clearance of dues, as well as withdrawal of FIRs registered in stubble burning cases. He said he would hold talks with them on these issues within the next week, and also set up a committee of officers to discuss the matter. Singh said the Centre’s decision to engage with the farmer unions indicated that it was realising the grave repercussions of the hastily passed farm laws, particularly in the context of the omnipresent Pakistan threat to disturb India’s, especially Punjab’s, peace. Islamabad is sending guns, drugs, fake currency, etc through drones, and a large amount of arms and ammunition had been seized along the Punjab border, he said, adding that it is the responsibility of every Punjabi to ensure peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agree-to-let-trains-run-in-punjab/story-sEZCqRumf1tM0u9yUHReBM.html
22-11-2020||India||Nagrota encounter: India pulls up Pakistan envoy on J&K plot||India summoned on Saturday Pakistan’s senior-most diplomat in New Delhi and lodged a strong protest over an attempted attack by the UN-designated terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) that was foiled by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir. The external affairs ministry summoned Aftab Hassan Khan, chargé d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission, and demanded that “Pakistan desists from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups operating from its territory and dismantle the terror infrastructure operated by terrorist outfits to launch attacks in other countries”, according to an official statement. Also Read | Nagrota attack: MEA expresses ‘serious concern’, says attempt to derail DDC electionKhan was told the Indian government is “firmly and resolutely committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security in the fight against terrorism”. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said security forces in Jammu and Kashmir had foiled a plan by JeM to “wreak major havoc and destruction” by killing four members of the group and seizing a large cache of weapons and explosives. The four terrorists were gunned down during a three-hour gun battle on the Jammu-Srinagar highway on Thursday. The statement said security forces had thwarted a “major terror attack” in Nagrota, and that initial reports indicated the attackers were “members of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a terrorist organisation proscribed by the United Nations and several countries”. The huge cache of arms, ammunition and explosives seized on Thursday indicated “detailed planning for a major attack to destabilise the peace and security in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, in particular, to derail the ongoing democratic exercise of conduct of local district development council elections”, it added. “The government of India expressed its serious concerns at continued terror attacks by JeM against India,” the statement said. India’s long-standing demand that Pakistan “fulfil its international obligations and bilateral commitments to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner” was reiterated to the Pakistani chargé d’affaires. The statement said the JeM has been part of several attacks in India in the past, including the suicide attack in Pulwama in February 2019 that killed 40 Indian troopers and triggered a standoff between the two sides. India had carried out an air strike on a JeM facility in Balakot in retaliation for the suicide bombing. On Friday, Pakistan rejected allegations levelled by the Indian prime minister and contended they were part of “India’s desperate attempts to divert international attention from” the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. A statement issued by the Foreign Office is Islamabad also accused India of involvement in “state-sponsorship of terrorism against Pakistan”. “It is evident that India has stepped up anti-Pakistan propaganda, following presentation of the dossier by Pakistan providing irrefutable evidence of India’s state-sponsorship of terrorism,” it said, referring to a dossier that was unveiled earlier this month by the civilian and military leadership. Pakistan claimed the dossier contained proof of the alleged involvement of Indian intelligence operatives in acts of terrorism but the allegations were rubbished by India. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said Pakistan still has control over terrorist infrastructure that can be used against India. “Pakistan has alternatively used the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) as the situation demands. With the focus now on LeT and Hafiz Saeed, the JeM could be used and this group has a history of carrying out spectacular attacks. Pakistan retains the capacity to disturb the status quo, both in Jammu and Kashmir, and the hinterland,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagrota-encounter-india-pulls-up-pakistan-envoy-on-j-k-plot/story-tD87ymO6fAUxyo1C3exS8L.html
22-11-2020||India||BJD targeting family, says wife of BJP’s Jay Panda||Bharatiya Janata Party vice-president Baijayant Panda and his wife, Jagi Mangat Panda, on Saturday accused the Biju Janata Dal government in Odisha of orchestrating cases against them out of political vendetta even as the BJD refuted the allegations of a witch-hunt.Alleging that the state government has been targeting their family for speaking out against alleged corruption in the state, Panda’s wife said, “It is no secret that ever since my husband Jay Panda started speaking out about the BJD’s widespread corruption five years ago, and joined the BJP, the Odisha government and BJD have been targeting and harassing our family and the organisations connected with us, including actual violence against us on several locations.” She said that the Odisha police were filing false cases against them and the companies associated with them. “In the past two months, the Odisha police have registered about 20 false cases against OTV, its sister companies, employees and my family members, including my 84-year-old father,” she said.Her statements have come a day after the Orissa high court lifted the interim protection from arrest of the BJP leader and his wife, along with the managing director of their TV channel OTV, in connection with a fraudulent land transaction. On Friday, a single judge bench of the Orissa HC vacated its interim stay on the arrest of the couple while rejecting their petition to quash the FIR filed in connection with the land transaction of Odisha Infratech Pvt Ltd. Panda and his wife are promoters of the company. According to the FIR, filed by the Economic Offence Wing of the Odisha police, Panda allegedly cheated 22 people, belonging to the Dalit community, to acquire their land in the state’s Khurda district.Jagi Mangat Panda said that her company will seek redressal in the court against the alleged harassment by state authorities. “Though there has been no wrongdoing by us and we are confident that this will ultimately be proved in the courts,” she said.The Naveen Patnaik led BJD, however, refuted these allegations of a witch-hunt against Panda.“It’s an open and shut case of fraud in land transaction in which several Dalit people have been taken for a ride. The couple, who are promoters of the company Odisha Infratech Pvt that bought the land in violation of several existing laws such as Scheduled Caste Atrocities Act and Odisha Land Reforms Act, would be summoned for joining the investigation. There is no witch-hunt,” said BJD MP Pinaki Mishra.“As per the Odisha Land Reforms Act, non-Dalit people cannot buy Dalit land. Only Dalit people can buy land of another Dalit. To bypass this law, Panda used his driver Rabi Sethi, who is a Dalit, to buy this land in Sarua and then transferred it to his company. Though Sethi was only earning Rs 8,000 per month, lakhs of rupees were transferred in these land purchases. Later, Sethi and the 22 land owners complained to the Khurda district collector stating this action as illegal and fraud,” he said.Jay Panda’s quote awaited||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-targeting-family-says-wife-of-bjp-s-jay-panda/story-SfHBVqhhTJjYZaSrftDxyN.html
22-11-2020||India||Kerala guv approves ordinance to check cyber bullying; experts wary||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan cleared a state government ordinance amending the Police Act to allow any person or the authorities to file a case over social media posts that are intimidating, insulting or defamatory, a move the administration said is meant to counter cyber bullying but critics have called it a threat to free speech and media freedom.At present, defamation cases under Section 499 and 500 of Indian Penal Code can only be filed by a person who has been targeted. Kerala’s new law will allow any third person or a police officer to file complaint.Anyone producing, publishing or disseminating such content on social media will face a prison term of up to five years or a fine of up to Rs10,000 or both. The Governor, who returned to the official residence recently after recovering from Covid-19, signed the ordinance, according to an official at Raj Bhavan who asked not to be named. “We agree cyber bullying of women and children should be contained at any cost. But in the guise of fighting cyber crime, the government may target journalists who are exposing many misdeeds. Some of the wordings in the ordinance buttress our fear,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But the government defended its position saying existing laws were not effective in dealing with such crimes. It also pointed out that the High Court had directed the state chief secretary and the director general of police (DGP) in May to initiate effective steps to curtail hate speech and bullying in social media. “Apprehension in this regard is ill-founded. Our only aim is to curb cyber attacks that are posing a major threat to private life,” said state law minister A K Balan. But the opposition wasn’t convinced. The government decided to fast-track the ordinance after three women activists, including dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi, assaulted Youtuber Vijay P Nair last month for allegedly derogatory comments that he made on video. The High Court pulled up the activists for taking law into their hands, but they contended that they filed a complaint and police failed to take any action. Cyber and legal experts said the law could lead to serious misuse. “It will do more harm than any good. No blogger, online media person or cyber activist can write on any topic. It can be used to settle scores. Intention is good, but implementation will be disastrous,” said legal expert and cyber activist Jiyas Jamal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-guv-approves-ordinance-to-check-cyber-bullying-experts-wary/story-ed5iSbZDOkBT45Aw7TnMKN.html
22-11-2020||India||1 killed in police firing during stir in Tripura over Bru resettlement||At least one person was killed and nearly 23 were injured in North Tripura on Saturday when police opened fire at protesters, who had blocked the Assam-Agartala National Highway at Panisagar against the resettlement of Bru migrants from neighbouring Mizoram, police said. According to the police, 46-year-old Srikanta Das died in police firing and others were injured when police personnel used baton charge to control a group of people protesting in support of an indefinite bandh, or shutdown, against rehabilitation of Bru refugees. Those injured include 15 police and fire service personnel, an official added.Tripura’s additional director general of police, Rajiv Singh, said the police fired in self defence as the protesters became violent. “The National Highway was blocked since morning without permission. They didn’t move even when we tried to convince them. As they turned violent, we resorted to mild lathi charge. The protesters became uncontrollable and they tried to snatch weapons and in self-defence police fired,” he said.In view of the violence, a huge contingent of security forces has been mobilised in affected parts of the state. The police has claimed that the situation is under control.A magistrate-level probe has been ordered by the government into the incident. Later in the day, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath announced ₹ 5 lakh compensation to the family of the person who died in the protest.On November 16, two local organisations --- Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention under the banner Joint Movement Committee -- launched an indefinite strike at Kanchanpur in North district against the central government’s decision to rehabilitate around 35,000 tribal Bru refugees from Mizoram back to Tripura.They demanded that the Bru migrants should get settlement in all the eight districts of the state to prevent their concentration in Kanchanpur sub division.The law and order situation deteriorated on November 18, when the local administration imposed prohibitory orders after a water supply operator was allegedly assaulted by some local people. Soon, the protest spread to different parts of North district including Panisagar, Pecharthal and Kailasahar in Unakoti district.Convener of JMC Sushanta Bikash Barua has, however, claimed that the police fired on the protesters who were agitating peacefully.“Protesters were agitating peacefully. The police opened fire on them without any provocation. One died on the spot and many others were severely injured,” Baruah was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Bru issue started in September 1997 following demands of a separate autonomous district council by carving out areas of western Mizoram adjoining Bangladesh and Tripura. About 30,000 Bru tribals had fled Mizoram due to the ethnic tension and took shelter in refugee camps in Tripura.In January 2020, the Union home ministry signed an agreement with the governments of Tripura and Mizoram and the Bru migrants for their permanent settlement in Tripura. The Centre also announced a Rs. 600 crore package for their resettlement.Anthony Debbarma, a social activist, said, “The resettlement of the Bru people was decided by the Centre. Whatever situation occurred today, it should not have happened. But we want to say the protesters who are against their resettlement might have forgotten that they themselves resettled here. We condemned such kinds of protests.”According to an expert, the Bru resettlement process, as agreement was already signed, should happen without disturbing anyone’s interests. “The state government should have talked to the protesters beforehand, to come out with a solution. We could have avoided such kind of incident today,” the expert said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-killed-in-police-firing-during-stir-in-tripura-over-bru-resettlement/story-FRFptJLR8CQm9cRteMhrtK.html
22-11-2020||India||PM Modi calls for decisive action by G20 to counter Covid-19 impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for greater transparency in governance systems and decisive action by the G20 to counter the impact of the Covid-19 crisis that should focus on both economic recovery and preserving the planet. Modi participated in the two-day virtual summit being chaired by Saudi Arabia along with the heads of state and government of the 19 member countries and representatives of the European Union and international organisations. Describing the pandemic as an important turning point in history and the biggest challenge faced by the world since World War 2, he called for decisive action by the G20 that should not be limited to economic recovery, jobs and trade, but also focus on preserving the earth. Also Read | ‘Covid-19 biggest challenge since World War 2’: PM Modi at G20 summitModi called for greater transparency in governance systems to inspire people to deal with shared challenges and said dealing with the environment as “trustees rather than owners” will lead to a holistic and healthy lifestyle, a principle whose benchmark could be a per capita carbon footprint. He also sought a new global index for the post-coronavirus world consisting of four elements – creation of a vast talent pool, ensuring technology reaches all segments of society, transparency in governance systems, and dealing with the earth with a spirit of trusteeship. This can help the G20 lay the foundation of a new world, he said. In the past few decades, there was an emphasis on capital and finance and the time has now come to focus on multi-skilling and re-skilling. This will enhance the dignity of people and make them more resilient to face crises, he said. He added any assessment of new technology should be based on its impact on ease of living and quality of life. Since “work from anywhere” is the new normal in the post-Covid-19 world, Modi suggested the creation of a G20 “virtual secretariat” as a follow-up and documentation repository. This was the third summit this month where Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same platform amid the India-China border standoff. They had earlier joined the summits of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping. The summit with the theme “Realising opportunities of the 21st century for all” has assumed importance in the wake of the pandemic, and its agenda includes two sessions focused on overcoming the pandemic, economic recovery and restoring jobs, and building an inclusive, sustainable and resilient future. There are also side events on pandemic preparedness and safeguarding the planet. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the Gavi Board chair, told the event on pandemic preparedness: “The virus is winning. Only through adequate financing for a global exit strategy like Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) can economic vitality be restored at home and catastrophe in the poorest countries averted.” A commitment by G20 leaders to invest $4.6 billion to fill the ACT Accelerator’s immediate funding gap will save lives, lay the groundwork for mass procurement and delivery of tests, treatments and vaccines, he said. In his opening remarks, Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz said the G20 countries pledged over $21 billion to support global efforts to combat the pandemic and injected over $11 trillion to support individuals and businesses. “Although we are optimistic about the progress made in developing vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics tools for Covid-19, we must work to create the conditions for affordable and equitable access to these tools for all peoples. At the same time, we must prepare better for any future pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-decisive-action-by-g20-to-counter-covid-19-impact/story-QGtalonQTsaHa54CGFZ4CK.html
22-11-2020||India||Low testing in initial stages may have led to Covid-19 surge: Panel||The parliamentary standing committee of health submitted its report on India’s response to the coronavirus disease pandemic on Saturday, appreciating the role of the 68-day lockdown in slowing the spread of the virus, criticising the initial shortage of equipment and infrastructure, and stressing the importance of being ready for a possible second wave of the infection.The multi-party committee of Indian Parliament said “poor contact tracing and less testing” might have led to the exponential growth of Covid-19 cases in the country, adding that a multitude of advisories may have led to confusion. Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19 The standing committee on health presented its report—the first from a parliamentary committee on Covid—on a day when the total cases in India touched 9,095,782, with 133,262 deaths, and even as Delhi reels under a fresh surge of infections. The panel pointed out “few glaring lapses” such as “shortage of emergency supplies, red-tapism, shortage and quality of testing kits, and delay in domestic production” and said India must also be prepared to tackle a possible second wave of Covid—as evident in many European countries—especially in the winter season and “superspreading series of festive-events”. On November 21, HT wrote about the imminent onset of the second wave. The committee blamed poor contact tracing and inadequate testing for the exponential growth of cases in the country. HT repeatedly pointed this out in the initial months of the pandemic. It was only in August that India became aggressive with its testing. However, even then, many of the tests were conducted using rapid antigen testing kits, which are unreliable, a fact that didn’t escape the panel’s notice. The committee said it is worried at the use of “less reliable diagnostic tests which increase the chances of false negatives.” Rapid antigen tests sometimes fail to identify 50% of infections. It added that RT-PCR tests remain the gold standard . Panel chairman, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav, virtually presented the report to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. The report said the Covid would have hit India harder if “we had not hit the history books for guidance”. It termed janta curfew on March 22, the marathon federal lockdown, the phased and gradual reopening, travel restrictions and social distancing measures as “successful” but observed “there have been few glaring lapses like shortage of emergency supplies, red-tapism, shortage and quality of testing kits, delay in domestic production etc.” The report also added that a “plethora of guidelines issued by the ministry” for containment of outbreak “caused ambiguity in interpretation”. “The contradiction in guidelines and the resultant chaos among the general masses could have been averted” and “the separate guidelines on the quarantine issue by different State Governments created more panic and confusion” it said. The parliamentary panel also expressed concern that “the total number of government hospital beds in the country was grossly inadequate” in the wake of rising incidence of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-testing-in-initial-stages-may-have-led-to-covid-19-surge-panel/story-8ItPtekyFnbGMxH2gwMInL.html
22-11-2020||India||Delhi winter to be colder than usual this year||The Capital is likely to have a colder winter than usual this year, according to India Meteorological Department scientists who cited a Pacific Ocean weather phenomenon known as La Nina, which leads to a cascading impact on global weather in winter months.During La Nina, temperatures in central Pacific Ocean drops below normal levels, triggering wind patterns can influence weather in far away regions. This has been linked to colder than usual winters in northwest India.“Both maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to remain around 2-2.5°C below normal this entire season. Also, since winter is setting in early with temperatures already low, the minimum is likely to fall to 5-6°C as early as December 10. This usually happens after December 20,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC). He added that day temperatures, or the maximum, will begin falling in early December. Local factors too have contributed to making days colder. Delhi has had a cloudless streak, with only one Western Disturbance so far bringing in any moisture. “When there are no clouds, the ground cools faster and the minimum temperatures stay low,” he explained. On Friday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5°C, five notches below normal and the lowest November temperature in 14 years. On Saturday, it rose slightly to settle at 8.5°C, while the maximum was at 24.6°C..In the immediate days, Srivastava said that the minimum is expected to fall further to 7°C on Sunday before a Western Disturbance on November 23 briefly causes a slight increase. Once that passes, days and nights will become colder again. “When global conditions like La Nina are prevailing, there is a tendency for regions under northwest India to get colder,” said VK Soni of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre.Soni added that at present, the dip in mercury is accompanied by strong winds that helps in blowing away pollutants but after November 23, wind speed is likely to reduce and trigger a deterioration in air quality.On Saturday, the average wind speed was around 16-17kmph, and the air was in the poor zone with the 24-hour average air quality index at 4pm being 251.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-experts-predict-colder-than-normal-winter-as-la-nina-takes-hold-in-delhi/story-O3s9LL8gBlHXtL55Kqmu1J.html
22-11-2020||India||Man who stabbed Agra dentist held after encounter||A 38-year-old dental surgeon was stabbed to death at her home in Agra and her two children were injured by a robber who entered the house on the pretext of recharging the family’s set-top-box on Friday afternoon, police officials said on Saturday, adding that the suspect has been arrested. According to police, the accused, identified as Shubham Pathak, entered the house of the deceased, Dr Nisha Singhal, with the intention of robbing the family. “Dr Nisha Singhal was at home along with her two children when the accused reached the house. He was a known face for the doctor’s family as he used to come for television re-charging,” inspector general (Agra Range) A Satish Ganesh said. The accused allegedly stabbed the dentist with a knife multiple times while her children were in another room, Ganesh said. Her husband, Dr Ajay Singhal, was not at the house at the time of the incident, he added.The accused was arrested on Saturday following a brief gunfight. “Police teams were constituted and the accused was seen driving a motorcycle in trans-Yamuna area the following day (Saturday). Police vigil was enhanced and a barrier was placed at 100 feet road where the accused reached but he saw the police and tried to escape. He then fired at police and was injured in counter firing and arrested,” Ganesh said, adding that Pathak has been hospitalised with a bullet injury in his legs.“During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime. He also attacked the son and daughter of the doctor,” the IG said. The children, four and eight, are being treated at a hospital, he said.The police have recovered the jewellery and cash that Pathak stole from Singhal’s house. “Police recovered ₹24,000 cash, jewellery, Singhal’s Aadhaar card and Pathak’s driving license from his bag,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-stabbed-agra-dentist-held-after-encounter/story-evquqZX5X3hmjzfzzedjKP.html
22-11-2020||India||AIADMK and BJP reaffirm Tamil Nadu coalition||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will fight the 2021 Tamil Nadu elections as partners, chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam announced in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday, reaffirming an alliance that seemed to be strained in recent weeks.The announcement came while Shah is on a two-day visit to the state, which began in Chennai with an unscheduled stop by the Union minister outside the airport to greet big crowds of BJP supporters. Later, he inaugurated a string of projects and hit out at the main rival coalition, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Congress. “The victorious alliance will continue for the coming elections,” said Panneerselvam after Shah inaugurated infrastructure projects worth ₹67,378 crore. The two partnered along with other regional parties for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the BJP drew a blank and the AIADMK won one seat. The state has 39 constituencies.Though Shah did not speak on the alliance, he said the Narendra Modi-led Union government will support Tamil Nadu’s administration. In a 43-minute speech, Shah spoke in Hindi aided by a Tamil translator. He attacked the opposition DMK-Congress coalition, mostly on the issues of corruption and dynasty politics. “I’m surprised they can even speak of corruption after the 2G scam. What right do they have?” said Shah. He added that Modi has been against corruption, dynasty politics and caste-based politics. “People will teach a lesson to those who practice family politics,” he said. “I hear DMK leaders often say that the Centre is being unjust towards Tamil Nadu. What did you do when you were with the Congress in power for ten years,” said Shah. He added that Centre’s budgetary allocation for Tamil Nadu under the Modi government was higher than what it was during former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s tenure in 2013-2014.The rousing welcome according to the BJP leader was unusual since the party’s leader have faced protests in previous visits. In 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended government events by taking a helicopter as people with black flags lined the streets. But some protests were evident on Saturday as the #gobackAmithShah hashtag began trending on Twitter since Friday night, in tandem with another hashtag #TNwelcomesChanakya that popped up on Saturday.Following the inaugurations, Shah held meetings with AIADMK and BJP leaders at a private hotel to prepare for the polls. BJP has been attempting to make inroads into Tamil Nadu, where elections this year will be the first since the deaths of the two Dravidian political stalwarts, AIADMK’s J Jayalalithaa and DMK’s M Karunanidhi. The AIADMK has been in power for the past 10 years.In recent weeks, a series of confrontations between the AIADMK-led government and the Tamil Nadu BJP fuelled speculation that the coalition was under a strain. In particular was the fight over BJP’s Vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march), which the government said cannot proceed due to Covid-19 concerns, and the choice of the chief ministerial candidate. According to AIADMK leaders, the timing of the announcement on Saturday came as a surprise. A senior leader, who asked not to be named, said party members were not consulted. “It was totally unexpected,” the leader said. “There was no indication of this announcement even when we had a consultative meeting a day ago (Friday). We had not discussed alliances.”Political experts too said the timing may not be right. “It is too early to announce alliances,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration department, University of Madras. “And it should not have been done on a stage organised for government programmes.” Late in the night, Shah began consultations with BJP’s core committee members that included state president L Murugan and veteran leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, L Ganesan and H Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-and-bjp-reaffirm-tamil-nadu-coalition/story-AvoAX2WmCHUOaJZKkLNPJI.html
22-11-2020||India||Telangana BJP starts attracting Congress leaders ahead of GHMC polls||Fresh from the victory in the recent by-elections to the Dubbak assembly seat in Siddipet district, the Bharatiya Janata Party in Telangana has started attracting potential leaders from other parties ahead of the prestigious elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). On Saturday, senior Congress leader and former Union minister of state for transport Sarvey Satyanarayana announced that he was quitting the party to join the BJP. “The Congress has collapsed totally in Telangana and has no future. The people have realized that BJP is the only alternative to the Telangana Rashtra Samiti,” Satyanarayana told reporters. Considered to be a hardcore loyalist of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Satyanarayana had been sulking ever since he was denied a party ticket to contest the 2019 parliamentary elections from Malkajgiri which he had represented in the past. On Friday, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay and former MP G Vivek went to Satyanarayana’s residence in Secunderabad and convinced him to join the BJP. “I have no complaints against Sonia ji. I am joining the BJP with her blessings. The Telangana PCC leaders are responsible for the debacle of the party in all the elections, including the recent Dubbak by-polls,” the ex-Union minister said. The BJP leaders also held talks with Youth Congress leader M Vikram Goud, son of former Congress minister late Mukesh Goud, and invited him into the party. Goud had been unhappy with the PCC leadership for denying party tickets to his followers in the ongoing GHMC elections. “He is expected to join the BJP in a day or two,” a state BJP leader familiar with the development said. Another senior Congress leader and former Hyderabad Mayor Banda Karthika Reddy along with her husband Chandra Reddy also joined the BJP three days ago. So did former MLA from Serilingampalli P Bhikshapathi Yadav and his son Ravi Kumar Yadav, a Youth Congress leader, earlier in the week. The BJP also made an attempt to attract prominent industrialist and former MP from Chevella constituency Konda Vishweshwar Reddy. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who was appointed as the party in-charge for GHMC polls, went to Reddy’s residence and held parleys. However, the former MP issued a statement stating that he would continue in the Congress party and the meeting with Bhupendra Yadav had no political significance. Another former MP and actor M Vijayashanti, who had been the star campaigner of the Congress in the last elections, is also likely to join the BJP soon. She has been keeping away from the Congress party activities for quite some time. PCC working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar lashed out at the BJP for “shamelessly luring the Congress leaders,” as it had no strength of its own. He said leaders like Banda Karthika Reddy and Sarvey Satyanarayana had been suspended from the party long ago for their anti-party activities. “The BJP leaders are trying to attract voters by polarizing Hindu votes, showing the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen as a villain,” Prabhakar alleged. Meanwhile, the BJP leaders are also looking to trap disgruntled TRS leaders as well to gain advantage in the GHMC elections. On Saturday, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, along with other leaders, met senior TRS leader and former chairman of state legislative council T Swamy Goud and invited him into the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-starts-attracting-congress-leaders-ahead-of-ghmc-polls/story-aNwble1NvGqKfZMdhnMfHK.html
22-11-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to impose night curfew in 8 districts, fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500||Witnessing a sudden spike in coronavirus cases, the Rajasthan government on Saturday decided to impose night curfew in the eight most affected districts and a Rs 500 fine on those not wearing masks. Rajasthan recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in a single day on Saturday with 3007 people testing positive. On Saturday, the state reported an 8.8% increase in Covid-19 cases taking the total number of positive cases to 2,40,676. The decision was taken at the state cabinet meeting chaired by CM Ashok Gehlot. It was decided that markets, restaurants, shopping malls and other commercial institutions in the urban area of the 8 districts-- Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar and Bhilwara, most affected by the viral infection will be open till 7 pm. Night curfew will remain in place in the urban areas of these districts from 8 pm to 6 am. During curfew, those going to a wedding ceremony, people related to essential services, and those travelling in buses, trains and planes will be exempted. In these districts, the presence of personnel in government and private institutions, which have more than 100 personnel, shall not exceed 75%. The state government staff will be called on a rotational basis. The official release from the CMs office stated that the meeting was informed about the Covid-19 cases that have increased due to the festive season, change in weather, elections, marriages etc. In view of the continuous increase in the number of positive cases, many countries of the world and states of the country have taken precautionary measures - Haryana and Maharashtra had opened schools-colleges but decided to close them within a week as the cases spiked. The penalty for not wearing masks has been increased to Rs 500, earlier this fine amount was Rs 200. To curb the spike in Covid-19 cases, the maximum number of people involved in political, social, religious, cultural and events including marriage ceremonies in the entire state will be not be more than 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-impose-night-curfew-in-8-districts-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-hiked-to-rs-500/story-02Qk9URh5HtIwnQG1Q6woN.html
22-11-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s health condition deteriorates, put on ventilator||The health condition of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi is critical, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. Gogoi’s condition deteriorated with multi-organ failure and he has become unconscious with difficulty in breathing, Sarma further added.His son and deputy leader of Lok Sabha from Congress party Gaurav Gogoi tagged a tweet with update on health of the former chief minister.Eighty-six-year-old Tarun Gogoi was admitted to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on November 2 due to post-Covid complications. He was later put under invasive ventilation, said Sarma.“Around afternoon today, his condition deteriorated with difficulties in breathing. So, doctors started an intubation ventilator, which is machine ventilation,” said Sarma, who rushed to the GMCH on Saturday to inquire Gogoi’s health.“Efforts are on to revive his organs with medicines and other means. The doctors will also attempt a dialysis. However, the next 48-72 hours are very critical and we are doing everything possible,” he said.Gogoi was first admitted to GMCH on August 26 after his report for Covid-19 came positive and was discharged on October 25, after two months of hospitalisation.The team of doctors of GMCH taking care of the former chief minister are in continuous touch with the doctors with experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-health-condition-deteriorates/story-4SFOUgYYaJf2IdtlFXoG2M.html
22-11-2020||India||7 killed as truck collides with car in Gujarat’s Surendranagar||Seven people, including three children, were charred to death on Saturday when their car caught fire after colliding with a dumper truck in Gujarat’s Surendranagar district, officials said. The people in the car, who were members of two families, were returning to their homes in Patan district when the incident occurred in early hours near Kherva village, deputy superintendent of police PK Patel told reporters. Patel said a woman, the only survivor, was rescued and taken to a hospital.“Members of two families had gone on a three-day trip, and were on their way from the temple town of Chotila in Surendranagar district when the accident occurred,” Patel said.The dead were identified as Ramesh Nai (38), his wife Kailashben (35) and their children Sunni (12) and Shital (8) - all from Korda village - and their relatives Haresh Nai (35), his wife Sejalben (32) and son Harshil (6), who belonged to Nanapura villagePatel said an investigation into the accident is underway. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-as-truck-collides-with-car-in-gujarat-s-patdi/story-VR72rmyuv0RY1dtNWLzocP.html
