23-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand girl revives traditional Himalayan artform Aipan, creates jobs||Using social media and following the motto of self-reliant India, a 22-year-old girl from Nainital has been constantly working to revive the traditional Kumaoni artform of Aipan in the Himalayan state. Minakshi Khati, the 22-year-old from Nainital district has fondly come to be known as the Aipan girl of Kumaon, for continuously working to revive the old art form of Uttarakhand. Aipan is a folk design art form, drawn by women in red and white colour outside their homes on auspicious occasions like weddings, house-warming, festivals. Every occasion of event, has a different form of design in Aipan. Speaking on how she started her journey towards building Minakrti: The Aipan Project, an initiative to promote the art form by empowering local women and artists, Khati said, “Since childhood, I have been practicing Aipan with my mother and grandmother. As I grew, I noticed that people have stopped practicing the art form due to work or other responsibilities but they wish that they could. This gave me the idea of starting something which will help people feel close to home and I started making home décor or other small items practicing the Aipan art.” Starting from keychains, nameplates, wall paintings, tea cups, Khati has been continuously experimenting with the art form and started selling it. In December 2019, Khati started Minakrti: The Aipan Project, and in a year’s time she has delivered over 1000 orders, mostly to people who live in other states or countries. She further added that most of her orders are from people living in Delhi or other metropolitan cities, who have migrated from their villages. Marketing her items through social media, she now takes orders in bulk and collaborates with women from villages in Nainital, giving them an employment opportunity. “In the hilly regions, almost every house has a female member who knows how to make an Aipan. We collaborate with these women to deliver bulk orders on time to our clients. At present, we have a team of 15 members, including students who have come forward and shown interest. I am able to earn around Rs 30,000- Rs 35,000 a month through which the students and the women who help us are paid, but we are growing gradually,” added Khati. She has also started a competition named “Selfie with Aipan” to promote the art form among youth, “which has received good response”. Khati has also showcased her artwork at national level tourism fairs, participating in the Uttarakhand Tourism Festival in New Delhi last year. Beena Bhatt, director for department of culture in Uttarakhand said, “Aipan is a very old traditional art form of Kumaon region in Uttarakhand. We have seen Khati’s work and how she has been continuously working to promote this folk art. The department also holds regular workshops for women to train them in the art form and inform them on how to take up self-employment through it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-girl-revives-traditional-himalayan-artform-aipan-creates-jobs/story-BmM335o4y6gQHApImHCTwI.html
23-11-2020||India||PM Modi says 2014-29 period ‘very important’ for India||Asserting that the 2014-29 period between the 16th to 18th Lok Sabha is “very important” for a young democracy like India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the last six years have been “historic” for the country’s development and a lot remains to be done in the remaining period. As the age of 16, 17 and 18 years is very important for the youth, so is the time between the 16th and the 18th Lok Sabha for a young nation like India, he said while digitally inaugurating 76 multi-storeyed flats in the national capital for Members of Parliament. The 16th Lok Sabha (2014-19) has been historic for the country’s progress, and the 17th Lok Sabha has already become a part of history due to a number of decisions it has taken, he said, referring to the passage of landmark legislations aimed at reforming farm and labour sectors besides abrogation of Article 370 and the citizenship law. “I am confident the next Lok Sabha (2024-29) will also play a very important role in taking the country ahead in this new decade... There is so much for the country that we have to achieve. Be it ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign, or economic targets or many other pledges like these, we have to achieve them during this period,” he said to an audience of parliamentarians, including ministers and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. People of Jammu and Kashmir have also joined the mainstream of development, with many new laws coming into effect in the union territory for the first time, he said in a reference to the abrogation of Article 370, which had granted the erstwhile state a special status. “It is our responsibility that when history evaluates different terms of Lok Sabha, this period is remembered as a golden chapter in the nation’s development,” Modi stated. The second term of the Modi government is scheduled to end in 2024 when the next general election will be held. The ruling BJP has already set its sight on the next Lok Sabha polls with its president J P Nadda set to undertake a 120-day nationwide tour to tone up the saffron party’s organisational machinery with a focus on regions and seats where it had not done well in 2019. In his speech, Modi referred to the GST rollout, enactment of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and a law proposing death sentence for those convicted of raping children as among the major achievements of his government’s first term between 2014-19. India now has resources and a strong resolve to fulfil the dreams of its 130 crore citizens and attain the goal of self-reliance, he said. Asserting that the country’s “new mindset and mood” is reflected in the composition of the 16th Lok Sabha, which had over 300 first-time MPs, and the current lower house, which has 260 MPs elected for the first time, the prime minister noted it has over 400 parliamentarians who are in their first or second terms. The current Lok Sabha also has a record number of woman MPs, he said. This is a reason why Parliament has been taking decisions quickly while also having more debate, he added, observing that the 16th Lok Sabha passed 15 per cent more bills and while the productivity of the first session of the 17th Lok Sabha was 135 per cent. Rajya Sabha’s productivity was also 100 per cent, he added. Parliament’s performance is at its best in two decades, Modi said. MPs have focussed on “product and process” as well be passing more bills and also debating more, he added, noting that they engaged in two-three hours of debates in passing more than 60 per cent of bills in the last Lok Sabha. On this occasion, he also greeted Birla on his 58th birthday and lauded him for his focus on quality while also saving time in running the House. This was also reflected in the building of these 76 flats for the MPs, the prime minister said, noting that the three residential towers have adhered to green technology. The government said the construction of the flats has cost 14 per cent less than the projected expenditure and it was completed well in time despite the adverse circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic. These towers, which have come in place of eight 80-year-old bungalows, have been named after rivers Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati. Modi said the new flats for parliamentarians, who often had to wait long for getting a house in the national capital, is among the series of projects completed under his government after being kept pending for years and decades. He referred to the completion of the Ambedkar International Centre, Central Information Commission building and War Memorial in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-2014-29-period-very-important-for-india/story-nRREokqEHUDktyIgymg45L.html
23-11-2020||India||Goa minister mobbed as protests against trio of infra projects continue||Goa witnessed yet another agitation against the proposed railway double-tracking projects this time to coincide with the demarcation and resurvey of land scheduled to be taken up as part of the project. The protests saw thousands of people gather at two villages in South Goa -- São José de Areal and Davorlim-- both of which lie along the existing track where work of doubling is currently going on. However, sensing the crowd, railway officials failed to turn up instead it was left to the local people’s representatives including local MLA and minister in the government Filipe Neri Rodrigues to reassure the villagers that he will convey the wishes of the protesters to the Chief Minister in the next cabinet meeting. “I have already informed the chief minister that the protests are only growing and will grow even further if the government does not act on this. The government is sensitive which is why the Chief Minister has met the Union Minister for Ports who has assured to come to Goa and listen to the people,” Rodrigues told the protesters. At a separate location in Davorlim, another MLA, but of the opposition Congress was also mobbed by protesters Protesters questioned the government asking that if the demand is for the projects to be scrapped, what purpose will the demarcation serve.The protest was finally called off after the minister assured that the cases filed against a few protesters will be withdrawn, that he will convey the people’s opposition to the projects to the government and the land acquisition process for the railway line will be scrapped.Protests against a trio of projects, a railway track doubling, a highway expansion and a new power transmission line, all between Goa and Karnataka cutting across the Western Ghats -- especially the railway expansion which is the biggest of the three -- have been intensifying as the railways seek to fast track the project. The projects are being opposed on account of the impact on the eco sensitive and biodiverse wildlife sanctuaries that they will pass through, as well as because of the belief that they will be used to transport imported coal from Goa’s Mormugao Port to steel units in north Karnataka. Residents living in the port town of Vasco da Gama as well as along the railway line have for long been complaining that the transport is handled carelessly leading to high pollution levels and engulfing their lives with clouds of coal dust. The protests intensified after the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife in a meeting held via video conference, during the lockdown in April this year, cleared the projects. The Goa government has responded by saying that the projects are in ‘national interest’ while simultaneously denying that they were being carried out with the intent to increase the coal ferrying capacity. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, while backing the projects, has said he has sought assurances from the Central Government that the quantity of coal imported via the port would be halved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-mobbed-as-protests-against-trio-of-infra-projects-continue/story-R4ghLFpbSfZgftSyV7yJ4J.html
23-11-2020||India||Day after arrest by CBI, former Karnataka Congress minister Roshan Baig’s residence raided||A day after former Karnataka minister and seven-time MLA Roshan Baig was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the IMA Ponzi scheme case, his residence at Coles Park in Bengaluru was raided by the agency. A 12-member team of CBI officials conducted extensive searches at his residence and interrogated Baig’s wife and son.IMA refers to I Monetary Advisors (IMA), a group of companies allegedly run on Islamic Banking lines which illegally collected thousands of crores in deposits before being exposed as a ponzi scheme in March 2019 after it failed to repay its depositors.Meanwhile, a report submitted by Harsh Gupta a senior IAS officer appointed to oversee the claims of more than 51,500 depositors who have lost more than Rs 2500 crore in the IMA Ponzi scheme has recommended action against Baig. Incidentally, the preliminary report is dated November 19, just two days before Baig was arrested. Gupta was appointed by the government as special officer and competent authority to oversee all IMA related claims.The report submitted by the special officer to principal secretary, Revenue Department, Government of Karnataka, says that Baig acted as one of the promoters of the IMA group and ‘benefitted from its business activities’. Numerous business dealings between Baig and the Mohammed Mansoor Khan the chief promoter of IMA have also been uncovered. This includes one of IMA subsidiaries, Mulberry Green Super Market operating out of a building which was leased by Baig.The former Congress leader’s company Danish Publications is also said to have entered into several business transactions with the IMA Group from which it profited. According to the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, the government may attach properties of promoters who have collected money from the public. The state government official who did not want to be identified said that it was working with central agencies to see whether Baig’s properties could be attached to recover money owed to depositors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-arrest-by-cbi-former-karnataka-congress-minister-roshan-baig-s-residence-raided/story-h08CFIg82VLGKUsyUODprM.html
23-11-2020||India||Punjab CM expresses concern as farmer outfit refuses to allow passenger trains||With a farmer outfit in Amritsar refusing to lift its blockade of passenger trains, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said this will put people to major inconvenience and may have grave consequences for the state. He said by striking the discordant note, the farmers’ union is acting against the interests of Punjab and its people.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has refused to budge from its stand on clearing rail tracks for passenger trains till the farm laws issue is resolved.However, 30 other farmers’ bodies have already announced to lift the blockade.When all other farmers’ organisations had decided unanimously to withdraw from the tracks to allow both goods and passenger trains to move in the state for the next 15 days, this one union’s decision is not understandable, said Amarinder Singh in a statement here. This would alienate the committee from people, he said cautioning it against taking such a harsh stand, which could lead them losing the support of the masses. “When the state government and every person in Punjab have been extending their full support to the farmers, why is this union taking a stance against their own state,” he asked. Read more | Chandigarh wakes up to misty morningHe said the committee should not do anything to derail the process of negotiation and discussion. It is in the interest of all, including farmers themselves, to find a solution to the problems unleashed by the central laws, on which every section of Punjab’s populace as well as his government are standing shoulder to shoulder with the farming community, said the CM.The message that is emanating from the “adamant” stand of the committee is that the union is not really interested in breaking the stalemate on the farm laws issue, Amarinder Singh said.In any case, said the CM, blocking a one-odd track will serve no purpose even for the committee, which incidentally has chosen to stay away from the meeting convened by him on Saturday to urge the farm unions to lift their blockade.Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been protesting against the farm laws since September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-expresses-concern-as-farmer-outfit-refuses-to-allow-passenger-trains/story-39nWQYqjKL5HA54AExiu2N.html
23-11-2020||India||Night curfew to travel restrictions: States take fresh guard against Covid-19||As Covid cases continued to mount, especially in northern and western India, state governments of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Monday announced additional restrictions to control the spread of the disease.While Maharashtra announced that no persons from Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa will be allowed to enter the state without a negative RT-PCR test report taken 72 to 96 hours before landing in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government closed all schools and colleges till December 31 and imposed night curfew in the four worst-affected districts of Mandi, Kangra, Shimla and Kullu from 8pm to 6am till December 15.The Madhya Pradesh government extended the night curfew to six cities of the state including Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore and Jabalpur, and Gujarat decided to impose night curfew in four major cities --- Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. The two day weekend curfew in Ahmedabad ended on Monday morning.The Rajasthan government has already announced to impose night curfew in eight districts, clamped prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in half of the state’s districts and has allowed only 75% of the staff in government and private offices. On Monday, the Rajasthan government asked all private hospitals to provide day care facilities to Covid patients at the government prescribed rates.Most of the state governments such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra in the past one week have decided to close all educational institutions for the time-being or have postponed re-opening of the educational institutions. In Mumbai, educational institutions will remain closed till December 31 and in Pune till November 23.Also Read: ITBP to add 1,000 beds at Covid care centre in DelhiMost states have also reversed the relaxation given in allowing social gatherings such as marriage and political functions. In Madhya Pradesh, not more than 250 persons would be allowed; in Uttar Pradesh the number has to be 100 and in Himachal 200, orders by the respective state governments on Monday said. Odisha is among the few states where religious places continue to remain closed.Also Read: Mumbai’s next Covid-19 peak will impact both slums and high-rises, says BMCThese restrictions have been imposed as the Covid cases have witnessed a huge spike in the past fortnight with average daily increase in positive cases being highest in the past few months. In Rajasthan, the new positive cases reported in the last four days, have been almost half of the active cases there. One-fifth of the total Covid cases in Gujarat have been reported in the past fortnight. Similarly, Maharashtra is again witnessing an increase in daily cases. In Madhya Pradesh, the average every day increase in Covid cases has been about eight percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-to-travel-restrictions-states-take-fresh-guard-against-covid-19/story-dZ2RhBSMJ2hjA4HT7uNNLO.html
23-11-2020||India||External affairs minister Jaishankar to visit Bahrain, UAE and Seychelles from tomorrow||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Seychelles during November 24-29, his first visit to the extended neighbourhood amid the Covid-19 pandemic to boost bilateral cooperation. Since diplomatic engagements were disrupted by the pandemic, Jaishankar has travelled only to Russia for a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and to Japan for a meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. Jaishankar’s visit to Bahrain during November 24-25 will be his first visit to the country after assuming office. He will convey condolences on behalf of the Indian government to Bahrain’s leadership on the death of prime minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa on November 11. He will hold talks on bilateral issues and regional and international issues of mutual interest, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Bahrain hosts more than 350,000 Indians and both sides have worked together to counter the pandemic. Flights between the two countries are operating under an air bubble arrangement. Jaishankar will be in the UAE during November 25-26, when he is scheduled to meet foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan. They will take forward bilateral cooperation under the comprehensive strategic partnership and exchange views on regional and international issues. He will discuss ways for Indian workers to resume their jobs in the UAE in the post-Covid scenario. More than three million Indians live and work in UAE. India and the UAE have maintained close high-level contacts during the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, and Jaishankar has spoken to his UAE counterpart several times in the past few months. They also co-chaired the India-UAE joint commission meeting in September. A meeting of the high level task force on investments was co-chaired by India’s commerce minister Piyush Goyal and the chairman of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority in early November. In the last leg of his tour, Jaishankar will travel to Seychelles during November 27-28. He will meet newly elected President Wavel Ramkalawan to present greetings from Modi and discuss the priorities of the new government and ways to strengthen bilateral ties. Jaishankar will also hold bilateral consultations with newly appointed foreign minister Sylvestre Radegonde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-to-visit-bahrain-uae-and-seychelles-from-tomorrow/story-lCmATQINzgYEErDuUcqqdM.html
23-11-2020||India||BJP will form govt in Maharashtra in next 3 months: Union minister||The BJP will form a government in Maharashtra in the next two to thee months for which it has made preparations, senior party leader and Union minister Raosaheb Danve said on Monday.Danve made this statement while addressing a meeting of BJP workers in Parbhani as part of the party’s campaign for the next month’s Legislative Council election to Aurangabad Graduate constituency.Shirish Boralkar is the BJP’s candidate for the forthcoming MLC poll.“BJP workers should not think that our government will not come into existence in Maharashtra. We will form a government in the next two-three months. We have worked out the mathematics. We are waiting for the ongoing elections to (the Legislative Council) to get over,” the Jalna MP said.Danve’s statement came on the first anniversary of the short-lived government formed by Devendra Fadnavis with the support of NCP leader Ajit Pawar.Fadnavis and Pawar were administered oath as chief minister and deputy chief minister, respectively, at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai on this day last year.However, that government lasted for only 80 hours with Pawar tendering his resignation as deputy CM, paving the way for the Shiv Sena-led MVA administration to assume office a few days later with the support of the NCP and the Congress.Interestingly, Danve’s statement came hours after Fadnavis told reporters in Aurangabad that if the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government falls, the oath ceremony of the dispensation that would replace it would not take place at dawn as was the case a year ago.“If the present government in the state collapses, the oath ceremony will not take place at dawn. But such incidents need not be remembered,” the former CM said.Fadnavis had earlier said on many occasions that the MVA government would fall on its own due to “internal differences” among its three constituents.The BJP had won the maximum 105 seats in the Maharashtra Assembly polls held last year, followed by Shiv Sena which bagged 56 seats. The NCP had won 54 seats and the Congress 44.Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray took oath as the chief minister of the MVA government on November 28. Ajit Pawar is Thackeray’s deputy in the present MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-form-govt-in-maharashtra-in-next-3-months-union-minister/story-jJgHXFCUMNJCQqUTVpCYHI.html
23-11-2020||India||Karnataka govt to provide Rs 500 crore to Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation||The BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka has decided to provide a hefty Rs 500 crore to the newly formed Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation (KVLDC). The move by Yediyurappa is seen as a bid to reach out to the dominant Lingayat community who constitute about 16-17% of the state population. The CM also belongs to the community and the move comes in the backdrop of persistent speculation that there might be a leadership change in the state, which the party has denied.KVLDC will be incorporated under the Companies Act 2013 and the commissioner of backward classes will look after it till its Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association are drawn up and registered.Yediyurappa had decided to setup KVLDC after similar corporations were setup for Kodu Golla (Yadav) caste and the Maratha community. The decision to setup KVLDC came after a number of leaders led by Deputy CM Lakshman Savadi and other BJP leaders demanded it. Some of the opposition leaders while welcoming the move to set up the corporations have demanded similar ones for other communities too.While former home minister and senior Congress leader M B Patil welcomed the setting up of KVLDC he criticized the ‘measly’ amount allocated for it and demanded that it should either be doubled or quadrupled. Former CM and JDS chief H D Kumaraswamy has demanded a similar corporation for Vokkaligas the second most dominant caste who account for 13% of the state population.The Golla and Maratha corporation moves came ahead of by-polls in key constituencies in which members of those communities play a key role in determining their outcome. Some Pro-Kannada organizations have called for a statewide bandh on December 5 to protest against the setting up of the Maratha board. Karnataka and Maharashtra have had a running feud on ownership of some of the border districts including Belgavi, Nippani and Karwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-to-provide-rs-500-crore-to-veerashaiva-lingayat-development-corporation/story-3b6QihH8W2JyHUVv4JvcAP.html
23-11-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla’s Nepal visit for boosting developmental ties, review of issues||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s visit to Nepal this week will be more about boosting the developmental partnership and connectivity and less about the border row that hit bilateral ties in recent months, people familiar with developments said on Monday. The external affairs ministry said Shringla will travel to Nepal during November 26-27, his first visit to the country since assuming office in January. He will meet his Nepalese counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal and other top officials to discuss wide-ranging bilateral cooperation. India-Nepal relations were hit when Kathmandu issued a new political map in May that showed Uttarakhand’s Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by New Delhi, as part of Nepalese territory. The map was issued after India opened a key border road to Lipulekh. In recent weeks, both countries have worked behind the scenes to improve bilateral ties against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff. Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel and Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane recently visited Nepal and met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for talks aimed at taking forward the relationship. “The foreign secretary’s visit won’t be about boundary talks. The Nepalese side, including Prime Minister Oli, has been reaching out and we want to enhance the level of engagement. The visit is also aimed at the review of all issues from a holistic perspective,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. “India’s position on Nepal’s new map is very clear and unchanged. The new map includes Indian territory but then 98% of the boundary has also been demarcated,” the person added. Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Nepal in 2014 – the first by an Indian premier in 17 years – the two sides have launched two cross-border power transmission lines and the Motihari-Amlekhgunj petroleum products pipeline, which is also the first such cross-border pipeline in South Asia. India has also completed some 100 high impact community development projects in the past six years and built 46,000 houses for people affected by the 2015 earthquake in Nepal. Also Read: In Nepal, how domestic politics is colliding with geopolitics“The focus now is connectivity, including power lines, railway links and inland waterways, and ensuring better and faster movement on such projects. We are trying to expand the petroleum pipeline and ensure greater integration of the two economies. There will also be a security and strategic element to the foreign secretary’s visit,” the first person said. “India’s Covid-related cooperation with Nepal also has been robust and will now extend to vaccines. There can be discord on some issues but that didn’t stop development projects or Covid-related cooperation,” a second person said. Besides his meetings with Nepalese officials, Shringla’s visit may include a public address and a visit to an India-backed project. The visit is in keeping with the priority India attaches to its ties with Nepal, and will also be an opportunity to further advance the relationship, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-s-nepal-visit-for-boosting-developmental-ties-review-of-issues/story-9nvMu4G9jUsyZ4zClNAKRK.html
23-11-2020||India||HAL kicks off crucial testing of jet trainer that may have missed IAF bus||State-owned plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Monday announced that it has kicked off a crucial developmental test of a jet trainer that was planned as a replacement for the Indian Air Force’s ageing Kiran aircraft fleet. The spin flight testing of the much-delayed Sitara intermediate jet trainer (IJT) --- or the HJT-36 single-engine aircraft --- is being seen as a developmental milestone even though there is no indication from the IAF about a possible order. The IJT project is running late by several years.“The spin testing of an aircraft is the most crucial phase of its flight testing. The testing will be gradually progressed to assess the behaviour of the aircraft till six turn spins to either side to meet the targeted requirement,” the HAL said in a statement. HAL test pilots Group Captain HV Thakur (retd) and Wing Commander P Avasti (retd) conducted the tests on Monday. Spin is a manoeuvre an aircraft gets into on its own when its controls are mishandled. Spin testing seeks to prove that the IJT can do a spin and recover safely from it, experts said. During the first flight test, the aircraft was taken through one turn spin to the left and right to test the spin characteristics, HAL said. Rookie pilots in IAF go through a three-stage training involving the Pilatus PC-7 MkII planes, Kiran trainers and finally the Hawk advanced jet trainers before they can fly fighter jets. As the Kirans are approaching the end of their service life, some amount of stage-2 training is already being done on the PC-7.Experts doubted if the IAF would order the IJT as it was a case of “too little, too late.”The delay in the IJT programme, conceived more than two decades ago, has upset the IAF’s calculations, officials said. The project was sanctioned in July 1999 with a grant of Rs 180 crore. The IJT, first powered by a French engine and now a Russian one, was expected to get initial operational clearance by 2006 with deliveries to the IAF planned a year later. HAL said the IJT has been redesigned for the spin test “by moving the vertical tail aft and extending the rudder surface.” “These changes (made) for ensuring satisfactory spin behaviour required extensive redesign of the rear fuselage and the rudder. The changes have been incorporated in two aircraft with the involvement and clearance from certification agencies at every stage,” the statement said. After being modified, the two aircraft underwent significant flight tests to assess the general handling with the new configuration of fin and rudder, and the jets have been incorporated with the necessary safety devices (anti-spin parachute systems), it said. Meanwhile, the IAF plans to buy the basic trainer aircraft from HAL to train rookie pilots. The defence ministry, in August, gave its go-ahead to the purchase of 106 Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) aircraft from HAL to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hal-kicks-off-crucial-testing-of-jet-trainer-that-may-have-missed-iaf-bus/story-3OQe4Ac1KrghsBm0FsBc2K.html
23-11-2020||India||AIMIM members join TMC in Bengal; defection staged, alleges Owaisi’s party||Twenty one West Bengal members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), a party headed by Asaduddin Owaisi joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of two senior ministers on Monday, days after ruling party leaders said the Hyderabad-based party was not a force to reckon with in the assembly polls due in about five months. Among those who joined the TMC were several lawyers and teachers. After the recent elections in Bihar - where the AIMIM won five seats and was accused by the Congress of splitting Muslim votes to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – Owaisi announced that his party would contest the Bengal polls. “Anwar Pasha, the main functionary of the AIMIM in Bengal, and several other members from different districts are joining us because they do not accept the AIMIM’s line of action,” Minister Bratya Basu said at the TMC’s state headquarters. “Some people, irrespective of whether they carry the green flag or the saffron flag, are out to destroy peace. After Bihar, these forces want to enter West Bengal. But the politics they preach is not part of Bengal’s culture. Bengal is our strongest fort. No other chief minister hit the streets in protest against the citizenship amendment law and the National Register of Citizens the way Banerjee did,” said Pasha. “Banerjee is accused of practicing the politics of appeasement. It is not true. If she has given allowance to Imams she has given the same to Hindu priests as well. The development in Bihar is disturbing. AIMIM helped the BJP. My advice to Owaisi is that he should not enter Bengal. If he tries to do so we will stop him with all our strength,” Pasha said. Syed Asim Waqar, the national spokesperson of the AIMIM and the leader in charge of the organization in West Bengal, said, “We have millions of members in West Bengal and Pasha is just one of them. He stayed aloof for almost a year and did not take part in any activity. He is a traitor. He tried to contact the TMC earlier also.” Reiterating that the AIMIM will contest the coming polls, Waqar said, “While addressing a rally in central Kolkata in July, 2019, I said Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee were planting their men in our party so that a defection could be staged prior to the polls to portray that AIMIM has weakened. The rest of those who joined the TMC today were TMC workers posing as AIMIM members.” “Waqar is just the national spokesperson of the party. In Bengal, Muslims in every corner knows who Anwar Pasha is and who worked for years to form the AIMIM’s base. Those who joined the TMC today established the AIMIM in Bengal,” Pasha said in reply to Waqar’s comment. Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01% during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30% now. According to the last census report, the Muslim population was predominantly high in the districts of Murshidabad (66.28%), Malda (51.27%) and North Dinajpur (49.92%). In South 24 Parganas, located adjacent to Kolkata, it was 35.57%, while in Birbhum, the figure was 37.06%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-members-join-tmc-in-bengal-defection-staged-alleges-owaisi-s-party/story-LnxZFpB0wgIIOjZOr24GbP.html
23-11-2020||India||PM Modi led ‘Trends’ across social media, BJP topped engagement in Aug-Oct: Report||Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to be the most popular politician on the social media in the country as he led the highest number of trends on platforms like Twitter, Google Search and YouTube during August to October period, according to a report by Checkbrand. Checkbrand, an online sentiment analysis company, analysed online sentiment for top 95 political leaders as well as top 500 influencers on social media between August and October this year. It analysed more than 100 million online impressions for the maiden edition of the report. “Prime Minister Modi has ruled the maximum Trends (Twitter, Google Search, Wiki, YouTube etc) in the last quarter with 2,171 trends, followed by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy with 2,137 trends,” the report said. Other leaders who led significant trends include West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Congress President Sonia Gandhi, it added. For the report, 86,400 ‘Trends’ -- which refers to the top 20 topics driving highest engagement in a day on various digital platforms -- were analysed. As per the report, Modi had a consolidated brand score of 70, which is almost double that of the nearest political leader. Brand score is based on five parameters -- followers (20), trends (10), sentiment (30), engagement (20) and mentions (20). Home Minister Amit Shah’s score was 36.43 followed by the late former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi at 31.89, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Prema Khandu at 31.89 and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at 27.03. Gogoi passed away on Monday. “The brand value in monetary terms basis the engagement and followers for Prime Minister Modi stood at Rs 3.36 billion (Rs 336 crore), for Amit Shah at Rs 3.35 billion (Rs 335 crore), followed by Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal at Rs 3.28 billion (Rs 328 crore),” it added. Brand value was calculated on the basis of followers, engagement and trends of the person, and then deducting negative mentions and sentiments. ADG Online and Checkbrand.online Managing Director Anuj Sayal said the company has developed a tool that can help brands understand their worth and improve it further wherever required. “Despite (there) being almost 25 per cent negative sentiment for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his brand value is the highest amongst 95 chosen leaders,” he added. The report also said that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had 40,000 mentions on social media in the last three months. “... the collective engagement of PM Modi, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Home Minister Amit Shah of 4.9 million was more than rest of the collective engagement of 92 political leaders of various parties, including other BJP leaders,” the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-led-trends-across-social-media-bjp-topped-engagement-in-aug-oct-report/story-NUBaXZCWMQ9cXPrFWvmcqJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi to be cremated on November 26 in Guwahati||The mortal remains of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, who passed away on Monday at the age of 84, will be cremated in Guwahati on Thursday, state Congress chief Ripun Bora said during a press briefing.Bora further said that Gogoi’s body will be taken to his official resident at Dispur on Tuesday morning from the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where the veteran Congress leader breathed his last.“The doctors will complete necessary medical formalities in the night to prepare the body for keeping it safe for three days,” PTI quoted Bora as saying. Gogoi’s body will be then taken to state secretariat Janata Bhawan where he sat for 15 years as the chief minister of Assam. At around 3.30 pm, he will be taken to state Congress headquarters Rajiv Bhawan. Gogoi, a three-time chief minister of Assam, was undergoing medical treatment at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for post-Covid-19 complications when he breathed his last on Monday evening. He had tested positive for coronavirus in August. Gogoi’s family has requested Assam chief minister to let people pay their last respect to the leader.“Gogoi’s wife Dolly and son Gaurav requested Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to keep his body for one day for the public. As per the family’s wish, the government will take the body to the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra complex in Guwahati on Tuesday evening and it will be there for the whole day on November 25,” Bora added.Gogoi’s last journey on November 26 will start from Kalakshetra and his cremation ceremony will be held in Guwahati, Bora stated. “As per Gogoi’s last wish, the body will be taken to a temple, mosque and church before the last rites,” he said.Bora also informed that many political leaders from Congress such as Rahul Gandhi are expected to visit Assam over the next few days to pay their last respect to the late veteran leader.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-to-be-cremated-on-november-26-in-guwahati/story-NlympQJ1suw6lDgas5bnqI.html
23-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Andhra govt decides to slowly reopen primary schools amid fear of Covid-19 surge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra govt to go slow on reopening primary schools amid fear of Covid-19 surgeAmidst fears of a second wave of Covid-19 spreading across different parts of the country, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to go slow on reopening of schools for primary and upper primary sections in the state. Read moreFormer Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passes away at 84Tarun Gogoi, former chief minister of Assam, passed away on Monday after his health condition deteriorated. He was 84. Gogoi was admitted to Gauhati Medical College Hospital in Guwahati. He had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on August 25 and had spent two months in hospital. Read moreZoombombing, superspreader, WFH: Covid makes Oxford Dictionary expand word of yearThe Oxford English Dictionary (OED) usually names a single word that defines a year, but such has been the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic that 2020 cannot be neatly accommodated in one word – it has identified ‘words of an unprecedented year’. Read moreNikhil Dwivedi slams Bollywood stars posting vacation photos from Maldives amid surge in Covid-19 cases: ‘We are so self-absorbed’Actor and producer Nikhil Dwivedi feels that Bollywood stars posting pictures of themselves holidaying in the Maldives amid the Covid-19 pandemic is tone-deaf. Many parts of the country, including the capital, continue to witness a spike in new cases which has triggered an unemployment crisis. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Our fab 5 can beat Aussies in their own den’, Shastri confident about Test series winVirat Kohli & Co scripted history when they last visited Australia for the series Down Under. In the 2018-19 season, India won the 4-match Test series 2-1 and Kohli became the first Asian captain to beat Aussies in their own backyard. Two years down the line, the Indian contingent is once again in the Kangaroo land aiming to retain the Border-Gavaskar trophy. Read more Meet Bolo Indya, another homegrown social networking platform that’s gaining tractionFollowing the ban on TikTok in India, several homegrown social networking platforms have gained traction. Chingari, Mitron, Moj (ShareChat) and many more have emerged. The ban on TikTok did give an initial impetus to these platforms, but now Indian companies have to maintain the momentum. This will involve stepping up the content game as well as build a robust creators ecosystem – two key factors that helped TikTok become what it is. Read moreUnseen pictures of Diana’s trip to Pakistan, without Prince Charles and while dating Imran Khan’s cousin, take the Internet by stormIf there is one member of the royal family who is universally loved and respected by all, it is late Princess Diana whose tragic and untimely death in a car accident led to several conspiracy theories pointing fingers on her husband, Prince Charles. Before the two got officially separated in 1992, Diana had visited Pakistan without Charles and her unseen pictures from the trip have now taken the Internet by storm. See pictures here‘Owaisi like Jinnah; voting for AIMIM a vote against India’: Tejasvi SuryaHitting out at AIMIM’s Akbaruddin and Asaduddin Owaisi, BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Monday said that they did not allow development in old Hyderabad. Speaking to media, Surya said, “Laughable that Akbaruddin and Asaduddin Owaisi are speaking of development. They haven’t allowed development and new infrastructure projects to enter inside old Hyderabad, the only thing they allowed is Rohingya Muslims. They have no right to speak about development.” Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-andhra-govt-decides-to-slowly-reopen-primary-schools-amid-fear-of-covid-19-surge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZCN0cksFrHQWHaGBrBYRqI.html
23-11-2020||India||Vehicle plunges into Chenab river in Kashmir valley, no clue about passengers||A light motor vehicle on Monday evening skidded off the Kashmir highway and plunged into Chenab river in Mehad area of Ramban district, said authorities. However, there is no information on the number of passengers that were there in the vehicle when it met with the accident.Ramban district police chief, SSP Haseeb-ur-Rehman said, “An unidentified LMV, probably a Sumo or Tavera, plunged into Chenab river around 6.15pm on Monday. We have no clue whatsoever about number of passengers on board the ill-fated vehicle.” The officer informed that quick reaction teams were at the spot but they only found one tyre of the vehicle on the steep slope by the river. “The accident happened around 6.15pm at Mehad, one km from Ramban town towards Jammu. I was informed by a few armymen, who had seen the vehicle fall into the river,” said the SSP. The officer further informed that the vehicle was completely submerged in the river. Also Read: Foreign Secretary briefs envoys of key nations on JeM’s failed attempt to carry out terror attack in J&KOn August 31, as many as eight passengers died when a Ramban bound Tempo Traveller skidded off the highway at the same stretch at Mehad. Only a police constable Mehraj Din, who was thrown out of the ill-fated vehicle while it was rolling down the rocky slope, had survived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-plunges-into-chenab-river-in-kashmir-valley-no-clue-about-passengers/story-17RRtzr7NrFcDK2rJudRGK.html
23-11-2020||India||RSS to work with people who did outstanding work during Covid-19 pandemic: Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday said the organisation needed to work closely with such people who had rendered outstanding and selfless service during the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Acknowledging the important contribution of such people who, besides RSS’ own volunteers, stepped forward to help people in distress, Bhagwat said the organization now needs to use their energy and capabilities to further help the nation and people. He was speaking at the valedictory session of the two-day meet of the RSS national executive— Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM)—of the organisation’s east UP office bearers. Speaking at the event, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyaji Joshi stressed on the need for RSS volunteers to work for strengthening the joint family concept. He also said every member of the family should be encouraged to respect mothers and women. “Families are breaking up and this in turn is bringing about deterioration in family values and in society. There is an urgent need to strengthen the traditional Indian family system,” he said. Deputy secretary Dattatreya Hosabale called for a survey of RSS volunteers who are active traders and businessmen. He urged that such members be made more active as they could help generate jobs for the unemployed and also contribute in making the nation self-reliant. General secretary Mukund CR spoke on the efforts and need for developing and energizing young volunteers of the organization through ‘Yuva Karyakarta Vikas Yojna” while deputy secretary Manmohan Vaidya said the society was keen to work with RSS and efforts should be made to identify and bring such energetic people who can contribute in taking the work and mission of RSS further, informed RSS pranth prachar pramukh Murarji Tripathi. He said the issues like saving rivers and forests from pollution and destruction were also discussed. Others who attended the meeting included national level office bearers like Balkrishna Tripathi, Anik Oak and Ajit Mahapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-to-work-with-people-who-did-outstanding-work-during-covid-19-pandemic-bhagwat/story-TDyRf08B3TaPupZ9Bb0LkN.html
23-11-2020||India||Foreign Secretary briefs envoys of key nations on JeM’s failed attempt to carry out terror attack in J&K||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Monday briefed a group of foreign envoys, including from the US, Russia and France on the planned terror attack by Pakistan-based terrorist group JeM in Nagrota in Jammu which was foiled by security forces on November 19, sources said.These heads of missions were provided with a comprehensive “information docket” giving the details of the incident, and also list of items and munition recovered from terrorists, clearly indicating their Pakistani origins.They were also briefed on how the terrorists got into India which is now clear through the discovery of an underground tunnel in the Samba sector in Jammu and Kashmir, sources said. It was shared with the heads of missions how preliminary investigations by the police and intelligence authorities led India to believe that the terrorists who had planned the attacks in Nagrota belonged to Pakistan-based Jaish-e- Mohammad, a terrorist organisation proscibed by the UN, they added.It is learnt that the envoys of the US, Russia, France and Japan were among those who were part of the briefing.  The envoys were briefed about markings on the recovered AK47 rifles and other items, sources said. The foreign secretary also briefed the envoys about the possible implications of these planned attacks on security, diplomacy and the battle against terrorism, they said.Four suspected JeM terrorists, who were hiding in a truck, were killed by security forces near Nagrota in an encounter on Thursday morning after which the government asserted that a major terror attack was foiled by the Indian security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-briefs-envoys-of-key-nations-on-attempts-by-pak-based-jem-to-carry-out-terror-attack-in-j-k/story-tpY2WMZuP0gYoFaoJAW86H.html
23-11-2020||India||India briefs select group of envoys on attempted attack in Nagrota by JeM||India on Monday briefed the envoys of a select group of countries, including the US and Russia, on the Pakistani origins of the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists who attempted to carry out an attack in Jammu and Kashmir last week. The group of envoys, which also included the heads of mission of France and Japan, were provided a “detailed information docket” with details of the planned attack and a list of items and ammunition recovered from the terrorists that “clearly indicated their Pakistani origins”, said a person familiar with developments who spoke on condition of anonymity. The envoys were briefed on how the terrorists sneaked into India through an underground tunnel in Samba sector, and how preliminary investigations by police and intelligence agencies and markings on AK-47 rifles and other items have led India to conclude the terrorists belonged to Pakistan-based JeM. ALSO READ | Nagrota encounter: India pulls up Pakistan envoy on J&K plotThe briefing by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the attempted attack at Nagrota in Jammu and Kashmir that was foiled on November 19 also focused on the “implications of the incident on security, diplomacy and the battle against terrorism”, the person said. While the envoys of at least three of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council were invited for the briefing, the Chinese ambassador was not among those present, people familiar with developments said. On November 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said security forces in Jammu and Kashmir had foiled a plan by JeM to “wreak major havoc and destruction” by killing four members of the group and seizing a large cache of weapons and explosives. The four terrorists were gunned down during a gun battle on the Jammu-Srinagar highway a day earlier. India had summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Aftab Hassan Khan on November 21 and warned New Delhi is “committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security”. India also demanded that Pakistan should desist from its policy of supporting terrorists and dismantle the terror infrastructure on its territory. ALSO READ | Nagrota attack: MEA expresses ‘serious concern’, says attempt to derail DDC electionMonday’s briefing was the first of several to be conducted by the external affairs ministry for small groups of envoys in view of the Covid-19 situation. Several secretaries in the ministry will brief heads of missions from countries in their areas of jurisdiction. “The idea is to share information on the attempted attack as widely as possible with the international community,” said a second person. The envoys were told during the briefing that the incident of November 19 was part of Pakistan’s ongoing terror campaign in Jammu and Kashmir and that in 2020 itself, there were some 200 incidents of terrorist violence while 199 terrorists had been neutralised. Details of JeM’s involvement in similar incidents in the past were also shared with the envoys. “In terms of the bigger picture, it is clear the terrorists were planning the biggest terror attack in India since the Pulwama suicide bombing of February 2019 and the implications can be guessed,” said the first person. “This is part of ongoing efforts to sabotage the district development council elections in Jammu and Kashmir and carry out a terror attack aimed to coincide with the anniversary of the 2008 Mumbai terror strikes,” the person added. The envoys were also sensitised to India’s concerns regarding Pakistan’s sustained efforts to destabilise the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and to subvert local elections and democracy, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-briefs-select-group-of-envoys-on-attempted-attack-in-nagrota-by-jem/story-BGpeytZasGNCAMOrNbyMhL.html
23-11-2020||India||2 Netflix executives booked for temple kissing scene in web-series Suitable Boy||Madhya Pradesh police on Monday booked two executives of OTT platform Netflix for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by releasing a web-series ‘ Suitable Boy’, having kissing scenes filmed at a temple in MP, police said. The FIR was registered on the complaint of Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha national leader Gaurav Tiwari. Tiwari in his complaint said the kissing scenes were filmed in the temple where Shiv Linga and people singing bhajans can be seen in the background.Home minister Narottam Mishra, who had also taken objection to the scenes and ordered an inquiry on Sunday, said the police examined the scenes and found the scenes to be insulting Hindu religious sentiments.However, Mishra said the FIR was lodged on the complaint of Gaurav Tiwari under section 295 (A) (malicious acts to outrage and insult the religious feelings and beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“With insulting Hindu religious sentiments, the makers and OTT platform officials are also promoting Love Jihad as in the obscene scene, the woman is stated to be a Hindu and the man is a Muslim. With removal of obscene scenes, the makers should apologise for this mistake.”Also Read: MP minister orders probe into temple kissing scene in web series Suitable Boy Mishra also said as the scenes were filmed in Maheshwar Temple, located on the bank of Narmada River in Khargone district and added that the state government will inquire how the local administration allowed shooting of such scenes at the holy place. Rewa superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Singh said the FIR was lodged against Monika Shergill, vice president, content (Netflix) and Ambika Khurana, director, public policies (Netflix). “The police are investigating the matter.”Netflix has not responded yet to a request for a comment from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-netflix-executives-booked-for-temple-kissing-scene-in-web-series-suitable-boy/story-jyPY1t4VLALq14VVvden6I.html
23-11-2020||India||Supreme Court to pronounce verdict on plea challenging rejection of nomination papers to contest against PM Modi||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Tuesday its verdict on a plea by sacked BSF Jawan Tej Bahadur challenging the rejection of his nomination papers to contest 2019 Lok Sabha polls against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi constituency.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde had on November 18 reserved its judgement on Bahadur’s plea challenging the Allahabad High Court verdict which had dismissed his election petition against the poll panel’s decision to reject his nomination papers.During the hearing before the top court, Bahadur’s lawyer had argued that the petitioner had earlier filed his nomination as an independent candidate and later as a candidate of Samajwadi Party from Varanasi constituency.Referring to the high court’s verdict, the lawyer had claimed that Bahadur’s nomination was rejected for “extraneous reasons”.The Returning Officer on May 1 last year had rejected the nomination papers of Bahadur, a Samajwadi Party candidate, who was dismissed from BSF in 2017 after he posted a video online complaining about the quality of food served to the troops.While rejecting the nomination papers of Bahadur, the Returning Officer had observed that “the nomination paper is not accompanied by certificate issued in the prescribed manner by the Election Commission to the effect that he has not been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the state”. “In a nut-shell the factual matrix of the case is that on the directions of the Returning officer, the nomination of the appellant to the elections was wrongly rejected for not being presented in a prescribed manner and rejected the nomination/candidature of the Appellant for the Election of the 17th Lok Sabha from 77th Parliamentary Constituency (Varanasi), UP to be held in April – May 2019”, Bahadur has said in his plea.Bahadur has said he has sought a declaration that the election of respondent (Narendra Modi) be declared as void and the order passed by the returning officer dated May 1, 2019, rejecting his nomination be set aside.He has claimed that high court had failed to appreciate that nomination letter of the appellant has been rejected by the district Election Officer by going against the intention of the legal provisions and by misusing the provisions mentioned in the sections 9 and 33(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.On May 9, last year, the top court had rejected his plea by which he has challenged EC’s decision to reject his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat.The top court had said that it does not find any grounds to entertain the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-plea-challenging-rejection-of-nomination-papers-to-contest-against-pm-modi/story-jPuEGEFhgnCb424xgklqhI.html
23-11-2020||India||Andhra govt to go slow on reopening primary schools amid fear of Covid-19 surge||Amidst fears of a second wave of Covid-19 spreading across different parts of the country, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to go slow on reopening of schools for primary and upper primary sections in the state. According to the original schedule, the state government, which reopened schools for Class 9 and 10 from November 2 after a gap of seven months, was supposed to allow students of Class 6, 7 and 8 from Monday. However, after seeing the poor response for students of Class 9 and 10 and reluctance of parents to send their children to schools, the government changed the schedule and threw open the schools only for Class 8 students from Monday. For Classes 6 and 7, the government has tentatively decided to reopen schools on December 14, state minister for education Adimulapu Suresh said. Similarly, the primary schools for Classes 1 to 5 are supposed to be open from December 14 but now, the government has rescheduled them to the third week of January. “We shall take a call on reopening of primary schools after the Sankranti festival, which falls on January 15, after assessing the situation in December,” the minister said. Despite all the precautions being taken by the school education department to prevent the spread of Covid-19 such as conducting of classes only till afternoon and only on alternate days, the parents are not so keen on sending their children to schools. According to official figures from the school education department, only around 40-45 per cent of students are attending classes. On Monday, 46.28 per cent of Class 10 students and 41.61 per cent of Class 9 students attended the school. “However, the percentage of students belonging to Class 8, which was thrown open on Monday, was very encouraging. Out of 5,70,742 students of Class 8, as many as 3,96,809 students attended the classes, which accounts for 69.72 per cent. In Guntur district, the attendance was as high as 82.34 per cent,” the minister said. He said the health department authorities have been regularly conducting tests for Covid-19 on random basis. So far, 1.29 lakh teachers were tested for Covid-19 since the reopening of schools on November 2 and of them, only 1,023 tested positive. Similarly, 2.09 lakh students were tested and of then only 458 students tested positive for Covid-19. “The positivity rate among students and teachers put together is less than 0.3 per cent and so, there is no need for any panic or worry,” the minister said. Suresh said all steps are being taken to run the classes as per health protocol. “As temperatures are gradually decreasing during the winter, directions have been given to the officials to conduct classes from 9:30 am to 1:30 pm,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-go-slow-on-reopening-primary-schools-amid-fear-of-covid-19-surge/story-xGLtUCqY9g4qWg292sJdIM.html
23-11-2020||India||Will prepare policies to control stubble burning, curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR: air quality panel||The newly-appointed Commission for Air Quality Management on Monday said it will take required steps to curb air pollution in the national capital, including formulation of appropriate policies and strategies to control stubble burning.The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas said this in a statement after meeting three AAP MLAs, including chairperson of Environment Committee of Delhi Assembly Atishi, who urged the commission to hold chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana liable for causing pollution in the national capital.  “The National Air Quality Commission informed the three AAP MLAs it met that it is seized of the matter and will take required steps including formulation of appropriate policies and strategies to control stubble burning, in due consultations with stakeholders concerned, on a priority basis,” the commission, formed by the Union Environment Ministry, said.Earlier in the day, Atishi had said she and her colleagues have asked the panel to direct Haryana and Punjab governments to implement as soon as possible the solution by the Pusa institute and the Delhi government in dealing with the stubble burning.  “Earlier it used to be said that there is no solution to the issue of stubble burning but now a solution has come so it should be implemented,” she said.According to scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, the “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution can turn crop residue into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.Atishi said she told the commission that just giving direction is not enough but it is the responsibility of Haryana and Punjab to stop stubble burning and if they don’t, strict action must be taken against them.  The 20-member commission, headed by former Chief Secretary of Delhi M M Kutty, was formed by the Union Environment Ministry on November 5, within a week of issuing an ordinance to set it up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-prepare-policies-to-control-stubble-burning-curb-air-pollution-in-delhi-ncr-air-quality-panel/story-JuTioccDRLtqDkpV4Q0rUO.html
23-11-2020||India||BJP believes in politics of ballot to strengthen democracy in J&K, says Anurag Thakur||The BJP is doing the politics of ballot to strengthen democracy in Jammu and Kashmir, Union minister Anurag Thakur has said as he lashed out at the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and accused it of playing the “politics of bullets” to scare the people in the union territory. He also asserted that Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution, which were nullified by the BJP-led government at the Centre in August last year, have been “buried forever and cannot be restored back”. The PAGD was formed by seven mainstream parties including the National Conference and the PDP to press for the restoration of the pre-August 5, 2019, position to J-K. The alliance is headed by National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti is its vice chairperson.Also Read | Is the Gupkar alliance driven by political arithmetic or chemistry? Without naming anyone, Thakur said, “There are some who are seeking support of China, some are speaking the language of Pakistan and also insulting the national flag. “They are talking about the restoration of Article 370 with the support of China and Pakistan, the same Article with which they used to loot J-K for the past seven decades to benefit their families and deprived people of the benefits of development.” Thakur, who is the minister of state for finance and BJP’s J-K District Development Council (DDC) election in-charge, was speaking to reporters here. In an apparent reference to the remarks of Mehbooba Mufti that BJP’s policies are driving the youth in the Valley towards militancy, he said, “They are saying that if it (Article 370) was not restored, the youth will pick up guns. We are doing the politics of the ballot to strengthen democracy but they on the other hand are pursuing the politics of bullets to scare the public.”  “We believe in democracy but they believe in bullets and explosives. That is the difference. We are trying to strengthen democracy, maintained peace after the abrogation of Article 370 and ensured development by providing funds. We conducted Panchayat, Block Development Council and Urban Local Bodies elections and are now holding DDC elections which they opposed all along,” Thakur said, adding the intention is to fast forward the development activities through elected representatives at the grass-roots level. Asked about the challenge posed by the PAGD by joining the electoral fray, he said, “Gupkar gang is already scattered because they are a group of people with different ideologies. Their intention is not clean, their policy not clear and they are also without a leader.Also Read | BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain says Article 370 not there now, it will never be “This is a group of cheats, a ‘thagbandhan’ who have looted J-K in the past and have come together again to loot it again,” he said. Thakur said Article 370 and Article 35A have been “buried forever” and cannot return back “even if anyone takes birth 10 times” because both the houses of Parliament have passed the reorganization bill and the people in J-K have “welcomed” it. In response to another question regarding the continued suspension of 4G mobile internet facility in Jammu and 17 other districts, he said, “The service had already been restored in two districts and when there is a clearance from the security agencies, it will be restored in other districts as well.” “Every election is important for us,” he said when asked for his comment on star campaigners from his party campaigning for the party candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-believes-in-politics-of-ballot-to-strengthen-democracy-in-j-k-says-anurag-thakur/story-NClwEbioPlm28Dhr5SQHXN.html
23-11-2020||India||59.67% voter turnout till 5pm in Rajasthan panchayat polls||Around 60 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm in the first phase of Rajasthan panchayat elections on Monday. The polling began in the morning amid tight security arrangements at 10,131 polling booths.According to a spokesperson of the state election commission, 59.67 per cent of 72.38 lakh voters voted till 5 pm in the elections to 65 panchayat samitis and zila parishads across 21 districts of the state.The elections in the first phase are being held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.Nearly 25,000 EVMs are being used in the first phase, while more than 50,000 employees have been deployed in the election.The polling for second, third and fourth phases will be held on November 27, December 1 and December 5, respectively.The counting for all four phases of elections will be held on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/59-67-voter-turnout-till-5pm-in-rajasthan-panchayat-polls/story-JmbwsO7ihMHNpBknpw7VpM.html
23-11-2020||India||Amit Shah launches Covid RT-PCR test at Rs 499; result in 6 hours||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday launched the first of a series of mobile labs at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) headquarters in New Delhi that will conduct cheapest real time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test in the country, to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The RT-PCR test, which in some states costs as high as Rs 2,400, will be done for Rs 499, making this confirmatory Covid-19 test affordable for people at large. And the test report will also be generated in a record time of 6 hours after sample collection as compared to 24-48 hours that it takes at most places currently.SpiceHealth, an initiative of the promoters of SpiceJet, and led by Avani Singh, CEO, SpiceHealth, will be setting up a number of portable testing facilities across the country to make the highly sensitive RT-PCR testing readily accessible.Also Watch | Covid, vaccine race & what we don’t know yet | Dr Guleria & Dr Jha #HTLS2020 In the first phase, 20 such labs are likely to be set up, and each lab is capable of processing 1,000 tests in a day.“First phase is largely meant for Delhi, and since these laboratories are mobile these will be deployed at different locations that will be identified based on the testing requirement of the national Capital,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR.“This is an effort to ensure Covid-19 testing is not just accessible but affordable to masses. ICMR has already relaxed criteria for Covid-19 testing, and it is practically available on demand to minimise the number of infected people,” he added.As part of make-in-India initiative, SpiceHealth, and GeneStore, a genomics company, will jointly establish these testing facilities across the country.Also Read: Centre to rush more expert teams for Covid management; sending teams to Himachal, UP and PunjabThe testing kits and laboratory facilities have been certified by ICMR, and the mobile laboratories have been duly accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).“Today is a momentous day for all of us at SpiceHealth as we take this crucial step towards ensuring affordable Covid-19 testing to as many Indians as possible. Despite being the world’s second most affected country by Covid-19, with over 9 million reported cases so far, India has found it challenging to scale up RT-PCR testing for the virus. We are proud to be able to contribute to our country’s efforts to fight this global pandemic,” said Avani Singh.Also Read: BJP’s Bengal poll machine to have 294 leaders from other states; 45-member committee per constituency “The RT-PCR test, known for its diagnostic accuracy, is the most commonly used Covid test worldwide. By offering this test at a fraction of the current price, ensuring a much faster turnaround time of just six hours, and deploying mobile laboratories which are easily transportable to the remotest areas, we hope to significantly scale up testing across the country,” she added.SpiceHealth has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the ICMR for setting up testing laboratories and collection centers across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-covid-rt-pcr-test-499-result-in-6-hours/story-Dqx7jRZFgsSsZoHfSqkmYO.html
23-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court defers hearing against Khalid, Imam in UAPA on cognisance of supplementary charge sheet||A court here on Monday deferred the hearing on the issue of taking cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet filed against former JNU student Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a case of the north east Delhi riots in wake of a recent order of the Delhi High Court staying trial in the matter.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat reserved the order for Tuesday, saying the court’s order has to be correct in terms of the High Court’s directions.At the outset, the judge asked the counsels for the accused if the court can take cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet and pass orders for providing its copies to them since the trial has been stayed in the matter. In the supplementary charge sheet filed on Sunday, Imam and Khalid were booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Properties Act in the matter.Also Read | Delhi riots: Gulfisha gets bail in Jafrabad violence caseThe High Court had on November 11 stayed the trial of the conspiracy case after a plea was filed by the police challenging the order of the city court directing them to supply physical copies of the charge sheet to all the accused.It, however, had said the trial court is at liberty to decide any application in the case and put up the matter for further hearing on December 15. During the hearing, some of the advocates for the accused said that the grievance of the prosecutor was with the supply of physical copies of the bulky main charge sheet and so soft copies of the supplementary charge sheet can be supplied now.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the prosecution was willing to provide soft copies of the supplementary charge sheet to the accused but the orders have to come from the court.He, however, said if the court passes any such directions for supply of the charge sheet, then the police can challenge it before the high court.The trial court had on October 21 refused to grant time to the police to obtain funds’ sanction to provide to the accused hard copies of the voluminous charge sheet and directed to provide the same.The police has challenged the order before the high court.The soft copies of the main charge sheet, running over 17,000 pages, have been supplied to 15 accused persons but hard copies were not given to them.Also Read | College admissions: Riot-hit northeast Delhi students to get 3 months more to submit original documentsThe main charge sheet was filed in September against Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha and student activist Gulfisha Fatima.Others who were charge-sheeted included former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider and Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-defers-hearing-against-khalid-imam-in-uapa-on-cognisance-of-supplementary-charge-sheet/story-HNIkhK2RrXHOl3csP17WpO.html
23-11-2020||India||‘Tarun Gogoi’s tenure period of epochal change in Assam’: Tributes pour in||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passed away at the age of 84 on Monday evening after recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and battling post-recovery complications of the infection for three months. Gogoi, a three-time chief minister of Assam, was undergoing medical treatment for post-Covid-19 complications when he breathed his last at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in August.Tributes started pouring in for the late Congress leader. “Extremely sad to know of the demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam. The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.Mourning Gogoi’s demise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter, “Shri Tarun Gogoi ji was a popular leader and veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti.”Gogoi’s health started deteriorating last Monday and he was put on ventilation after he suffered a multi-organ failure and was on dialysis.“Shri Tarun Gogoi was a true Congress leader,” Rahul Gandhi said as he paid his condolences to Gogoi. “He devoted his life to bringing all the people and communities of Assam together. For me, he was a great and wise teacher. I loved and respected him deeply. I will miss him. My love and condolences to Gaurav (Gogoi) and the family,” Congress leader wrote on Twitter.Apart from PM Modi and Rahul Gandhi, several political leaders paid their respects to Gogoi. In a statement, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal mourned his death by saying, “I am deeply saddened by the demise of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi. With his death the state has lost an experienced, capable and efficient political leader. The people of Assam will always remember his committed services and contributions to the state. His sense of humour, amiable and outspoken nature attracted everyone. He set high ethical values in the field of politics with his simple lifestyle and contributed profusely in strengthening the democratic values in the country.”Union home minister Amit Shah also expressed his condolences to Gogoi’s family. “Anguished to learn about the passing away of veteran leader and former Chief Minister of Assam, Shri Tarun Gogoi ji. May almighty give his family the strength to bear this tragic loss. My condolences with his family and followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti,” Shah said.“Extremely sad to know of the demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam. The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam,” President Ram Nath Kovind said. “He will always be remembered for the development of Assam and especially towards his efforts to improve law and order and fighting insurgency in the state. His passing away marks the end of an era. In this hour of grief, condolences to his family, friends and supporters,” he added.Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi said Gogoi was a towering leader who witnessed many ups and downs during his political career. “I am deeply hurt by the death of veteran politician and former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi who served the state as the Chief Minister for three consecutive terms with deep commitment. His death is an irreparable loss to the state as well as to the nation,” Mukhi said in a statement.“As chief minister, Union minister and member of the Lok Sabha, late Gogoi served the people compassionately and dedicatedly. He was a towering leader who witnessed several ups and downs during his long political career. His sagacity and leadership as the former Union Minister and Chief Minister will be a source of inspiration and guidance for many,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarun-gogoi-s-tenure-period-of-epochal-change-in-assam-tributes-pour-in/story-j8qdU0VXtIXmXeBnAl37JJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Delhi HC asks Air India to consider paying one month’s salary to terminated contractual pilots||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked Air India to consider paying at least one month’s salary to its pilots, engaged on contractual basis, whose services were suspended in April and later terminated in August, saying that employees cannot be left to hang high and dry.Justice Navin Chawla asked the counsel for national carrier Air India to take instructions on paying one month’s salary to the contractual pilots, who number around 61. The services of these pilots were terminated in August.The court also asked the airline to hear out the grievances of the pilots, who were engaged on contract after they superannuated, and to see whether something, like a “golden handshake”, can be done for them.With the suggestions, the court listed the matter for hearing on December 16.The court was hearing two pleas moved on behalf of the terminated contractual pilots who have sought quashing of the April 2 order suspending their services and the subsequent order of August 7 by which they were all terminated.Also Read | Travellers from 4 states to carry Covid-negative report: Maha govt in orderThe pilots, represented by advocates Lalit Bhardwaj, Krishan Gopal and Jatin Anand Dwivedi, have sought a direction to AI to restore their contractual engagements or pay them salaries along with flying allowances with effect from April 1 till their licenses are restored to current ratings.Air India, defending its decision, told the court that after lockdown 90 per cent of its regular pilots are sitting at home as most of its fleet has been grounded and added that it was suffering huge losses of Rs 1,300 crore each month.It also said that contractual obligations cannot be sought to be enforced by way of a writ petition and a civil suit has to be filed.The court, during the hearing, asked the airline why it did not terminate the pilots in April itself if it could not afford to employ any more pilots after the lockdown. The airline said it was not sure how long the flying operations would be affected and therefore, had not terminated their services.The court said it understands the problems being faced by the airline in the prevailing extraordinary situation, “but we cannot also let the employees be left to hang high and dry”.“Give them at least one month’s salary,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-air-india-to-consider-paying-one-month-s-salary-to-terminated-contractual-pilots/story-j9nJceRxcyWcfo600jooeI.html
23-11-2020||India||Anganwadi worker rows 18km every day to visit tribal newborn babies, expecting mothers||While several states are applying stricter measures as India continues to witness a rise in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, a brave Anganwadi worker every day leaves her home to attend to young tribal children and expecting mothers in remote villages of Maharashtra. Relu Vasave, who belongs to Nashik, is an Anganwadi worker from Nandurbar in Maharashtra. Vasave rows 18 kilometers every day to reach the interior villages to look after newborn tribal babies and expecting mothers, according to news agency ANI.Vasave has been visiting the children and expecting mothers since April despite the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “Rowing daily is tough but it’s important that babies and expecting mothers eat nutritious food and be healthy,” Vasave told ANI. Maharashtra: Relu Vasave, an Anganwadi worker from Nandurbar rows 18 km daily to attend to children under 6 yrs of age & expecting mothers in interior villages.She says, "Rowing daily is tough but it's important that babies & expecting mothers eat nutritious food & be healthy" pic.twitter.com/Y7ObYdVfSETo make sure the kids and mothers get their proper medical care and nutrition, Vasave monitors the weight, health, growth of newborns among other things during her daily visits.“My hands pain by the time I am back home in the evening. But that doesn’t worry me, as it is important that newborn babies and expecting mothers remain healthy. I will keep visiting these hamlets till things improve on the Covid-19 front,” she further said.For her bravery and kindness during the dire situation, Vasave has received tons of praises and applauds from the tribal community.The whiff of Vasave’s hard work has also reached the Chief Minister’s office and Chief executive of the Nandurbar Zilla Parishad where she was personally praised for her great efforts on chief minister’s behalf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadi-worker-rows-18km-every-day-to-visit-tribal-newborn-babies-expecting-mothers/story-zksUNl5vdMD6lqxFneTSkK.html
23-11-2020||India||Modi govt promoting new forms of ‘economic slavery’: Congress||Days after the labour ministry proposed raising ‘spread-over time’ for a worker to 12 hours a day from the current limit of 10-and-half hours, Congress on Monday attacked the Centre saying the proposed rules will lead to 41 lakh job losses in the organised sector. This comes two months after three labour code bills were passed by the Parliament during the monsoon session in September. “India abolished slavery centuries ago. Modi Government is Promoting New Forms of ‘Economic Slavery’ for Exploitation of Labour & Working Class,” Randeep Surjewala, national spokesperson of the grand old party wrote on Twitter. The order notified on November 19, has drawn flak from many corners because the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020 passed by Parliament provides for maximum eight working hours in a day.Surjewala also shared a statement released by the Congress in which the party has alleged that the BJP government, instead of mitigating the over-exploitation of the poor and vulnerable, has now given an open license to oppress the working and manufacturing class. “Rule 28 of the new rules now provide for 12 hour shifts for factory workers, leaving them little time for long hours of commuting, rest, sending for the household, relaxation and family time i.e. work-life balance.” This would have a severe impact on the physical and mental well-being for India’s labour and working class, it added. Terming it “Draconian Anti-Labour Rules”, the statement claims the amended legislation is bound to make 1/3rd of the current workforce in factories across the country “redundant” and “jobless,” as industries will now opt for two shifts instead of the prevailing three-shift pattern. Countering the government’s proposal of 12 hours-shifts based on suggestions of the parliamentary committee on labour, Congress cited 2017-2018 Annual Survey of Industries by the Government of India, according to which there were 1,22,24,402 individual workers employed in factories alone in India. However, with the stretched working hours allowed under the new rules, more than 40,65,000 persons will be rendered jobless immediately upon its implementation, the grand old party claimed. The OHS Code 2020, passed by Parliament in September, amended laws regulating occupational safety, health and working conditions of employees. The code empowers a state government to exempt any new factory from the provisions of the Code to create more economic activity and jobs. According to proposed labour code draft rules, no worker shall be required, or allowed, to work for more than 48 hours in a week. The establishment needs to ensure that the working period, inclusive breaks, does not spread over for more than 12 hours in a day, the draft rules state. No worker will work for more than five hours without at least a half-an-hour break, according to the proposed rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-promoting-new-forms-of-economic-slavery-congress/story-H5TL20zlYn7nqpsrnxdZgM.html
23-11-2020||India||Kerala actor assault case: Public prosecutor A Sureshan quits||The special public prosecutor in the actor abduction and assault case, A Sureshan, on Monday resigned from his post three days after the High Court rejected the pleas of the survivor and prosecution to change the judge of the trial court. He said he sent his resignation letter to the state home secretary. The court later deferred the case to November 26. Now the government will have to appoint a new prosecutor and it is likely to delay the ongoing trial. Sureshan was appointed the special public prosecutor on the request of the survivor and her family. In the letter he said since he questioned the attitude of the judge it is not proper for him to continue. He was the prosecutor in the Soumya murder case in 2011 in which accused Govindachamy was sentenced to death. But later, the apex court had commuted his sentence to life-term. Soumya was thrown out of a moving train and raped on the tracks and she later succumbed to her injuries. Last month the prosecution and survivor had moved the high court alleging “a discriminatory approach” by the special judge Honey M Varghese who is hearing the case. In the sensational case, many witnesses had turned hostile during the trial and both alleged that the court failed to take any action. The prosecution had moved the court earlier to cancel the bail of Malayalam actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the case, saying some of the witnesses were influenced by him but the trail court had turned it down. Later, both moved the high court with a plea to change the judge. But after a week-long argument the HC had turned down their plea and directed the court to resume the trail. The attack on the woman actor took place in 2017. When the 31-year-old actor was returning after a shooting assignment she was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving car by a criminal gang. There were 10 accused in the case. They took video clippings of the assault and let her go after a three-hour ordeal and threatened to release the video clippings if she approached the police. During the attack the main accused Pulsar Suni, an alleged history sheeter, had reportedly told the victim that he was given a quotation (a contract crime) and he was forced to do this. However, the actor complained the next day and police arrested all accused who were directly involved in the crime. Since there was strong speculation that they carried out the assault at the behest of someone, after six months the Special Investigation Team had arrested Dileep and he spent three months in jail. The case witnessed many twists and turns in three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-actor-assault-case-public-prosecutor-a-sureshan-quits/story-TNXZnOCeO5sGANjoIRnUWP.html
23-11-2020||India||Tarun Gogoi’s death leaves void in Assam politics, state in 3 day mourning||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi breathed his last on Monday evening after battling Covid-19 and post-recovery complications of the disease for nearly three months. “Former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who was suffering from prolonged illness passed away at 5:34 pm,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists. The 84-year-old, who was admitted at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) since November 2 after he complained of breathlessness, was declared dead by the team of doctors monitoring his health. Gogoi had suffered multi organ failure and was on ventilation for several days. On Sunday, doctors had performed dialysis on him as he had been unable to pass urine naturally due to problems in his kidneys. Watch l Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi passes away at 86; tributes pour in The former CM’s wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav were at GMCH at the time of his death. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was also present at the hospital. The former CM’s body will be taken to his residence later on Monday and will be kept at Srimantra Sankardeva Kalakshetra in Guwahati on Tuesday where the public will be able to pay tributes. Earlier, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal flew back to Guwahati from Dibrugarh after cancelling his official engagements as Gogoi’s health status deteriorated sharply. Assam government has announced three-day state mourning to pay respect to Gogoi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to express his condolence at his passing.“Shri Tarun Gogoi ji was a popular leader and veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Also Read: ‘Popular leader, veteran administrator’: PM Modi condoles former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s deathCongress leader Rahul Gandhi, too, paid tribute to Gogoi and said he “loved and respected him deeply”.“Shri Tarun Gogoi was a true Congress leader. He devoted his life to bringing all the people and communities of Assam together. For me, he was a great and wise teacher. I loved and respected him deeply. I will miss him. My love and condolences to Gaurav (Gogoi) and the family,” the former Congress party president tweeted. A consummate politician and leader, Gogoi, who occupied the CM’s chair for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016 (the longest by any chief minister in Assam), was actively involved, till August, in plans to boost Congress’ fortunes in the next assembly polls due in March-April next year. He was busy holding meetings with various party workers, leaders and also the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), with which the Congress has announced a grand alliance for the 2021 polls, before he was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive on August 25. Also Read: Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passes away at 84He was admitted to GMCH where he remained for two months despite testing negative for the disease. Though he was discharged on October 25, he was readmitted on November 2 due to post-Covid complications. Loved and admired by those from his party as well as from other parties, Gogoi was closely associated with Assam’s political scenario for over five decades and his death will create a big void not just in Congress but in the political space in the State. “I am deeply saddened by the demise of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi. With his death the state has lost an experienced, capable and efficient political leader. The people of Assam will always remember his committed services and contributions to the state,” current chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said in a statement. He had earlier in the day described him as ‘a father figure’.Gogoi was born on April 1, 1936 at Rangajan Tea Estate in Jorhat district, where his father Dr Kamaleshwar Gogoi was posted. He did his BA and LLB from JB College, Jorhat and Gauhati University respectively. After a few years stint as an advocate, he plunged into politics, getting elected as a member of Jorhat municipal board in 1968. Three years later, he was elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time from Jorhat. Gogoi was re-elected to Lok Sabha for two more terms from Jorhat, in 1977 and 1983. Between 1983 and 1990, he held several senior posts in Congress including the party’s general secretary as well as Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president. Gogoi got elected to the Lok Sabha for the fourth time in 1991 from Kaliabor, a constituency he represented two more times in 1998 and 1999. Gogoi’s son Gaurav now represents Congress from Kaliabor. Paying rich tributes to the leader, Sonowal said the departed leader had set high standards with his personal and professional contributions.“His sense of humour, amiable and outspoken nature attracted everyone. He set high ethical values in the field of politics with his simple lifestyle and contributed profusely in strengthening the democratic values in the country,” Sonowal’s statement added. The veteran politician was also a union minister between 1991 and 1995 handling the portfolio of food processing ministry independently in the PV Narasimha Rao government. After a long stint in Delhi, Gogoi returned to active politics in Assam and led Congress government for three consecutive terms between 2001 and 2016, when Bharatiya Janata Party came to power for the first time. The veteran leader was representing the Titabar assembly seat at the time of his death. “His death is an irreparable loss to the state as well as to the nation. As chief minister, Union minister and a member of the Lok Sabha, late Gogoi served the people compassionately and dedicatedly. He was a towering leader who witnessed several ups and downs during his long political career. His sagacity and leadership as the former Union minister and chief minister will be a source of inspiration and guidance for many,” Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi said in a statement. President Ram Nath Kovind said Gogoi’s tenure as CM was a period of epochal change in Assam. “The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam. He will always be remembered for the development of Assam and especially towards his efforts to improve law and order and fighting insurgency in the state. His passing away marks the end of an era. In this hour of grief, condolences to his family, friends and supporters,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.An avid reader, Gogoi was also fond of gardening and watching sports. He loved to interact with the masses and had the habit of turning up at festivals and religious ceremonies much to the delight of his fans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarun-gogoi-s-death-leaves-void-in-assam-politics-tributes-pour-in/story-TFIAiZEHX2Zvs5YqUrWBZK.html
23-11-2020||India||‘Popular leader, veteran administrator’: PM Modi condoles former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and remembered the leader for his political experience in the state and Centre. “Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted shortly after Gogoi passed away.  Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/H6F6RGYyT4Gogoi, former chief minister of Assam, passed away on Monday after his health condition deteriorated. He was 84.Gogoi was admitted to Gauhati Medical College Hospital in Guwahati. He had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on August 25 and had spent two months in hospital. A three-time chief minister of the state from 2001 to 2016, breathed his last at 5.34 pm, state Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Political leaders across the party lines condoled Gogoi’s demise. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi remembered the party’s stalwart for being a great and wise teacher to him.‘Shri Tarun Gogoi was a true Congress leader. He devoted his life to bringing all the people and communities of Assam together. For me, he was a great and wise teacher. I loved and respected him deeply. I will miss him. My love and condolences to Gaurav & the family,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter. Union home minister Amit Shah also joined in and paid tributes to Gogoi and said he was anguished to learn about the veteran leader’s death.“Anguished to learn about the passing away of veteran leader and former Chief Minister of Assam, Shri Tarun Gogoi ji. May almighty give his family the strength to bear this tragic loss. My condolences with his family and followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti,” Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-leader-veteran-administrator-pm-modi-condoles-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-death/story-flxuGltZ5eN0VjUKyMI2qN.html
23-11-2020||India||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passes away at 84||Tarun Gogoi, former chief minister of Assam, passed away on Monday after his health condition deteriorated. He was 84.Gogoi was admitted to Gauhati Medical College Hospital in Guwahati. He had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on August 25 and had spent two months in hospital.Assam’s longest serving chief minister was again rushed to hospital due to post-Covid complications. Gogoi was admitted on November 2 after he complained of breathlessness.The report of Gogoi’s demise came hours after chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted that he was flying back to Guwahati from Dibrugarh to visit the veteran Congress leader. “Flying back to Guwahati from Dibrugarh after cancelling my programmes midway to be on the side of respected Tarun Gogoi da & his family as the former CM’s health deteriorates. He has always been a father figure to me,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Watch l Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi passes away at 84; tributes pour in He suffered multiple organ failure and on Sunday, doctors performed dialysis on him as he was unable to pass urine naturally due to kidney problem.Prayer meetings were held across the state for the former chief minister’s speedy recovery. Gogoi’s wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav, who is a Congress MP from Kaliabor in Assam, were all present at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-chief-minister-tarun-gogoi-passes-away-at-84/story-nTAP0tWJDNHxuIwdk9WEDI.html
23-11-2020||India||Maharashtra won’t allow passengers from 4 states without Covid-negative report||The Maharashtra government on Monday made it mandatory for people coming from four states to carry a Covid-negative report. These four states - Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa - have been reporting high caseload of the coronavirus disease.In fact, national capital Delhi has been witnessing the third wave of Covid-19 and the number of cases has been rising at an alarming rate.“The passengers travelling in flights from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat will have to produce negative RT-PCR report on landing at airports in Maharashtra. The test should have been done 72 hours prior to the scheduled journey,” according to the notification issued by the Maharashtra government.It further said, “The passengers travelling in trains from these four states will have to produce the negative report obtained 96 hours prior to journey on arrival.”Also Watch l How long to control Covid-19 pandemic? Top doctors respond on #HTLS2020 Those coming by roads will have to undergo screening at border checkposts. “The people with symptoms will have to undergo antigen test. If found positive, the traveller will have get admitted to Covid centre by bearing the cost of treatment,” said the notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar.An analysis of the Union health ministry data showed that at least five persons died due to Covid-19 every hour on an average in Delhi in the last 24 hours. This is the largest chunk of such fatalities across the country.While a total of 511 Covid-19 deaths were recorded across the country in the past 24 hours, Delhi accounted for the largest chunk of such fatalities with 121 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed.According to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, the national capital recorded 6,746 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday and a positivity rate of 12.29 per cent while 121 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,391.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-makes-it-compulsory-for-people-from-delhi-rajasthan-gujarat-and-goa-to-bring-covid-negative-report-issues-notification/story-nZx6q3E6NdW362SMXdefvN.html
23-11-2020||India||India, Sweden to discuss ways to strengthen bilateral ties in various sectors||India and Sweden will on Friday discuss ways to deepen bilateral ties covering various sectors, including innovation, India Unlimited, the joint body of Embassy of India in Sweden and Sweden-India Business Council, said on Monday.The discussion will be part of ‘India Sweden Innovation Day 2020’ themed at “The New Normal” -- an event that will be jointly organised by India Unlimited in association with Embassy of India in Sweden, Sweden India Business Council and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on November 27, 2020.The one-day virtual event will focus on the role of public-private partnerships in the new normal, re-engineering the India Sweden growth again, India Unlimited said in a statement. “The event also aims to deepen the collaboration between the governments of Sweden and India in the field of innovation through a strategic innovation partnership and is based on a mutual commitment to drive prosperity and address global challenges such as sustainable development, health-tech etc,” it said.According to the statement, up to 500 participants would be taking part in the event.  It will bring together the stakeholders from governments to other key organisations to talk about energy partnership, safe transport, innovation collaboration, sustainable business models, civil and cyber security, health tech, skilling and tech start-ups.In the statement, Klas Molin, Sweden Ambassador to India said, “Since Prime Minister Modi’s visit to Sweden in 2018, innovation partnership has become the flagship our of relations and gained strength, a common thread running through all our areas of collaborations for example health, road safety, sustainable technology. India is a trusted innovation partner as we build back better!.” Sanjoo Malhotra, CEO India Unlimited said, “Covid-19 has been the greatest disruptor in recent history. Innovation is the key to solve some of the complex challenges across the globe. The decade ahead will be ruled by innovations and technologies only if used responsibly and ethically.” “We all are now entering a new era of responsible and disruptive tech Innovation that is inclusive, cares for the planet and creates impact. We will have to look at how India and Sweden together can navigate this crisis and create a sustainable future for both the countries,” he said.   India Unlimited was founded in 2013 to promote cross-cultural ties between India and Sweden in association with the Embassy of India in Sweden and Sweden-India Business Council.  In the last seven years, the organisation has hosted a number of events in Stockholm and Gothenburg showcasing the diversity of Indian cultural, economic and social life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sweden-to-discuss-ways-to-strengthen-bilateral-ties-in-various-sectors/story-rhHd6qJIDzhJxQuZuWg4yH.html
23-11-2020||India||One of oldest living retired railway guards turns 100, to get double pension||Keshav Narhar Bapat, one of the oldest living retired railway guards, turned 100 on Saturday. Bapat joined the Central Railway, or earlier called as the Great Indian Peninsular Railway (GIPR) in 1951. He retired 42 years later.The Central Railway has decided to double Bapat’s monthly pension amount from this month as a “goodwill gesture”, PTI reported on Monday citing CR’s Chief Public Relations Officer Shivaji Sutar.On Saturday, railway officials congratulated Bapat, a resident of Bhusawal city in Maharashtra, with flower bouquets and sweets. He also received a greeting letter from Bhusawal Divisional Railway Manager Vikas Kumar Gupta.“When our personnel department officials reached Bapat’s home to wish and greet him on his 100th birthday, his family members were surprised and thanked us for the visit,” Sutar said.Bapat joined the GIPR in 1951, the same year it got converted into the Central Railway. He then retired as a guard around 1978, according to CR officials.Bapat’s family members told CR officials that he was in the Army before where fought in the World War II and travelled to several countries during the battle. After taking voluntary retirement from the Army, he then joined the Railways, where Bapat worked as a train guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-oldest-living-retired-railway-guards-turns-100-to-get-double-pension/story-9NGqCvaql7Kkgh5vB7l5DL.html
23-11-2020||India||Goa: Feni distillers protest against govt decision to do away with auctioning of cashew groves||Cashew feni distillers in Goa are up in arms against a Goa government decision to do away with the process of auctioning of cashew groves. They say it will lead to corporatisation of feni production that is currently operated by traditional distillers known as cazcars. The All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association has written to the state government, stating its opposition to the move. The Opposition too has lent its support to the distillers, with Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat saying such a move was unwarranted. “The sinister plan is to remove, dilute and change all existing licensing, laws or governing hurdles in order to allow mass production of feni and thereafter, the wholesale takeover of the feni industry from Goans by big multinational corporations or the wolves of the IMFL lobby. This is about more than feni – Goa and our entire way of life is under threat,” Hansel Vaz, a member of the association said. Also read | Goa to adopt curbs like Maharashtra on arrivals from Delhi, says health minister Vishwajit RaneThe Goa government’s excise department earns around Rs40 lakh from these cashew auctions. It allows winning bidders to distil feni from cashew juice during the summer months of March, April and May. Most of the bidders are traditional distillers. “Cashew feni is a heritage drink of Goa. It also has medicinal uses and so, I think it is important that we preserve this brand...This is being done by traditional people. I got to know that the excise department wants to change some rules which will open the market and could also bring in big companies. The Goa government should not allow this to go from traditional distrillers to others,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said. Cashew feni distillers are co-owners of Geographical Indication tag that was awarded to the drink in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-feni-distillers-protest-against-govt-decision-to-do-away-with-auctioning-of-cashew-groves/story-hzQgH6ivNZSUZH0zreOdvJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Covid-19: UP govt releases new guidelines for wedding and other gatherings, guest limit capped at 100||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday released fresh guidelines for holding wedding and other functions in the state in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.These functions are allowed to be held outside the containment zones, but with a reduced capacity. According to the guidelines, in case of marriage functions, the number of guests should be 50 per cent of a wedding hall’s capacity, but the number is capped at maximum 100.The organisers will have to mandatorily arrange for face masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners at the venue. The guests will also have to follow social distancing.However, there is no restriction on DJ and wedding music bands.FIR will be registered against those found violating the guidelines, a state government order said. The order has been issued by chief secretary Rajendra Tiwari.In containment zones, no such function is allowed.According to the Union health ministry, Uttar Pradesh has 23,806 active COvid-19 cases, while it has reported 7,559 deaths due to the infection. As many as 4,95,415 people have recovered from the disease.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that the threat of Covid-19 is far from over and people have to remain alert till a vaccine is developed.“The threat of Covid-19 is far from ending. Our scientists are making great efforts towards developing a vaccine, under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Still, we will have to be alert until the vaccine is developed and is given to every person,” Adityanath said after inaugurating an Apheresis facility in state capital Lucknow for the treatment of Covid-19 and dengue patients.He lauded the contribution of everyone involved in the task of dealing with the coronavirus pandemic in the state and said their efforts have also been acknowledged at the global level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-govt-releases-new-guidelines-for-wedding-and-other-gatherings-guest-limit-capped-at-100/story-DD0UPnCjffNhReS3QNlg7H.html
23-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli move Bombay HC for quashing of FIR in sedition case||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel on Monday moved the Bombay high court challenging an October 16 order of a magistrate’s court at Bandra, on the basis of which they have been booked by Bandra police for sedition for allegedly creating hatred between Hindus and Muslims, especially those engaged in Bollywood.Bandra police on October 17, 2020, had booked the sisters under Sections 124(A) (sedition - to bring or attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class, by insulting it’s religion or religious beliefs) along with Section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The FIR is registered on the basis of a magisterial order of October 16, 2020.Acting on a complaint lodged by casting director Munawarali aka Sahil Sayyed, metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Ghule issued the order, directing Bandra police to initiate criminal action against Kangana and her sister Rangoli, on the basis of the complaint.The magistrate said on perusal of the complaint and after hearing the advocate of the complainant, prima facie the accused - Kangana and her sister- appeared to have committed cognisable offences.The magistrate directed Bandra police to take appropriate action under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as he felt that thorough investigation and search and seizure was necessary to be conducted in the matter.Sayyed in his complaint to the magistrate’s court had alleged that since the last couple of months Kangana has, through her tweets and television interviews, continuously defamed Hindi film industry by portraying the people in Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers etc.Sayyed has further alleged that this has “even created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even leading to a communal divide and rift between people of two communities.” His complaint added that Kangana has been “maliciously bringing religion into all her tweets.”The casting director has also alleged that Kangana’s sister Rangoli, who works as manager of the actress, has also tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create communal rift.He has quoted a tweet of Chandel which read: “Make the Mullas and secular media stand in line and shoot them, F**k history may call us Nazis, who cares,” and alleged that the tweet was not only objectionable, but also hurt the feelings of the entire Muslim community.It added that he had lodged a written complaint to the senior inspector of police at Bandra police station, but he did not take cognisance of his complaint. Similar was the fate of the representations made to higher-ups in the police department, compelling the casting director to approach the magistrate’s court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-rangoli-move-bombay-hc-for-quashing-of-fir-in-sedition-case/story-9smyLnHJQ3tTrMfdtkB8uL.html
23-11-2020||India||Telangana:TRS manifesto for GHMC polls promises free water, power supply||If the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi is voted back to power in the coming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, those consuming less than 20,000 litres of drinking water per month won’t have to pay water bills, said party president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, KCR, on Monday. KCR made this promise while releasing his party’s manifesto at Pragathi Bhavan, his camp office in Hyderabad on Monday. The elections are set to be held on December 1.“The scheme will come into effect from December. This will not only be a great relief to the poor and middleclass citizens, but also prevent wastage of drinking water,” said KCR. After assessing the situation within the GHMC limits, the government would extend this facility to other municipalities and municipal corporations in the state as well, he said. The TRS president also announced free power supply to salons, laundries and dhobi ghats not only in Hyderabad, but also across the state, with effect from December. “Free power supply to salons has been a long-pending demand of barbers’ community. We shall also restore all the dhobi ghats,” he said. Stating that the lockdown imposed across the country owing the outbreak of Covid-19 in March and the subsequent slowdown of economy had impacted several sections, KCR also announced waiver of Motor Vehicle Tax amounting to Rs267 crore for the two quarters of the current year payable by 337,611 vehicle owners, all over the state. Similarly, KCR announced waiver of minimum demand charges of electricity supply for high-tension and low-tension categories of industries, cinema theatres and commercial firms for a period of six months, as they suffered heavily during the lockdown period across the state. For the film industry, the chief minister said the government would reimburse the state GST for small budget films (up to Rs10 crore), allow theatres to increase the number of shows per day and make ticket pricing flexible following the losses incurred by the industry. KCR also announced implementation of comprehensive sewerage master plan for Hyderabad at a cost of Rs13,000 crore to prevent inundation of colonies during heavy rains and restoration of storm water drains at a cost of Rs12,000 crore. The state government would also take up construction of a reservoir at Kesavapuram on the outskirts of city that would ensure drinking water supply to the city for another 50 years. It has already set up Musi Riverfront Development Corporation that would help cleanse the Musi river by linking it to Godavari river, so that it will be completely rid of pollution, he said. Among the other poll promises in the election manifesto are expansion of Metro rail network up to the Shamshabad international airport, expansion of multimodal transport system and implementation of strategic road development project for smooth flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-trs-manifesto-for-ghmc-polls-promises-free-water-power-supply/story-ZlDGituKA91oK0Uho1vxdL.html
23-11-2020||India||Covid-19: In fresh attack on PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi poses 4 questions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday continued with his attack on the central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, asking four questions.“The PM must tell the nation: 1. Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI choose & why? 2. Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy? 3. Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination? 4. By when will all Indians be vaccinated?” he posted on Twitter. The PM must tell the nation:1. Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI choose & why?2. Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy?3. Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination?4. By when will all Indians be vaccinated?Gandhi has been taking on the government since the Covid-19 pandemic spread. From questioning the lockdown, to slamming the various economic measures announced by the government, the former Congress president has been on the offensive.On Sunday, he tagged a news report and tweeted that the “unplanned lockdown” pushed millions into poverty. He also accused the Centre of covering up the “bitter truth”.The latest attack from Gandhi comes a day before PM Modi holds a meeting with chief ministers of states and union territories to review the Covid-19 situation across the country.The issues of vaccine distribution and emergency authorisation are likely to come up during virtual discussions between the prime minister and chief ministers.At a recently held meeting of the Niti Aayog, issues like emergency authorisation, advance procurement, pricing of vaccines were discussed - a development which came after Pfizer and Moderna have said they would seek emergency authorisation of their vaccines, which have proved around 95 per cent efficacy in the trials.The Prime Minister has also constituted a Vaccine Task Force (VTF) to lay down principles for emergency use authorisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-fresh-attack-on-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-poses-4-questions/story-Dh5LRDbqgvRT7dtXwamTVN.html
23-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: ‘Delighted’, tweets Adar Poonawalla as Oxford vaccine claims 70% efficacy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. ‘If Maharashtra govt falls...’: Fadnavis makes a promise about his oath eventA year after he appeared to have pulled off a coup along with his rival Ajit Pawar and started his second, short-lived stint as chief minister, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday wanted to put his oath ceremony at dawn behind him. “Such incidents need not be remembered,” the former chief minister told reporters, according to news agency PTI. Read more‘Delighted’, tweets Adar Poonawalla as Oxford vaccine claims 70% efficacyAdar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India which is producing Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, apart from conducting trials in India, expressed happiness after Oxford said the vaccine is 70.4% effective. Read moreLooking at India squad, I feel he should’ve been there: Brian Lara says ‘no reason’ for Suryakumar not to be in AustraliaA couple of days after Mumbai right-hander Suryakumar Yadav revealed that he was unable to train the day he found out he hadn’t made it to any of the Indian squads for the Australia tour, legendary West Indies cricketer Brian Lara said Suryakumar should have there with Team India in Australia. Read moreMadhur Bhandarkar says Karan Johar’s Dharma ‘misused’ his Bollywood Wives title after film guild rejected their requestFilmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar has lashed out at Dharma Productions for allegedly misappropriating the title Bollywood Wives that is registered with him. He took to Twitter to share a copy of a letter written by the Indian Motion Pictures Producers’ Association (IMPPA) to The Film and Television Producers Guild of India, on the basis of his complaint, and the response received. Read moreSuzuki Motorcycle India launches V-Strom 650XT BS 6 at ₹8.84 lakhSuzuki Motorcycle India on Monday expanded its BS 6 product portfolio with the launch of V-Strom 650XT ABS (anti-lock braking system) with BSVI engine, priced at ₹8.84 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). Read more Anushka Sharma amps up maternity fashion in a beige knitted skirt-knotted T-shirt and dab of red lipstickKeeping the fashion police constantly on their toes with her back-to-back sultry maternity looks is Sultan star Anushka Sharma and this Monday was no different. Making and breaking her own fashion records, the diva left us swooning once more over her maternity look, this time in a beige ensemble with a dab of red lipstick to add a pop of colour and amp up the hotness quotient. Read moreNetflix series Mismatched gets a mention in this Mumbai Police advisory postIf you’ve watched Mismatched on Netflix this post by Mumbai Police will make you laugh out loud. The police account has shared an advisory post to remind people about the dangers of driving under the influence of alcohol by sharing a scene from the series. Read moreVijayan govt puts Kerala Police Act Amendment on hold: All you need to know||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-delighted-tweets-adar-poonawalla-as-oxford-vaccine-claims-70-efficacy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LPKbM6SU7gnduQgERhwkQK.html
23-11-2020||India||2G spectrum case: Delhi HC dismisses plea challenging Centre’s decision-making process regarding CBI appeal||The Delhi high court on Monday dismissed a bunch of pleas by several accused in the 2G spectrum case, earlier acquitted by trial court. These pleas challenged the process behind the Centre’s approval to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file appeal against the acquittal of the various accused, including former Union minister A Raja and DMK leader Kanimozhi.Justice Brijesh Sethi said the process for filing an appeal was duly followed and the CBI did not need to give any additional sanction or permission. He also said that the amendments made to the Prevention of Corruption Act (PC Act) would not apply to the crimes committed before the amendments.“The purpose of the amendment is not to obliterate the earlier law,” said Justice Sethi while also releasing the 2G appeals to another bench as he is set to retire on November 30.A detailed judgment in the appeals is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi high court.Earlier, the high court, in October, had started day-to-day hearing in the CBI’s “leave to appeal” against the acquittal of all the individuals and firms. Leave to appeal is a formal permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court.A special court had, on December 21, 2017, acquitted Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and ED cases related to the 2G spectrum allocation scam.Besides Raja and Kanimozhi, the special court had acquitted Raja’s erstwhile private secretary R K Chandolia; Unitech Ltd MD Sanjay Chandra and three top executives of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group -- Gautam Doshi, Surendra Pipara and Hari Nair, in the CBI case. Also acquitted were Swan Telecom promoters, Unitech Wireless (Tamil Nadu) Ltd, Reliance Telecom Ltd, film producer Karim Morani and director of Kalaignar TV Sharad Kumar.In March 2018, the ED and the CBI had approached the high court challenging the special court’s order acquitting all the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2g-spectrum-case-delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-centre-s-decision-making-process-regarding-cbi-appeal/story-LWz2VZpw1ec6TECP0ijOzM.html
23-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Schools, colleges in Himachal Pradesh closed till Dec 31, night curfew in 4 districts||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Monday held a cabinet meeting where it was decided that all educational institutions, schools and colleges will remain closed in the state till December 31 in the wake of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government has also imposed night curfew in four districts - Mandi, Shimla, Kullu and Kangra - between November 24 and December 15. The state government also decided that only 50 per cent of Class 3 and Class 4 government employees will attend offices till December 31.“Keeping in view the upsurge in the Covid-19 cases in the state, the government would consider imposing a few restrictions to avoid social gatherings and ensure that people take all necessary precautionary measures. It is also important to regularly monitor the Covid-19 positive cases kept in home isolation as that number is more than those admitted in hospitals,” the CM said.Earlier, the Himachal Pradesh government had announced holidays for schools and colleges till November 25 but due to an increase in Covid-19 cases last week, the government has now decided to keep the educational institutions closed till the end of December. Online classes will start before November 26.The decision to close state boundaries has still not been made during the cabinet meeting.Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 500-mark on Monday and the total tally of confirmed cases reached 33,701.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-schools-colleges-in-himachal-pradesh-closed-till-dec-31-night-curfew-in-4-districts/story-lWYojXg0hFNA5MSFeXnrpM.html
23-11-2020||India||Rajasthan health minister tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to RUHS||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS), the biggest dedicated coronavirus hospital in Jaipur. After reaching RUHS, the minister interacted with patients and inspected the facilities. He said, “I am Covid-19 positive now and can easily interact with patients about their problems and mental health.” RUHS is providing quality health services to patients, he added. The minister also interacted with the staff and doctors and thanked them for their services during the pandemic. Forest and environment minister Sukhram Vishnoi too had tested positive on November and is quarantined at his residence in Jalore since. Also read | India’s active caseload remains below 5% of total Covid-19 casesEarlier, three ministers of Ashok Gehlot Cabinet had tested positive – Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, BD Kalla and Udai Lal Anjana. They all have recovered. Meanwhile, a day before participating in the meeting chaired by the PM Narendra Modi for Covid-19 vaccine and its distribution, the CM held discussions with senior officials on Monday. As directed by the Centre, the state government has prepared a database of health care workers who will be given priority for Covid-19 vaccination. These names have to be uploaded on Centre’s Covid-19 Vaccination Beneficiary Management System.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-health-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-ruhs/story-xBLyUjapOzhhoIdoHlC7HL.html
23-11-2020||India||With borders sealed, Uttarakhand man waits 8 months to marry Nepalese woman||A 25-year-old man from a remote village in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district had to wait for eight months to tie the knot with a Nepalese woman after the border had been sealed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.After the families of the bride and the groom finally obtained permission from local administrations of both countries, he crossed the border on Saturday along with five wedding guests including a priest and returned with his bride after the rituals, said an official. Chintamani Bhatt, bridegroom from Jaayal village in Pithoragarh district, said, “I had gone to meet my fiancé on February 28. Later, my family fixed wedding in March, but the wedding was postponed due to the sealing of border because of Covid-19 pandemic.” Bhatt’s marriage was fixed with Ambika Bhatt 19, a resident of Gurukhola village in Baitri district of western Nepal. After the sealing of the border, both families decided to postpone the wedding and wait for the lifting of the lockdown, a relative said. When an auspicious date for the wedding came in Margshish (an auspicious month according to Hindu calendar), the bride’s and groom’s families decided to hold the wedding. Both families approached competent authorities of their respective areas in Pithoragarh and Baitri for obtaining permission to cross the international border, the relative said. Bhatt said, “When the auspicious month for the wedding came, both families felt that it would not be proper to postpone the wedding anymore. So the applied for permissions to cross the border from their respective local administration”. Bhatt crossed the border from Jhulaghat through a suspension bridge on the river Mahakali that connects the two countries on Saturday with five baratis (wedding guests) including a priest before noon and returned with the bride on the same evening. KN Nagarkoti, in-charge, Seema Shashtra Bal (SSB) outpost, Jhulaghat bridge, said, “The bridge was opened only for baratis to cross the border on the permission of administration. When the barat returned we closed the bridge again.” Pramod Bhatt, a local trader of Jhulaghat, said, “This is the first wedding in the area after lockdown. Citizens of both bordering areas have ‘Roti-beti’ (trade and family) relations with each other but sealing of border prevented them from strengthening the relations this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-borders-sealed-uttarakhand-man-waits-8-months-to-marry-nepalese-woman/story-VsISP2mghkONaIUXRpswlL.html
23-11-2020||India||To preserve alpine meadows in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh, no more overnight stays, bonfires||In a bid to preserve high Himalayan alpine meadows, the Pithoragarh forest division has restricted night stays by tourists, tenting and campfires in these grasslands with immediate effect. Navin Pant, sub-divisional forest officer of the Pithoragarh forest division said, “To preserve alpine meadows above the height of 3500 metres in Munsiyari forest range, we have taken this step. We have developed enough structures to implement the restriction and the conservation process will start from Khalia Bugyal.” He added that apart from the highly-visited Khalia, Chiplakedar and Namik meadows, the district has over 10 meadows that need preservation. According to the forest officer, camping and bonfires on the meadows lead to soil erosion and pollution on the otherwise clean land. “The soil erosion and damage to the top layer of the soil also restricts the blossoming of flowers in summer months and depletion of local vegetation,” Pant said. As part of soil erosion in the meadows, usually, initially, sheet erosion happens, which turns into rill erosion due to heavy rainfall leading to gully erosion, a widespread form of soil depletion caused by surface water flow. This leads to the formation of channels in the meadows. The forest department officials have also restricted the number of daily visitors to the meadows. The official said that not more than 200 tourists will be allowed for a day visit to these meadows and the violators will be dealt with provisions under the Indian Forest Act. The officials have also decided to remove exotic vegetation from the meadows which will be rooted out and promote the growth of local vegetation cover in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-preserve-alpine-meadows-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-no-more-overnight-stays-bonfires/story-H7hNp2BBp0LBMszyxwemcK.html
23-11-2020||India||Truck crushes woman to death after driver falls off moving vehicle in Jharkhand||A truck driver mysteriously fell off the driving seat of a running truck in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district and the vehicle ran over a an old woman out on a morning walk. Both the driver and the woman died on the spot in the freak accident that occurred on the Kutchery road in Garhwa town on Monday morning. The truck finally stopped after hitting the walls of a small bridge and an electric pole and damaging the electric transmission lines near 500 metres ahead on the Garhwa-Nagar Untari road. The exact reason for the driver falling from the truck, which was on its way to Renukut from Jamshedpur, could not be immediately ascertained. The Garhwa police have begun investigation in this regard.This is the second such incident in Garhwa within a week. A day after Diwali, the driver and the cleaner of a truck had abandoned the speeding vehicle by jumping off it the vehicle hit a villager on National Highway-75. The truck later had gone on to hit two others. However, both survived.The woman who died in Monday’s incident was identified as Kamla Devi (65). She was the resident of the same locality and was out on a morning stroll with two other women who managed to escape unhurt. The driver was identified as Raju Mandi, a resident of West Midnapur district in West Bengal.Binod Singh, an eyewitness, said, “The truck was moving towards Nagar Untari when suddenly we saw the driver falling down. The truck, however, continued to move on. Around 500 metres ahead, it hit a bridge, crushed an old woman and stopped after hitting the electric police. We saw that the driver died on the spot with severe injuries on his head.”Also read | Maoists kill clerk, set 2 vehicles on fire in Jharkhand, extortion bid likelyGarhwa Sadar police station officer-in-charge Rajeev Singh said, “Preliminary inquiry into this incident revealed that the driver was probably not wearing the seat belt . His truck was probably hit by another vehicle from the opposite direction, throwing him out...or maybe he was peeping out and fell.”In a separate incident, one person was killed and three others injured after a speeding pickup van hit an auto rickshaw in Narayanpur village, also under Garhwa Sadar police station area on Monday morning. The mishap occurred when the victims were loading vegetable on the rickshaw. The injured were rushed to Garhwa Sadar hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-crushes-woman-to-death-after-driver-falls-off-moving-vehicle-in-jharkhand/story-pNH8I5kqDFyHZ4gRDFrl5N.html
23-11-2020||India||India’s active caseload remains below 5% of total Covid-19 cases||India has managed to sustain its active caseload for coronavirus cases below the 5 per cent-mark, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) informed on Monday. According to an official release, the country’s active caseload for Covid-19 stands at 4.85 per cent i.e. 4,43,486 while the recovery rate continues to be above 93 per cent as 93.68 per cent of all cases have recovered as of date. In the last 24 hours, the country registered 41,024 new recoveries in the last 24 hours taking the total recovered cases to 85,62,641.The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and currently stands at 81,19,155.“In the last 24 hours, 44,059 persons were found infected with Covid. India has been registering less than 50,000 cases for the last 16 days, since November 8. This assumes significance as several countries of the Western Hemisphere are witnessing a huge surge of new cases at the onset of winter,” the release stated.A total of 77.44 per cent of the new recoveries are contributed by ten States/UTs.Kerala (6,227) and Delhi (6,154) have recorded more than 6,000 recoveries in the last 24 hours while Maharashtra witnessed 4,600 recoveries in the same timeframe. Among the newly recorded cases within 24 hours, Delhi emerged on the top with 6,746 cases followed by Maharashtra at 5,753 and Kerala at 5,254, as per the release. The ten States/UTs have alone contributed 78.74 per cent to the tally of newly reported cases on Sunday. As many as 15 States and UTs are reporting less than the national average of cases per million population (6,623), the ministry said.Besides, 74.95 per cent of the 511 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours were reported from ten States/UTs. Twenty-one states and UTs have been reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (97).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-caseload-remains-below-5-of-total-covid-19-cases/story-LKxQLwimVxBxKCPFadIhrL.html
23-11-2020||India||‘If Maharashtra govt falls...’: Fadnavis makes a promise about his oath event||A year after he appeared to have pulled off a coup along with his rival Ajit Pawar and started his second, short-lived stint as chief minister, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday wanted to put his oath ceremony at dawn behind him. “Such incidents need not be remembered,” the former chief minister told reporters, according to news agency PTI.Fadnavis also promised that his next oath ceremony would certainly not be held at dawn.“If the present government in the state collapses, the oath ceremony will not take place at dawn,” Fadnavis said while speaking to reporters in Aurangabad.In 2019, the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress were engaged in hectic parleys to form a non-BJP government in Maharashtra after the October polls threw up a hung Assembly. In a surprise move, Fadnavis took oath as Maharashtra chief minister after support from a splinter group of NCP led by Ajit Pawar. The government lasted for only 80 hours with both Pawar and Fadnavis resigning a day before a Supreme Court ordered trust vote.Pawar later returned to the NCP fold.After Fadnavis’ resignation, the three-party alliance of the Sena, NCP and Congress, known as Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), formed the government in the state.Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA passed the floor test in the assembly with the support of 169 MLAs. The halfway mark in the assembly is 288-member Maharashtra assembly was 145. Thackeray then became the chief minister.The move from Fadnavis gave a chance to the Sena to take a jibe at the BJP leader. In his column in party’s mouthpiece Saamana, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said Fadnavis’ haste to attain power sank the BJP within 80 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-maharashtra-govt-falls-fadnavis-makes-a-promise-about-his-oath-event/story-hiwgqwdsDkDrEuoFHs4myK.html
23-11-2020||India||WhatsApp ‘OTP scam’: What is it and how not to fall prey||Almost everyday, one comes across a scam being carried out through social media. Similarly, WhatsApp, which is one of the world’s most popular messaging platforms, is attacked by scammers time and again. No wonder then, they have found yet another way to target WhatsApp users, this time through the one-time password (OTP).How does the ‘OTP scam’ work?To set up WhatsApp on a new smartphone, one needs to enter his/her registered phone number. Once this is done, WhatsApp sends an OTP to the phone number; one has to type in this OTP to set up WhatsApp. However, it is important to note here that WhatsApp sends an OTP only if prompted by a user.It is this feature hackers and scammers are using to target WhatsApp users. The scammers pretend to be friends or family members and send “messages,” sometimes describing an “emergency” to grab one’s attention. Once this is done, they’ll send a WhatsApp message asking for an OTP, which, they’ll say, has been forwarded “accidentally.” The moment this OTP is shared with the hacker, the user gets locked out of their WhatsApp account and the hacker takes over it completely.The hacker can now send a message from the person’s WhatsApp account to all the contacts and continue with the scam.What to do if WhatsApp account is hacked?If somehow one falls prey to this scam, they need to immediately reset their WhatsApp account and log in again by entering their number and receiving an OTP. Logging into WhatsApp with this OTP locks the hacker out.How not to fall prey to this scam?Since WhatsApp does not send an OTP without being prompted, one should ignore an OTP sent on their number if they have not asked for it. Check with friends or family members on receiving a message from their number asking for an OTP. Activating two-step authentication is also helpful in preventing one from falling prey to this scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-otp-scam-what-is-it-and-how-not-to-fall-prey/story-Jca26IFh0GwjwbJ8txupKO.html
23-11-2020||India||Under fire Odisha govt spares schools with 15 students or more from closure||Succumbing to opposition against closure of schools with low number of students, the Odisha government has announced that primary and upper primary schools in scheduled areas with minimum student strength of 15 would not be shut down from the next academic session.Communicating the decision, school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the criteria of consolidating all schools in Schedule V areas with less than 20 students on rolls as well as schools with less than 25 students with similar schools within 1 km distance has been changed. ‘“Instead, schools with less than 15 students in scheduled areas will be consolidated with nearby schools,” he said, adding that those that are being shut either face a shortage of teachers or do not have proper classroom and other necessary infrastructure.As per the initial decision, 7,772 schools were to be shut down and merged with nearby bigger schools.“The state government is working within the purview of the law. Its priority is to provide quality education to the students. Quality of education is getting affected due to the small schools. A better learning environment can be created at the big schools. The purpose is to provide primary and secondary education at one place,” he said.Project director of Odisha school education programme authority, Bhupendra Singh Poonia said the government is yet to work out the exact number of schools that would be saved from being shut down after the latest decision.The government’s decision came a day after a Congress MLA threatened to slit his throat if the government went ahead with its decision of closing the 7,772 schools.“It’s a plan of the government to keep children away from their basic right of education. They must rethink the closure decision,” said Tara Bahinipati, Congress MLA from tribal-dominated Koraput district, where 800 schools were up for closure.Also Read: Odisha Cong MLA threatens to slit his throat if school closure move is not reversedEarlier, deputy leader of the Opposition Bishnu Sethi questionated the rationale of the decision saying the closure would lead to more dropouts. “Nearly 11 lakh students enrol for class 1 every year but only 6 lakh students among these appear in the examination. Why nearly 5 lakh students drop out in the state,” he asked. “We will sit on dharna near the Odisha Assembly speaker’s podium if the State government does not reconsider its decision,” said Sethi.Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said shutting down thousands of schools is taking away the right to education for the underprivileged children.In two separate notifications issued by the state school and mass education department during August and September this year, the government had decided to shut down schools with student strength less than 20 in both scheduled and non-scheduled areas. The government argued that it would lead to improvement in the learning environment, better infrastructure facilities, better academic environment and co-curricular facilities for the students.The move termed “consolidation and rationalisation” under Niti Aayog’s sustainable action for transforming human capital in education (SATH-E) project is already under implementation with several such schools being merged with the nearest bigger schools called the Lead Schools over the last few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-fire-odisha-govt-spares-schools-with-15-students-or-more-from-closure/story-fpvQc3ddUviprfLxHDL6BK.html
23-11-2020||India||Maharashtra considering another lockdown to cap Covid-19 surge||The Maharashtra government will decide in the next eight days whether to impose curbs or a complete lockdown depending on the surge in Covid-19 cases, Vijay Wadettiwar relief and rehabilitation minister said Monday. He said that such measures will have to be taken if lives are to be saved.“If needed, in the next eight days, after careful study we will decide whether there is a need for a complete lockdown or imposition of some curbs or add new conditions. Such measures will have to be taken because ultimately lives are important,” the minister said.Wadettiwar told media persons in Mumbai that the government is also deliberating whether to ban travel between the financial capital and the national capital because of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.“Delhi has several cases and is witnessing another wave. Mumbai is an international city and it attracts people from various states… We are deliberating if there should be a complete ban (on flights and trains) or if the passengers coming into Mumbai should be isolated or put in quarantine. All these decisions will depend on how many cases Maharashtra sees in the next eight days.”On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 5,753 fresh cases of Covid-19 that took the state’s tally to 17,80,208. The death toll in the state stood at 46,623.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-considering-another-lockdown-to-cap-covid-19-surge/story-5IzVNnVvfDIKkZI2XtVOeN.html
23-11-2020||India||On Covid-19, PM Modi to hold a meeting with chief ministers tomorrow via video conferencing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with chief ministers of states and union territories on Tuesday via video conferencing, news agency ANI reported.At the meeting, the prime minister is expected to review the situation in worst affected states, which include - Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, West Bengal and Rajasthan - and have been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and emerged as new hotspots.As four vaccine candidates in India are in either the second or the third phase of clinical trials, vaccine distribution and emergency authorisation are also likely to be discussed with the states.Also read: Government exploring modalities of emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccineAt a recently held meeting of the Niti Aayog, issues like emergency authorisation, advance procurement, pricing of vaccines were discussed - a development that comes after Pfizer and Moderna have said they would seek emergency authorisation of their vaccines, which have proved around 95% efficacy in the trials.Also Watch l ‘When vaccine is around the corner...’: Warning on ‘Covid fatigue’ #HTLS2020 This meet by PM Modi is among the several conducted to review the handling of disease outbreak by states, and come up with a strategy for reducing burden on public health infrastructure.The Centre has been leading the fight against Covid-19 in the country in effective collaboration and close coordination with the states. The central government is supporting them to ramp up the healthcare and medical infrastructure.As of Monday, India’s Covid-19 caseload went past 91 lakh with 44,059 coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 85,62,641, according to the Union Health Ministry data. There are 4,43,486 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 4.85 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.For 16 days now, India has been registering less than 50,000 Covid-19 cases daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-covid-19-pm-modi-to-hold-a-meeting-with-chief-ministers-tomorrow-via-video-conferencing/story-TTTw7IVtLiMKPj0ALKYvnO.html
23-11-2020||India||‘Will hear views of all parties’, says Kerala CM after withholding controversial Police Act amendment ordinance||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday announced that the state government is putting on hold the controversial Kerala Police Amendment ordinance.In a statement from the chief minister’s office on Monday, Vijayan said, “The Kerala government had decided to amend the Kerala Police Act in an effort to check the widespread malicious campaigns through social media and otherwise, which pose a threat to individual freedom and dignity, which are constitutionally ensured to citizens.”“The amendment evoked varied responses from several corners. Apprehensions were aired by those who support the LDF and profess to defend democracy. In these circumstances, the Government of Kerala will not go ahead with implementing the amendment,” the statement further added.It also said that detailed discussions will be held in the Assembly and further steps will be taken after hearing the views of all parties. The controversial ordinance was signed by Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Saturday.Watch Vijayan govt puts Kerala Police Act Amendment on hold: All you need to know The statement was issued after the Congress protested in state capital Thiruvananthapuram against the government’s amendments to the Kerala State Police Act.Vijayan had said on Sunday that the act will in no way be used against free speech or impartial journalism and apprehensions to the contrary are unfounded.Vijayan had further said that along with ensuring the freedom of the press, the government also has the responsibility of upholding a citizen’s individual freedom and his/her dignity as enshrined in the Constitution.The amendment was introduced in the context of the cyber-attacks being faced by women and transgenders.The law aims to stop bullying, insulting or disgracing individuals through any content and circulating the same through any communication medium. The offenders will be awarded a sentence of three years/penalty of Rs 10,000 or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hear-views-of-all-parties-says-kerala-cm-after-withholding-controversial-police-act-amendment-ordinance/story-NWL8F2fMnTDMj3hkKIcRgK.html
23-11-2020||India||Complete ban or quarantine? Maharashtra to take call on Delhi travel in 8 days||As the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to witness a spike in the national capital, a Maharashtra minister on Monday said that the state will take a call on curbs on travel between Delhi and Maharashtra within eight days. Cabinet minister Vijay Waddetiwar said that the state is deliberating whether a complete ban on flights, train and road travel to Delhi should be imposed or people coming from the national capital should be quarantined upon their arrival in Maharashtra.Government officials had, however, earlier said that a move to halt train and flight services was unlikely due to the Centre’s latest “unlock” guidelines, issued on September 30, which stated that inter-state movement cannot be restricted. Therefore, Maharashtra would also need the central government’s approval for such a move.As on Sunday, 6,746 fresh cases pushed Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 529,863 while the virus claimed 121 more lives taking the toll from the viral infection near 8,400. The national capital is under its third wave of infections. Also, amid soaring cases in Maharashtra, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had on Sunday said that a decision on imposing a lockdown in the state could be expected in 8-10 daysEarlier in the day the Supreme Court took note of the worsening Covid-19 situation in the country and asked four states - Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam - to file affidavits on the steps taken so far by them to control the coronavirus situation. The apex court said there is a spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and authorities have to take steps and “prepare for the worst” for December. On the pandemic situation in Delhi, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan told Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, who was appearing for Delhi government, “Things have worsened in Delhi especially in November. You file a status report on what steps have been taken.”“It is time to introspect where we are lacking. Keep in mind situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. The situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. We are of the opinion that all states must be prepared for the coming months. In the last two weeks in November, deaths have increased in Delhi. Similar is the situation in other states of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Assam among other states. We need to know the situation as on date,” the top court said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-ban-or-quarantine-maharashtra-to-take-call-on-delhi-travel-in-8-days/story-5gkoCM6bctRq2xLaZHo2DL.html
23-11-2020||India||Let Nitish Kumar bring ‘Love Jihad’ law, then we will think, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said let the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government enact a law against ‘Love Jihad’ and then the Maharashtra government will study it and think about it.Talking to reporters here, Raut said some key BJP leaders in Maharashtra are seeking a law against ‘Love Jihad’.Notably, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis last week said incidents of ‘Love Jihad were taking place in the country and therefore, laws to curb the practice were justified.Some BJP-ruled states have announced plans to prevent the so-called ‘Love Jihad, which refers to an alleged conspiracy to convert Hindu women by marrying them.Raut said the BJP may be raising the issue in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections in West Bengal.Also Read | BJP says ‘love jihad’ serious problem, states should act“Key BJP leaders in Maharashtra are asking when a law against ‘Love Jihad’ will be framed (in the state). I spoke to the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray)in the morning,” the Rajya Sabha member said.“On this issue, we only want to say that let the laws be formed in (BJP-ruled) Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.But, when a law will be framed in Bihar, when Nitish Kumar ji will frame it, we will study that law in its entirety.“After that we will think about it in Maharashtra,” the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson said.Kumar, whose party JD(U) secured only 43 seats in the recently held Bihar Assembly polls as against the ally BJP which bagged 74 seats, is leading the state government.In the run-up to the Bihar polls, the BJP announced that Kumar would be the chief minister.Without naming the BJP, Raut said the economic slowdown, unemployment and price rise are key issues, but “let them flag the ‘Love Jihad’ issue if they think it is more important”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-nitish-kumar-bring-love-jihad-law-then-we-will-think-says-sanjay-raut/story-lAcTOhDD6XN5oqzwUu1fJO.html
23-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh, husband Harsh Limbachiya granted bail by Mumbai court in drugs case||A Mumbai court on Monday granted comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya granted bail in a drugs case. The couple was arrested on Saturday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in suburban Andheri.The couple was granted bail by the magistrates court on a bond of Rs 15,000 each.Singh and Limbachiyaa were booked under sections 20(b)(ii)(A) (involves small quantity of drugs) and 8(c) (possession of drugs) and 27 (consumption of drugs) of the NDPS Act.The arrest of the comedian and her husband comes in the wake of questioning of several Bollywood actors by the central agency for drugs usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comedian-bharti-singh-husband-harsh-limbachiya-granted-bail-by-mumbai-court-in-drugs-case/story-HN51Eg1C88HgtwZEDV7HBP.html
23-11-2020||India||‘Delighted’, tweets Adar Poonawalla as Oxford vaccine claims 70% efficacy||Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India which is producing Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, apart from conducting trials in India, expressed happiness after Oxford said the vaccine is 70.4% effective.“I am delighted to hear that, Covishield, a low-cost, logistically manageable and soon to be widely available, Covid-19 vaccine, will offer protection up to 90% in one type of dosage regime and 62% in the other dosage regime. Further details on this will be provided this evening,” Adar tweeted.  I am delighted to hear that, Covishield, a low-cost, logistically manageable & soon to be widely available, #COVID19 vaccine, will offer protection up to 90% in one type of dosage regime and 62% in the other dosage regime. Further details on this, will be provided this evening. https://t.co/KCr3GmROiWThe development will speed up vaccine roll out in India as Serum Institute of India had already planned to apply to the Indian government for emergency authorisation once it deems fit. Several countries are looking forward to Oxford vaccine as it will be cheaper than Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. In India, it will be priced Rs 600-600 per dose and the government would be able to procure it at almost half the rate, Poonawalla said earlier.On Monday, the Oxford-Astrazeneca announced that one of the dosing might be 90% effective. “One dosing regimen (n=2,741) showed vaccine efficacy of 90% when AZD1222 was given as a half dose, followed by a full dose at least one month apart, and another dosing regimen (n=8,895) showed 62% efficacy when given as two full doses at least one month apart. The combined analysis from both dosing regimens (n=11,636) resulted in an average efficacy of 70%,” Astrazeneca said.Compared to Moderna and Pfizer which have claimed around 94% efficacy, Oxford’s initial reports appear to be less promising, but this is only the initial reports. Out of all the participants, 131 contracted Covid-19, but none of them was serious. There was no need for hospitalisation, Astrazeneca said. However, Covishield has a number of advantages over Pfizer that needs minus 70 degree Celcius temperature for storage. The vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions (2-8 degrees Celsius/ 36-46 degrees Fahrenheit) for at least six months and administered within existing healthcare settings, Astrazeneca said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delighted-tweets-adar-poonawalla-as-oxford-vaccine-claims-70-efficacy/story-Rv8hl8l173gL27rsmCOtuL.html
23-11-2020||India||AIADMK ally PMK revives reservation demand ahead of 2021 TN assembly polls||On the heels of the ruling AIADMK announcing that its alliance with the BJP will continue for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election, another regional ally - the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) - has revived an old demand for reservation to put pressure on the government.PMK and its parent outfit, Vanniyar Sangam will hold daily protests starting December in Chennai demanding a 20% sub quota reservation for the Vanniyar community in the state’s educational institutions and government jobs. The PMK has revived the demand in recent months. PMK founder S Ramadoss lamented that though they were in alliance with the ruling AIADMK, it was of “no use”. He said that they were also let down by former DMK patriarch and late chief minister M Karunanidhi. If their demands aren’t met, Ramadoss warned that they will intensify the protest across the state like the reservation-based agitations led by Patidars in Gujarat and Gujjars in Rajasthan.Though PMK hasn’t fared well in elections, they retain clout amongst the Dravidian majors for assembly elections because of their dominating influence in the Vanniyar community - their core vote bank in Tamil Nadu’s western and northern belt. PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss said that the reservations were not just a caste-based issue but also a developmental issue. The party and their affiliated organisations will begin their protest in front of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) in Chennai “We filed an RTI with TNPSC for details on case-based reservations but they rejected it. We want to ascertain the beneficiaries belonging to the Vanniyar community as it remains the most backward,” said PMK spokesperson Vinoba Bhoopathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-ally-pmk-revives-reservation-demand-ahead-of-2021-tn-assembly-polls/story-d8c5JnsAkvmi0aNvEb09WO.html
23-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut moves HC to quash Mumbai Police’s FIR against her||Actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel filed a petition in the Bombay High Court on Monday, seeking to quash an FIR registered against them by Mumbai Police for allegedly “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their posts on social media.The FIR, under sedition charges, was registered pursuant to orders passed by the Bandra magistrates court directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister following a complaint lodged against them.“Kangana and Rangoli have filed a petition in the Bombay High Court for quashing of the FIR and the magistrates order,” their advocate Rizwan Siddiquee told PTI.He said the petition has also sought the court to stay the summons issued against the duo asking them to appear before the police for questioning, and also a direction to the police to not take any coercive steps against them.The Mumbai Police last week summoned Ranaut and her sister for the third time to record their statements on November 23 and 24 for allegedly promoting enmity between two communities.The police have filed the FIR against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-moves-hc-to-quash-mumbai-police-s-fir-against-her/story-t8whRUUKbDQrz5EwkBIu3J.html
23-11-2020||India||PM inaugurates 76 multi-storeyed flats for MPs in Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament (MPs) through video conference on Monday.Eight bungalows ,which were over 80 years old, were redeveloped to construct 76 flats on Dr BD Marg in the heart of New Delhi.In his address, Modi spoke about the high productivity of Parliament, especially Lok Sabha, since his government came to power in 2014. Calling the period historic in the nation’s development, the PM referred to a number of landmark legislations passed since. He also said that green initiatives were incorporated in building the multi-storeyed flats. He said that accommodation for MPs was a long standing problem, adding,“decades-old problems can’t be ended by avoiding them, but by finding solutions.” He said his government built the Ambedkar National Memorial, the idea of which had come up during the time of Atal Bihari Vajpayee as the prime minister. Similarly, he said, the new building of the Central Information Commission, the War Memorial near India Gate and the National Police Memorial, which were built by his government, had been pending for a long time.Praising Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for his stewardship of the House, the PM expressed happiness that Parliament proceedings continued even during the pandemic, with new regulations and precautionary measures. He added that both houses worked even on weekends for ensuring smooth proceedings in the monsoon session.PM Modi said just as the age of 16-18 years is very important in one’s life, the term of the 17th Lok Sabha, which started in 2019, saw some historic decisions being taken. He expressed confidence that the next (18th) Lok Sabha will also play an important role in taking the country forward.“Be it Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, or economic targets or many other pledges like this, we have to achieve them during this period,” he said.A PMO statement had earlier said that the construction of these flats was completed with savings of about 14% of the sanctioned cost and without time overrun despite the impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-inaugurates-76-multi-storeyed-flats-for-mp-in-delhi/story-1vdMgErAyc4wFPRdaYcUZP.html
23-11-2020||India||Ayodhya’s chaudah kosi parikrama starts amid Covid-19 scare||Counted among the biggest religious events in Ayodhya, the ‘chaudah kosi parikrama’ started at around 1.30am on Monday morning with no entry for outsiders in the temple town. The annual event will end in the wee hours of Tuesday. While the ‘panch kosi parikrama’ will start from 4am on November 25 and end the next day early in the morning. The Kartik Purnima fair will be held the entire day on November 30. Due to restrictions imposed by the Ayodhya administration and the ban on entry of outsiders, participants in the parikrama or rounds are significantly less as compared to the previous years. Last year, several lakh people took part in the two parikramas and the Kartik Purnima fair. However, this year not more than a few thousand were present for the ‘chaudah kosi parikrama’. The Ayodhya administration decided to go ahead with the two annual parikramas and Kartik Purnima fair, counted among the biggest religious events in this temple town. At a time when there is a sudden surge in coronavirus cases in UP and many cities across the country, it will be an important challenge for the Ayodhya administration to enforce Covid-19 containment protocol during these religious congregations. As a precautionary measure, the administration has set up Covid help desks at 17 places. “At 17 places, Covid help desks have been set up. Mobile toilet vans and water tankers are available. We will enforce Covid-19 containment protocols and make sure that everyone wears a mask,” said Anuj Jha, district magistrate, Ayodhya. “We have requested seers to ensure less participation of people in these events. There will be random testing and thermal scanning of pilgrims also,” added Jha. Before setting up any stall, prior permission from the Ayodhya administration has been made compulsory. Also Read: After Ayodhya spectacle, Varanasi readies for Dev DeepawaliDue to a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the state government has restricted the number of guests to 100 in marriage parties in Noida and Ghaziabad. “Enforcing Covid protocol in two parikramas and Kartik Purnima fair will not be easy for the Ayodhya administration. The only way to minimise the risk of virus spread is by restricting participation of people in these events,” said a health official. During Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on November 13, no outsider was allowed and participation of locals was also restricted due to Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-s-chaudah-kosi-parikrama-starts-amid-covid-19-scare/story-ZSz9XzCOp25AnME4M1TtfM.html
23-11-2020||India||Tripura woman tied to pole and beaten, five women arrested||Five women were arrested Sunday for allegedly beating a 45-year-old woman after tying her to a pole and accusing her of having an illicit relationship with one of the accused’s husband, Tripura police said Monday. Police said that Rumpa Ghosh, 30, a resident of Krishna Colony, nearly 10 kilometres from Agartala, alleged that her husband Sanatan Bin (35) was having an illicit relationship with the victim for the last two years. Initially, Rumpa tried to address the matter through village panchayat level. Later on Saturday, Rumpa and four of her relatives including her mother went to the victim’s home, nearly 11 kilometres away from her home and brought her forcefully to Krishna Colony. There, they allegedly beat her after tying her to a pole. After the victim lodged complaint at Airport Police station, police booked the five women under Section 448 (house- trespass), 365 (abduction), 342 (wrongful confinement) , 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) , 354(B) (assault), 307 (attempt to murder), 511 (attempt to commit offence) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of Indian Penal Code. “We have arrested five women involved in the incident on Sunday based on the victim’s complaint. They are in judicial custody till November 28. We are investigating the matter,” said New Capital Complex sub divisional police officer Piyamadhuri Majumder. Similar incidents have happened in different parts of the state in different times. In 2018, a mother of two children was humiliated with a garland of shoes after being tied to a tree for an alleged illicit relationship with a married man in Gomati district.In 2015, a 60-year-old woman was beaten and tonsured allegedly for the same reason in South District.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-woman-tied-to-pole-and-beaten-five-women-arrested/story-HHT3tPvEwUJTEj8GLFaijJ.html
23-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Is lockdown only solution?’: Delhi HC refuses to entertain plea seeking lockdown with immediate effect all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Is lockdown only solution?’: Delhi HC refuses to hear plea amid Covid-19 surgeThe Delhi High Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition seeking a lockdown in the national capital with immediate effect in view of the surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more CBI raids residence of ex-Congress minister Roshan Baig arrested in IMA scamThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday raided the Bengaluru residence of former Congress minister Roshan Baig, who was arrested by the federal agency in connection with a Rs 2,500 crore ponzi scheme on Sunday. Read more Astra-Oxford vaccine prevents average of 70% of Covid-19 casesA Covid-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc prevented a majority of people from getting the disease but fell short of the high bar set by Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., according to initial results of a large trial. Read more PM Modi inaugurates flats for MPs, lauds them for facilitating Parliament session even during pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually inaugurated multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament (MPs) at Dr BD Marg in Delhi. A total of 76 flats have been developed from eight old bungalows, which were more than 80 years old, as was noted by a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday. Read more ‘India have 3-4 players who could captain the team at any time’: David Warner on Virat Kohli missing Test seriesWhile cricketing pundits have acknowledged Kohli’s decision to spend time with his family as the correct one, the fans continue to wonder if the Indian team can pose a challenge to the Australian team in Kohli’s absence. Read more ‘My biggest dream is growing old with you’: Justin Bieber’s wish on wife Hailey Bieber’s birthday is too mushy to missBeginning the week on a high dose of romance, Justin Bieber shared an awwdorable montage on wife Hailey Bieber’s birthday. As the American model turned 24 years old, the Canadian singer flooded the Internet with her alluring pictures. Read more Cake or make up? Video showing woman’s head on a plate leaves netizens baffled. WatchSeveral videos on the Internet showcase weird yet unique things that can easily perplex one. This Instagram video perfectly fits that category. After watching the video you may have to play it again just to believe it. Read more How RSS adjusted to Vajpayee-Kaul partnership | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to author and political scientist Vinay Sitapati about his book ‘Jugalbandi: The BJP Before Modi’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-is-lockdown-only-solution-delhi-hc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-lockdown-with-immediate-effect-all-the-latest-news/story-DnhWUJAJppiHAk6IItWzoK.html
23-11-2020||India||‘Proper perspectives needed’: Saifuddin Soz on questions raised by Kapil Sibal||Former Union minister from Jammu and Kashmir Saifuddin Soz extended support to Kapil Sibal’s call for introspection in the party and said the issue needs to be discussed in proper perspective. “In fact, I have been thinking of earnestly requesting our leader Sonia Ji to summon (virtually) a session of AICC to thrash out all relevant propositions,” Saifudin tweeted amid the ongoing debate over the need of reforms in Congress — an issue that came to the fore after its poor results in Bihar assembly elections and other bypolls.“Friends, Kapil Sibal has raised questions that need to be discussed in proper perspective,” Soz tweeted.Party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad too on Sunday talked about the party’s poor performance in Bihar elections and asked the party leaders to stop the ‘five-star culture’ and be on the field during elections to stay close and connected to the people.Also Read | CBI raids residence of ex-Congress minister Roshan Baig arrested in IMA scam“There is a huge disconnect between the people and Congress leaders at the district, block and state levels. The party’s connection with the public should be a continuous process and not only during elections,” he said.The national party has been struggling to come in power in various states. In Bihar assembly elections, the party managed to win just 19 seats out of the 70 seats it contested.Commenting on the division in Congress, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “We’ve said for long, Congress is dying. Finally Azad ji, Kapil Sibal ji & Chidambaram ji said it. But we don’t think Congress can be renewed. Even Gandhiji had called for the party’s dissolution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proper-perspectives-needed-saifuddin-soz-on-questions-raised-by-kapil-sibal/story-BOCuiNeYFvtwqJAZ10MNfP.html
23-11-2020||India||On battleground Twitter, BJP, TMC target each other with old videos||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday got into a tussle over the latter using the Bengali word bhaipo (nephew). But the TMC leader who took the first jab at the saffron camp was hit by video clips showing him making statements against chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing a media conference on Sunday, Kunal Ghosh, one of the spokespersons of the TMC, dared BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya to reveal on record who he means while frequently mentioning the word bhaipo in public. Vijayvargiya, while addressing a rally in East Midnapore district on Saturday said “no person with self-esteem can stay in the TMC because the party’s reins have gone to bhaipo.” Vijayvargiya, an election observer for West Bengal, used the word several times in the past. Although Vijayvargiya did not take any name, it was apparent that he was referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee. In fact many senior BJP leaders, such as Amit Malviya, head of the party’s national information technology cell and co-incharge of the organization in Bengal, frequently use the Bengal word pishi (aunt) as well. “I dare you (Vijayvargiya). If you have the courage, name the person. Who is bhaipo?” said Ghosh and made a counterattack on former TMC leader and the BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy who is one of the accused in the Narada sting operation case being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Malviya and the Bengal unit of the BJP targeted Ghosh by tweeting videos of the statements he made against the chief minister when he was in judicial custody for two years as an accused in the Saradha chit fund scam. “The name of the person who got the most direct and indirect benefit of Saradha Media is Mamata Banerjee,” Ghosh can be heard saying to mediapersons in a video clip once aired by a popular news channel. Saradha Media was floated by the chit fund company’s owner, Sudipta Sen, who is still in judicial custody. “Kunal Ghosh, scam tainted spokesperson of TMC, who was fielded to defend ‘Bhaipo’ had this to say in Sept 2014, “If there is anyone who has directly or indirectly benefited the most from Saradha Media, that person is Mamata Banerjee“. Pishi can clarify if the allegation is true,” tweeted Malviya. In its tweet, the Bengal BJP said, “In the next @AITCofficial press conference, @KunalGhoshAgain should reiterate his public stand on the Saradha scam. Or maybe explain what he thinks of ‘the greatest Saradha beneficiary’ or why he himself had to go to jail in the first place. Leave Bhaipo, save Pishi instead..” Ghosh responded to these tweets by tweeting old videos of Mukul Roy where he made statements against top BJP leaders at TMC rallies. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “When someone utters the words didi (elder sister) and bhaipo, the entire Bengal understands who are being referred to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-battleground-twitter-bjp-tmc-target-each-other-with-old-videos/story-PvtzjsXoYKdaThotO7PnyI.html
23-11-2020||India||Amid mounting criticism, Kerala puts on hold controversial Police Act Amendment ordinance||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday announced his government was putting on hold the controversial Kerala Police Amendment ordinance, which had triggered severe criticism of the state’s ruling CPI(M) government and allegations that it was a move aimed at “muzzling media.”In a brief statement on Monday, Vijayan said, ““We have been forced to bring an ordinance in view of serious cyber attacks against women and children. Many suicides and break up took place due to this. In view of concern expressed from various quarters, we have decided not to go ahead with it.”Also Read | Kerala CM defends new law to check cyber bullying; very few are convincedAlso, earlier in the day, Sitaram Yechury, the general secretary of the CPI(M), which is in power in Kerala, had disowned the ordinance, remarking that it did not represent his party’s view. On Sunday, amid mounting criticism of the ordinance, chief minister Vijayan had defended it, saying that the ordinance was guided by “growing abuse on social media targeting individuals and their personal freedom.”“The new amendment will no way be used against impartial journalism. Apprehensions to the contrary are unfounded,” he had said in a statement. “Within the contours of our Constitution and legal framework, everybody has the right to make the strongest criticism. The new amendment will not hamper that freedom in any way,” the statement had noted further.Under the proposed amendment, which was signed by Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Saturday, a police officer can suo motu register a case against an accused and arrest him. Also, any person can file a complaint against the accused.Also Read | Kerala Governor signs controversial police act amendment ordinanceUnder the amendment, any person who creates or sends any information that is deemed to be “offensive” or is intended to “offend or threaten” another person through any means of communication is liable to face imprisonment of three years or a fine of Rs 10,000 or both, according to the 118 (A) amendment to the Police Act 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-withdraws-controversial-police-act-amendment-ordinance/story-jD91EgM9OsoZxYlV8fRL3K.html
23-11-2020||India||3 Maoists killed in Chhattisgarh, carried collective reward of Rs 18 lakh||Three Maoists, including a woman cadre, carrying a collective reward of Rs 18 lakh on their heads were gunned down by the security forces in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar division on Monday, police said.Three weapons including an automatic rifle were found at the encounter spot. The dead Maoists have been identified as members of company no 5 of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA)-- Jyoti, carrying a reward or Rs 8 lakh, Badru, carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh and Guddu, carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, said security officials.Inspector general of police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, talking to HT, said that the encounter took place on Monday morning in Tadoki jungles under Raoghat police station of Kanker district.Also Read: Chhattisgarh government fixes tribal Devgudis to counter Maoists in Bastar region“The encounter took place between a team of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Maoists. A team of SSB got inputs about the gathering of Maoists and started cordoning off the area. The firing started when the Maoists were cordoned off by the security forces. A jawan of SSB also sustained bullet injuries and his condition is stable,” said the IG.Three weapons including one SLR and one X-95 have been recovered from the spot. The X-95 weapon was looted by Naxals after an ambush on BSF troops in the Raoghat area in 2018, said security officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-kanker-district/story-zDevxmd5nLJZw15SAd6qAN.html
23-11-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates flats for MPs, lauds them for facilitating Parliament session even during pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually inaugurated multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament (MPs) at Dr BD Marg in Delhi. A total of 76 flats have been developed from eight old bungalows, which were more than 80 years old, as was noted by a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate multi-storeyed flats for MPs on MondayLok Sabha speaker Om Birla was present at the virtual inauguration of the flats. PM Modi began his address by wishing Birla on his 58th birthday, which falls on the day, and congratulated the MPs on the inauguration of the facility.The Prime Minister noted how not just the MP residences but several other projects were pending since long, which were completed by his government, and before time. “A long wait of 23 years for the Ambedkar International Centre came to an end under our government. We also built the National War Memorial near India Gate in memory of our bravehearts. The new building of the Central Information Commission, as well as the National Police Memorial, were built under this government,” he said.ALSO WATCH | PM Modi at G20 summit: ‘Important to keep focus on fighting climate change’ He then lauded MPs for facilitating Parliament’s proceedings even during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, noting how both houses took turns to function one after the other even on weekends and also how all parties helped in smooth functioning of the House in the Monsoon session.PM Modi also noted how in 2014 more than 300 MPs, including himself, were first-time parliamentarians. This number, he noted, was 260 in 2019. On Parliament’s productivity, he said, “The 16th Lok Sabha passed 15% more bills than the 15th. The 17th Lok Sabha, in the first session, did 135% work in the time allotted. The Rajya Sabha also had a 100% efficiency. “The Prime Minister also mentioned several key legislations that have been passed in the last 12-18 months, including the farm laws, labour reforms,the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Triple Talaq law and the integration of the people of Jammu and Kashmir with mainstream development (abrogation of Article 370) .PM Modi ended his address with a Sanskrit ‘shloka’ which means “our achievement of a goal depends upon whether we are truly determined to achieve it or not.” “Today we have the means as well as the determination to achieve our goals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-flats-for-mps-lauds-them-for-facilitating-parliament-session-even-during-pandemic/story-RsMe59QqqQ6uQ0nAvvMAlJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Teenager in Bhopal run over by train while taking pictures||An 18-year-old boy was run over by a train in Bhopal late Saturday evening while taking pictures, police said. The boy was identified as Arib Khan, a resident of Budaun, Uttar Pradesh. Arib shifted to Bhopal 15 days ago after taking admission in Bachelor of Pharmacy, said his cousin Sharik Khan.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rajesh Singh Bhadoriya said, “Arib with his new friends went to a nearby railway track in Shahpura area to click pictures to upload on social media. When they were taking pictures, a train suddenly came from the opposite direction. His friends ran away from the track but Arib was crushed to death.”The friends informed his cousin Sharik and police. The police sent the body for post mortem and also recovered a camera on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenager-in-bhopal-run-over-by-train-while-taking-pictures/story-LnckhvcekYESRaI44G0sjI.html
23-11-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s condition extremely critical||The health condition of veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi deteriorated on Monday with doctors attending to him terming it as extremely critical. The 84-year-old has been admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) since November 2 after he complained of breathlessness. He had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25 and was discharged from hospital on October 25. Gogoi has suffered multiple organ failure and has been on ventilator support for the past few days. On Sunday, doctors had performed dialysis on him as he was unable to pass urine naturally due to kidney problem. “The health condition of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi has deteriorated. He is very critical right now and is on complete life support. We require God’s blessing for him now,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who reached GMCH on Monday morning, told journalists. Many of Gogoi’s fans and a large number of journalists have gathered outside GMCH waiting for the latest news on his health status. Prayer meetings are also being held across the state for his speedy recovery. The former CM’s wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav, who is a Congress MP from Kaliabor in Assam, are all present in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-condition-extremely-critical/story-bM2K4DZkegjeLgCdaVnQcP.html
23-11-2020||India||UP generates record Rs 137 cr revenue from sanitiser production||Turning a crisis into an opportunity, Uttar Pradesh registered a record production of sanitiser during the Covid-induced lockdown and after and generated record revenue in the process, officials said. According to statistics released by the excise department, the distilleries and small units of UP not only produced a record 177 lakh litre of sanitiser from March 24 to November 15 but has also generated a record revenue of Rs 137 crore. “While this includes GST revenue of Rs 12,848 lakh, the licence fee added Rs 794.28 lakh. In addition, the revenue from the denaturation fees was Rs 21.18 lakh,” additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said. “While more than 78.38 lakh litre of sanitiser was sold outside UP, 87.01 lakh litre was consumed within the state,” he added. “Production of sanitisers was completed quickly and the product was also promptly made available in the markets”, Bhoosreddy said. Officials said from just producing very little to exporting sanitiser to other states, UP quickly revisited its entire policy pertaining to sanitiser manufacture and sale.Soon after the lockdown started, the state’s food safety and drug administration department had relaxed norms for manufacture and availability of sanitiser, allowing general stores to sell them too. Earlier only medical centres with drug licences were authorised to sell sanitiser. Not just that, the excise department officials also ensured that the pricing of sanitiser was kept in check. “We decided that it should not have been more than Rs 100 per 200 ml pack. All credit to chief minister Yogi Adityanath for monitoring the situation and availability of sanitiser. He also asked us to ensure that the common man wasn’t fleeced,” Bhoosreddy said adding that the excise department had urged people to ask for receipts while buying sanitiser so that cases of overpricing could be verified and the guilty punished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-generates-record-rs-137-cr-revenue-from-sanitiser-production/story-p09bcZyOke7P3xwoFdVOGJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Rajiv Gandhi case convict Perarivalan gets a week’s parole from SC for medical check-up||The Supreme Court on Monday granted a week’s parole to Rajiv Gandhi assassination convict AG Perarivalan for medical check up. The order was passed by a three- judge bench headed by Justice LN Rao after Perarivalan’s lawyer senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan pointed out that his parole was ending today. He was granted parole by the designated court earlier from November 9 to 23 for medical check up. But since he was not provided with police escort, he was unable to get it done. This was informed to the apex court which directed the state government to provide police escort and extended his parole by a week.The order came on a petition filed by Perarivalan in which he had challenged the delay on his remission plea pending with Governor since 2015.The Tamil Nadu government had earlier informed the court that the Governor had sought a report from Union home ministry for response on the remission plea as a multi-disciplinary probe by CBI is underway on the larger conspiracy with relation to Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination in September 1991.The Court had asked CBI to respond on the progress in its larger conspiracy probe. The CBI filed an affidavit last week before the court informing that the probe had nothing to do with the remission plea of Perarivalan as the scope of the probe was against persons other than those who were already convicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-convict-ag-perarivalan-gets-a-week-s-parole-from-supreme-court-for-medical-check-up/story-r8QJiBrldwrvXwCNFYtErI.html
23-11-2020||India||After marathon op, Patripool rail over ridge girder launched In Kalyan||The work of launching the main girder for the new Patripool Rail over bridge (ROB) was completed on Monday morning after the Central Railway (CR) facilitated a special mega block to finish the remaining 10 per cent of the work, officials said. Even after the 14 hours long mega block imposed on November 21 and 22, the work of the girder launching could be completed up to 90 per cent only. However the special mega block by railway helped in completing the launch of the 76.67 meter long open web girder for the ROB located on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch. Technical glitches and an engine failure at Dadar station on Sunday morning had led to the delay and the launching of an 18-metre portion of the girder was pending. “As the work on Sunday started late we could not finish the entire work. Due to the special mega block the remaining works were finished. The special block was allotted between 1.30 am to 3 am,” said an officer of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). “During the block provided we managed to finish the major works and even after the block the work continued till 6 am,” added the officer. Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde who was at the spot overnight said,” Completing the launching of girder was very important and continuous efforts by the workers and engineers helped in finishing it. There were moments when we thought that the work will not finish. However, the dedicated approach helped completing it.”The 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled in November 2018 which badly affected the traffic movement in the city. Commuters have been demanding a new bridge as they had to face hour long traffic jams on the parallel existing bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-marathon-op-patripool-rail-over-ridge-girder-launched-in-kalyan/story-DFBQulSR74l9So2oaJh7IP.html
23-11-2020||India||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi extremely critical, say doctors||The health condition of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi deteriorated on Monday morning and he is “very very critical”, doctors said.The octogenerian Congress leader, undergoing treatment at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital for post-Covid complications, is being monitored by a team of nine doctors, GMCH Superintendent Abhijit Sarma said.“The present status of Sir (Gogoi) is very very critical and the doctors are doing their best,” he told reporters.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is at GMCH along with Gogoi’s son Gaurav.Gogoi, who is on ventilation and has suffered a multi-organ failure, was on dialysis on Sunday, which he could sustain for six hours.His blood pressure is fluctuating and he is breathing entirely with the help of machines.The 84-year-old three-time chief minister was admitted to GMCH on November 2. He was put under invasive ventilation on Saturday night when his condition worsened.On October 25, Gogoi, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and other post-recovery complications, was discharged from GMCH after two months.He had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25 and admitted to the GMCH the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-chief-minister-tarun-gogoi-extremely-critical-say-doctors/story-p6v3tFeGpHeDz3gHjXnfPM.html
23-11-2020||India||China’s geopolitical strategy cannot be countered by PR-driven media strategy: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi attacked the government following reports of renewed threat from China in Doklam. “China’s geopolitical strategy cannot be countered by a PR driven media strategy. This simple fact seems to elude the minds of those running GOI [Government of India],” he tweeted. China’s geopolitical strategy cannot be countered by a PR driven media strategy.This simple fact seems to elude the minds of those running GOI.https://t.co/GB89UmatTmGandhi continues to attack the government over the border stand-off with China, despite rumblings in the Congress following the setback in the Bihar assembly elections and bypolls to 58 seats in 11 states. Gandhi also tagged a report by NDTV that suggested a renewed threat from China in Doklam by accessing new satellite images. On Sunday, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad attacked his party over the “five-star culture”.Also Read: Dissent in Congress: From Adhir Chowdhury to Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said what“Elections are not won by adopting a five-star culture and party office-bearers should be elected,” said Azad, one of the 23 leaders who had signed a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding major changes in the party’s functioning.He also said the general impression is that there is no president of the party.Senior leader Salman Khurshid, though, rejected any perception of a leadership crisis in the Congress and said all-round support for Sonia and Rahul Gandhi is “apparent to anyone who is not blind”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-geopolitical-strategy-cannot-be-countered-by-pr-driven-media-strategy-rahul-gandhi/story-lTXIfFHIgiBjqE5M8IyrML.html
23-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh government fixes tribal Devgudis to counter Maoists in Bastar region||In its efforts to win over the tribals in battle against Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district of Bastar, the state government has begun beautifying and preserving Devgudis, or temple-like structures of tribals’ deities. Devgudis play a vital role in the lives of tribals. Officials said the decision followed the demand of Sarva Adivasi Samaj and other tribal representatives for basic amenities like water and toilet at the Devgudis of all 143 panchayats of the district. While the local administration took heed of the demand, Maoists reportedly threated residents of a couple of villages against taking government help. Despite that, Devgudis in around 15 village panchayats have been preserved, officials said. “We had discussions with the people and tribal representatives of the region and came to the conclusion that Devgudi is a place through which people connect with the administration. The representatives told us that during any local festival, they visit Devgudis but suffer for want of drinking water, toilet and other basic amenities. Hence, we decided to help the tribals by giving Devgudis a makeover,” said Dantewada collector Deepak Soni. Also read | 3 Maoists killed in encounter in Bihar’s GayaHe added that the administration has decided to spend Rs7 lakh on each Devgudi for fencing, drinking water, sheds, toilets and other facilities. “We have identified around one acre of land around each Devgudi. We have sanctioned money for 143 village panchayats of the district and the work has started,” said Soni, adding that the aim is to develop local tourism also. Talking about the threat of Maoists in the construction activity, Soni said, “Till date, no one has informed me that Maoists are opposing Devgudis, except stray incidents like a couple of letters by which Maoists purportedly threatened some people. Even in Chitpaal village, which is in a severely affected Maoist area, the Devgudi has been renovated,” said Soni. Other officers posted in the district say that the Maoists are in a fix whether to oppose the step of administration or not. Meanwhile, the administration is trying to connect with the tribals of villages located deep inside the Maoist area through this gesture. “If Maoists will oppose the government’s work, it will be seen as opposing the tribal culture which would make it difficult for them in the villages.They are in a Catch-22 situation now...,” said another office posted in the region. This officer said that for funds, Central and state government schemes have been merged to beautify the Devgudis for promotion of local tourism. “Like Swachh Bharat is being implemented to build toilets and water facilities for community use around Devgudis. MNREGA is being used to build labour intensive infrastructure around it. Through Devgudis, the administration is implementing various schemes for community participation. There are seven oaths that people have to take, which includes usage of mosquito net for malaria eradication programme, Suposhan Scheme to combat anaemia and malnutrition,” the officer said. Dantewada superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Pallava said preservation of Devgudis will help police and administration to make tribals aware about state’s policies and programmes and will work to counter Maoist ideology in these villages. “Maoists worry that if villagers engage with the administration in constructive ways, they might grow distant from them,” said Pallava. Meanwhile, tribal representatives of Bastar claimed that the demand for preservation of their Devgudis pertained to their faith and religion and Maoists will not oppose it. “We have demanded from the government that our Devgudis need preservation and protection. If Maoists oppose this or threaten us , they will have to face local opposition,” said president of Sarva Adivasi Samaj, Bastar region, Prakash Thakor. However, human rights activists have raised questions over the administration’s step. “I do not think it is a good idea for the district administration to use adivasi religious and cultural spaces, symbols or practices to further its own policies. It can do so through appropriate democratic institutions and platforms like a gram sabha meeting,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist working in Bastar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-government-fixes-tribal-devgudis-to-counter-maoists-in-bastar-region/story-vBeda5GqHJz8dhEs3SoxcI.html
23-11-2020||India||Covid-19 situation ‘grim’, observes SC; seeks report from Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam||Taking note of the worsening Covid-19 situation in the country, the Supreme Court on Monday asked the state governments to file status reports on the current situation in the respective states. Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam have been asked to file affidavits on the steps taken so far by them. All states must prepare for coming months, the apex court said, expressing concerns as several states have reported a resurgence of Covid-19 wave in November.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “It is time to introspect where we are lacking. Keep in mind situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. The situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. We are of the opinion that all states must be prepared for the coming months. In the last two weeks in November, deaths have increased in Delhi. Similar is the situation in other states of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Assam among other states. We need to know the situation as on date.”ALSO WATCH | Covid: Delhi vs New York comparison by CM Kejriwal amid 3rd wave #HTLS2020The bench was hearing a suo moto petition on the management of medical care given to Covid-19 patients and the manner of treating bodies, after certain news reports showed bodies lying unattended in the hospital. Pursuant to this petition, the Court ordered detailed steps for all states on June 19 and July 27 to constitute expert committees and install CCTVs in Covid wards. While most states had filed compliance of these directions, the bench sought current status keeping in mind the upsurge in November and expected spike in coming months. The Court also rapped the Gujarat government and wondered how it was allowing political celebrations, weddings at a time when the number of cases are on the rise.The responses have to be filed before the next date of hearing fixed for Friday.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta placed his anguish on record that a matter concerning dignified treatment of bodies should come to be monitored by this Court. “Where have we reached. It’s really unfortunate for humanity that a Constitutional Court has to deal with such a matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-status-report-from-delhi-maharashtra-gujarat-and-assam-over-covid-19-situation/story-Lxs4pAkpDST4JEZR7JRiQN.html
23-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar heads towards south coast: List of major cyclones in India since 2019||Cyclone Nivar, which is brewing in the Bay of Bengal, is moving towards the southern states and Union territory (UT) of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Expected to make landfall on Wednesday, Nivar is likely to cause heavy rainfall in these places.However, it is not the first major cyclone which will have hit a state this year or in the last 12 months. Here are some major cyclones to have occurred in India since 2019:1. Cyclone Amphan: India’s first major cyclone of 2020, Super Cyclonic Storm Amphan caused major damage in West Bengal, as well in the neighbouring country of Bangladesh. Odisha, another eastern state, was also hit by Amphan though it was spared the sort of damage that the cyclone caused in West Bengal. Formed on May 16, Amphan dissipated on May 21, leaving widespread destruction in its trail, claiming over 100 lives, most of which were from West Bengal.2. Cyclone Nisarga: Severe Cyclonic Storm Nisarga struck the Indian subcontinent within just two weeks of Amphan, most severely affecting India’s financial hub of Maharashtra, where all fatalities due to the cyclone-six-took place. The state of Gujarat and the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (DNHDD) were also put on high alert though both escaped Nisarga’s wrath. Formed on June 1 and dissipated on June 4, Nisarga was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike Maharashtra since June 1891.3. Cyclone Fani: Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm Fani caused major damage in Odisha, being the strongest tropical cyclone to hit the state since 1999. Though Fani also affected other states like West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, as well as neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka, it was Odisha that bore its brunt. Fani, which formed on April 26 April 2019 and dissipated on May 5, claimed 89 lives in all. Odisha was praised by the United Nations for its handling of the crisis.4. Cyclone Bulbul: Another cyclone which affected both West Bengal and Bangladesh, Bulbul was a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm. A tropical cyclone, Bulbul began forming on November 5, 2019 and dissipated on November 11 and claimed a total of 41 lives. Only the second to make it to category 3 hurricane strength, with the first instance being in 1960, Bulbul also affected neighbouring countries like Myanmar and Thailand, besides Bangladesh.5. Cyclone Vayu: Very Severe Cyclonic Storm Vayu was a strong tropical cyclone which claimed a total of eight lives in June 2019. Vayu was the strongest cyclone to hit Gujarat’s Saurashtra region since 1998. It formed on June 10, 2019 and dissipated on June 17. Vayu, which was named by India after the Sanskrit and Hindi word ‘vayu’ or wind, impacted more than 6.6 million people in the northwestern parts of the country.6. Cyclone Maha: Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm Maha mainly affected the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Kerala. Maha began as a depression, further intensifying to become Cyclonic Storm, Very Severe Cyclonic Storm and, finally, Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm. Formed on October 30, 2019, Maha dissipated on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-heads-towards-south-coast-list-of-major-cyclones-in-india-since-2019/story-xuP9iVNniTmXcZLZ6OzVnK.html
23-11-2020||India||Threat of Covid-19 far from over; be alert till vaccine is developed: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said all scientists are making efforts towards developing a Covid-19 vaccine under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The threat of Covid-19 is far from ending. All our scientists are making great efforts towards developing a vaccine, under the guidance of PM Modi. Still, we will have to be alert until the vaccine is developed, it reaches every person and its effects kick in,” Adityanath said.The Uttar Pradesh government officials on Sunday said they will be testing people travelling to the state from the national capital amid the coronavirus disease outbreak“We will be testing people coming from Delhi via flight, bus or train, in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. We are discussing on the number of people allowed to attend wedding or event,” UP Chief Secretary RK Tiwari told ANI.The move comes days after Noida began random tests at the border on people coming from Delhi.After Noida, the authorities in Haryana’s Gurugram and Faridabad also started random testing of commuters travelling from Delhi.District authorities in the two states said such tests were being carried out to stop Covid-19 cases from spiralling out of control as Delhi remains one of the worst affected hot spots of the infectious disease in the country, recording 8,593 cases in a day recently.Covid-19 continued to spread across Uttar Pradesh with 2,588 more people testing positive on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 5,26,780.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threat-of-covid-19-far-from-over-be-alert-till-vaccine-is-developed-yogi-adityanath/story-TAi8RLqcCJ01AaZR2b7Z0H.html
23-11-2020||India||Dissent in Congress: From Adhir Chowdhury to Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said what||In the aftermath of Bihar election in which the Congress fielded candidates in 70 seats as part of Mahagathbandhan with the RJD and a few left parties and managed to win only 19, several Congress leaders have spoken for the need of reforms in the party. This has created a clear division inside the party. Here is who said what:Kapil SibalThe rumblings inside the party started with veteran leader Kapil Sibal calling for introspection inside the party. In an interview, he pitched for democratic process inside the party. “There has been no dialogue and there seems to be no effort for a dialogue by the leadership. We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual,” he said.Karti ChidambaramSupporting Sibal’s call, Karti Chidambaram said, “It’s time we introspect, ideate, consult and act.”Ashok Gehlot“There was no need for Mr Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too.But each time rank and file of the Congress Party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crisis. Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development,” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said.Salman KhurshidIn a long Facebook post, veteran leader Salman Khurshid questioned those who are doubting the party today. “When we do well, admittedly somewhat infrequently they take it for granted. But when we underperform, not even do badly, they are quick to bite their nails. By the looks of it there would be little of the nails left for future disappointments. Is it really a case of bad workmen quarrelling with their tools? If the mood of the electorate is resistant to the liberal values we have espoused and cherished we should be prepared for a long struggle rather than look for short cuts to get back into power. If we are explicitly or implicitly willing to compromise with our principles to regain power we might as well pack up our bags. It is another matter that consolidation of our principled politics, like any cause, requires periodic re-appraisal and re-writing of strategy and logistics,” Khurshid said.Mallikarjun Kharge“If we weaken the party and our leaders in such a way, definitely the party cannot go forward and ultimately if our ideology is weakened we will be destroyed. You will have to keep this in mind,” Mallikarjun Kharge said.Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryCongress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said only speaking for introspection while doing nothing will not help. “Kapil Sibal could have raised the issues inside a party forum instead of making such embarrassing remarks in public. Those who are unhappy with the functioning of the party have the freedom to form a new party or join one if they feel that the Congress is not the right place for them. He seems to be very concerned about the Congress and its need for introspection. Earlier also he had spoken about it in public. But he was not seen campaigning for the party in the elections in Bihar or other states that went to polls last year.Instead of giving sermons sitting in AC rooms, he should work on the ground. Lecturing others without doing anything won’t help. Only calling for introspection without doing anything on our own is of no use,” he said.Ghulam Nabi Azad“Our party’s structure has collapsed. We need to rebuild our structure and then if any leader is elected in that structure, it will work. But saying that just by changing the leader, we’ll win Bihar, UP, Madhya Pradesh etc is wrong. That will happen once we change the system,” Azad said.The discourse started with RJD leader Sivanand Tiwari raising questions over Congress’s role in Bihar election. “It contested 70 seats but did not hold even 70 rallies. Rahul Gandhi visited Bihar on three days and addressed two rallies a day. Priyanka Gandhi was not seen at all. When electioneering was at its peak, he was picnicking with Priyanka Gandhi in Shimla,” Tiwari had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-in-congress-from-adhir-chowdhury-to-ghulam-nabi-azad-who-said-what/story-HLngnYbL5gYX2clTp0f6cM.html
23-11-2020||India||Maharashtra’s former energy minister burns ‘inflated’ power bills||BJP leader and former Maharashtra energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule burnt electricity bills here on Monday to protest against the state government for not giving relief to consumers who complained of inflated power bills during the pandemic.Earlier this month, state Energy Minister Nitin Raut hinted at a major relief to the consumers facing the issue of inflated power bills, saying a Diwali gift was in the offing.However, a few days back, the minister said the government will not be able to provide any relaxation in the inflated electricity bills and consumers will have to make full payment of the bills.As part of the BJP’s statewide protest against the government’s decision, Bawankule along with other party workers burnt electricity bills on Monday near his residence at Mahadula in Koradi area of Nagpur.Also Read |  Maharashtra: As Covid-19 cases rise, govt warns of a lockdown if people ignore guidelinesBawankule last week demanded that those who consume up to 300 units of electricity daily should get waiver from bill payment for the March to June period.He also said that people have lost jobs (due to lockdown) and several electricity consumers have received inflated bills. The government should correct these bills, the had demanded.Raut last week said the state government will not be able to provide any relaxation in electricity bills.The power firms were making huge losses, and it was a “mess” inherited from the BJP government, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-former-energy-minister-burns-inflated-power-bills/story-zdvTsZsqETZHkEvQvJSb9O.html
23-11-2020||India||6 NDRF teams deployed in parts of Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclonic storm warning||In the wake of a cyclonic storm warning over Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast in the next 24 hours, six teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Cuddalore and Chidambaram towns here for pe-positioning on Monday. “The Depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal about 600 km south-southeast of Puducherry and 630 km south-southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours,” the IMD said.Due to well-marked low pressure over the southwest Bay of Bengal, a cyclonic storm is expected on the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast in the next 24 hours, the IMD had informed earlier today.“The well-marked low pressure over southwest Bay of Bengal is very likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours and move towards Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast. It’s likely to cross between Karaikal and Mamallapuram by November 25 afternoon,” said S Balachandran, IMD Chennai.On Sunday, the IMD had said the “very severe” cyclonic storm “GATI” over the southwest Arabian Sea has moved westwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-ahead-of-cyclonic-storm-warning/story-3Cy8Ni9Dbld3IlnE0neuoJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Rajasthan records highest single-day spike of 3,260 Covid-19 cases||The number of new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan touched another peak with 3,260 cases being recorded in a single day for the first time on Sunday, the health department said.Seventeen casualties on Sunday took the death toll to 2,163. The total number of positive cases in the state increased to 23,190.The cases continued to increase on the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. On Saturday, 3,007 people had tested positive for Covid-19. The number of positive cases on Friday and Thursday were 2,762 and 2,549 respectively. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day spike in new Covid-19 infection with 603 cases, followed by Jodhpur (414), Kota (240), Alwar (271), Ajmer (210), Udaipur (184), Bhilwara (131), and Pali with 100.In Rajasthan, the total number of people tested till date is 41,79,816, of which 2,43,936 are found positive and 1,165 samples are under process. On Sunday, the government increased the penalty to Rs 25,000 from Rs 10,000, if more than 100 people gather in any event such as marriage. The government had earlier imposed night curfew in eight districts and restricted the assembly of people and increased the fine for not wearing a mask to Rs 500.At a review meeting on Sunday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said it is the responsibility of the district officials to ensure strict implementation of night curfew, the limit of 100 people in the event, social distancing and wearing a mask. He said that at a time when coronavirus infection is spreading rapidly, the gathering of more people than the permissible limit in marriage ceremonies is increasing the risk of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-3-260-covid-19-cases/story-duFVpkBQYXYBt2fVZF1X3N.html
23-11-2020||India||Season’s first cyclonic storm to cross Tamil Nadu coast on Nov 25||This season’s first cyclonic storm to affect the Indian coast will cross the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts on Wednesday afternoon, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). It’s likely to bring extremely heavy rain to Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema and adjoining areas.The depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal moved nearly northwestwards in the past six hours and lay centred at about 600 km south-southeast of Puducherry and 630 km south-southeast of Chennai. “It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours, move northwestwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around 25th November afternoon,” IMD said in its Monday bulletin.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal on November 22; over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts during November 22 to 25. “We are expecting extremely heavy rain along the Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema region. There may be some damage due to strong winds and rain when the storm moves inland,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.Very severe cyclonic storm Gati, which developed over Arabian Sea, weakened into a severe cyclonic storm over Somalia. Gati, which made a landfall over north Somalia, moved westwards with a speed of about 9 kmph during the past six hours and weakened into a cyclonic storm over the same region and lay centred 150 km south-southwest of Ras Binnah (Somalia). It is very likely to move nearly westwards and weaken gradually into a deep depression during next six hours, IMD added in its morning bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/season-s-first-cyclonic-storm-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-on-november-25-afternoon/story-Tyd3m3SY6iwicLt9DEMNyO.html
23-11-2020||India||India records 44,059 new infections in last 24 hours, 2.5% drop from yesterday||India recorded 44,059 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours registering 2.5 per cent drop from fresh cases recorded on Sunday. The new cases take the total tally to over 9.13 million, which includes 511 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases remain way below the 4.5 lakh-mark. On Monday, the number of active cases in India stood at 4,43,486 which is only 4.85 per cent of the total tally. On Sunday, there were 45,209 fresh infections and 501 deaths.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 fatality rate drops to 1.46%; Govt targets bringing it down to 1%Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday will hold a video-conference with the chief ministers of the state as Covid-19 has resurfaced in a few states including, Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh. Night curfews, short-term lockdowns have come back in many cities as well.The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has worsened as among the over 500 national daily toll, Delhi is contributing more than 100. The Centre has decided to depute high-level teams to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh. Similar teams were sent to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur, and Chhattisgarh earlier. Expressing hope, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said Covid-19 will soon be a past episode of the 21st century. “Fewer and fewer people infected are dying. We will have vaccines available very soon and the cases will significantly go down in the next few months,” he said.“The rapidness with which we have been able to create vaccines will have a cascading effect on new technologies that will help us all in the near future in faster drug discoveries, lowering the cost and making it more affordable for poorer sections of our population. The process that used to take 10 years, now produces vaccines almost in 10 months -- developed, tested, and soon will be available in the market,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-44-059-new-infections-in-last-24-hours-2-5-drop-from-yesterday/story-PXXYShd5BjugLpgu8U8y1I.html
23-11-2020||India||J&K: Fresh snowfall in plains, IMD issues orange alert for higher reaches||Kashmir is under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance which could result in snowfall in the plains.India Meteorological department (IMD) has issued orange alert for the higher reaches of J&K and Sonmarg -Zojila axis. Since Sunday night, the Valley is witnessing rains while the upper reaches are observing snowfall, especially in north Kashmir. Light snowfall was reported from plains and in some places, it was reported early in the morning.IMD director Sonam Lotus said that as predicted, light to moderate snow was reported even as isolated places recorded a heavy snowfall.“A few places of Jammu, Drass-Sonmarg axis are still snowing and it is likely to continue. This spell is going to bring good snow and rainfall,” he said, adding that overall, the spell is likely to last between November 23-25 and will significantly decrease thereafter. “There could be a temporary disruption [of traffic] on Zojila, Banihal-Ramban axis, Mughal road and other such vulnerable spots due to snow and low temperature. There is an orange weather warning for the higher reaches of J&K and Sonmarg -Zojila axis,” he said.Meanwhile, J&K Disaster Management department had warned of avalanches in the upper regions of Kashmir, especially in the northern parts, asking people to remain vigilant.Gulmarg, that recieved two spells of snowfall in this month in Baramulla, recorded minus 7.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday night. Fresh snowfall was recorded at Pahalgam and Gulmarg, both famous tourist spots of Kashmir. Srinagar recorded maximum 8.4 degrees Celcius and minimum 1.6 degrees Celcius temperature.Following the snowfall, the historical Mughal road has been closed for the traffic from early morning.“Mughal road is closed due to snowing. Snowing at Jawahar Tunnel and rain started on Jammu-Srinagar NHW but through so far @JmuKmrPolice,” tweeted the J&K traffic department spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-fresh-snowfall-in-plains-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-higher-reaches/story-tThIaIPvkYfIGtRrloYaKJ.html
23-11-2020||India||UP’s Covid-19 tally rises to over 5.26 lakh after 2,588 fresh cases||Covid-19 continued to spread its tentacles across Uttar Pradesh with 2,588 more people testing positive on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 5,26,780.Lucknow reported over 350 fresh cases, 10 more than November 21 and Meerut reported 283 cases, 128 cases more than a day before. Ghaziabad reported 189 cases (32 more), Gautam Budha Nagar 171 (34 more) and Varanasi 102 cases (12 more). Bareilly reported 47 cases, six more than a day before. Two districts among those with major Covid caseload were an exception -- Kanpur reported 118 fresh cases, which was 23 less than a day before, and Prayagraj also recorded a fall of 58 cases with 110 fresh cases. Lucknow reported the maximum six fresh deaths, Meerut four and while Prayagraj, Gautam Budha Nagar and Gorakhpur reported one death each. Lucknow has the maximum caseload of 69,242 patients reported till now and among them 64,877 have recovered while 963 deaths have been reported. In all 51,696 (74% of the total cases) patients had opted for home isolation in Lucknow. On Sunday, samples of 10,389 people were taken under contact tracing exercise. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 93.69% while fatality rate is 1.39%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Indira Nagar reported 35 cases, seven more than a day before, Aliganj 16 cases, Gomti Nagar 38, Ashiana 20, Vikas Nagar 11, Cantonment 22, Alambagh 19, Chowk 19, Hazratganj 12, Mahanagar 16, Chinhat 10 and Madiaon 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-over-5-26-lakh-after-2-588-fresh-cases/story-P5q9yAnhfQwkfp2GlmluyN.html
23-11-2020||India||Joyride turns into nightmare for minor girl after 3 men allegedly rape her||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang raped by the three men including an acquaintance in a moving car in Raipur, police said on Monday.The incident took place on November 17, when one Himanshu Gupta (21) picked up the victim for joyride at around 2 am. The joyride quickly turned into a nightmare as he raped her along with two other friends. “The complainant along with her parents reached the police station on Sunday night. The police immediately registered a case and launched a hunt of the accused. According to the girl, the main accused Gupta, who was known to the victim’s family, picked her from her house in the wee hours on November 17 and then raped her along with his friends,” Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Yadav said.Police said that the crime took place near Janata Colony of the city. The accused dropped her in front of her home before driving away.“The accused also threatened the victim not to tell anything about the incident to anyone. On Sunday, the victim narrated the incident to her aunt and then the matter reached the police,” said Yadav.A case under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and POCSO Act and investigation has started.“All the three accused are on the run. We have leads and the accused will be arrested soon,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joyride-turns-into-nightmare-for-minor-girl-after-3-men-allegedly-rape-her/story-f1kz9EBrArLN9GWsxwYQHN.html
23-11-2020||India||Bharti Singh, husband Harsh’s bail hearing likely to be delayed||A Mumbai court is likely to hear the bail pleas of comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya on Monday — a day after the duo were sent to judicial custody till December 4 in a drug-related cases. However, it may get postponed as the Narcotics Control Bureau will also file its replies on the bail pleas. “As I am busy with other cases today, we will request for some other date of argument,” Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said to ANI.Bharti Singh was arrested on Saturday after the Narcotics Control Bureau recovered 86.5 gm of ganja from Bharti and Harsh’s Andheri House. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity, for the possession of which one can be jailed for up to six months and/or a fine of Rs 10,000 can be imposed. ALSO WATCH | Bharti Singh, husband sent to judicial custody; Nawab Malik’s question to NCB NCB has said both Bharti and Harsh have admitted to have consumed ganja. After Harsh was arrested on Sunday, the couple was produced before a magistrates court on Sunday which remanded them to judicial custody. Soon after the court order, the couple filed bail pleas through advocate Ayaz Khan. In their bail pleas, Singh and Limbachiya sought to be released saying they do not have any criminal antecedents and hence there is no question of them absconding.During the hearing, the NCB sought Limbachiya’s custody for questioning but did not seek Singh’s custody and told the court that she may be sent to judicial custody. Their lawyer Khan argued that there is no question of custodial interrogation as the alleged substance recovered is lesser than the ‘small quantity’ as prescribed under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The magistrate accepted the arguments and noted that custodial interrogation was not required and that the accused have already been questioned for a considerable time on Saturday. Singh and Limbachiya have been booked under sections 20(b)(ii)(A) (involves small quantity of drugs) and 8(c) (possession of drugs) and 27 (consumption of drugs) of the NDPS Act.Acting on a tip-off, the NCB on Saturday conducted search at Singh’s office and residence after a drug peddler gave out Singh’s name. This is part of NCB’s ongoing probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood — an issue that came to the fore following the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. Bharti Singh has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on TV and also hosted a few such shows. Harsh is a screenwriter and a lyricist.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-criminal-antecedents-court-to-hear-bail-pleas-of-bharti-singh-harsh-today/story-F2V8jcnoszUJrFylpdnMNK.html
23-11-2020||India||Very severe cyclonic storm ‘Gati’ moves westwards, to make landfall on Nov 24||A cyclonic storm is expected on the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast in the next 24 hours due to well-marked low pressure over southwest Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cyclone Gati, is likely to make landfall between Karaikal in Puducherry and Mamallapuram in northern Tamil Nadu on November 24 and 25. The very severe cyclonic storm "GATI" over southwest Arabian Sea moved nearly westwards with a speed of about 18 kmph during past 06 hours and crossed north Somalia coast near latitude 10.40N around 2030 hrs IST pic.twitter.com/Ed59KjXCrb“The well-marked low pressure over southwest Bay of Bengal is very likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours and move towards Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast. It’s likely to cross between Karaikal and Mamallapuram by November 25 afternoon,” IMD Chennai’s S Balachandran told ANI.“Very severe cyclonic storm ‘GATI’ over the southwest Arabian Sea moved westwards and lay centred over the southwest Arabian Sea near Latitude 10.4° N and Longitude 51.5°E, about 40 km east of Somalia coast & 90 km south-southeast of Ras Binnah (Somalia) at 1730 hrs IST today,” IMD had tweeted.“The well-marked low-pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal persists. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Southwest Bay of Bengal during next 12 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during subsequent 24 hours,” IMD added.Ship and fishermen should avoid venturing into the open sea till November 25 as a precautionary measure,the IMD said, as the approaching depression will increase the wind speed, especially in the coastal areas. On November 25, when the cyclonic storm is expected to make the landfall, the wind speed is expected to go up to 80-90 kmph gusting 100 kmph from the current 40-50 kmph.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-severe-cyclonic-storm-gati-to-make-landfall-on-nov-24-latest-updates/story-d8nTUSdcST7vsAg340XViM.html
23-11-2020||India||More girls being adopted by foreign couples, UP gives credit to Mission Shakti programme||In what is being seen as a result of the Uttar Pradesh government’s Mission Shakti programme, orphan girls are being picked up for adoption by childless couples from places like Belgium, Spain, Italy, Canada, France and Malta. In 2019 alone, 67 children were adopted by foreigners, out of which 45 were girls. Similarly, in 2020, the domestic adoption was 131, which included 88 girls. Foreigners adopted 22 girls out of a total of 35 children adopted from January 1, 2020 to November 22, 2020, an official said.As many as 456 girls have been adopted by domestic and foreign couples in the past two years. In 2019, 290 kids were adopted from government children homes by domestic couples out of which 136 were girls. “The children are mostly below the age of six, though sometimes, they are around 8-9 years old too. In October alone, a girl was adopted by a US couple. Another girl will be leaving for Spain on November 25. Specialised adoption agency does the follow-up at regular intervals,” said Sangeeta Sharma, a member of the Child Welfare Committee.A senior official said the Mission Shakti campaign has been intensified with emphasis on children’s rights, female foeticide, sexual crimes against girls and also adoption of orphaned girl child. The campaign, which was launched in October, aims at safety, dignity and empowerment of women and girls, said a state government representative.Asia Raza, a social worker of a government children’s home, said that the past two years, there have been maximum adoptions of girls which is a positive sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-girls-being-adopted-by-foreign-couples-up-gives-credit-to-mission-shakti-programme/story-VzhBG1FYPMUebHsARK69eI.html
23-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India-Singapore joint naval drills from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, Singapore to kick off naval drills in Andaman Sea todayIndia and Singapore will kick off naval drills in the Andaman Sea on Monday, with the focus on enhancing mutual inter-operability and learning the best practices from each other, an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Sunday. Read moreMercury drops further over NW India as icy winds from Western Himalayas hit plainsMinimum temperatures continued to drop in most parts of northwest India on Sunday and Monday. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of only 6.5 degrees C, 5 degrees below normal until 6.30am. Read morePM Modi likely to discuss Covid-19 vaccine distribution with states tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold virtual meetings with chief ministers of states and union territories on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation of the states. Read moreIndia’s Best Dancer: Tiger Pop beats Mukul Gain, Shweta Warrier to win the show, takes home Rs 15 lakhsThe first season of the dance reality show, India’s Best Dancer, has a winner. In the glittering finale, held on Sunday, Tiger Pop (Ajay Singh) of Gurugram emerged the winner, winning a prize money of Rs 15 lakhs. Read moreScientists turn ‘jiggle’ inside the Sun into sound. Heard it yet?Have you ever thought if the Sun is silent or if it makes sounds? If you have, then this video by NASA will present you with an answer. Even if not, this is a clip which is mesmerising and intriguing, to say the least. Read moreHarley-Davidson owners take out ‘Dark Ride’ rallies to protest India pull-outHarley-Davidson owners’ group on Sunday conducted protest rallies called ‘Dark Rides’ in as many as 14 cities in the country against the decision of the American motorcycle company to pull out of India. Read moreBSF detects tunnel in Samba, link suspected with terrorists killed in NagrotaA 150-meter long underground tunnel suspected to be used by terrorists for infiltration was detected by the BSF at the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector on Sunday, DGP Dilbag Singh said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-singapore-joint-naval-drills-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5KXTex5v6QhHndkcTqhqKM.html
23-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: India to immunise 250 million citizens, US vaccinations might begin in December||Hopes for an early arrival of a potential vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been rekindled as various vaccine candidates are in the middle or beginning of late-stage trials. Meanwhile, the total number of people who have contracted the disease globally is at 58.9 million, while nearly 1.4 million have lost their lives due to it, as per a worldometers tally.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update for a coronavirus vaccine, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday expressed confidence that Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine candidate, Covaxin, could complete its trials in a “month or two.” A top official in the United States, meanwhile, said the US might begin vaccinations in December, in what is the world’s worst-hit nation.ALSO WATCH | ‘When vaccine is around the corner...’: Warning on ‘Covid fatigue’ #HTLS2020 Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine front:1. Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday reiterated the government plans to immunise 200 million to 250 million citizens by next July. “We are in the process of developing our indigenous vaccines, in the process of completing our third-phase trials in the next one or two months,” the minister said on Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which started its third-phase trials last week. Covaxin is among five vaccine candidates undergoing trials in India and the only indigenous candidate among them. Bharat Biotech has partnered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to develop the candidate.Also Read | Local Covid-19 vaccine final trials could end within two months, says Harsh Vardhan2. In the United States, Moncef Slaoui, head of the US government’s virus vaccine effort, said the country might begin its vaccination programme by December 11-12. Speaking to CNN, Slaoui said the plan is to be “able to ship vaccines to immunisation sites within 24 hours of approval” by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 20 million people across the US could be vaccinated next month, with a further 30 million per month after that, Slaoui further estimated. 3. Pfizer may have applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of its vaccine candidate in the United States but it is the United Kingdom which could give regulatory approval before the US does, the Telegraph has reported. While EUA in the US is expected to be given in December, the UK could give its approval this week, the report said. Pfizer has developed its vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, in partnership with Germany’s BioNTech SE.4. The official Twitter account of Russia’s vaccine candidate Sputnik V on Sunday said the price per dose of the vaccine would be “much lower” than that of vaccines of American firms Moderna and Pfizer. “Translating pharma lingo: the announced price of Pfizer of USD 19.50 and Moderna of USD 25-USD 37 per dose actually means their price of USD 39 and USD 50-USD 74 per person. Two doses are required per person for the Pfizer, Sputnik V and Moderna vaccines. The price of Sputnik V will be much lower,” the official account said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-india-to-immunise-250-million-citizens-us-vaccinations-might-begin-in-december/story-l6Sa8U04V0GAPJP8ASSKfN.html
23-11-2020||India||Mercury drops further over NW India as icy winds from Western Himalayas hit plains||Minimum temperatures continued to drop in most parts of northwest India on Sunday and Monday. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of only 6.3 degrees C, 5 degrees below normal.On Sunday, Gulmarg recorded a minimum temperature of -7.3 degrees C, 5.3 degrees C below normal; Palampur recorded 2 degrees Celsius, 6.9 degrees C below normal; Hisar recorded 7.7 degrees C, 3.5 degrees C below normal; Bathinda recorded 5.4 degrees C, 3 degrees C below normal; Kota recorded 9.3 degrees C, 6 degrees C below normal and Mt Abu recorded 1 degrees C, 4.9 degree C below normal.“The cold in the plains in a result of snowfall in the hills. Cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury, the minimum will rise by 2-3 degree C from Monday when a fresh western disturbance affects the region,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.In Delhi, the lowest ever minimum temperature was recorded on November 28, 1938, when the minimum was 3.9°C, IMD data shows. The regional meteorological centre, Delhi, said there is a cold wave in the Capital. A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is under 10 degree C and the departure from normal is 4.5 degree C for more than a day. Under the influence of the western disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rain or snow very likely over Western Himalayan Region between November 23 and 26. Isolated heavy rain or snow is also very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on November 25. Minimum temperatures are likely to drop substantially after the WD passes.Also read | Marginal drop in air quality, IMD forecasts higher pollution levels from MondayMeanwhile, the well-marked low-pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has concentrated into a depression over southwest Bay of Bengal about 700 km south-southeast of Puducherry and 740 km south-southeast of Chennai. It is likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. It is likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on November 25. This is the first cyclone of the post monsoon season in Bay of Bengal, another very severe cyclonic storm, Gati, over Arabian Sea has crossed Somalia and is likely to gradually weaken.Fishermen are advised not to venture into equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal on November 22; over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts during November 22 to 25. “We are expecting extremely heavy rain along the Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema region. There may be some damage due to strong winds and rain when the storm moves inland,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-drops-further-over-nw-india-as-icy-winds-from-western-himalayas-hit-plains/story-z2xO3x4s5QmYgldjc7LelJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar may expand cabinet after first session of assembly||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar could expand his cabinet after the five-day inaugural session of the new legislative assembly ends on Friday, people familiar with the development said. Ahead of the first session of the 17th Bihar assembly which begins Monday, sources said the cabinet expansion was imperative because the 14-member cabinet is overburdened with many of the senior ministers having been allotted five departments. Recently, the building construction minister Ashok Choudhary was given additional charge of education department after resignation of Mewalal Choudhary following protests by opposition RJD over alleged corruption charges. Other senior ministers like deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and Bijendra Prasad Yadav are handling five to six departments while some ministers have been allotted two to three departments. “The cabinet expansion could take place after the house ends. The expansion could be any day after November 27 or in the first week of December,” said a senior leader in the NDA, on condition of anonymity. He said the expansion was necessary as ministers sworn in the cabinet after government formation on November 16 are overburdened with several departments. There are total 14 ministers in the cabinet now including the Chief Minister following the resignation of Mewalal Choudhary of the JD(U). Five ministers from the JD(U), seven from the BJP and one each from the VIP and HAM(S), smaller allies in the NDA in Bihar, were sworn in on November 16.Sources said 17-18 new ministers could be inducted in case of likely expansion of cabinet with BJP getting higher share of 10 ministers while the JD(U) could get seven new faces while the VIP and HAM(S) may not get ministerial berths in the expansion and could be accommodated later. Insiders in the NDA said a broad-based consensus has been reached among allies in the NDA on allotment of ministerial berths based on the formula of allotting two ministerial berths against seven seats to each party. That way, BJP with 74 hopes to get maximum 20 ministerial berths while JD(U) with 43 seats has a stake for 12 berths. “The BJP and JD(U) would have maximum 18 and 12 ministers from their own quota. There will be complete balance with expansion to have imprint of the unity among the JD(U) and BJP and other smaller allies,” said a source in the NDA. Sources said the NDA could restrict the total cabinet size to 32 or 33 as against the permissible limit of having 36 ministers in the 243-member state assembly.State president of the BJP Sanjay Jaiswal could not be reached for comments while many senior JD(U) leaders remained tightlipped about the possible cabinet expansion. “If there is a cabinet expansion, it would not be very, very surprising. Besides, it is obvious BJP will have higher share of ministers than the JD(U) because of a larger number of MLAs,” said a senior JD(U) leader who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-may-expand-cabinet-after-first-session-of-assembly/story-PvpTWPiXndpquUnVL9ZPsM.html
23-11-2020||India||First cow hospital of Northeast inaugurated in Assam’s Dibrugarh||A cow shelter in Assam’s Dibrugarh inaugurated Northeast’s first-ever cow hospital on Sunday, on the occasion of Gopashtami.The hospital, Surbhi Aarogyashala, is set up by Shree Gopal Gaushala at a cost of Rs 17 lakh.“On the auspicious occasion of Gopashtami, we have inaugurated the first hospital for cows in the Northeast. The hospital will provide services in 30 km radius,” Nirmal Bediya, manager of Shree Gopal Gaushal told ANI.There are 368 cows in the shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-cow-hospital-of-northeast-inaugurated-in-assam-s-dibrugarh/story-ZRDXsrqj14Zvvt6X6pWi1N.html
23-11-2020||India||2 senior BPF leaders in Assam join BJP ahead of next year’s assembly polls||Eleven days after quitting Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) as its working president, Biswajit Daimary joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Daimary, who resigned from the Rajya Sabha on Saturday, joined the saffron party along with BPF MLA Emmanuel Mushahary in a brief ceremony held at Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s residence. The event was attended by BJP state chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other party leaders. “Two senior leaders of BPF joining BJP ahead of the BTC polls is a significant development. I welcome both Daimary and Mushahary and it will boost our prospects of winning the BTC polls even further,” Sonowal said. The development, which comes ahead of next month’s election to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) and assembly polls due in March-April next year, is likely to sharpen differences between BJP and BPF, which is a coalition partner in the BJP-led state government of which the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) is also a part. “People in BTC areas want planned all-round development and I believe BJP has that vision to implement it. We will soon reach out to people in BTC to convey BJP’s message,” Daimary said soon after joining the BJP. Elections to BTC, which was ruled by BPF was scheduled in April this year, but the entire BTAD was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Election to BTC will be held in two phases next month and a bitter campaign between both parties is underway to take control of the council which has a total of 40 seats. The BPF leadership been unhappy with BJP for placing BTC under Governor’s rule and differences between both ruling partners sharpened in recent months. BPF has 12 MLAs in the state assembly. On Friday, chief minister Sonowal, Dass and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had met BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi to discuss the party’s strategy for the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-senior-bpf-leaders-in-assam-join-bjp-ahead-of-next-year-s-assembly-polls/story-x89EFNBLhMYvivWKdfRwEK.html
23-11-2020||India||PM Modi likely to discuss Covid-19 vaccine distribution with states tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold virtual meetings with chief ministers of states and union territories on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation of the states. As four vaccine candidates in India are in either the second or the third phase of clinical trials, vaccine distribution, emergency authorisation are also likely to be discussed with the states. The Prime Minister will hold two back-to-back meetings — one with the CMs or other representatives of the states which are reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases at present. At a recently held meeting of the Niti Aayog, issues like emergency authorisation, advance procurement, pricing of vaccines have been discussed — a development that comes after Pfizer and Moderna have said they would seek emergency authorisation of their vaccines, which have proved around 95% efficacy in the trials. Also Read: Government exploring modalities of emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccineIn India, the vaccine task force (VTF) will meet soon to review the scientific status of vaccines globally and will decided whether India should think of emergency authorisation. Serum Institute of India, which is producing Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, will apply for emergency authorisation in India, once it gets a go-ahead for the same in the United Kingdom, CEO Adar Poonawalla said, taking part in Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.As far as emergency authorisation is concerned, it has been decided so far that the task force will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation while the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) should take the lead in setting the principles for advance market commitment, including vaccine pricing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-discuss-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-with-states-tomorrow/story-d2QBsukbaPnTMIQ6XVoJ9J.html
23-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday inaugurate the multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament at 11 am via video conferencing. Speaker of Lok Sabha Om Birla will also be present on the occasion.According to an official release, these flats are located at Dr B D Marg in New Delhi. Eight old bungalows, which were more than 80 years old, have been redeveloped to construct 76 flats. The construction of these flats has been completed with savings of about 14 per cent from the sanctioned cost and without time overrun despite the impact of Covid-19.Several green building initiatives have been incorporated in the construction, including bricks made from fly ash and construction and demolition waste, double glazed windows for thermal insulation and energy efficiency, energy-efficient LED light fittings, occupancy-based sensors for light control, air conditioners with VRV system for low power consumption, low flow fixtures for the conservation of water, rainwater harvesting system and rooftop solar plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-multi-storeyed-flats-for-members-of-parliament/story-F5wBIrB8Y7NV2dkCfK7jXK.html
23-11-2020||India||IIM director calls for conducting CAT exam in regional languages||Should the Common Admission Test (CAT), the basis for admission to top business schools including the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), be held in English alone or also in Hindi and other regional languages mentioned in Schedule VIII of the Constitution?The director of IIM-Rohtak, Prof Dheeraj Sharma, has raised the issue with IIM-Indore, the coordinator of CAT for 2020, by suggesting that the exam be held in Indian languages as well. CAT is currently conducted in just the English language.According to a person aware of the development who spoke on condition of anonymity, Prof Sharma has written a letter to IIM-Indore director, Prof Himanshu Rai, noting that one of the aims of the National Education Policy (NEP) is to promote learning in local languages.Sharma, in his letter, wrote that the IIMs could take the lead by allowing students who want to do so to pursue programmes in management in any of the Schedule VII language of their choice. Sharma urged Rai to take up the issue with the core committee that oversees the conduct of the test.When contacted, Sharma confirmed that he had written to IIM-Indore, “suggesting” that a lack of proficiency in English should not be a reason for a candidate to not pursue higher education in management .The issue should be looked into since it is also one of the key thrust areas of the NEP, he said.Significantly, the weightage given to the CAT exam score differs from IIM to IIM. Some IIMs provide upto 60-70 percentage weightage to the score and others attach much less weight to it. More than 200,000 students take CAT every year.Significantly, the IIM director’s letter comes at a time when the Union education ministry is looking at ways to promote higher education in Indian languages. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has in various meetings and speeches emphasized the need to provide higher education in Indian languages.The languages included in Schedule VIII of the Indian Constitution are Assamese, Bengali, Bodo, Dogri, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Maithili, Nepali, Oriya, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Santhali, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iim-director-calls-for-conducting-cat-exam-in-regional-languages/story-YtP9qGmfACfpAxp6mFNr6M.html
23-11-2020||India||India to host G20 summit in 2023||India will now host the Group of 20 Summit in 2023, a year later than what was decided earlier, the grouping leaders announced on Sunday.“We thank Saudi Arabia for hosting a successful Riyadh Summit and its contribution to the G20 process. We look forward to our next meetings in Italy in 2021, Indonesia in 2022, India in 2023 and Brazil in 2024,” said a declaration of G20 Riyadh Summit leaders, issued at the conclusion of the two-day conference of the world’s top 20 economies.Also Read | PM Modi calls for reform in multilateral organisations to ensure better global governance at G20Prime Minister Narendra Modi, among other two dozens leaders, participated in the summit. Sources said that India looks forward to taking forward the G20 agenda in 2023 after the Italian and Indonesian presidencies.On India now hosting the summit in 2023 instead of 2022, a source said, “The order of rotating the presidency is decided among the member states on the basis of consultations and mutual convenience.”The focus of this year’s summit, which took place mostly virtually, was the Covid-19 pandemic.In the declaration, the leaders of the G20 vowed to address the vulnerabilities revealed by this crisis, take the necessary steps to recover stronger and work to ensure that future generations are safer than we have been.The leaders said they are taking immediate and exceptional measures to address the Covid-19 pandemic and its intertwined health, social and economic impacts.“We, the G20 leaders, meeting for the second time under the Saudi Presidency, stand united in our conviction that coordinated global action, solidarity, and multilateral cooperation are more necessary today than ever to overcome the current challenges and realise opportunities of the 21st century for all by empowering people, safeguarding the planet, and shaping new frontiers,” the declaration said.“We are committed to leading the world in shaping a strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive post-Covid-19 era,” they said in the declaration.The leaders also extend support to the Anti-money Laundering (AML)/Counter-terrorist Financing (CFT) policy responses detailed in the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) paper on the Covid-19.They reaffirmed their support for the FATF, as the global standard-setting body for preventing and combating money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-g20-summit-in-2023/story-DOPRlkWnCa7cCkOAPOGVTL.html
23-11-2020||India||Multilateralism need of the hour for sustainable recovery in post Covid-19 world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the G20 Summit on Sunday asserted that for an inclusive, resilient and sustainable recovery in a post-Covid world, effective global governance is required and reformed multilateralism is the need of the hour.At a G20 session, he also underscored the importance of the ‘2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals’ aimed at “leaving no one behind”.The prime minister said that India is following the same principle in the ‘Reform-Perform-Transform’ strategy to move forward and taking inclusive development efforts that are participative, according to a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement.With the changing situation in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said, India has adopted a ‘Self Reliant India’ initiative. Following this vision, based on its competence and dependability, India will become an important and reliable pillar of the world economy and global supply chains, he said.The prime minister also underscored that for an inclusive, resilient and sustainable recovery in a post-Covid world, effective global governance is required and reformed multilateralism through improvement in character, governance and processes of multilateral institutions is the need of the hour.The agenda of the second day of the G20 summit focused on a session on building an inclusive, sustainable and resilient future.In a recorded message at a G-20 summit side event -- ‘Safeguarding the Planet: The Circular Carbon Economy Approach’, Modi said climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way.He asserted that the entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to developing nations.Modi said India is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets, but also exceeding them.“Inspired by our traditional ethos of living in harmony with the environment, and the commitment of my government, India has adopted low-carbon and climate-resilient development practices,” he said.The prime minister said for humanity to prosper, every single individual must prosper. “Rather than seeing labour as a factor of production alone, the focus must be on the human dignity of every worker,” Modi said.Such an approach would be the best guarantee for safeguarding the planet, he said.Modi said that in times of Covid-19 when everyone is focused on saving citizens and economies from the effects of the global pandemic, it is equally important to keep focus on fighting climate change.“Climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way,” he said and highlighted that India is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets, but also exceeding them.India is a signatory to the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Paris accord was adopted at the UN climate conference “COP 21” held in the French capital in 2015 with an aim to reduce hazardous greenhouse gas emissions.Underlining that India has taken concrete action in many areas, Modi said the country has made LED lights popular and noted that this saves 38 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emission per year.“Smoke free kitchens have been provided to over 80 million households through our Ujjwala Scheme. This is among the largest clean energy drives globally,” he said.“There are efforts to eliminate single-use plastics; our forest cover is expanding; the lion and tiger population is increasing; we aim to restore 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030; and we are encouraging a circular economy,” the prime minister said.India is making next-generation infrastructure such as metro networks, water-ways and more, Modi said, adding that in addition to convenience and efficiency, they will also contribute to a cleaner environment.“We will meet our goal of 175 gigawatts of renewable energy well before the target of 2022. Now, we are taking a big step ahead by seeking to achieve 450 gigawatts by 2030,” he said.Modi also pointed out that the International Solar Alliance (ISA) is among the fastest growing international organisations, with 88 signatories.With plans to mobilise billions of dollars, train thousands of stakeholders, and promote research and development in renewable energy, ISA will contribute to reducing carbon footprint, he said. Modi also cited the example of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), saying 18 countries, including nine from among the G20 and four international organisations, have already joined the coalition.The CDRI has started work on increasing resilience of critical infrastructure, he noted, and asserted that infra damage during natural disasters is a subject that has not got the attention it deserves.The poorer nations are specially impacted by this and therefore, this coalition is important, Modi added.Noting that this is the best time for further increasing research and innovation in new and sustainable technologies, Modi said it should be done with a spirit of cooperation and collaboration. The prime minister thanked Saudi Arabia for hosting a successful Riyadh Summit and welcomed Italy as it takes over the G20 presidency in 2021, the MEA statement said. It was decided that the G20 presidency will be held by Indonesia in 2022, India in 2023 and Brazil in 2024, the MEA said. At the end of the Summit, a G20 Leaders’ Declaration was issued which called for coordinated global action, solidarity, and multilateral cooperation to overcome the current challenges and realise opportunities of the 21st century for all by empowering people, safeguarding the planet, and shaping new frontiers. PTI ASK ANB ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-reform-in-multilateral-organisations-to-ensure-better-global-governance-at-g20/story-jUUMSfl1AGANbXiKKyRBKL.html
23-11-2020||India||Modi launches Rs 5.5k-crore water supply scheme in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Rs 5,555 crore Har Ghar Nal Yojana (piped water in every home initiative) for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur in the Vindhya region of Uttar Pradesh through a video conference on Sunday.The scheme is aimed at providing piped water supply to over 4.1 million people in the two districts. The prime minister said piped water supply to about 3,000 villages will transform the lives of local residents.The PM also praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team for staying on the path of economic development despite the challenges posed by the global coronavirus disease pandemic.“Earlier, people used to have a perception about UP. But the way UP has launched one developmental project after another is completely changing the image of Uttar Pradesh, the state government and its employees,” he said. While tackling the Covid-19 challenge, the state government had taken care of migrant workers who returned to Uttar Pradesh from the cities and made arrangements for their employment, he said. The UP government did not let the Covid-19 pandemic slow the pace of development, he observed.The prime minister also praised the state government for successfully handling an outbreak of Japanese encephalitis, a viral disease, in eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The way in which the number of cases of Japanese encephalitis decreased in Uttar Pradesh due to efforts by the state government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath is discussed far and wide. Even experts talk about it,” he said and added that every resident of Uttar Pradesh would “have been giving their blessings to Yogiji and his team for saving the lives of innocent children”. The prime minister made a veiled allegation about previous governments ignoring villages and tribal areas. He said villages, villagers, tribals and tribal areas were not given as much priority as his government was giving to them to develop city-like facilities, including liquified petroleum gas (LPG connections), there. “Despite having many natural resources and enjoying blessings of rivers like Son, Belan, Karmanash, Van Ganga, Kshipra, the Vindhya region faced neglect for decades since independence... the region was identified by drought. Be it Vindhya region on Bundelkhand, the whole region became one of dearth and scarcity. As a result, several people had to migrate from here,” PM said.“But during the last few years, continuous efforts were made by the government to ensure clean tap water to every house and develop irrigation facilities in the region. As a result, last year, a big water project was started in Budelkhand region and today, the scheme worth Rs 5,555 crore has been launched in the Vindhya region to ensure supply of clean water through pipes to every house,” he added. He said piped water supply would make the “life of our mothers and sisters easier in the villages”. It would also reduce the incidence of many diseases like cholera, typhoid and encephalitis caused by dirty water, he added. The PM said that 1,250 van dhan kendras (forest wealth centres) had been set up in tribal areas, adding that a district mineral fund had been created for development of tribal areas.The idea was that a large chunk of the funds generated from tribal areas should be spent on their development, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-launches-rs-5-5k-crore-water-supply-scheme-in-up/story-3qZZkpHixdLTi2XZrv67KL.html
23-11-2020||India||BJP’s Bengal poll machine to have 294 leaders from other states; 45-member committee per constituency||To win West Bengal in the 2021 assembly elections, in which home minister Amit Shah wants the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to finish with more than 200 of 294 seats in the House, the party is putting together its biggest election machinery ever in the eastern state. Top state office-bearers of the party with knowledge of the development said 294 BJP leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit for polls. They would be part of a 45-member team to be set up for each constituency; existing district committees will assist these teams, the office-bearers said. “The leaders from other states are scheduled to arrive from November 26 onwards. We have been told that there will be union ministers, central leaders from Delhi and leaders and ministers from states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Karnataka,” a senior BJP functionary said on condition of anonymity.The BJP is seeking to unseat the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal, where the party led by Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011 by ending the 34-year rule of the Left and extended its term in 2016..Shah and BJP president J P Nadda will take turns in visiting Bengal every month and will be in the state for at least two days on each visit. “The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) cannot even imagine how the BJP is going to contest the polls due in about five months. Shah told us during his recent visit to Kolkata that the machinery will be much bigger than what we had last year when we won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats,” the state BJP functionary cited above said. A sizeable section of the functionaries being sent to the state from outside have been pracharaks (full-time missionaries) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP, state leaders said. “They will work with hand-picked local leaders. The selection is being made by a central team headed by national general secretary (organization) B L Santhosh,” said a second state BJP leader. “There will be separate teams for each of the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies as well,” he added.“We will form teams at the micro level. There will be separate committees to monitor the party’s campaign and funding, oversee the organisational setup at polling booth level and keep track of electoral roll revision which started this week. A big emphasis will be on the social media campaign. That is why Amit Malviya, head of the national information and technology (IT) cell, has been given additional charge of West Bengal,” said a third state leader who attended a recent internal meeting. Interestingly, most of the functionaries to be stationed in the constituencies will not check into hotels or commercial guest houses. “They will stay at the homes of local RSS pracharaks or BJP workers,” the third leader said. BJP state leaders also revealed that the party has hired three professional agencies for gathering and analyzing data. They said some changes may be made in the existing state committee which comprises 12 vice-presidents and six general secretaries apart from state general secretary (organization) Amitava Chakravorty, 10 secretaries and two treasurers. Seven members of the state committee are women. Having sensed that the BJP will be going all out to win the polls, the TMC is keeping a close watch on the movements of the BJP’s five central leaders who are currently evaluating organizational strengths and weaknesses in the districts of south Bengal, where the BJP did not fare so well in 2019 in comparison to its performance in the north. Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Vinod Tawde, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar are interviewing the presidents and secretaries of the district units for a comprehensive report to be submitted to Shah. State leaders are not allowed to attend the interviews that started on Wednesday. The five BJP leaders have been put in charge of different organizational zones. “We have to keep a watch on these outsiders and find out if they are here to create trouble or indulge in horse trading. Our workers have been asked to be on the alert,” TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said on Wednesday. Since Wednesday, the TMC has been holding press conferences at the state headquarters every afternoon. Minsters and members of Parliament are highlighting various issues and comparing achievements of the state government and performance of BJP-ruled states in various sectors. On Friday, minister Bratya Basu alleged that the BJP’s evaluation of Bengal is evident from the fact that none of the MPs from the state have been made cabinet ministers.Kolkata-based political science professor and current affairs analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “The BJP had set up a similar machinery in Uttar Pradesh to defeat Akhilesh Yadav and his allies. But the big difference is that the BJP had the experience of ruling UP. It has never ruled Bengal and yet break-up of the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results show that it was ahead of the TMC in more than 125 assembly segments. This became possible because voters who are not committed to any party voted for the BJP. These voters comprise the biggest chunk of the vote bank. Every party has a bank of committed voters. The BJP has to present before non-committed voters an alternative narrative, a plan to win their trust in 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-bengal-poll-machine-to-have-294-leaders-from-other-states-45-member-committee-per-constituency/story-f4wYLm3pGg2aQKQutcrOSK.html
23-11-2020||India||Eye on 2024 polls, Nadda to go on 120-day nationwide tour from December||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda will embark on a 120-day nationwide tour to tone up the party’s organisational machinery with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, as the party looks to focus on regions where it did not fare well in the last general election. Addressing mediapersons, BJP general secretary Arun Singh said that Nadda will begin his visit in the first week of December and Uttarakhand will be the first state on his itinerary. Singh said the BJP president will visit every state, hold virtual meetings with heads of all booth units, the smallest organisational entity in the party, and meet every MP and MLA of the organisation besides its senior leaders, including district chiefs, in each state. During the tour, he will also strategise with party leaders for strengthening the organisation in Lok Sabha seats and regions where the BJP did not win in the 2019 polls, he said.With assembly polls in four states, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam, set to be held in the first half of the next year, he will also review the party’s preparedness for the elections, Singh said.Nadda will spend three days in big states and two in others.The BJP-ruled states will give presentation to Nadda on various aspects of their work, including implementation of the central government schemes and on to how to further raise awareness about them. He will also meet BJP’s allies and hold public programmes and press conferences as well, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-2024-polls-nadda-to-go-on-120-day-nationwide-tour-from-december/story-tLWUFEY5vs0HV1zFTykkRM.html
23-11-2020||India||Railways inspects tracks in Punjab as services set to resume today||Railway officials began inspection of railway tracks in Punjab on Sunday after farmer’s groups agreed to suspend their rail roko protests against the Centre’s new farm laws. According to officials familiar with the matter, freight trains are likely to be given priority with operations restarting on Monday night. Passenger trains will likely start from Tuesday, the officials said.Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) GM Singh said the railway board will release a detailed train schedule on Monday. “After nearly two-month-long train blockade in Punjab, a safety audit of tracks started today (Sunday) by a joint team of the government railway police of Punjab government, railway protection force and technical teams. They are examining to ensure tracks have no damage. Light engines are also put on tracks to gauge the strength of rail lines in the state,” said Singh.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee had started its railway blockade on September 24 to oppose the central farm laws with several farmer unions later extending their support to the agitation.Officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said about 2,300 passenger trains were cancelled or diverted amid the protest.On Saturday, chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced that leaders of 31 farmers unions had unanimously decided to suspend the blockade.According to Ferozepur DRM Rajesh Agarwal, railway department officials have started issuing security clearance reports for resumption of services. “These reports contain inspection details confirming that no protesters are sitting in the vicinity of the tracks, on station premises or near the railway property across the state. Once the necessary safety and security protocols are completed, the railways may restore services in less than 24 hours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-inspects-tracks-in-punjab-as-services-set-to-resume-today/story-Hmn78jWipHtHq4oicyWKXP.html
23-11-2020||India||GST registration may be linked to biometrics||New Goods and Services Tax (GST) registrations may not be instant for those who do not possess an Aadhaar identity number. An empowered panel is considering linking GST registration to biometric details with a live photograph of applicants in an attempt to check GST fraud, two officials said.The law committee of the GST Council has suggested that new or fresh GST applicants follow an Aadhaar-like process under which new registrations can be done online with a live photo, use of biometrics and verification of documents, the officials with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity.“Such facilities [registration with biometric details] can be provided at banks, post offices, and GST Seva Kendras (GSKs) just like Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) or Aadhaar Seva Kendras (ASKs). The GSKs can work on the pattern of Passport Seva Kendras to provide new registration facilities with required checks on fake registration,” one of the officials said.This process is under consideration to check GST-related fraud, the second official said. “Annually, 18-19 lakh new GST registrations take place, but at the end of the year only 30% of them are left. About 13-14 lakh GST-registered entities vanish. Most of them are fly-by-night operators, they create bogus firms, claim input tax credit (ITC) without actually supplying goods and services,” he said.The committee held a two-day meeting at a time when the government has launched a nationwide crackdown against GST fraud and has so far arrested 48 people, including one woman and three chartered accountants (CAs). It has booked 648 cases besides identifying 2,385 bogus entities in just 10 days.Alarmed over rampant misuse of the liberal GST registration rules that made fake invoice generation a business for unscrupulous elements, the law committee has felt the urgent need to modify existing GST registration rules. Currently, GST registration is almost instant as there is a provision of deemed registration to avoid any bureaucratic delays, the officials said.“The new system is proposed for honouring the honest, who will not face any difficulty in registration with Aadhaar numbers. It will be difficult only for those who want to con the system,” the second official said.The law committee has proposed two-pronged measures -- tackle the menace of fake invoices and also ensure “ease of doing business” for the honest -- liberal registration, easy refunds and self-compliance with little checks, he said.The panel has also suggested that these measures be discussed with states and other stakeholders before they are implemented, officials said.“A fresh registrant must go for compulsory physical verification and personal identification in case he or she opts for non-Aadhaar authentication based registration process and do not have income-tax return supported adequate financial capability. In such a case, the applicant may have to submit recommendation letter by two taxpayers of adequate reliability,” he added.On the basis of documents, a “trustworthy” applicant could be given registration within seven working days. If an applicant is not deemed “trustworthy,” conditional registration should be given within 60 working days only after physical verification of the place of business. In such cases, input tax credit to their buyers shall be allowed only after filing of their returns, the officials said. It is also proposed to take some cash deposits against their tax dues from such dealers instead of allowing settlement of 100% tax liabilities through input tax credit, they added.The committee is of the view that to be categorised as trustworthy, a registrant or dealer must have good income-tax credentials, no previous cancellation of GST registration on same permanent account number (PAN) for any violation of law, and would need to undergo Aadhaar authentication, as is required in the case of an individual, proprietorship and partners, officials said.An applicant can get waivers from some of the conditions by submitting relevant documents, the first official said. “A jurisdictional officer, satisfied with the credentials verification, would waive some or all the restriction. Also, certain class of applicant (who appear riskier) shall be required to undergo in-person for verification at GSKs,” he added.In the Law Committee’s opinion, once a dealer is suspended, he has to explain the discrepancy within a prescribed time limit for revocation of suspension, he said.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of the financial technology platform ClearTax, said: “The government has been taking several measures to curb fraud in ITC claims for GST. Several measures have been implemented; auto-population of GST return forms have been introduced. With e-invoicing, gaps in invoicing and corresponding ITC claims can be further reduced. With the introduction of Aadhaar-like biometric registration, the government is now tightening controls on registrants at the very first point of contact.”“However, Aadhaar based e-KYC is already required for GST registration. Therefore introducing live photos and live biometrics may become another hurdle for genuine businesses. Especially during Covid times, it may be impractical to implement. This will be an added layer to all the currently required authentications through Aadhaar linked to OTP {one-time password},” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-registration-may-be-linked-to-biometrics/story-z8fHot2NSZ19JVBezIs1hO.html
23-11-2020||India||Congress rumblings grow, Ghulam Nabi Azad for internal polls||Days after the Congress managed to win just 19 seats, the lowest tally among the top four parties in the Bihar assembly polls, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday said elections were not won by adopting a “five-star culture and party office-bearers should be elected”. Azad, one of the 23 leaders who signed a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August demanding major changes in the party’s functioning, also said the “general impression (is) that there is no president of the party.”“Both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi said that party elections should be held in October. But we said that the election should be held after six months due to Covid-19,” he added.The party contested the Bihar elections, which were won by a coalition of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), as part of an alliance led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal and comprising the Left parties. Of the 70 seats it contested, it managed to win just 19. Azad claimed he didn’t blame Sonia or Rahul Gandh for the setback. But his criticism of the selection process of office bearers, according to some party insiders, is a veiled protest against the current system. Senior leader and former foreign minister Salman Khurshid hit back at Azad, rejected any perception of a leadership crisis in the Congress and said all-round support for Sonia and Rahul Gandhi is “apparent to anyone who is not blind”. Khurshid said public statements by Congress leaders critical of it hurt the party, in an oblique reference to recent statements by Kapil Sibal and others. Asked about comments by Sibal and another senior leader, P Chidambaram, on the Congress’s poor showing in the Bihar election and recent by-polls, he said he cannot disagree with what they have said, but asked why anyone has to go out and tell the media and the world that “we need to do this”. “Analysis is done all the time, there is no quarrel about analysis. It will be done. The leadership, of which all these people are a part, will appropriately look at what may have gone wrong, how we could have improved, and that will happen in the normal course, we needn’t talk about it in the public,” said Khurshid, a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC), he party’s highest decision-making body. In an exclusive interview with ANI, Azad said: “Office bearers should understand their responsibility. Till the time office bearers are appointed, they won’t go to the grassroots. But if all office bearers are elected, then they will understand their responsibility. Right now, anyone gets any post in the party. Our people have lost the connection with the grassroots.” He also said: “Polls aren’t won by five-star culture. Problem with leaders today is if they get a party ticket, they first book a five-star hotel. They won’t go if there’s a rough road. Till the time 5-star culture is given up, one can’t win elections.” Azad on Sunday also supported Chidambaram and Sibal’s opinion about the need for “retrospection” in the party. He said it was “not wrong but it also does not mean changing the top leadership”. He maintained that the “medicine for the party” was to conduct organizational elections at different levels. “Retrospection means there should be a discussion on why we lost in Bihar, why we won few seats in Madhya Pradesh. And after a discussion on these, how to apply the conclusion we get from the discussion on these issues-- this is what we have to do,” Azad said. Sibal, critical of the current state of functioning in the Congress, said people in Bihar did not consider Congress to be an effective alternative, adding that the time for “introspection” was over. Chidambaram too, expressed concern over the poll results, and asked for a comprehensive review on why the RJD-Congress-Left alliance lost despite being so close to victory. “We all are worried about losses, especially about Bihar and by-poll results. I don’t blame the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi. Office-bearers should understand that their responsibility begins with their appointment. They should love the party. I quote a couplet: ‘Ye ishq nahi aasaan, bas itna samajh lije. Ik aag ka darya hai aur doob ke jaana hai,’”, Azad said.“Love should be for one’s party, profession and country,” Azad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rumblings-grow-ghulam-nabi-azad-for-internal-polls/story-300W3Ac5oQafFRBoXweXdL.html
23-11-2020||India||Test frequency, not accuracy, may be key to controlling outbreak: Study||Repeated, widespread testing with quick results is more effective in controlling an outbreak than using a more accurate test, according to two research papers published recently that draw on a crucial way the Sars-Cov-2 behaves: people are most infectious in the first week of their illness, when the viral load in their upper respiratory tract is at its highest.The findings hold significance for a city like Delhi where the proportion of tests turning positive has consistently been higher than the acceptable limit of 8% for weeks now, and officials are at present working on a strategy on how best to increase tests while maintaining a balance between the more reliable but slow RT-PCR test and the quick but low-sensitivity rapid antigen tests. “At least for viruses with infection kinetics similar to SARS-CoV-2, we find that speed of reporting is much more important than sensitivity, although more sensitive tests are nevertheless somewhat more effective,” said the study that included researchers from University of Colorado and Harvard University. Also Read | Centre to rush more expert teams for Covid management; sending teams to Himachal, UP and PunjabThe researchers make a distinction on the need to test more people when they are contagious versus those who may merely be infected. Using computational modeling of how viral load and infectiousness evolves, they determined infectiousness increased once viral load exceeded 10^6 viral copies of RNA per ml (cp/ml). RT-PCR method, they added, could detect 10^3 cp/ml in viral load while rapid antigen and LAMP tests detected concentration 10^5 cp/ml.Using testing as a strategy to reopen cities “has placed a microscope on the analytical sensitivity of virus assays, with a gold-standard of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)”. But these, the report added, “remain expensive and as a laboratory-based assay often have sample-to-result times of 24-48 hours”.These findings, published in Science Advances, tied in with another recent study published in The Lancet. In this, the authors analysed all scientific literature on Covid-19 till June, 2020 and found patients had the highest viral load in the first week. “SARS-CoV-2 titres in the upper respiratory tract peak in the first week of illness. Early case finding and isolation, and public education on the spectrum of illness and period of infectiousness are key to the effective containment of SARS-CoV-2,” said the team of researchers led by Muge Cevik, an infectious disease specialist at the University of St Andrews, Scotland and an advisor to the UK government. No study detected live virus beyond day 9 of illness, the study said, despite persistently high viral loads that were inferred from cycle threshold values in RT-PCR tests. Cycle threshold values indicate the number of times a sample was amplified before it was detected as positive for the virus.The Science Advances study too referred to this report. It added that detecting infectious people is crucial, particularly since asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people are often aware of their infection and pass it on. “These results demonstrate that effective screening depends largely on frequency of testing and the speed of reporting, and is only marginally improved by high test sensitivity. We therefore conclude that screening should prioritize accessibility, frequency, and sample-to-answer time; analytical limits of detection should be secondary,” they said.Experts in India agreed that testing and timely reporting is a challenge. Anecdotal feedback suggests RT-PCR tests can take up to two days in a city like Delhi. “RT-PCR tests miss 30% of infections while rapid antigen tests miss 50%. You can bring these numbers down to 5-10% by doing repeat tests but that has not been possible here,” said Dr T Jacob John, the former head of virology at Christian Medical College (CMC) Vellore. He added that Delhi in particular faced a unique challenge because of a large population that travels to and from its satellite cities every day. “The infection risk has anyway increased because behavioural fatigue has meant that people are no longer disciplined in wearing masks or maintaining distance,” he added.The rollout of the Feluda test, Dr John added, could address the problem of delayed results as well as low test sensitivity. “The test can return answers in one hour. I think the administration is already in talks for an immediate rollout,” he added.The Feluda test, commercially named TataMD Check, uses a protein from a gene-editing tool known as Crispr. The test has shown high sensitivity and specificity, the two markers that indicate a diagnostic tool’s ability to detect true positives and true negatives.For now, a temporary answer may lie in removing RT-PCR test-result bottlenecks and even ramping up the rapid antigen tests, the Science Advances study suggested after citing simulations. “Testing frequency was found to be the primary driver of population-level epidemic control, with only a small margin of improvement provided by using a more sensitive test,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-frequency-not-accuracy-may-be-key-to-controlling-outbreak-study/story-88HdKvlF5SDhiyPK1Z3oEJ.html
23-11-2020||India||India, Singapore to kick off naval drills in Andaman Sea today||India and Singapore will kick off naval drills in the Andaman Sea on Monday, with the focus on enhancing mutual inter-operability and learning the best practices from each other, an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Sunday. The 27th edition of the India-Singapore Bilateral Maritime Exercise (SIMBEX-20) will be held from November 23 to 25. The drills come on the heels of the Malabar exercise involving the Quad navies and a trilateral exercise conducted by India, Singapore and Thailand. “The scope and complexity of these exercises has increased steadily over the past two decades to include advanced naval drills covering a wide spectrum of maritime operations,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. The SIMBEX annual exercise was first held in 1994. Indian Navy assets taking part in the drills include destroyer INS Rana, corvettes INS Kamorta and INS Karmuk, submarine INS Sindhuraj and the P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft. Singapore will be represented by frigates Intrepid and Steadfast with integral S70B helicopters and landing ship tank Endeavour. The drills are being conducted as a non-contact, at sea only exercise in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read | Malabar exercise that upsets China is a tectonic shift in power balance“SIMBEX-20 will witness the two friendly navies participate in advanced surface, anti-air warfare and anti-submarine warfare exercises including weapon firings over three days of intensive joint operations at sea,” Madhwal said, adding that the drills also highlight the commitment of the two navies to a rules-based international order. The Indian Navy has conducted a series of exercises with friendly navies in the Indian Ocean Region in recent weeks. India, Singapore and Thailand on Sunday wrapped up the 2nd edition of a trilateral naval exercise in the Andaman Sea. “Besides improving inter-operability between the friendly navies, the India, Singapore and Thailand Trilateral Maritime Exercise (SITMEX) series of exercises also aim to strengthen mutual confidence and develop common understanding and procedures towards enhancing the overall maritime security in the region,” Madhwal said. The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia concluded the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on November 20. The drills were conducted at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). The Malabar naval drills were conducted in two phases: the first phase in the Bay of Bengal from November 3 to 6; the second phase was held in the Arabian Sea from November 17 to 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-singapore-to-kick-off-naval-drills-in-andaman-sea-today/story-ZB8j9XjoEBEuLOqunNopTI.html
23-11-2020||India||Centre to rush more expert teams for Covid management; sending teams to Himachal, UP and Punjab||A week after sending high-level teams to five states to handhold them in containing the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , the Centre is set to dispatch experts to three other states to review public health measures there and assist local authorities in managing the pandemic. The three-member expert teams are being sent to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, and expected to submit a detailed report on the outbreak in these states. Alarmed by a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, has begun random testing of people travelling to the state from the National Capital Region, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said. Also Read | Local Covid-19 vaccine final trials could end within two months, says Harsh VardhanThe moves come in the backdrop of 6,746 fresh cases in Delhi on Sunday along with 121 deaths. The positivity rate in the Capital remained high at 12.29%.“The Union government has decided to depute high-level Central teams to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to support the States in COVID response and management. These States have been either reporting a rise in the number of active cases i.e. those who are hospitalized or are in home isolation under medical supervision, or demonstrating a rise in the daily new cases,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.Each team consists of an official from a ministry, and two doctors including a respiratory medicine specialist and a specialist from community medicine department.Separately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a virtual meetings with chief ministers and other representatives of states and union territories on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation and discuss a vaccine distribution strategy when one becomes available.Also Read | ICMR increases RT-PCR testing capacity on Amit Shah’s directionsModi is expected to hold two back-to-back meetings, one with eight states with high caseloads and another with states and UTs to discuss a vaccine distribution strategy, people familiar with the development said.“The teams will meet additional chief secretary/principal secretary (health) of respective states to de-brief and are also requested to submit a report of their observations to respective states…,” reads an official document sent out by the public health division of the Union health ministry. A copy of the document has been seen by HT. The nodal officer for the team being sent to Punjab is Vijay Kumar Singh, additional secretary, ministry of textiles. The pulmonary medicine specialist is Dr AN Aggarwal from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Dr PVN Luxmi from the same hospital is the community medicine specialist . Former director general of health services, Union health ministry, Dr Rajiv Garg will be heading the team being sent to Himachal Pradesh. The other two members include Dr NK Gupta, department of respiratory medicine, Safdarjung Hospital, and Professor B Dhiman, director, community medicine, Lady Hardinge Medical College. The team being sent to Uttar Pradesh is headed by Mritunjay Kumar Narayan, joint secretary, ministry of power. The other two members are Dr AK Singh, department of TB & Chest Diseases, Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Dr SK Jain, additional director, community medicine, National Centre for Disease Control. These teams will be visiting the districts reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases and support the states’ efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures. The experts will also help in efficient clinical management of the positive cases, and shall guide the states in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow-up action on cases so that more lives are saved and the chain of transmission is successfully halted. India’s current active caseload (440,962), which is the country’s actual disease burden, has declined to 4.85% of the total positive cases, and has been sustained below the 5% mark. The recovery rate has improved to 93.69% as on Sunday, and the total number of recoveries has jumped to 8,521,617. According to the government data, 26 states and union territories currently have less than 20,000 active cases. Seven states have between 20,000 and 50,000 active cases; Maharashtra and Kerala are reporting at least around 50,000 cases. “Overall the situation may not be that bad but at certain places a combination of cold weather, pollution, and festivities, weddings or other family functions is increasing the risk of infection. People need to be extra careful as the virus is very much in circulation so wearing a mask, physical distancing and not crowding is key to prevent contracting the disease,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.In Uttar Pradesh, health authorities have started random testing of people travelling to the state from the NCR centred on the national capital and adjoining satellite towns, the state chief secretary said. “We have started testing on a random basis people reaching UP by buses, trains, flights or personal vehicles from Delhi and other NCR districts in view of a fresh surge in the coronavirus cases in Delhi,” Tiwari told HT in Lucknow on Sunday. He said officials had been asked to set up Covid-19 desks at all important railway stations and bus stations. He, however, said there were no plans, as of now, to put curbs on travel or impose other restrictions. “But certainly, people have to be even more vigilant and strictly follow the rules related to social distancing and wearing of face masks considering the fact that the pandemic has again become a serious challenge in several states including neighbouring Delhi,” he stressed. At a Covid-19 meeting in Lucknow on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked officials to step up the state of alert across the state against the backdrop of a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states, especially Delhi and think two steps ahead to win the battle against pandemic. According to Tiwari, although personal protective equipment (PPE) kits do act as a wall against the spread of the coronavirus disease, they undermine the level of trust Covid-19 patients have in their treatment because they are not able to see the faces of doctors and health workers examining them. “Health personnel including doctors who visit Covid wards to examine patients are all covered from head to toe under the PPE kits. Patients do not know as to who is examining and treating them— doctors or compounders/nurses,” he said. “This is why we are regularly telling chief medical officers and other senior officers to ensure that all doctors, nurses etc who walk up to patients in the Covid wards must also wear plates on their PPE kits, clearly showing their name and designation,” he said. “By reading the name and designation of the treating doctors, the patient will know which doctor is attending to him and this will infuse a lot of confidence and hope in him making his recovery even faster,” Tiwari pointed out. The chief secretary cautioned that the World Health Organisation’s praise of Uttar Pradesh for its improved Covid-19 management should not create a sense of complacence. The situation may have improved in India’s most populous state, but the government cannot allow anyone to lower their guard at this juncture. He said the government’s current focus is on minimising the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the state through a detailed analysis of deaths that had already taken place and try and save as many lives as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-rush-more-expert-teams-for-covid-management-sending-teams-to-himachal-up-and-punjab/story-D4buFEe21QLzUuZpY47dEN.html
23-11-2020||India||Is the Gupkar alliance driven by political arithmetic or chemistry?||The union territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir will have its first direct elections, the District Development Council (DDC) polls, in eight phases starting on November 28. Local body elections in Ladakh, the other union territory which came into existence after the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir were held in October.After the union government’s decision to revoke the erstwhile state’s special status in August 2019, politics has undergone a fundamental shift in the region, especially the Kashmir valley. A large number of commentators see the downgrading of the state’s constitutional status as a snub to the mainstream political parties, which unlike separatists advocated engagement with India’s constitutional apparatus. Most important Kashmiri political leaders were arrested ahead of the centre’s decision. They were released gradually, with former chief minister Mahbooba Mufti becoming last month the last important politician to be freed from detention. After being released and just before the DDC polls, leaders of seven political parties in Jammu and Kashmir have announced formation of an alliance called the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a joint resolution issued by major mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir on August 4, 2019, against the nullification or modification of the state’s special constitutional position. They also announced that they will contest the upcoming DDC polls together. What explains the decision of the erstwhile adversaries to come together? An HT analysis shows that both political arithmetic and chemistry could be behind the move.Showcase unity to ensure voter turnoutThere is reason to believe that the centre’s decision to effectively nullify Article 370 has led to widespread resentment in the Kashmir valley. Voter turnout in the DDC polls will be the first litmus test of the magnitude of this resentment. Voter turnout had fallen sharply in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and in by-polls held before that in the Kashmir valley. The erstwhile state had been engulfed in yet another spell of political turmoil since protests erupted after the killing of militant Burhan Wani by the security forces in 2016. By burying their earlier differences and making the restoration of status quo ante their main demand, the PAGD constituents might be trying to channelize this simmering discontent towards a democratic mandate to champion their demand and reaffirm their political legitimacy. But will it make a difference to election results?The parties in the PAGD, put together, have won a majority of seats in all assembly elections held in Jammu and Kashmir since 1996, when the electoral process resumed after a gap of nearly a decade after armed insurgency erupted in the region. The new alliance was stronger even in the Lok Sabha polls. An analysis of the last five Lok Sabha elections shows that these parties put together had a lead in a majority of assembly segments in all these elections, except in 2019. This suggests that pure political arithmetic might not have been the main reason behind the formation of this alliance. Can the PAGD hurt the BJP in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir?Simple arithmetic suggests that the PAGD might not make a big dent in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) performance. The reason for this is that the BJP’s electoral stakes are concentrated in the Jammu region of the UT, where Hindus have a significant share of the population. This is especially true in the four Hindu-majority districts of Jammu, Udhampur, Samba and Kathua. Eighteen of the 25 assembly constituencies (ACs) the BJP won in the 2014 assembly polls came from these four districts. In 12 of these ACs, the BJP’s vote share was more than 50%, which would make any kind of opposition alliance irrelevant there. This factor makes BJP a strong party in select parts of Jammu while the Congress and the newly formed alliance are strong in most of the Kashmir region and a significant part of the Jammu region.  Is the PAGD a pre-emptive strike to neutralise the delimitation effect?The ongoing process of delimitation of constituency boundaries in Jammu and Kashmir, which will also increase the number of ACs from 83 to 90, could change electoral equations in the state. Several ACs have sub-regions dominated by different religious communities. If there were to be a calculated redrawing of boundaries, for example one that increases the share of Hindu population in some Muslim-dominated ACs, then the political arithmetic can change. The case of two adjacent ACs of Jammu district – Ranbir Singh Pura and Bishnah – is one such example. The BJP won Ranbir Singh Pura in 2014 by a margin of 22% votes while it lost Bishnah by a margin of just 4% votes. The booth level result shows us that the BJP had pockets of very strong support in both of these constituencies while there were also booths where the support was very weak. A careful redrawing of boundaries between these two constituencies, for example, can easily tilt the political arithmetic in the BJP’s favour. The DDC polls will signify a new epoch in the political history of Jammu and Kashmir. From political participation to election results, everything could change drastically from what it has been in the past. It is these tectonic changes which might have caused the erstwhile adversaries to come together in the PAGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-the-gupkar-alliance-driven-by-political-arithmetic-or-chemistry/story-QHsy7bY4ME6mTVxVzJcRPJ.html
23-11-2020||India||Ganga’s status in Haridwar to be restored finally as CM vows to scrap Congress order||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday announced that the state government will soon scrap the order that had given escape channel status to Ganga stretch at Har-Ki-Pauri in Haridwar. Rawat made this announcement before meeting Akhada Parishad representatives at his residence in connection with the preparations for 2021 Kumbh. Rawat said the decision has been taken given the long pending demand of saints and priests and to respect the sentiments of people. Congress-led government on December 14, 2016, had issued an order declaring part of Ganga from Sarvanand ghat, Bhoopatwala till Shri Daksheshwar Mahadev temple, passing through sanctum sanctorum of Brahahmkund, Har-Ki-Pauri as an escape channel. This meant Har-Ki-Pauri ghat is not on the main river Ganga course and thus didn’t come under National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive regarding the prohibition on construction activities within 100 metre of the Ganga river. The declaration had come in the wake of NGT making “no development zone” within 100 metres of the Ganga on both sides of the river bed. In July this year, ex-Congress chief minister Harish Rawat had sought an apology from the saint community for issuing the government order in 2016, asking BJP led government to render it null and void. Akhada Parishad, saints, local priests, traders and Ganga activists have welcomed the decision to scrap the previous Congress-led state government’s order. Rawat assured Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri-led saint delegation on Sunday of scrapping the order with a notification to be issued on Monday in this regard. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad general secretary said though it is a bit late, restoration of the old status of Har-Ki-Pauri stream flow as being a part of mainstream Ganga, is a welcome development. Ganga Sabha, which manages affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri, expressed gratitude to CM for announcing to scrap the Congress government order of 2016.Urban development minister Madan Kaushik hailed the decision saying the BJP government has nullified the wrongdoing of the previous Congress-led government and by Monday government notification will be issued. Local saints and priests who were staging an indefinite sit-in agitation at Har-Ki-Pauri for the past one month also ended their agitation with this announcement. Elated, the local priests also offered milk to deity Ganga following the announcement. Also Read: Snowfall likely in Uttarakhand districts over next few days: IMD bulletinOne of the representatives of local priests, Saurabh Shikhaula, said that had BJP led state government further delayed the scrapping of the order, they would have intensified their agitation. “Since ancient times, Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri is one of the revered places for taking holy Ganga dip, performing rituals and hosting Kumbh fairs. How come it became an escape channel of Ganga Canal when the Ganga Canal was built by Britishers during 1840-1850. It was unacceptable for not only priests here but also pilgrims who arrive at Har-Ki-Pauri for religious and spiritual reasons. Our sentiments were hurt when we see, on government papers, Har-Ki-Pauri is deemed as part of a canal and not that the main course of sacred Ganga,” said Shikaula. Meanwhile Opposition Congress, too, has welcomed the move and said it will restore the status of Har- ki- Pauri as Ganga ghat. “CM’s announcement has rectified the mistake done in 2016 by then CM Harish Rawat, who a few months ago, accepted it and urged the present government to revoke the order related to it,” said Dhirendra Pratap Singh, state Congress vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-s-status-in-haridwar-to-be-restored-finally-as-cm-vows-to-scrap-congress-order/story-ecPOqLjF8WG5CDygV0euLK.html
23-11-2020||India||Follow Covid-19 norms to avoid lockdown: CM Uddhav Thackeray tells people of Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday urged the people of the state not to lower their guard against Covid-19 and follow the safety protocols strictly in order to avoid imposition of another lockdown.He said that although he has been advised to impose a night curfew, he does not believe that anything can be achieved by imposing such restrictions.Stating that the Unlock process does not mean that the pandemic is over, Thackeray asked the people to remain cautious.In a webcast, he said even though people were largely adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols, many others were still not following the directive of mandatory use of masks and still venturing out into crowded places.Also Read | Uddhav Thackeray on Covid-19: ‘Many people don’t wear masks, this is upsetting’“The spiralling cases in Delhi is a cause of concern and there is night curfew in Ahmedabad. I don’t want another lockdown, but you should also understand the gravity of the situation,” he said.“We are standing at a dangerous turn. We have to decide whether we want to go for a lockdown or follow all the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocols,” he said.“I have been advised to impose a night curfew, but I don’t believe that anything can be achieved by imposing laws,” he said.“I thank you for celebrating a firecracker-free Diwali. But I must express my disillusionmentthat the Covid- 19 safety protocols are not being followed in many places.“I urge you to avoid moving around unnecessarily and if you have to go out, please wear a mask and maintain physical distance,” he said.The chief minister added that youths are getting infected by not following the safety protocol and they are passing on the infection to the senior citizens in their families.“It is really sad that people whom we had protected all these months, get infected due to the younger members in the family,” he said.Thackeray said confusion still prevails over the availability of vaccination and medicines for treatment of Covid-19.“Till then, we have no option but to have mandatory use of masks, physical distancing and hand sanitization,” he said.He pointed out that post-infection side effects of coronavirus were posing a serious threat to patients with co- morbidities.“Post-Covid-19 side effects are severe and can been seen impacting brain, lungs, kidney among other organs.Pollution is also impacting people with co-morbidities,” he added.The chief minister said, “Unlock process did not mean that the pandemic is over. Even though the places of religious worship have been reopened, avoid crowding there. Several festivals passed off during the pandemic with majority people celebrating it without crowding. We have been able to control the spike, but we can’t be careless,” he said.Also Read | Local Covid-19 vaccine final trials could end within two months, says Harsh Vardhan“The second wave seen in several parts of the country like Delhi and Ahmedabad and the western countries looks like a tsunami and not a wave and we have to be cautious.“Crowding will not kill coronavirus, but help it spread more,” Thackeray said.He said that ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign has helped the government to get the state’s health map.Thackeray said there is uncertainty over reopening schools even though a decision has been taken about it.The government had earlier decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-covid-19-norms-to-avoid-lockdown-cm-uddhav-thackeray-tells-people-of-maharashtra/story-MjviuFHarEuUoYGz61Ja7O.html
23-11-2020||India||Local Covid-19 vaccine final trials could end within two months, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday a locally-developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate could complete its final trials in a month or two, raising hopes for a rapid roll-out in a country with the world’s second highest number of infections.The state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and privately-held Bharat Biotech this month started third-stage trials of COVAXIN, in a process that would involve 26,000 volunteers. It is the most advanced Indian experimental vaccine.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“We are in the process of developing our indigenous vaccines, in the process of completing our third-phase trials in the next one or two months,” Harsh Vardhan told a web conference on the pandemic.He reiterated the government’s plan was to immunise 200 million to 250 million Indians by July.An ICMR scientist told Reuters earlier this month the vaccine could be launched in February or March, although Bharat Biotech separately told Reuters on Friday that results of the late-stage trials were expected only between March and April. Vardhan, however, said in September the government could opt for emergency vaccine authorisation, particularly for the elderly and people in high-risk workplaces.Also Read | ICMR increases RT-PCR testing capacity on Amit Shah’s directionsIndian officials have said they expect to rely on COVAXIN and four other locally-tested candidates to control Covid-19, as they do not expect early access to sufficient quantities of those developed by Pfizer and Moderna.The other experimental vaccines on trial in India are the one being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University that is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India; Russia’s Sputnik-V; Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and lastly one that Biological E. Ltd is developing with Baylor College of Medicine and Dynavax Technologies Corp.Serum’s CEO said on Friday the AstraZeneca vaccine could be delivered to Indian healthcare workers and the elderly by January.India on Sunday recorded 45,209 new infections, taking the total to 9.09 million, only behind that of the United States. Deaths rose by 501 to 133,227, with Delhi recording the highest number of daily fatalities in the country over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-covid-19-vaccine-final-trials-could-end-within-two-months-says-harsh-vardhan/story-GUXtcvu8KdRtc55uCBwUWO.html
