24-11-2020||India||President Kovind to inaugurate All India Presiding Officers’ conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia||President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia on Wednesday.The two-day conference is being organised by the Lok Sabha to celebrate the Constitution Day, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday. “The President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, will visit Gujarat (Kevadia) tomorrow (November 25, 2020) to inaugurate the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-inaugurate-all-india-presiding-officers-conference-in-gujarat-s-kevadia/story-fzqt59rhA5oX5Dqef5BsUK.html
24-11-2020||India||Jailed Lalu Prasad trying to lure NDA MLAs by promising ministerial berths: Sushil Modi||Ahead of the Speaker’s election for the newly constituted 17th Bihar Assembly on Wednesday, former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday alleged that jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was trying to topple the NDA government by talking to ruling coalition MLAs over the phone to lure them by promising ministerial berths. The senior BJP leader also indicated the phone number from which the jailed RJD chief purportedly made calls, on his Twitter handle. In a tweet late on Tuesday evening, Modi said, “Lalu Yadav making telephone calls (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed.” The RJD chief is at present lodged at the bungalow of the Superintendent of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, post conviction in fodder scam cases.The allegation has come just a night before the crucial election for the Speaker’s post in the state assembly tomorrow when the chief minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government will face the first test of strength in ensuring the win of the coalition’s official candidate to the top post. Vijay Kumar Sinha has been pitted against the RJD-led Grand Alliance candidate Awadh Bihari Choudhary. The RJD-led Grand Alliance has already upped the ante against the ruling NDA government since the November 10 election results of the state assembly polls, which gave the ruling coalition a thin majority above the halfway mark of 122. The GA, having won 110 seats, had alleged it lost 20 seats to election manipulation and claimed the people’s mandate had not been honoured. The fresh allegation by the senior BJP leader against the incarcerated RJD chief of trying to destabilize the state government is likely to intensify the feud between the ruling and opposition in the state in the coming days. Many also feel, it indicates how the NDA having the support of smaller allies like the Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha –Secular (HAM) (S) is vulnerable to defections. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said the allegations levelled by Modi were all baseless and were an attempt to remain in the limelight by the senior BJP leader. “Modi suffers from Lalu phobia. He is making all these allegations to remain in the limelight after not being given the post of deputy CM this time. All these allegations of luring NDA MLAs are baseless and concocted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-lalu-prasad-trying-to-lure-nda-mlas-by-promising-ministerial-berths-sushil-modi/story-R0JWgzLPtil4Bm9y4tVPxK.html
24-11-2020||India||President Kovind worships at Tirupati Balaji temple||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday offered prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at nearby Tirumala. An ardent devotee of the ancient hill shrine, the President, accompanied by his family members, was accorded a ceremonial traditional reception, upon his arrival at the main entrance by the priests, amid chanting Vedic hymns. He was conducted to the sanctum sanctorum of the over 2000-year old temple by the priests along with TTD Board Chairman YV Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K S Jawahar Reddy, a temple official told PTI. Kovind was honoured by offering a sacred silk cloth, a holy portrait along with “laddu prasadam”, the official said. The president spent about half-an-hour in the shrine and before leaving he was bestowed with blessings by a band of senior priests amid chanting spiritual mantras. The official also said that before visiting the Lord Venkateswara temple, Kovind paid his obeisances at Sri Lakshmi Varaha Swamy temple situated on the banks of the massive holy tank at Tirumala. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan accompanied the President during his visit to the temple. Earlier, Kovind arrived here on a six-hour spiritual visit. Governor Harichandan, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and others accorded a warm reception to the President and the First Lady as they landed in the Tirupati airport at Renigunta from Chennai. After receiving the President, Jaganmohan Reddy left for Tadepalli near Vijayawada to take part in the Prime Minister’s virtual conference with Chief Ministers on Covid-19 related matters, a government official said. Later, the President and the First Lady drove to the temple of Goddess Sri Padmavati at Tiruchanoor here and offered special prayers. After the darshan of the Goddess, the first couple was presented ‘Veda Aasirvachanam’ at the temple. Tight security arrangements had been made and considering the Covid-19 situation, all top officials who took part in the President’s programme were subjected to coronavirus tests earlier, he added. The president later returned to Chennai by an IAF plane. Earlier in the day, on his arrival from Delhi by Air India One-B777, on its first flight, Kovind was received at the Chennai airport by Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-worships-at-tirupati-balaji-temple/story-H1bqhbzpZ7vpU0Y30zoiSL.html
24-11-2020||India||BSF hands over intruder’s body to Pak Rangers after establishing identify||The Border Security Force on Tuesday handed over the body of an intruder to Pak Rangers on the zero line on the international border in Samba sector. He was shot dead by the BSF jawans on Monday evening near Chak Fakira border outpost in Samba sector. “A flag meeting was conducted with Pak Rangers near border pillar number 64 in connection with handing over the dead body of Pak national killed on Monday. Eleven troops of BSF and 15 troops of Pak Rangers participated in the meeting,” said a BSF spokesperson. Also Read: Gadgets used by Pak’s 4 Jaish terrorists help India solve Jan 31 terror strikeDuring the flag meeting, BSF troops asked Pak Rangers to identify the killed Pak national and to provide documents in support. “After receipt of documents pertaining to identification of the killed Pak national, his body was handed over to Pak Rangers on proper receipt and with full honour,” said the spokesman. The deceased has been identified as Abdul Hamid, son of Rojdeen of Chaman Khurd in Shakargarh area of Pakistan’s Punjab province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-hands-over-intruder-s-body-to-pak-rangers-after-establishing-identify/story-VWb9HrkwXzjZklLgzvqgNI.html
24-11-2020||India||Sweden says it sees no signs herd immunity is stopping coronavirus||There’s little evidence that herd immunity is helping Sweden combat the coronavirus, according to the country’s top epidemiologist.“The issue of herd immunity is difficult,” Anders Tegnell said at a briefing in Stockholm on Tuesday. “We see no signs of immunity in the population that are slowing down the infection right now.”Swedes have been more exposed to the virus than their neighbors elsewhere in the Nordic region, and every third Stockholmer tested has antibodies, according to figures published this week. That’s after the country famously opted against a lockdown, relying instead on voluntary measures.Tegnell has in the past said that herd immunity is hard to measure and even questioned official figures. Swedish authorities have made clear that immunity isn’t a policy goal, but the nation’s exposure to the virus makes it an obvious test case for observing the theory.Read more | 2 viruses closely related to coronavirus found in Japan, CambodiaIn a recent OECD study, Sweden consistently ranked among the hardest hit nations in Europe, as measured by relative Covid mortality and infection rates. It was also the slowest at containing transmission.Sweden was recently forced to recalibrate its approach against the virus, as the daily Covid death rate topped 7,000. In what Prime Minister Stefan Lofven called an “unprecedented” step earlier this month, Swedes will no longer be free to gather in public in groups larger than eight. The sale of alcohol is now also banned after 10 p.m.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe new restrictions come amid warnings that Sweden’s intensive care beds are quickly filling up. Meanwhile, authorities in the country are warning against placing too much weight on a possible future vaccine.“We are still seeing an increase in patients who need care and intensive care,” Thomas Linden, a departmental head at Sweden’s National Board of Health and Welfare, said at Tuesday’s briefing. “One must not take the fact that there is a vaccine a few months away as an indication to be careless with measures.”“In a third wave, the health-care system will be even more strained than it has been so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/sweden-says-it-sees-no-signs-herd-immunity-is-stopping-coronavirus/story-LcCug6VXjI1NldiVU5wHrN.html
24-11-2020||India||Confusion over suitable cremation site for former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi||A day after his demise on Monday due to post-Covid-19 complications, there is no decision yet on where veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi will be cremated. The 84-year-old had passed away on Monday evening at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) and a decision was taken that the cremation would take place on Thursday in Guwahati. The Assam Congress unit has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in the state to allot a plot of land within the city for the cremation, but the latter is yet to take any decision on it. “We are looking at a plot in Amingaon (on the north bank of Brahmaputra on the outskirts of Guwahati) where we may be able to conduct the last rites on Thursday morning,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday. Guwahati has two public cremation grounds, Bhootnath and Navagraha, but the Congress had asked for two other spots within the city where the cremation could be conducted and a memorial set up. “We had a discussion on this with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. But the areas sought by Congress fall under wetlands and can’t be allotted for other purposes as per law. Sonapur and Amingaon (both on the outskirts of Guwahati) would be more suitable,” said Sarma. “We had asked the Kamrup (Metropolitan) district administration to look for suitable plots within Guwahati, if possible. But they haven’t been able to find any such place where the cremation can take place. I hope the Congress understands this,” he added. Sarma mentioned that Gogoi’s family hasn’t made any request for a specific spot in Guwahati for the cremation and the demand for a separate area for last rites and construction of a memorial has come from the Congress’s state unit. There were requests from residents in Titabar, the assembly constituency in Jorhat district which Gogoi represented, to conduct the last rites there. But Gogoi’s family has told the state government that they want the cremation to take place in Guwahati. Despite repeated attempts, senior leaders from Assam Congress were not available for their comments as they are busy with functions associated with paying last respects to Gogoi. “We are prepared to conduct the last rites on Thursday. Any decision on the place where it will be done will be taken by the state government,” said Biswajit Pegu, deputy commissioner, Kamrup (Metropolitan). Guwahati doesn’t have any specific memorial spot for former chief ministers and other dignitaries. A memorial for Bharat Ratna Bhupen Hazarika, one of Assam’s foremost cultural icons, constructed at a plot given by Gauhati University, is the only such place in the city. Assembly elections are due in Assam in March-April next year and Gogoi’s death and cremation could become a political tug-of-war between opposition Congress and ruling BJP. Earlier on Tuesday, Gogoi’s body was taken from GMCH to his official residence. From there it was taken to the state secretariat and the Assam Congress head office. In the afternoon, it was shifted to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra where the public will be allowed to pay tribute on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-over-suitable-cremation-site-for-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi/story-FitbA3DM54O9LMRV6Lc4wI.html
24-11-2020||India||Statewide public holiday declared in Tamil Nadu tomorrow ahead of Cyclone Nivar||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared a statewide public holiday on Wednesday as Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram tomorrow evening.“The severe cyclonic storm is expected to cross between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry by tomorrow evening. Under the influence of this cyclone, rainfall is expected to continue up to 27th November in Tamil Nadu,” S Balachandran, IMD Chennai said.IMD said on Tuesday that the cyclone has a wind speed of 100-110 kmph and gusting to 120 kmph. The coastal areas of Tamil Nadu are expected to receive heavy rain between November 23-26.With the onset of the cyclone, rains started pouring heavily in the Thiruvarur district on Tuesday evening.“Extremely heavy rainfall expected in coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu districts on November 25. The most vulnerable zone is north Tamil Nadu districts,” Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director General (DG), IMD said today.As a precautionary measure, on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Railway Police, a team of disaster rescue and swimmers were also put on standby.“As many as 12 teams are positioned in Tamil Nadu, two teams in Puducherry and one team in Karaikal for monitoring the situation. Three teams are also positioned in Nellore while one team is in Chittoor. Additional three teams are pre-positioned in Vizag. Total 22 teams available on the ground and eight teams on standby. Total 30 teams committed to tackling the cyclone,” DG stated.Following the IMD warning about the cyclone posing a grave danger to life and health and safety of the public, Section 144, prohibiting the assembly of more than four people, has been imposed in Puducherry, beginning Tuesday night. It will continue till the morning of November 26, Puducherry’s District Magistrate informed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry all possible supports from the Centre.Indian Navy also informed that five flood relief teams and a diving team is ready for deployment at Chennai.“One flood relief team each on standby at Naval Detachment Nagapattinam, Rameswaram and air station INS Parundu. INS Jyoti deployed with HADR brick and diving teams along Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast,” Indian Navy stated.RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD said, Nivar Cyclone is currently 50km south-west of Chennai and is moving north-westward.“The prediction is that it is likely to move towards Tamil Nadu coast and cross close to Puducherry at around 5 pm tomorrow. It will intensify further,” he added.Puducherry has installed ‘Number 7 storm warning cage at the port areas’ in response to the cyclonic storm, which means the port will experience severe weather from a storm of light or moderate-intensity that is expected to cross over or near the port.Moreover, a disaster rescue team of 40 people have reached Puducherry with the safety equipment to deal with the storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statewide-public-holiday-declared-in-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-ahead-of-cyclone-nivar/story-jD1rpwwu3QFgNtCwi2KJAK.html
24-11-2020||India||3,000 weddings slated to take place in Jaipur in Nov; officials fear Covid surge||Notwithstanding the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, more than 3,000 weddings are scheduled to take place in the capital city Jaipur over the next few days, posing a grave threat to people’s lives amid the pandemic outbreak.Officials fear that the infection may spread rapidly in the city due to such events.“We have received applications for permission to more than 3,000 weddings in the month of November. The permission is being given offline and online,” Additional District Collector-Jaipur, Shankar Lal Saini told PTI.A majority of the weddings this month will take place on November 25, on the occasion of ‘Dev Uthani Ekadashi’, and up to 100 people are allowed to attend a marriage function.Saini said the situation is alarming because the infection is spreading at a fast pace.“It is certainly a challenging situation in view of the increase in Covid positive cases. The district administration and police officials are constantly making people aware about the need to follow guidelines like maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks,” he said.Taking into account the sudden spike in the cases in the last few days, the state government has imposed night curfew in eight district headquarters, including Jaipur, from 8 pm to 6 am. However, those attending marriage functions are exempted from it. The official said the state government has also increased the penalty amount from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 if more than 100 people gather in marriages and other events.“The district administration and police officials will be in the field to check any violation, and action as per the guidelines and government orders will be taken,” he said.Ravi Jindal, president of tent dealers association, said the number of wedding events may go up to 4,000 in Jaipur alone in the coming days.“The coronavirus pandemic has badly hit the business of the wedding industry, which directly and indirectly gives employment to over 10 lakh people in the state like tent dealers, florists, caterers, event planners, among others, and all of them are facing crisis,” he said.Jindal said due to the restriction on the number of people attending a wedding event, two to three marriage events are taking place at the same venue.Astrologer Ayush Bhardwaj said Dev Uthani Ekadashi is considered the most auspicious occasion for marriage, therefore, the maximum number of weddings will take place on this day.Other auspicious days for marriage in the month of November are November 27 and November 30, he said.Rajasthan recorded 19 more fatalities due to coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 2,200, according to a health department bulletin.The state also reported 3,314 fresh Covid-19 cases which mounted the infection tally to 2,50,482, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/3-000-weddings-slated-to-take-place-in-jaipur-in-nov-officials-fear-covid-surge/story-vC2tv96MiDdTKZCVuPgnmM.html
24-11-2020||India||Odisha’s Rs 20 crore gold heist was an inside job, cops unearth plot||The fear of getting caught in the audit in a case of embezzlement may have led to the heist of 39.5 kg of gold jewellery and Rs 4 lakh cash from branch of a non-banking financial company in Cuttack town last week, Odisha police said on Tuesday, after claiming to have cracked the daylight heist.Police said 7 persons have been detained in the case and would eventually be arrested formally.Four armed men wearing masks and helmets had entered the Nayasarak branch office of the IIFL Finance, an NBFC, at around 9.50am on November 19, threatening the lone unarmed security guard at gunpoint. In a space of 10 minutes, the miscreants decamped with gold jewellery worth Rs 20 crore that were mortgaged by hundreds of IIFL customers for various loans. The robbers had locked the bank staff in the office toilet before they committed the robbery.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissioner of police Sudhansu Sarangi said the robbery was planned by one Lala Amrit Ray, who worked in the Nayasarak branch of IIFL for the last 5 years.“During a recent audit by IIFL officials, Ray’s role in embezzlement of some gold jewellery was revealed. But the company was unaware of his criminal antecedents. He was involved in many irregularities in the past and managed to sweep those under the carpet by winning over the past auditors. When a new auditor joined and raised the issue of irregularities, Ray got worried and staged the heist to mask the irregularities,” said Sarangi.Ray’s brother Lala Ranjan Ray, who worked in another gold-leasing firm, too, was arrested for embezzlement of 1 kg gold in his company. Ray, who was involved in that case, could not be arrested then as he had secured a bail from the high court.Police said Ray took help of his childhood friend Bapu alias Ranjan Behera of Biswanathpur village in Cuttack district. On Thursday, Ranjan Behera got four others -- Rajakishore Sahu, Biju alias Prakash Sahu, Bapi alias Santosh Bhoi and Padia alias Pradipta Behera -- from his village to arrive at the bank soon after it opened.“The insider role as well the negligence in security was too glaring. The alarm was not working for the past several months and the CCTV camera had gone kaput. The regular guard with a gun was not present. Even something as basic as opening the digital locker through OTP mechanism was also not being followed by the company,” said Sarangi.On the day of the robbery, the masked miscreants took away mobile phones of the employees and locked them in a room in order to prevent them from informing police.The police commissioner said no video footage was available with the branch’s head office in Mumbai as the CCTV in Cuttack branch was defunct. “No steps were taken to repair the alarm system which would have cost them less than Rs 200 to 300. So many lapses did take investigators by surprise. It was a blind case. Although we knew it was a well-planned bank robbery, we did not have any clue,” said Sarangi.Police have recovered around 2 kgs of gold ornaments and further investigations were on.“We are still not sure how much gold was looted, though the company in its FIR claimed a heist of 39.5 kg of gold. We have come to know that some of the stolen gold has been kept in another gold leasing company. Only after proper audits, we will be in a position to ascertain how much gold ornaments were actually looted. When an employee of the organization is involved in the case, it is difficult to reveal how much gold was mortgaged. There could be many ghost loanees,” said the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-rs-20-crore-gold-heist-was-an-inside-job-cops-unearth-plot/story-P9ITK6bzfQo7rDhJny40wL.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Why Section 124A?’ Bombay HC’s scathing remark over sedition charges against Kangana Ranaut||The Bombay high court on Tuesday questioned the invoking of sedition charges against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel. A complaint was filed against them for allegedly “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their social media posts.Later, an FIR was registered following an order from Bandra Metropolitan Magistrate, directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister. Ranaut’s lawyer had filed a petition seeking an interim stay on the summons issued by the Mumbai Police, in which the sisters were asked to appear for questioning.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik heard the petition filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee. While the court granted interim protection to the sisters from arrest, it directed them to appear before Mumbai police on January 8.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut, sister granted interim protection by Bombay HCHere’s what the court said before granting protection from arrest:Ranaut’s lawyer, Siddiquee, argued that his client was out of Mumbai to attend a wedding ceremony and all the summons were responded via statements. He said that the answers were also sent to investigating officers.“Whatever it is, you have to honour the summons,” replied Justice SS Shinde. Siddiquee later apprised the court that Ranaut and her sister will be able to come to Mumbai in the first weekend of January.The police had to face tough questions for adding Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code in the FIR. “Are you treating citizens of the country like this? 124A?” asked Justice Shinde. “We understand other sections. But 124A?” he reiterated his question.During the hearing, the judge said the police would have filed the FIR if the case was serious, but it was filed only after the Magistrate passed the order. Justice Shinde also observed that the High Cout has been giving protection under Section 482 in appropriate cases.Before recording Siddiquee’s submission on the date of recording his clients’ statements, the bench again highlighted the frequent use of sedition charges.“Why the police is invoking Section 124A IPC in such cases? In many cases, 124A is invoked. You conduct proper workshops for officers as to which sections should be invoked,” Justice Shinde told the Prosecutor.“If anybody does not fall within the line of the government, will that be sedition?” he asked again, before passing the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-section-124a-bombay-hc-s-scathing-remark-over-sedition-charges-against-kangana-ranaut/story-XIztIafLKxHParQWvXIOmO.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Sufficient material to proceed against Umar Khalid’: Delhi court after taking cognizance of riots conspiracy chargesheet||A Delhi court on Tuesday accepted the fresh supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police against Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) scholar Umar Khalid and research scholar Sharjeel Imam in a conspiracy case in connection with the Northeast Delhi violence.After considering the chargesheet, the court said that there is sufficient material to proceed against Khalid, Imam and Faizan Khan for offences under provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). They werre booked under the provisions of the stringent law by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police.The police had on Sunday filed a supplementary chargesheet against Khalid and Imam pertaining to a larger conspiracy behind the violence that took place in areas of Northeast of Delhi between February 24 and 26. Both have been arrested by the Delhi Police.According to the police, the present case pertains to a multi-layered conspiracy and pre-planned riots in Delhi. Police have submitted that on March 6, specific information was received in the Crime Branch that the communal riots from February 24 to 26 in Delhi were pre-planned and the same was hatched by Khalid and his associates.More than 750 cases were registered over the Northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others were injured. So far, over 250 chargesheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sufficient-material-to-proceed-against-umar-khalid-delhi-court-after-taking-cognizance-of-riots-conspiracy-chargesheet/story-P7SXIOHV8T1LC0MaAR84lN.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: SC seeks Centre’s response on petition to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SC notice to Centre to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test after petitioner alleges lootThe Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a petition seeking fixation of uniform ceiling on the RT-PCR test for detection of Coronovirus disease (Covid-19) across the country. The petition filed by a lawyer Ajay Agrawal demanded that the rate throughout the country for this test should be fixed at a maximum of Rs 400 as he produced ‘evidence’ of a Nagpur-based supplier who is willing to provide RT-PCR test kits for as cheap as Rs 200. Read moreUP govt brings ordinance against unlawful religious conversionsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday brought an ordinance against unlawful religious conversions. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting, minister Siddharth Nath Singh said on Tuesday. The UP prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020 makes provision for declaring a marriage null and void if the marriage is solemnised for the primary purpose of converting a woman from one religion to other. Read moreIndian government bans 220 apps: Here’s the entire listThe Indian government today banned 43 apps in the country. The action, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said, was taken as these apps were ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.’ Read more‘India will play five T20Is’ - Sourav Ganguly gives details of England home seriesAs India would be hosting England next year, BCCI President Sourav Ganguly on Tuesday revealed that there will a 5-match T20I series between both teams. He stated that it’s going to be a full-fledged tour of four Tests, three ODIs and five T20Is. Read moreShaheer Sheikh announces engagement to girlfriend Ruchikaa Kapoor: ‘Excited for the rest of my life’Television actor Shaheer Sheikh and Ruchikaa Kapoor, the Creative Producer and Executive Vice President at Balaji Motion Pictures, are engaged. He took to Instagram to announce the happy news along with a picture of her flaunting her engagement ring. “#TuHasdiRave excited for the rest of my life.. #ikigai,” he wrote. Read moreSana Khan - Mufti Anas Sayied wedding: Sana shares unseen images of her ‘Walima look’ with fans. Pics and details of her outfit hereSana Khan’s surprisingly sudden and secret nuptials to Gujarat-based religious scholar Mufti Anas Sayied in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic took the internet by storm, and soon went viral. Sana has since been posting glimpses of herself along with her better half on her social media. In her latest post, Sana gave her fans the complete details of her ‘Walima’ look. See hereWoman creates ‘social distancing dress’ with a 6-ft radius. Can you guess how long it took to make? A true artist can find inspiration in even the most obscure things. This notion is probably proven best by Instagram user Shay who, influenced by the current circumstances, made a ‘social distancing dress’. In no ways an easy feat, this creation took two months to design. The process of production is as fascinating as the finished product is beautiful. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-petition-to-fix-uniform-rate-for-rt-pcr-test-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xnmKs24KIhxGCNj29MfSGM.html
24-11-2020||India||Army Chief Naravane in Nagaland as part of 3-day visit to eastern command||Chief of army staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday arrived in Kohima as part of his three-day visit to various formations under the army’s eastern command to review security and operational preparedness, officials said.Upon arrival, the army chief called on Nagaland governor RN Ravi at the Raj Bhavan and later met chief minister Neiphiu Rio apart from other top army and security officials. The meetings were held to mainly review the security situation in the state, officials informed. He assured the support of the army and Assam Rifles in maintaining peace and tranquillity in Nagaland and ensuring security along the Indo-Myanmar border.Governor Ravi, who is also the Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, was reportedly in Delhi for some time but rushed back on Monday to receive the army chief.General Naravane will be leaving for Delhi on Wednesday. However, prior to his departure, he is scheduled to visit the Kohima Orphanage and Destitute Home and inaugurate a new residential facility to be run by the Assam Rifles.Also Read: India test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missile: ReportAccording to a defence release, the army chief, who landed in Nagaland’s Dimapur on Monday, was briefed by the General Officer Commanding in Chief, Eastern Command Lieutenant General Anil Chauhan, and GOC Spear Corps Lieutenant General RP Kalita on operational preparedness along the Northern borders as well as operations in hinterland of Assam, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. He was also briefed on the progress of the ongoing Naga peace talks. On Tuesday, the army chief flew to neighbouring Manipur before arriving at Kohima where he is stated to have visited various army and Assam Rifles headquarters to make a firsthand assessment of the ground situation.General Naravane had earlier served as the Inspector General of Assam Rifles (North) based in Kohima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-in-nagaland-as-part-of-3-day-visit-to-eastern-command/story-zXKgHpBH6OSk4OObFgBWuI.html
24-11-2020||India||SC notice to Centre to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test after petitioner alleges loot||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a petition seeking fixation of uniform ceiling on the RT-PCR test for detection of Coronovirus disease (COVID-19) across the country.The petition filed by a lawyer Ajay Agrawal demanded that the rate throughout the country for this test should be fixed at a maximum of Rs 400 as he produced ‘evidence’ of a Nagpur-based supplier who is willing to provide RT-PCR test kits for as cheap as Rs 200.A three-judge bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde agreed to issue notice to the Centre and fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks. On the next day of hearing, the court will examine this issue along with a pending petition that has demanded subsidized treatment for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals.Agrawal raised this issue in public interest as he pointed out to the court that presently states were charging citizens at will. Delhi, for instance, fixed the rate for RT-PCR testing kits at Rs 2,400 while Andhra Pradesh has pegged it as high as Rs 2,900. Haryana had the lowest rate of Rs 900 per test kit, while West Bengal and Karnataka have last month revised these rates at Rs 1,500-1,600. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, with effect from October 31, government hospitals/laboratories are charging Rs 600 per test while private hospitals in the state continue to charge Rs 1600 per test.“The RT-PCR kits are presently available for less than Rs 200. The deponent has received a latest quotation (for RT-PCR kits) dated November 21 from Orange City Glassco Private Limited, based in Nagpur for Rs 199 plus discount up to Rs 25 on bulk purchase….there is no additional cost as the machines used for RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they use it to conduct large number of tests for (testing) other infectious diseases such as HIV, Hepatitis, dengue, tuberculosis, malaria, etc,” Agrawal stated in his petition.Also Read: Centre asks CMs to form vaccination panel, identify the vulnerable. Most say they are readyHe urged the Court to urgently consider the matter as in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the citizens have to conduct this test at the earliest.The petition said, “Crores of people have lost their jobs and maximum people are unemployed….It is the work of a welfare state to see the welfare of the people and stop this type of loot.” Even at Rs 400, the petitioner claimed that private establishments can still make profit as most of the private labs/hospitals have already installed the test machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-to-fix-uniform-rate-for-rt-pcr-test-after-petitioner-alleges-loot/story-xMLB6vsIjpya49KQA4AhjI.html
24-11-2020||India||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar to appear before CBI on Wednesday||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who is facing a slew of cases by the Income Tax department and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with disproportionate assets, is expected to appear before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for questioning on November 25. The central agency had summoned Shivakumar on November 23 but he had asked for a fresh date.The CBI had recovered Rs 50 lakh in cash during the searches conducted on premises of Shivakumar, and brother MP DK Suresh, on October 5. The raids were conducted at Shivakumar’s residence at Doddalahalli, Kanakapura and Sadashiva Nagar, in Bengaluru, apart from others.The case was registered after a seven-month-long preliminary enquiry looking into disproportionate assets Shivakumar amassed in his and his family members’ name during his tenure as a minister in the Karnataka government, the CBI claimed.The CBI has calculated assets held and acquired, and expenditure incurred by Shivakumar and his family members between April 1, 2013 and April 30, 2018 called as check period.According to the CBI FIR, Shivakumar and his family members held assets to the tune of Rs 33.92 crore, as per election affidavit, at the beginning of the check period which swelled to Rs 162.53 crore at the end.The agency has alleged that after taking into account expenditure and income during the period, Shivakumar and family members have assets worth Rs 74.93 crore, about 44.93 per cent of total income during the period, which are disproportionate to known sources of income.This is the first case by the CBI against Shivakumar, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president and an MLA, who was earlier arrested by the ED in a case of alleged money laundering, they said.The Congress has continuously accused the BJP-led central government of “witch-hunt”, and linked the CBI action to the November 3 by-election in two assembly seats in Karnataka.Earlier, the ED had arrested Shivakumar in September last year on charges of money laundering. He was released from jail on October 23 after the Delhi High Court granted him bail.Shivakumar, who was appointed chief of the Congress’ Karnataka state unit in March this year, had been a minister in the Siddaramaiah Government of the Congress as well as the JDS-Congress Government led by HD Kumaraswamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-president-dk-shivakumar-to-appear-before-cbi-on-wednesday/story-refgsgj3v7hB04ZWvAKAbN.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine will be available in near future: ICMR scientist tells Allahabad High Court||Scientist at the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Nivedita Gupta, on Tuesday apprised the Allahabad High Court about the status of the Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Gupta informed the court that she was confident that vaccines for the viral infection would be available in the near future. The court while addressing the issue of ensuring all people wore face masks directed the state government to maintain tight vigil in market places in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur and Gautam Budh Nagar for at least the next 30 days. These cities have witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. The court said that the district administration would use drones, if available, for surveillance of crowded places, like markets. “This surveillance should be done on the same pattern as it is being done in Allahabad,” observed the bench. The bench, comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar, passed the order after taking suo moto cognizance of the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Sarvshresth Tripathi, SSP Prayagraj who was present in court along with his team informed the court that a cluster of four constables has been posted in the various zones in the district to ensure that people were wearing face masks. Further, local officials have been directed to give four hourly reports to the Station House Officers (SHOs) regarding the inspection which they would be doing with regard to the wearing of masks. Earlier, on Monday, the court had directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Prayagraj to personally inform on November 24 about the progress in deployment of police to ensure cent per cent use of face masks in the city. The court has fixed December 3 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-available-in-near-future-icmr-scientist-tells-allahabad-high-court/story-ReKSjLRcNnGAcJ7d67FTxM.html
24-11-2020||India||LDF to organise mass protest in Kerala on Wednesday||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala will organise a mass protest in the state to target the central government on November 25. The party has alleged that the central investigative agencies are being used to stall the development activities carried out by the Left government.The mass gathering will take place at 5 pm on Wednesday at Panchayat-Municipal centres. The protest will be organised using the slogan “Save Kerala, Protect Development”.In a statement, LDF convener and Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said on Sunday, “Instead of investigating the gold smuggling, the central investigation agencies are looking to halt all development projects. They have intervened in projects such as K-Phone, e-Mobility, Taurus Park and Life Mission.”“The investigation agencies are challenging the people of Kerala, by the move to scrap development projects such as modernisation of schools, upgrading of hospitals, development of national highways and construction of roads and bridges. The UDF-BJP alliance is preparing for such a narrow operation, fearing that this achievement of development will be politically beneficial to the LDF,” he further said in the statement.A similar protest was held by LDF at 25,000 centers across the state on November 16 in which all constituent parties of LDF participated including Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and other smaller parties. As the Enforcement Directorate (ED) extended the scope of probe in Kerala into many prestige projects which was followed by the probe into the Kerala gold smuggling case, LDF has been very wary of the centre.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a press meet on November 16 said that central agencies in Kerala are targeting bureaucrats who are carrying out development works.“Apart from one investigation agency, I think all other central agencies in India are in Kerala. These probe agencies are now targeting bureaucrats who are carrying out development works. Files after files are being called in by these agencies. Who are these people who are so upset with the development works of the state government? They are now targeting K-fon project. I want to tell those trying to sabotage development works of Kerala government asking for cooperation that they need not come here for it,” said Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ldf-to-organise-mass-protest-in-kerala-on-wednesday/story-ZzcxDRoB5dVK0jIlNuWwGJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi graveyard running out of burial space as deaths rise||The biggest Muslim graveyard in the national capital near ITO is running out of burial space amid rising Covid-19 deaths with coronavirus victims from other NCR areas also being buried here, an official managing it said on Tuesday.“There should be some arrangement so that Covid-19 victims are buried at graveyards in their neighbourhoods and their relatives do not have to come here because space is limited,” said Haji Mian Faiyazuddin, secretary of Qabristan Ahle Islam in the vicinity of the walled city.He said the management committee will write to the Delhi government for help to ensure that Covid-19 burials from other parts of the city are not shifted to the graveyard.Faiyazuddin said a problem faced by the graveyard management is that it also has to provide space for burial of Covid-19 patients from neighbouring cities like Noida, Ghaziabad and Meerut who die while undergoing treatment in Delhi.“Yesterday itself we provided space from a Covid-19 victim who passed away here in a hospital. We do not have any problem but space is a real issue,” he said.Although the space issue is not that grave at the moment but if the current rate of burials continue, there could be difficulty in accommodating even normal burials in around two months, he said.“We receive around 4-5 bodies of Covid-19 victims these days. A total of 67 Covid-19 victims were buried here in September, 57 in October and in November so far 50 bodies have been buried,” Faiyazuddin said.Staring at space crunch, the graveyard management last month had readied 5-6 acres of extra space for burials of casualties caused by the virus.The Covid-19 burials at the ITO graveyard, measuring about 50 acres, started in April.Delhi reported 121 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday. On Sunday, 121 fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,391, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-graveyard-running-out-of-burial-space-as-deaths-rise/story-Dv7do63XKPK41ECktQKq0I.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s ban on 43 Chinese apps is the 4th strike since Ladakh stand off||The Centre on Tuesday banned 43 more mobile apps, mostly Chinese-owned, including those of the e-commerce giant, the Alibaba Group.The ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), the governing authority, issued an order under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to the 43 mobile apps on the grounds that they have been “engaging in activities that are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. “Apps of the Alibaba Group, short video sharing app Snack video, Business card reader app Cam Card, truck and driver aggregator Lalamove are some of the major ones that have been blocked this time,” a ministry official told The Hindustan Times.A second ministry official said that all the apps banned were Chinese. “Reports keep coming in as it is a continuous process. MHA sends the report that is brought to notice of the secretary and then the orders are processed. There’s a proper judicial process, which the cyber law division looks into to assess the violations.”The second official added that Lalamove is one of the fastest growing logistical service in the world and the decision to ban it was a major one.This is the fourth tranche of apps that the government has banned amid the ongoing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Eastern Ladakh. The conflict, which intensified in June following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes at the Galwan Valley, shows no signs of resolution. Recent reports also suggest that the Chinese have built roads and a village at Doklam in Bhutan, where there was a faceoff between India and China in 2017. Some of the Chinese apps banned this time include the AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress, Alipay Cashier, Chinese Social, ChinaLove among others. This is the latest in a series of bans targeting Chinese players. Also Read: China likely inducting more fighter jets for western areas amid India standoffIndia on 3 September banned 118 China-linked mobile apps, including widely popular game PUBG, two months after similar curbs on 59 apps, mostly Chinese, and a month after banning 47 more linked to that country, citing concerns over them being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity… defence of India, security of state and public order” amid a months-long standoff with its northern neighbour at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).In late June, India banned dozens of mobile apps, including Bytedance’s TikTok, Alibaba’s UC Browser and Tencent’s WeChat over what it said were national security concerns. It banned some more in late July.MEITY had said the apps were attempting to steal and surreptitiously transmit users’ data in an “unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”.Apar Gupta, internet freedom foundation trustee said that the latest press release does not even state any “specific, underlying reasons” and merely refers to earlier orders. “This is a concerning progression of the practice of banning of apps becoming normalised,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-november-24-ban-on-chinese-apps-is-the-4th-strike-since-ladakh-stand-off/story-fvTucxibvLsOHirwehcRcJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s climate change activist Ridhima Pandey in BBC’s list of 100 most influential women globally||Thirteen-year-old Uttarakhand-based climate activist Ridhima Pandey has featured in the BBC’s list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2020. The list, according to the BBC website, highlights those who are leading change and making a difference during these turbulent times. Pandey said she didn’t expect she would feature in such a prestigious list. “It is a pleasant surprise and international recognition of the work I have been carrying out for the cause of the environment and climate change. This recognition will encourage me further to keep working and fighting for the cause of the environment and climate change, which are the most important issues the world is facing today and will face in the coming days,” she said. Pandey, who lives in Haridwar, said this recognition will also inspire other youngsters, especially girls in India to fight for the cause of the environment and climate change in their areas. “I hope in the coming years many more women from India will feature in this list,” she said. According to the BBC website (https://www.bbc.com/news/world-55042935), “Ridhima Pandey is a climate activist who, at the age of nine, filed a petition against the Government of India in response to its inaction to mitigate climate change. In 2019, along with 15 other child petitioners, Ridhima filed a lawsuit against five countries at the UN. Ridhima is currently participating in international conferences and helping to empower other students, at all levels, to fight for their future and for the biodiversity of the world. Ridhima is working to save her future and that of coming generations”. Last year, Ridhima had joined Greta Thunberg and 14 other children at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, filing a complaint to protest the lack of government action on the climate change crisis. Last December, Pandey had started an online campaign urging the PM to talk about the alarming air pollution situation in India in his Mann Ki Baat and declare it as a public health emergency. In September this year, Pandey in her hand-written letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that her worst nightmare was going to school with an oxygen cylinder, requesting PM Modi to make sure that “an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we may have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in future.” Three other women from India---eighty-two-year-old Bilkis Bano, Manasi Joshi, Isaivani-have also featured in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-climate-change-activist-ridhima-pandey-in-bbc-s-list-of-100-most-influential-women-globally/story-XnXbpzfyJ53WTVknfHGEWP.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD DG||Cyclone Nivar is expected to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on the late evening of November 25, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had initially predicted that Cyclone Nivar was likely to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’ but has now estimated that it will intensify further. Nivar is the second cyclone in the Bay of Bengal this year. In May, Cyclone Amphan had developed into a ‘super cyclonic storm’. “Our forecast is it will intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by (Tuesday) tonight “It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during 25th November late evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kilometres per hour gusting to 145 kmph,” Mohapatra said. Besides strong winds, the cyclone is also expected to bring heavy rains. The IMD has issued red alert for coastal and north interior Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, for November 25, the top meteorologist said. “Isolated extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perabalu districts during 24th and Kadalur, Kallakurchi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu to Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karaikal districts during 25th) and over Nellore and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh on 25th and over Rayalseema and southeast Telangana on 26th November,” the IMD said.     He added that cyclone leads to multi-hazard scenario. In event of the cyclone, there could be serious damage to thatched huts, disruption of power and communication lines, damage to roads, uprooting of trees. There could be damage to horticulture crops like banana and papaya. The IMD has also suggested total suspension of fishing operations and motorboats and small boats, shifting of people residing in coastal areas to safer places, judicious regulation of road, air and rail traffic. He said the IMD will issue hourly updates from November 25 when the cyclone crosses the coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-likely-to-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-dg/story-FWUAgARSGIJrm5orhCGFgL.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: 1200 rescue troopers deployed, 800 on standby, says NDRF chief||Nearly 1,200 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue personnel have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and 800 others are on standby in view of cyclone Nivar, the “very severe cyclonic storm” which is expected to make landfall Wednesday evening.NDRF chief S N Pradhan also said they are prepared for a “high level of intensity and the worst form” of the cyclonic storm as it surges from the Bay of Bengal towards the southern coastline.“We are keeping a close watch on the development and we are coordinating with the affected states,”he told a press conference here.“It is a rapidly developing situation and it could take the shape of a very severe cyclonic storm that has a speed of about 120-130 km per hour.” Pradhan said a total of 50 NDRF teams has been earmarked for combating any situation emerging out of the cyclone that is expected to make landfall late Wednesday evening.An NDRF team typically comprises about 40 rescue troopers.A total of 22 teams have been pre-deployed while eight are on standby in the two affected states of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, and in the Union Territory of Puducherry, Pradhan said.“Out of these 30 teams, 12 are deployed in Tamil Nadu, seven in Andhra Pradesh and three in Puducherry”, he said.  An additional 20 teams will be on standby to be airlifted from locations such as Cuttack (Odisha), Vijaywada (Andhra Pradesh) and Thrissur (Kerala), he said.The NDRF chief said the teams are equipped with all communication gadgets, pole and tree-cutters and the personnel have been provided with personal protection kits in view of the Covid-19 situation.“Our teams will continue to be deployed in the affected areas as long as they are required and they will ensure that situations like heavy rainfall, flooding and waterlogging that follow a cyclonic storm are tackled effectively”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-1200-rescue-troopers-deployed-800-on-standby-says-ndrf-chief/story-FmSxnmjbRVonFqO7M19VgK.html
24-11-2020||India||UP govt brings ordinance against unlawful religious conversions||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday brought an ordinance against unlawful religious conversions. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting, minister Siddharth Nath Singh said on Tuesday.The UP prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020 makes provision for declaring a marriage null and void if the marriage is solemnised for the primary purpose of converting a woman from one religion to other.If someone is found violating the provisions, the ordinance makes provision for punishments of imprisonment of minimum one year to maximum five year and penalty not less than Rs 15,000. In cases where a minor girl, SC/ST woman is found involved, the ordinance provides for imprisonment of minimum of three years to maximum of 10 years and penalty of not less than 25,000. In cases of mass conversion, the guilty will face imprisonment from a minimum three years to maximum 10 years and penalty of Rs 50,000.The approval to the ordinance was given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.This comes days after Adityanath had said that UP government will bring a strict law to curb such incidents.With Tuesday’s announcement, Uttar Pradesh has joined the list of states who have made similar announcement.Last week, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said that a law will be brought in his state to curb incidents of ‘love jihad’, a term used by right-wing workers to describe interfaith relationships between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February this year, the government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.Earlier this month, a 21-year-old college student, Nikita, was shot dead in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh by a man. The victim’s family has alleged that the man was pressuring her to convert to Islam in order to marry him. Some Hindu outfits have alleged that the woman’s murder is a case of “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cabinet-to-introduce-ordinance-against-unlawful-religious-conversions-says-state-minister-siddharth-nath-singh/story-1AHTj8oR36SwRKYCRPgAyN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar is making its presence felt, tweets Rahul Gandhi; asks people to stay indoors||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked people to take precautions as Cyclone Nivar gathers pace in the southern states of India and asked people to stay indoors. “Cyclone Nivar is making its presence felt in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and parts of Andhra Pradesh. Please follow all safety measures. I appeal to all Congress workers to provide assistance to those in need. Stay indoors, stay safe,” Gandhi wrote in a tweet. Termed as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, cyclone Nivar has prompted National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue personnel to deploy nearly 1,200 rescue personnel in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and 800 others are on standby. Nivar is expected to make landfall Wednesday evening.The Met department has said that the cyclonic storm, moving at a wind speed of 100-110 km per hour gusting to 120 kmph, was very likely to cross the coast between Karaikal in Puducherry and Mamallapuram, over 50 kms from Chennai on Wednesday late evening. Nivar is the first cyclone to form in the country since the onset of northeast monsoon on October 28. Most places in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal near Nagapattinam are likely to experience rainfall, with some expected to receive heavy to very heavy showers. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry administration have announced a holiday in view of the expected landfall. The Tamil Nadu government said people may contact the emergency call centres at 044-28888105 and 7338895011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-is-making-its-presence-felt-tweets-rahul-gandhi-asks-people-to-stay-indoors/story-hMcY78yVO796LvEo9Szw1H.html
24-11-2020||India||Centre asks CMs to form vaccination panel, identify the vulnerable. Most say they are ready||The Centre asked states to form high level committee to prepare a roadmap for administering Covid vaccines to people at village level by creating a robust cold chain infrastructure and identification of the vulnerable groups for first four stages of the Covid immunization. The direction came during a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with select chief ministers, officials in multiple states said. State chief ministers on Tuesday informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that they were ready for the distribution of Covid vaccines with the presence of a robust cold chain infrastructure and identification of frontline health workers. A few other CMs sought immediate release of Goods and Service Tax (GST) and additional funds to strengthen health infrastructure to cope up with the increasing number of Covid cases.PM Modi had called a meeting of chief ministers to assess the Covid situation on ground in view of the rising cases and to discuss the plan for rollout of Covid vaccination across the country. The PM also said that due to the ‘coordinated’ efforts, the pandemic situation in India is under much control. The Centre plans to start the Covid vaccination in the first half of 2021 and for this it has prepared a detailed plan and the PM asked the state governments to submit their detailed plans as early as possible.The first batch of Covid vaccine being developed by Serum Institute of India is expected in India by January end or early February, Adar Poonawalla, managing director of Serum Institute of India had said at HT Leadership Summit’s virtual session on Thursday.On Monday, drug-maker AstraZeneca, which has tied up with the Serum Institute for mass manufacturing of the drug, said its Covid-19 vaccine showed efficiency between 70-90% depending on the dosage taken. Last week, some other drug companies had claimed efficiency up to 90% for their vaccines. On Tuesday, Russian government in a statement said that its Covid vaccine Sputnik was 95% effective.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath informed the PM that his state was engaged in creating a robust cold-chain maintenance infrastructure and systems for the prospective Covid vaccination drive.The CM also said that the state will have Covid vaccinators, which will be trained by the state health department. He said he has directed officials to put in place all arrangements for cold-chain maintenance by December 15.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the state was doing 100% testing by RT-PCR—considered the gold standard of Covid testing--- and the testing has increased from 18,000 samples per day to over 30,000. He added that the hospital infrastructure has been strengthened with addition of oxygen generation plants, laying oxygen pipelines, purchase of oxygen concentration plants and increase in intensive care unit (ICU) and oxygen beds. The CM informed that the state was ready with the database of health workers to immunise them with Covid vaccine.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who said the Covid daily case load in the state has reduced to 4,700-5,000 cases from a high of 24,000 in September, informed the PM that a task force has been set up in Maharashtra to formulate the vaccination strategy.“We have been in touch with Adar Poonawala of Serum Institute, which is producing the shot for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. However, there needs to be clarity about the vaccination program in terms of availability, quantum, side effects, cost and the distribution. Our task force will deliberate on all these aspects in the state,” he said.Also Read: PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 pointsTamil Nadu chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami said the state has set up three committees to ensure smooth implementation of the vaccination drive and a digital database of Covid frontline workers was also being prepared.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said his state would submit a detailed preparatory plan on cold chain management and vaccination schedule.“Our (1st) priority would be health workers and front warriors and secondary for those who are aged 65 or more with comorbid conditions. The discussions are ongoing,” Sawant said. Also Read: Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situationUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sought priority vaccination keeping in mind the upcoming Haridwar Maha Kumbh.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said her state was fully prepared for the Covid-19 vaccination program and claimed it has tackled the pandemic situation better than other states. She also urged the PM to release the GST funds immediately. “West Bengal is fully prepared with trained man power and required infrastructure, including cold chains for the vaccination program. We are ready to work with the Centre and other stakeholders to ensure a speedy vaccination drive for every one as soon as the vaccine is available,” Banerjee said, according to a statement released by the state government.She, however, asked the Centre to release ‘adequate’ funds to fight the pandemic. “The dues on account of GST compensation stand at Rs 8,500 crore. The state has spent around Rs 4,000 crore for Covid-19 management. But till date, the Centre has released only Rs 193 crore,” she claimed.He also said that political rallies must be avoided during the pandemic. West Bengal has reported 4.59 lakh Covid-19 cases till Monday with more than 3,500 new cases added on November 23. At least 8,072 infected persons have died.Thackeray took a dig at PM’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state, without naming it, for taking to the streets with the demand to reopen temples and said the politicisation may jeopardise entire efforts of containing the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the PM should instruct the political parties to not play politics amid the global pandemic. “Prime minister or union home minister should convene a joint meeting of all political parties to deliberate with them about the seriousness of the pandemic. …we have been appealing to people to follow the Covid-19 protocol by maintaining distance, wearing masks, but a few political parties have been resorting to the streets with the intention of gaining political mileage out of the challenge,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked the PM to allow admission of Covid patients at Central government hospitals in the capital and also sought immediate release of funds for Covid. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh could not participate as he was ill.(With input from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-cms-to-form-vaccination-panel-identify-the-vulnerable-most-say-they-are-ready/story-xdNu3KDa8c7Wx4GARmAPRI.html
24-11-2020||India||Local trains suspended between Kurla and Chunabhatti stations after boundary wall collapse||Local train services between Kurla and Chunabhatti railway stations on the Harbour Railway Line of the Central Railway, have been suspended. Train services were suspended at 4.15 pm on Tuesday.The local train services were suspended after a portion of a boundary wall fell near the railway tracks during dismantling of an old substation.Delay in local train services on the Harbour Railway Line is likely during the evening rush hour.“UP line traffic on Harbour line between Kurla -Chunabhatti has been stopped due to safety reasons as, while dismantling old DC station, some portion of a boundary wall, slipped near UP side track. Time 4.15pm. No injuries. Traffic will be restored in half an hour @Central_Railway,” tweeted Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-trains-suspended-between-kurla-and-chunabhatti-stations-after-boundary-wall-collapse/story-XBqqxgrRu78MGVwuvYTMvO.html
24-11-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray requests PM Modi to instruct politicians not to hold protests amid pandemic||Expressing concern over large gatherings amid the second Covid-19 wave, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday requested Prime minister Narendra Modi to instruct politicians to refrain from organising protests.Thackeray brought up the issue of political protests in a meeting of the Prime Minister with chief ministers of various states over the coronavirus situation.During the meeting, Thackeray said that few politicians are playing with the lives of the people and organising protests amid the second wave of Covid-19 and requested PM Modi to intervene in this matter and instruct those political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols.He also informed the Prime Minister that the state has formed a task force to ensure timely distribution of coronavirus vaccine and executing the vaccination programme.Read more | PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 pointsBesides Thackeray, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal are among those present at the meeting, being held via video conferencing.Maharashtra continues to be on the top in the list of worst-Covid affected states with 82,915 active cases and 3,172 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry. 1,79,237 people have recovered from the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-requests-pm-modi-to-instruct-politicians-not-to-hold-protests-amid-pandemic/story-vuGCF4ZmJqzPJj18PMELDL.html
24-11-2020||India||Buntings, banners, big rallies go missing as tactics change for J-K DDC polls||Unlike the past, there are no buntings, banners or big rallies by the political parties in the campaigning for the upcoming District Development Council polls in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The DDC polls are the biggest electoral contest being held after the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its bifurcation into two UTs - J&K and Ladakh. However, the election fever on the ground is missing this time and no big rallies have been organised to attract the voters. The 280 DDC members will be elected in the eight-phase elections, which will begin on November 28 and end on Dec 19. The counting will be held on December 22. The DDC elections are being held on party basis and the 280 elected members will elect chairman for district developmental boards.Most of the candidates belonging to different parties or standing independently are either going for door to door campaigning or use of social media platforms, especially, news portals to seek votes, more so in rural areas.Many candidates, especially young ones, have made short video messages seeking votes and highlighting their priorities.Advocate Irfan Hafeez Lone, who is contesting from Sangrama said that he believes in door to door campaigning. “I am not a tech savvy (man) but yes my friends who have a hold on social media are using the platform to boost my campaign. My opponents have money and muscle power but I am confident of winning these elections. And social media could have an impact.”So far only the BJP and Apni Party have held some rallies or conventions in different parts of the UT, seeking votes for their candidates. BJP even brought top national leaders for the campaigning in different parts of Kashmir. Apni party president, Altaf Bukhari, who presided over the party convention under tight security at Sherwani hall in Baramulla on Tuesday, said that these elections are for development of the areas in any assembly segments. “The people who will get elected will form development plans for their areas and it’s the third tier of the Panchayati Raj system.”J&K pradesh congress president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir, said the party has decided that local workers will play an important role in seeking votes for party candidates in DDC polls. “We are planning some rallies in different parts of J&K,” he said. Also Read: Abdullahs’ house in Jammu built on encroached land, NC headquarters legalised under Roshni Act: JK administration listOn Tuesday, former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah. who is also the president of six party alliance, PAGD or people’s alliance for Gupkar declaration, released a short video message seeking votes for the alliance’s candidates. The message was shared by all prominent leaders of the PAGD on social media to extend the reach of the message.Peoples Conference spokesman, Adnan Ashraf, whose party is part of the alliance, said that their candidates are relying both on door to door campaigning and social media. “We have many young educated candidates; besides social media, they also travel to villages to seek votes. Since this is a grassroots election, local impact will have an influence.” Adnan said the campaigning has been mostly left to the local leadership. “Top leaders will go for limited campaigning.”Ishfaq Ahmad, a political analyst, said that people in Kashmir are yet to come out of the shock of August 5, when the special status was revoked and the state was downgraded into UTs.“Though all parties are in fray, the enthusiasm is missing even among the top leaders of big regional political parties. Now, vote percentage is crucial which will determine the future of politics in J&K.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buntings-banners-big-rallies-go-missing-as-tactics-change-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-PqUo6ImhEqWT6d240VuyRM.html
24-11-2020||India||Abdullahs’ house in Jammu built on encroached land, NC headquarters legalised under Roshni Act: JK administration list||Former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah have been named by the Jammu and Kashmir administration in a list which alleges that their residential house in Jammu is built over illegally-possessed land, a charge denied by the father-son duo.The administration of the union territory as directed by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to make public land given under the controversial Roshni land scheme, since scrapped by a court, came out with the list of beneficiaries. On Tuesday, it came out with a list of those who had allegedly encroached land other than those given under the scheme.The list also highlighted the headquarters of their National Conference in both Srinagar and Jammu were legalised under the controversial Roshni Act.Displaying the lists on its website - one showing encroached land outside Roshni Act, the divisional administration Jammu revealed that the residential house of the Abdullahs, build over an area of nearly an acre at Sunjwan, is encroached state land (physically encroached but not shown in revenue record) other than Roshi Act.Reacting to the fresh list, party vice president Omar Abdullah said, “The news attributing to sources that Dr Farooq Abdullah is a beneficiary of the Roshni Act is completely false and is being spread with a malicious intent. Both his houses at Jammu and Srinagar have nothing to do with the said Act.“Dr Farooq Abdullah has NOT availed of the Roshni Scheme for either his residence in Srinagar or in Jammu and any one who says otherwise is lying. The fact that they are using sources to plant this story shows that it has no legs to stand on,” Omar said.The house of senior Abdullah was built in late 1990s for which timber was allocated from the government depots, which is issued only after furnishing all revenue records, officials in the know said.Read more | J&K govt annuls Roshni Act, to retrieve land within six monthsEarlier, three former ministers, several politicians and a former bureaucrat figured in the list of beneficiaries who have availed land under now scrapped Roshni Act or encroached state land for residential or commercial purposes.The lists were made public by the divisional administration, both in Kashmir and Jammu regions, in accordance with the October 9 directive of the high court which has declared Roshni Act “illegal, unconstitutional and unsustainable” and ordered a CBI probe into the allotment of the land under this law.Issuing the first list of 35 beneficiaries who included former finance minister Haseeb Drabu and some top hoteliers and a former bureaucrat, the divisional administration Kashmir showed that National Conference headquarters, several hotels and over a dozen commercial buildings at prime locations in and around Lal Chowk have been regularized under the act.Majority of the beneficiaries including Drabu and his wife have one Kanal of land under residential use, while Congress leader K K Amla is the owner of Broadway hotel and prominent businessman Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya owns a guest house and a hotel.On November 1, the Union Territory government cancelled all land transfers that took place under the JK State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001 - also known as the Roshni Act - under which 2.5 lakh acres of land was to be transferred to the existing occupants.The principal secretary and revenue department has been asked to work out a plan to retrieve large tracts of state land vested under the Act. According to the high court order, a total of 6,04,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of state land had been regularised and transferred to the occupants. This included 5,71,210 kanals (71,401 acres) in Jammu and 33,392 kanals (4174 acres) in the Kashmir province.“Principal Secretary to government, Revenue Department shall also work out the modalities and plan to evict encroachers from such State Land and retrieve the State land within a period of six months. Principal Secretary to Government, Revenue Department shall work out modalities for handling the money received for these lands after annulment,” the JK government had said in a statement.According to the order, complete identities of influential persons, including ministers, legislators, bureaucrats, government officials, police officers and businessmen, their relatives or persons holding benami for them, who have derived benefit under the Roshni Act will be made public within a period of one month.Read more | India briefs envoys on J&K attack bidMohammad Shafi Pandit and his wife own two residential houses in the prime location of the city, the document said, adding a total of over eight acres of land was vested to the beneficiaries, who also included several other relatives of Drabu.In Jammu region, two separate lists were displayed by divisional administration Jammu on its website -- one related to Roshi Act and the other showing encroached land outside Roshni Act.Among the beneficiaries of the encroached state land of about three and a half acres in Bahu Tehsil (Physically Encroached but not shown in Revenue Record), the list included former ministers Sajjad Kitchloo (National Conference) and Abdul Majid Wani (Congress), NC leaders Syed Akhoon, and Aslam Goni and former chairman of JK bank M Y Khan.Another list of 383 people, belonging to majority community, were shown under possession of over 483 acres of encroached land in Maria Mandrian tehsil of Jammu district, while 854 beneficiaries having possession of over 370 acres in Jammu south and 15 others in Jammu west.Under the Roshni Act, two retired superintendents of police Shiv Kumar Singh and Mani Lal were among 10 beneficiaries in Bahu tehsil. Read more | Mehbooba Mufti stopped from visiting Rambiara Nalla, alleges Jammu-Kashmir ‘turned into open air prison’The list included government employees and businessmen and the total land involved is about over five acres. As many as 419 people, mostly farmers belonging to majority community, have been vested powers of 405 acres of agriculture land under Roshni act in Khour tehsil and 97 others in Nazool tehsil over over four acres of land, the list highlighted.The Jammu and Kashmir state lands (vesting of ownership to the occupants) act was enacted in the year 2001 with the twin objective of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to the occupants of the state land.The act popularly called as Roshni scheme initially envisaged conferment of proprietary rights of around 20.55 lakh Kanals (102750 hectares) to the occupants of which only 15.85 per cent land was approved for vesting of ownership rights.The scheme was finally repealed by the then governor Satya Pal Malik on November 28, 2018.Amid reports about its widespread misuse, the entire legislation was challenged before the JK high court, in a public interest litigation, wherein the court besides staying the proceedings under the said act also directed that neither the occupants having been conferred upon the ownership rights shall sell these lands nor can raise constructions on such lands.In 2014, however, the Comptroller and Auditor General had estimated that only Rs 76 crore had been raised from the transfer of encroached land between 2007 and 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullahs-house-in-jammu-built-on-encroached-land-nc-headquarters-legalised-under-roshni-act-jk-administartion-list/story-Dqj47yKOGee0Vm0cczZhDL.html
24-11-2020||India||PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of states and union territories which are witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual meeting.Here’s everything you need to know about PM Modi’s review meet on the Covid-19 situation:1. Giving updates on the vaccine development, PM Modi said that the “government of India is keeping a track of each development in vaccine development. We are in touch with Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers. We are also in touch with global regulators, governments of other countries, multinational orgs and international companies.”2. PM Modi urged all the chief ministers to share their feedback in writing on Covid-19 strategy. “No one can impose any view and all have to work together,” PM Modi said. He also cautioned states and union territories against any laxity in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. 3. PM Modi advised all the chief ministers to focus on bringing the positivity rate below 5%. “Seeing good recovery rates, many think virus is weak & they’ll recover soon, this has led to rampant carelessness. Those working on vaccine are doing it but we need to focus on ensuring that people are alert & transmission is curbed. We’ve to bring positivity rate under 5%,” said PM Modi. Read more | States must start working on cold storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine, says PM Modi at meeting with chief ministers4. PM Modi urged all states to establish cold storage facilities for Covid- 19 vaccine and said that though a final plan cannot be charted yet, the states must start prepping for adequate delivery and storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine.5. Union home minister Amit Shah asked the chief ministers to draw a strategy to ensure mortality rate due to the viral disease comes down below 1% and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level.6. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal informed Prime minister Modi that the national capital, which is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 after which the cases have been steadily declining. He also sought Modi’s intervention to come up with a solution to get rid of the pollution and reduce stubble burning.7. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the PM that the state has formed a task force to ensure distribution of the vaccine, adding that he is in touch with Adar Poonawala, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against Covid-19.Read more | Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situation8. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the state has been working on a strategy to make vaccines available.9. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said the state will follow the vaccination plan formulated by the centre.10. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat urged the central government to make Haridwar Mahakumbh a priority in the Covid vaccination process. According to the union health ministry, India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the fourteenth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/pm-asks-states-to-share-covid-19-strategy-focus-on-bringing-positivity-rate-down-10-points/story-ppf9qVTd87iAbXLRgfJw2H.html
24-11-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021 expected to peak with 1st Shahi Snan on March 11||The first Shahi Snan or special dip of Mahakumbh 2021 will be held on March 11. All the Akhadas will arrive before the first Shahi Snaan, resulting in peak participation of lakhs of seers, naga sanyasis and ascetics at the time during the four-month long Haridwar event. Officially, Mahakumbh will begin from January 1, 2021, as has been the precedent, with the whole Haridwar district coming under Kumbhmela administration purview. But this time, due to covid-19 spread, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad is of the view that owing to the timing of Shahi Snaan, which holds the foremost importance during Kumbh, the religious gathering should be considered to have begun from March 11 onwards. The second Shahi Snan falls on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya (April 12) and the third on Baisakhi Mesh Poornima on April 14. The last festive bath of Mahakumbh 2021 will be on April 27 on the occasion of Chaitra Poornima. In all, there will be six festive baths and three Shahi Snaans during the four-month-long period of the 2021-Mahakumbh fair. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said that “officially though Mahakumbh begins from January 1 and will conclude on April 28, but as the Shahi Snan falls on March 11, April 12 and April 14, we are deeming Mahakumbh to actually begin form from Maha Shivratri”. “For normal pilgrims and devotees, Mahakumbh begins from January 1 onwards with the first festive bath of Mahakumbh to be held on Makar Sankranti (January 14),” said Giri. Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat said that as of now preparations are in full swing and by December this year, all the work of a permanent nature will get completed focus will be on raising works and facilities of temporary nature. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha pointed that from January 1 itself, there will be a rise in the number of pilgrims arriving, and by the first festive bath of Makar Sankranti, the Kumbh fervour will grip the sacred city. “Shahi Snaans are of immense spiritual and religious importance during Kumbh fair when all the Shankaracharyas, Akhadas, Mahamandaleshwar, pontiffs, naga sanyasis, saints and pilgrims arrive from across the country and foreign shores to take a holy dip in the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-likely-to-peak-with-1st-shahi-snan-on-march-11/story-xF5Ecmz2f75s5EzxQRr1SJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Govt blocks 43 mobile apps from accessing by Indian users. Read list here||India on Tuesday blocked 43 mobile apps from accessing by users in India, under section 69A of the Information Technology Act. The officials have said that these applications have engaged in activities prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, integrity, defence, security and public order.Also read: Govt bans 43 mobile apps for ‘engaging in activities prejudicial to integrity of India’Here is the list:1. AliSuppliers Mobile App2. Alibaba Workbench3. AliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better Living4. Alipay Cashier5. Lalamove India - Delivery App6. Drive with Lalamove India7. Snack VideoWATCH | India bans more Chinese apps: AliExpress, SnackVideo, CamCard in list of 438. CamCard - Business Card Reader9. CamCard - BCR (Western)10. Soul- Follow the soul to find you11. Chinese Social - Free Online Dating Video App & Chat12. Date in Asia - Dating & Chat For Asian Singles13. WeDate-Dating App14. Free dating app-Singol, start your date!15. Adore App16. TrulyChinese - Chinese Dating App17. TrulyAsian - Asian Dating App18. ChinaLove: dating app for Chinese singles19. DateMyAge: Chat, Meet, Date Mature Singles Online20. AsianDate: find Asian singles21. FlirtWish: chat with singles22. Guys Only Dating: Gay Chat23. Tubit: Live Streams24. WeWorkChina25. First Love Live- super hot live beauties live online26. Rela - Lesbian Social Network27. Cashier Wallet28. MangoTV29. MGTV-HunanTV official TV APP30. WeTV - TV version31. WeTV - Cdrama, Kdrama&More32. WeTV Lite33. Lucky Live-Live Video Streaming App34. Taobao Live35. DingTalk36. Identity V37. Isoland 2: Ashes of Time38. BoxStar (Early Access)39. Heroes Evolved40. Happy Fish41. Jellipop Match-Decorate your dream island！42. Munchkin Match: magic home building43. Conquista Online II||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blocks-43-mobile-apps-from-accessing-by-users-in-india-read-list-here/story-5UM5t91k6Jr7OlJoPmz82K.html
24-11-2020||India||Govt bans 43 mobile apps for ‘engaging in activities prejudicial to integrity of India’||The ministry of electronics and information technology on Tuesday blocked 43 mobile applications for engaging in activities which are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of the country, defence, security of state and public order”. The decision to ban the applications, mostly linked to China, for users in India was taken following comprehensive reports from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center of the ministry of home affairs, the IT ministry said in a statement. WeWorkChina, AliExpress, CamCard, and Snack Video are some of the mobile applications that were banned by the Centre on Tuesday. WATCH | India bans more Chinese apps: AliExpress, SnackVideo, CamCard in list of 43List of 43 apps banned for India usersAliSuppliers Mobile AppAlibaba WorkbenchAliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better LivingAlipay CashierLalamove India - Delivery AppDrive with Lalamove IndiaSnack VideoCamCard - Business Card ReaderCamCard - BCR (Western)Soul- Follow the soul to find youChinese Social - Free Online Dating Video App & ChatDate in Asia - Dating & Chat For Asian SinglesWeDate-Dating AppFree dating app-Singol, start your date!Adore AppTrulyChinese - Chinese Dating AppTrulyAsian - Asian Dating AppChinaLove: dating app for Chinese singlesDateMyAge: Chat, Meet, Date Mature Singles OnlineAsianDate: find Asian singlesFlirtWish: chat with singlesGuys Only Dating: Gay ChatTubit: Live StreamsWeWorkChinaFirst Love Live- super hot live beauties live onlineRela - Lesbian Social NetworkCashier WalletMangoTVMGTV-HunanTV official TV APPWeTV - TV versionWeTV - Cdrama, Kdrama&MoreWeTV LiteLucky Live-Live Video Streaming AppTaobao LiveDingTalkIdentity VIsoland 2: Ashes of TimeBoxStar (Early Access)Heroes EvolvedHappy FishJellipop Match-Decorate your dream island！Munchkin Match: magic home buildingConquista Online IIEarlier this year on June 29, the government had blocked access to 59 mobile apps and 118 more apps on September 2 under section 69A of the Information Technology Act. The move to ban the apps, of which most were Chinese, was termed as a digital strike on the neighbouring nation with which India has been engaged in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Previously too mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser, WeChat and Ludo were blocked by the government citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.According to officials, the applications banned earlier were reported to be leaking data of Indian users. “Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as beauty plus and selfie camera have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” the official said in June. “Although most of these apps are of either Chinese origin or controlled by Chinese companies, there are others based out of Singapore and Hong Kong,” the official added.The move will also safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. The decision is a targeted one meant to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace, the IT ministry had said after the ban on apps in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-43-apps-says-they-are-engaged-in-activities-prejudicial-to-sovereignty-integrity-of-india/story-zhIXvXJ6rokjcsvnBMrUnN.html
24-11-2020||India||BJP’s Tejaswi Surya accuses Hyderabad cops of trying to stop him from entering Osmania University||Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Bengaluru Tejaswi Surya on Tuesday accused the Hyderabad Police of creating hurdles in his way, before he could enter the Osmania University campus where he wanted to pay homage to the martyrs of the separate Telangana movement. Surya, who also heads the national Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, arrived at the OU campus in the morning along with hundreds of BJYM activists only to find the main gate closed and barbed wire fencing erected on the thoroughfare leading to the campus. Enraged at the presence of a large number of police personnel who allegedly tried to stop them, the BJYM activists led by the MP forcibly removed the barricades and entered the campus in a rally raising “Jai Sriram” and “Jai Telangana” slogans. Surya later tweeted: “Try how much ever you want, KCR Garu, but you can’t stop BJYM from paying respect to Telangana martyrs. You are in power today because of the sacrifice of thousands of common students of Telangana. Please don’t forget their sacrifices!”In another tweet, the BJP MP said: “BJYM is the power of youth of India! No fences, no barricades, no police force can stop us from doing the right thing. The more you try to stop us, the more powerful will be our fight back! Jai Telangana!” BJP official spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao also alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government tried to prevent the MP from paying respect to the martyrs of the Telangana movement at Osmania University. “KCR has closed its gates. BJYM threw open the gates and marched inside to salute Telangana’s heroes. Telangana is not the private jagir of KCR’s family. It belongs to Telangana youth and BJYM stands with them,” Rao said. The Hyderabad police authorities, who deployed additional police forces to prevent the law and order breakdown, however, denied creating any hurdles for the MP or the BJYM activists. Describing it as fake news, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East Zone) M Ramesh said no such incident of stopping the MP by the police or a clash with the police had happened on the OU campus. “The MP, along with his followers went inside the campus and conducted a meeting peacefully at the Arts College building,” he said. Addressing a gathering on the campus, Surya called upon the people of Telangana to pull down the dynasty rule of KCR. He said the BJP was the only party which could provide corruption-free and development-oriented rule in the country. He said the TRS government had done nothing for Hyderabad which was selected as a smart city by the Centre. “What happened to the tall promises of creating Pharma City, cleaning of Musi River and development of Hyderabad into a modern city,” the BJP MP asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejaswi-surya-accuses-hyderabad-cops-of-trying-to-stop-him-from-entering-osmania-university/story-VAs5iXb8h9ld79CWjZyT1M.html
24-11-2020||India||PAGD formed to restore Articles 370 and 35A, says Farooq Abdullah||President of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday that the alliance will fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.His statement came during a video message asking people of Jammu and Kashmir to vote for the alliance candidates in the District Development Council (DDC) council polls .The PAGD also released the sixth list of its candidates for the District Development Council (DDC) council polls which will be held in eight phases from November 28.Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah both are in isolation after one of their staff members tested positive for Covid-19.Also Watch l ‘Does Congress support restoration of Article 370’?: Ravi Shankar Prasad In a fervent appeal released on the Twitter handle of PAGD and later shared by leaders of other constituents of the alliance, Farooq Abdullah asked people to come out in large numbers and vote during DDC polls.“The bugle for the election has been sounded and it is my fervent appeal that you should come out in large numbers and vote for the PAGD candidates. The alliance has been formed to defend our identity and get back Articles 370 and 35A that had been snatched from us,” Abdullah said.He asked people to vote only for the alliance candidates. “Many people who are contesting these polls, falsely claim that they represent alliance while they are enemies of the alliance so people should only vote for alliance candidates.”Omar Abdullah also endorsed the message.“Dr Farooq Abdullah has recorded an appeal asking voters to support @JKPAGD candidates in the upcoming DDC polls in J&K. He looks forward to campaigning once the period of self-isolation ends,” tweeted Omar while posting his father’s video.PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti also posted the video and once again accused the government of creating hurdles for alliance candidates. Farooq Abdullah also released the sixth list of candidates comprising 13 names belonging to different constituents of the PAGD. In the latest list, the maximum candidates are from the National Conference. Of the 13 DDC seats across Kashmir, the NC will be contesting on eight seats, the PDP on three seats and the Awami National Conference and the Peoples Conference will be contesting on one each seat.The PAGD candidates would be contesting on the symbols of their respective parties they belong to. So far, PAGD has released the names of 117 candidates for the DDC polls in Kashmir. Union home minister Amit Shah last week in a scathing criticism of the PAGD termed its constituents as the “Gupkar Gang” that wants to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribals that the Centre ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state, and dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi to clear the air on whether their party is backing the alliance.His remarks triggered a sharp response from the coalition.The PAGD leadership said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was trying to delegitimise a coalition that is taking part in a democratic process.The six parties, including regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have announced that they will fight the upcoming district development council (DDC) elections in J&K under the PAGD umbrella.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-formed-to-restore-articles-370-and-35a-says-farooq-abdullah/story-fdGWDaaAVvEFsktyZJtbIJ.html
24-11-2020||India||India to build new dam, launch projects worth $80 million in Afghanistan||India on Tuesday unveiled new development initiatives for Afghanistan, including a dam to supply water to Kabul and 150 community projects worth $80 million, even as it called for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in the war-torn country. Against the backdrop of mounting global concern over increased attacks by the Taliban even as it engages the Afghan government in talks, external affairs minister S Jaishankar told a virtual international pledging conference that India is committed to a long-term role for the development of Afghanistan. India’s development portfolio of more than $3 billion is aimed at building the capabilities of the Afghan people and institutions with the aim of improving governance, he said. “There is no part of Afghanistan today untouched by our 400-plus projects spread across all the 34 provinces of Afghanistan,” he added. Also read | After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossierJaishankar announced an agreement with Afghanistan to build Shahtoot Dam in the Kabul river basin to provide drinking water to two million residents of Kabul city. This will be built on the 202-km Pul-e-Khumri electricity transmission line built in 2009 to provide power to the city. India will also launch some 150 projects worth $80 million as part of the fourth phase of its high impact community development projects initiative, he said. This initiative is focused on smaller projects that can be completed speedily to benefit people in villages and districts. At the same time, Jaishankar expressed concern at the recent spike in violence in Afghanistan, which he described as a contiguous neighbour. “Increasing level of violence in Afghanistan naturally remains a matter of grave concern. While we support all efforts to bring peace and stability in Afghanistan, India calls for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We also believe the peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled,” he said. “India has invested heavily in peace and development in Afghanistan. We strongly believe the gains of the last two decades must be preserved, and that the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections must be ensured,” he added. Negotiating teams of the Taliban and the Afghan government have struggled to reach common ground in their talks in Doha even as international concern has grown about a spate of recent attacks, including a terrorist assault on Kabul University this month that killed nearly 30 people. Jaishankar said India’s developmental aid for Afghanistan was of five types – large infrastructure projects such as the 218-km Delaram-Zaranj road that provides alternative connectivity through Iran, the India-Afghanistan friendship dam and the Parliament building, human resource development, humanitarian assistance, high impact community projects and enhancing trade and investment through air and land connectivity. More than 65,000 students have studied in India under scholarship programmes, and 15,000 students are currently in India. Some 3,000 scholarships have been provided to Afghan women for higher studies, and vocational education is being provided to an increasing number of women in Afghanistan. However, Afghanistan’s growth has been constrained by its land-locked geography, and the India-developed Chabahar port in Iran has provided alternative connectivity that helped transport 75,000 tonnes of wheat and more than 20 tonnes of medicines and equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic, Jaishankar said. The 2020 Afghanistan Conference is being co-hosted in Geneva by the governments of Afghanistan and Finland with the UN during November 23–24. In addition to pledges of financial support, a new development framework, a joint political declaration and a new aid architecture for Afghanistan’s development needs will be drawn up during the conference. The European Union pledged $1.2 billion to Afghanistan for the next four years at the conference. Several ministers, including Canada’s international development minister Karina Gould, called on the Taliban to declare an immediate ceasefire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-build-new-dam-launch-projects-worth-80-million-in-afghanistan/story-ZOBPcjAR39rXjhY1Lf3yNK.html
24-11-2020||India||No coercive action will be taken against slum dwellers along railway tracks in Delhi: Govt to SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that deliberations on the issue related to removal of around 48,000 slum dwellings along the railway tracks in Delhi were going on and no coercive action would be taken against them.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he had made a statement before the apex court on September 14 that authorities are going to take a decision on the issue and till then no coercive action would be taken against these slum dwellers.“The deliberations are going on. We are not taking any coercive steps,” Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The bench, while taking note of Mehta’s submission, said it would hear the matter after four weeks.“Solicitor General states that government is deliberating on the issue. Stand over for four weeks,” the bench said.The top court on August 31 had directed the removal of around 48,000 slum dwellings along the railway tracks in Delhi within three months and said there shall not be any kind of political interference in execution of the plan.On September 14, Mehta had told the top court that Ministry of Railways, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the Delhi Government are going to take a decision on the issue and till then they will not take any coercive action against the slum dwellers residing along the around 140 km railway tracks in the national capital.The apex court is hearing the applications, including the one filed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken who has sought rehabilitation of these slum dwellers prior to their removal. The application filed by Maken has sought a direction to the Ministry of Railways, Delhi Government and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to rehabilitate the slum dwellers prior to eviction/demolition of their dwellings. It has also sought direction to the Ministry of Railways, Delhi Government and DUSIB to follow the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 and the Protocol (for removal of Jhuggis) in letter and spirit. Referring to the Covid-19 situation in the country, it has said that in these circumstances, it would be highly risky to demolish the hutments/ jhuggis of more than 2,50,000 people without prior rehabilitation as they will be forced to move from place to place in search of shelter and livelihood. Maken has said in his plea that since the slum dwellers were not parties in the case, either directly or in representative capacity, their stance and the relevant documents could not be brought before this court for its kind consideration. The Congress leader and co-petitioner Kailash Pandit have said that they are filing the intervention application seeking additional directions for rehabilitation of the affected population prior to their displacement. On August 31, the top court has directed that the slum dwellings will be removed in a phased manner. It had also restrained any court from granting any kind of stay with respect to removal of encroachments in the area and said in case any interim order is granted with respect to encroachments along railway tracks that shall not be effective. The top court had said that 70 per cent of the requisite amount shall be borne by the Railways and 30 per cent by the State Government and the manpower be provided by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Railways and agencies available with the Government, free of cost, and they will not charge it from each other.On February 28, the top court had taken note of “heaps of plastic bags and garbage” lying on both sides of railway lines in outer Delhi region and asked Delhi government, civic bodies and Environment Pollution Control Authority to make a concrete plan for its removal. This issue had cropped up before the apex court which is hearing matters related to pollution in the Delhi-national capital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-action-will-be-taken-against-slum-dwellers-along-railway-tracks-in-delhi-govt-to-sc/story-fwt1mkxKL8hkq5UNiXOY2I.html
24-11-2020||India||Bihar: Grand Alliance fields RJD MLA for Speaker’s post||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Grand Alliance (GA) has fielded Awadh Bihari Choudhary as candidate against ruling National Democratic Alliance ( NDA) candidate Vijay Kumar Sinha for the post of Speaker in the Bihar assembly. The Opposition’s move would ensure a contest for the Speaker’s post and would also be the first test of strength for chief minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government which has a slender majority in the 243-member House. The GA’s move, breaking the tradition of election of the Speaker unanimously, has also signalled how the Opposition, with its 110 MLAs, is in no mood to give the NDA, with 126 MLAs, much leeway inside the assembly. More so, because the NDA banks heavily on the support of smaller allies like Vikasheel Inssan Party( VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM)(S). Leaders of the BJP and JD(U) went into a huddle soon after the GA announced its candidate for Speaker’s post. Its MLAs have admitted privately that the coalition has come under strain over the Opposition’s move. Also read | After Rahul Gandhi, RJD leader mocks Sushil Modi, lists ‘reasons’ for his ousterAfter filing their nominations on Tuesday afternoon, both Choudhary,who is a six-time RJD MLA and Sinha, a senior BJP MLA, exuded confidence about having the required number of MLAs to win the election. Both of them have served as ministers in previous governments. “ The RJD, and GA allies, Congress and three Left parties, felt the need to field our own candidate as Choudhary is a senior legislator with wide experience and has the ability to run the House impartially by striking a balance between Opposition and ruling parties. His election as Speaker would help members raise people’s issues and get them addressed,” said Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leader of the GA and Leader of the Opposition leader in the assembly. On whether Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM would support Choudhary, Yadav was evasive and said, “We are appealing to all to support our candidate as he is a seasoned legislator having the capability to run the House smoothly.” As far as the GA’s decision to field its own candidate was concerned, Yadav said, “During the last election for deputy chairman’s post in Rajya Sabha, there was a decision to field a candidate from United Progressive Alliance and our Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha contested it. Have all precedents been followed? There is a precedence that deputy Speaker’s post goes to the Opposition in the state assembly but it was never done by the NDA government despite repeated requests by us.” Meanwhile, the ruling NDA leaders said the GA’s move to field its candidate would not hamper the prospects of their candidate. “The NDA has made Sinha the candidate for Speaker’s post. We will win,” said senior BJP leader Sanjay Sarougi. Senior MLAs and experts said the election for the Speaker’s post would first be through voice vote. In case, the Opposition expresses dissatisfaction over the election results declared by Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi, there would be a vote through counting of members in favour and against the respective candidates. Significantly, the NDA’s bid to nominate Sinha as a candidate for Speaker’s post has come as a surprise as senior BJP MLA and former minister Nand Kishore Yadav was a front runner for the post, having not been given a ministerial berth in the Cabinet. He is also among the prominent faces in the state BJP who have not got a post in the new NDA government so far, like former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and former minister Prem Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-grand-alliance-fields-rjd-mla-for-speaker-s-post/story-7PLWtGobKd8VMwTwK6rpRL.html
24-11-2020||India||MP govt orders probe into alleged Rs 106cr illegal fund transfer to Congress||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into reported transfer of unaccounted money to the account of All India Congress Committee from the year 2016 to 2019, allegedly done by the previous government led by former chief minister and MP Congress committee president Kamal Nath. Earlier on Monday, a TV news channel broke a story that the Income Tax department has launched an investigation into the source of Rs 106 crore, transferred to AICC account. “We have always said that the previous Congress-led state government was the most corrupt government. The brokers were active during the tenure of the previous government and people were busy minting money. Funds to fight malnutrition allotted to the women and child development department was spent on take care of Rahul Gandhi’s malnutrition. The social welfare fund was getting deposited for Gandhi(s) welfare.,” said MP home minister Narottam Mishra. Also Read: Night curfew to travel restrictions: States take fresh guard against Covid-19“Kamal Nath has committed a heinous crime of looting poor people of MP. The way Kamal Nath looted money and sent it outside, it reminds me of Mohammad Ghazni,” added Mishra. He added that the economic offences wing will also inquire into the matter.Also Read: 2 Netflix executives booked for temple kissing scene in web-series Suitable Boy“The state government took cognisance in the matter. We will take advice of legal experts and will also get documents from the Income Tax department. Economic Offence Wing (EOW) will hold an inquiry in the matter,” he said. MP Congress leader Narendra Saluja said, “We are giving an open challenge to hold investigations and prove the accusations. They themselves are highly corrupt. All the accusations are baseless and it is nothing but a political vendetta.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-probe-into-alleged-rs-106cr-illegal-fund-transfer-to-congress/story-f8rvrtWPAxNqi4vKDEUkgP.html
24-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister granted interim protection by Bombay HC, to appear before police on January 8||The Bombay high court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel in a sedition case. The court was hearing the case against Ranaut and her sister after an FIR was registered against them.The high court, however, directed them to appear before Mumbai Police on January 8.The FIR was registered following orders from a magistrate’s court in Mumbai’s Bandra directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister after a complaint lodged against them for allegedly “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their social media posts.The complaint was file by casting director Munawwar Ali. He said that the sisters, through their social media posts, have defamed the entire film industry.Also read | Sedition case: Mumbai Police issue third notice to actor Kangana Ranaut, sisterThe sisters had approached the high court seeking to quash the FIR and the October 17 order passed by the magistrate.Also Watch l Sushant death, nepotism row, Hrithik Roshan: How controversies follow Kangana Ranaut and Chandel’s advocate Rizwan Siddiquee assured the court that the sisters shall appear before the Bandra police in Mumbai on January 8 from 12 noon to 2 pm for recording of their statements.The court also asked why sedition charges were invoked in the case.“Why is the sedition section invoked? Why are we treating citizens of our country like this?” Justice SS Shinde said.The high court said it would consider this issue at length on the next date. The court posted the plea for further hearing on January 11.Also read | ‘If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading...’: Kangana Ranaut on Canadian PM’s free speech commentThe case was heard by two-judge bench of justices Shinde and M S Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-granted-interim-protection-by-court-to-appear-before-police-on-january-8/story-FCyGjD6Rm1QFtMqzHkgOyO.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand to allow pilgrims for Mahakumbh after negative Covid-19 test||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and country, the Uttarakhand government is planning to allow pilgrims to attend the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test, said officials. The development came after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a review meeting of the Mahakumbh preparations with Mahakumbh officials, Haridwar district administration and police officials. “It is our responsibility to ensure that pilgrims are able to take holy bath safely amid this pandemic. For that a mechanism should be made to allow only those pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test and turn out negative in that,” said Rawat in the meeting.Rawat also said that arrangement for thermal screening and conducting rapid antigen test should be made at the entry points of the mela.” He also directed the authorities to make arrangements for the registration of pilgrims coming for Mahakumbh on the government online portal. “Also, awareness should be spread with the help of saints and seers so that the pilgrims adhere to precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Rawat. The chief minister also stated that the officials should control the number of pilgrims coming to Mahakumbh. “For that, the officials concerned should make a framework after talking to other states,” he said. However, health experts say that the government plans to allow pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test or were carrying their Rapid Antigen test results at the Mahakumbh entry points is ‘impractical.’ Also Read: Ganga’s status in Haridwar to be restored finally as CM vows to scrap Congress order“The government plan to hold Rapid Antigen test of pilgrims at the mela entry points is neither practical nor possible. It will take a huge amount of resources including both medical equipment and trained manpower. Instead of that, the government should ask the pilgrims to bring their Covid-19 negative test report not more than 48 hours old,” said Dr DD Chowdhury, state secretary Uttarakhand Indian Medical Association.He also suggested that the government should rather ensure strict adherence to precautions like wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. “It should distribute masks to pilgrims who are not having their own. The government could also set up a medical intelligence team to filter out the suspected Covid-19 infected people at Mahakumbh and then provide them proper treatment,” said Dr Chowdhury, adding that the government is likely to face an uphill task in ensuring the safety of people coming to attend Mahakumbh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-allow-pilgrims-for-mahakumbh-after-negative-covid-19-test/story-zsA6WijG3cu6vVyBeHxJJJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Rs 800 crore Environment Relief Fund lying unused, NGT slams Environment ministry||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) for non-utilisation of over Rs 800 crore meant towards Environment Relief Fund for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and Justice S K Singh noted that Public Liabilities Insurance Act provides that United India Insurance Company Ltd. shall be the Fund Manager for five years who shall open an account in a nationalized bank and credit the amount of premium received as well as the amount awarded by the tribunal.“It is acknowledged that an amount of Rs 881 crore has been deposited till March 31, 2020 with the Fund Manager, United India Insurance Company Ltd., there is no information whether any amount has been utilised.“We find it to be travesty of justice that even after 29 years of the enactment of a laudable welfare legislation and inspite of deposit of huge amount meant for the needy victims, the amount remains unutilised to the detriment of the victims for whose benefit the law was enacted,” the bench said.The NGT said there is an urgent need for bridging gaps in existence and enforcement of such law by all concerned. “The MoEF being nodal Ministry may look into this aspect and take necessary action. Industrial chemical accidents lead to injury to workers and fatalities.  “There is need to link Liability Risk Policies to be taken by the industries under the PLI Act, 1991 with the consent conditions under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 as well as Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Rules,” the bench said.State pollution control boards may ensure that industries required to take policies under PLI Act, 1991 are not granted with consents under the Water and Air Acts and the Authorization under Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 till such a policy is obtained, the bench said.“We also request the National Legal Service Authority and the State Legal Service Authorities, constituted under the Legal Service Authority Act, 1987, for assistance to the victims of injustice to access justice to look into the matter and take such action as may be found appropriate at their end,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by retired government official Gyan Prakash highlighting the non-utilisation of more than Rs. 800 crore meant towards Environment Relief Fund under the Public Liabilities Insurance Act, 1991 (PLI Act, 1991) for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances.The plea said the fund is lying unutilised and the purpose for which law was enacted is not being achieved. The victims are suffering on account of ignorance and even Collectors who are required to publish information are not doing so, the plea said. PTI PKS RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-800-crore-environment-relief-fund-lying-unused-ngt-slams-environment-ministry/story-NlAFNaCYtNZvB0GL8vhL4K.html
24-11-2020||India||Customs arrest suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Customs department on Tuesday formally arrested suspended senior bureaucrat M Sivasankar, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary, in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case. Currently in judicial custody in connection with money laundering charges related to smuggling, Customs said in the custody report that he was aware of the gold smuggling through the UAE consular office and he often helped some of the accused. He was suspended from service after his alleged liaison with main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh surfaced. Last month the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him under the prevention of money laundering act. After recording his arrest in Ernakulam district jail, Customs has moved an application for his custody. In the custody report it said it has got incriminating evidence suggesting his involvement in the crime. For the last three months, Sivasankar maintained that though he knew Suresh as a friend, he was not aware of her smuggling activities. Fifth accused in the ED case he will be made eighth accused in the smuggling case also, a senior Customs official said. A multi-agency probe led by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the gold smuggling, money laundering and related cases. A powerful bureaucrat often touted as the CM’s blue-eyed boy, Sivasankar fell from grace after the smuggling case came to light. After main accused Swapna Suresh’s arrest from Bengaluru by the NIA, reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to her and travelled with her during some foreign trips. Later, probe agencies also found that he was instrumental in getting her a good post in the government-controlled Space Park and allegedly helped her taking up a flat outside the state secretariat which was later used by smugglers. There are reports that he pressurized the Customs department to release the baggage after recovery of the gold. The smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after seizure of 30 kg smuggled gold from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage at the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later the CM had written to Prime Minister Modi seeking a central agency probe. The ED had summoned another senior official in the CM’s office C M Raveendran for questioning next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-arrest-suspended-ias-officer-m-sivasankar-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-v9KUgcyPzHfol9pUR4LYNJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Agitators call of protests against resettlement of Bru migrants in Tripura||Local organisations in Tripura’s north Tripura district have called off their indefinite strike in protest against the resettlement of 32,000 Bru migrants after the government assured them that their demands would be considered.The strike that began a week ago was called by Joint Movement Committee (JMC) comprising Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention at Kanchanpur sub division in North district. The protesters demanded that the Bru migrants should not be settled in large numbers here as they claimed it would change demography of the place. As part of their protest, they blocked the National Highway at Panisagar sub division in the district on Saturday that led to a clash with the police and security personnel leaving two dead and 23 injured. One protester and a Fire Service personnel were among the dead. At a meeting with government officials and public representatives on Monday, the JMC demanded compensation of Rs. 20 lakh for the family of the protester along with a government job for a family member, treatment for the injured and a financial package for repairing vehicles damaged during the clash.“We have withdrawn the strike for a temporary period as the state government assured us to consider our demands,” said JMC convener Sushanta Barua. He said that another meeting with the government is likely to take place in a day or two about certain issues which he did not share. They would resume the strike if their demands are not fulfilled in some time, he said. A statement from the Revenue Department stated that the state already identified various locations spread across six districts for resettlement of the Bru migrants. Condemning the clash happened at Panisagar, assistant general secretary of BJP’s alliance partner Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) Mangal Debbarma demanded punishment for the JMC leaders and Rs. 20 lakh to the families of two deceased in the clash. The CPM too, condemned the firing and appealed that a dialogue should be initiated between the protesters and the government to come to an amicable solution. They also said that the Bru resettlement process should be carried out without disturbing the interests of local residents.Congress vice president Tapas Dey criticised the firing on the protesters and said that the state government totally failed to control the situation. After the clash, the government ordered a magisterial inquiry which will submit its report in a month. The government also announced Rs. 5 lakh compensation for the dead protester’s family. Over 32,000 Bri migrants crossed over to Tripura from Mizoram’s Mamit, Kolasib and Lunglei districts in 1997 following an ethnic clash and have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions. After two decades, the Bru migrants would get resettlement in Tripura following an agreement signed among the Centre, governments of Tripura and Mizoram and the Bru migrants in January this year. The agreement also had a package of Rs. 600 crore for their resettlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitators-call-of-protests-against-resettlement-of-bru-migrants-in-tripura/story-fDpUchcRhi1U2DZcntuFfI.html
24-11-2020||India||Centre invites farm leaders from Punjab for next round of talks on December 3||The Union government has invited representatives of over 30 farmers’ organisations from Punjab, who are protesting a set of laws enacted recently to liberalise the farm sector, for a second round of talks on December 3, an official told HT on Tuesday. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in an attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future. A letter from Sudhangshu Pandey, secretary to the Union government, addressed to farmers’ representatives stated that minister Tomar “would like to invite them for the next round of talks on December 3, as it was agreed by both sides that discussions on various farmers’ issues will continue”. Also read | Farmers protesting farm laws in Amritsar block Golden Temple MailTwo days ago, farmers in Punjab agreed to allow passenger trains to run through the state for a period of 15 days. Farm organisations in the state have blockaded rail tracks and road transport as part of their protest. Food bowl Punjab is at the centre stage of a farmers’ agitation against moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The government’s invitation to the farmers’ representatives comes ahead of a planned march to the national Capital by farmers from neighbouring states, including Punjab and Haryana, on November 26-27. In the November 13 meet, farm leaders had demanded an outright repeal of the three laws and a roll back of the reforms; a legislation guaranteeing minimum support prices; resumption of goods train services in Punjab; pending Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, be sent to a select committee; and the repeal of an air pollution ordinance for the national Capital that aims to crack down on farm stubble fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-invites-farm-leaders-from-punjab-for-next-round-of-talks-on-december-3/story-bbTpS9NLYUMt4dCbcf086K.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Daily positivity rate dips below 4 per cent in India||India has conducted over 13.36 crore tests so far to detect Covid-19 cases, including 10,99,545 in a day, while the cumulative positivity rate in the country is sustained at low levels and the daily positivity rate has fallen below four per cent, the health ministry said on Tuesday.The country registered less than 40,000 fresh coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours after six days. Since November 8, the number of daily cases has been sustained below the 50,000-mark, the ministry said.On an average, more than 10 lakh daily tests have ensured that the cumulative positivity rate is sustained at low levels, the ministry underlined, adding that it is presently following a downward trajectory.The tests per million (TPM) figure has increased to 96,871, it highlighted.India’s testing infrastructure has seen a significant boost with 2,134 laboratories across the country currently.Read more | At PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19, Amit Shah sets a 3-point target for CMsIn line with its commitment to conduct more than 10 lakh tests per day, 10,99,545 samples were tested in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.“The cumulative national Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 6.87 per cent as on date, less than the seven per cent-mark, while the daily positivity rate is just 3.45 per cent. Higher volumes of testing eventually lead to a low positivity rate,” it said.There has been a sustained decrease in the number of active cases over the past few weeks, the ministry said, adding that 42,314 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged in a span of 24 hours.The active Covid-19 caseload of the country has fallen to 4,38,667 or merely 4.78 per cent of the total cases reported so far, while the number of recoveries has crossed 86 lakh, the ministry said, adding that 75.71 per cent of the new recoveries were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories.Click here for complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemic. Delhi has reported the highest number of 7,216 single-day recoveries, followed by Kerala (5,425) and Maharashtra (3,729), it said.Further, 77.04 per cent of the fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from 10 states and Union territories.Delhi continued to report the highest number of daily cases at 4,454, followed by Maharashtra (4,153), the ministry said.A total of 480 case fatalities were reported in a span of 24 hours, it added.Ten states and Union territories accounted for 73.54 per cent of the new deaths. Delhi saw the maximum casualties (121), followed by West Bengal (47) and Maharashtra (30), the ministry observed.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 91,77,840 with 37,975 fresh cases reported in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,34,218 with 480 new fatalities, health ministry’s data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-daily-positivity-rate-dips-below-4-per-cent-in-india/story-lJovJLVatzUqXEihm2Y4bN.html
24-11-2020||India||Kerala high court asks activist Rehana Fathima to not use ‘gomatha’ as synonym for beef||Kerala High Court has barred activist Rehana Fathima from posting anything on the internet after a complaint was lodged against her for using “gomatha” to describe meat in one of her videos, saying the word could hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus who consider the cow as sacred, according to legal news website Bar and Bench. Fathima was heard repeatedly referring to meat as “gomatha” in a video of a cookery show on social media called “Gomatha Ularthu” while giving out the recipe, the website reported.“There cannot be any dispute that the term ‘gomatha’ as is commonly understood is with reference to holy or sacred cows. Scriptures quoted by the complainant show that since the Vedic period, the cow is revered as holy as deities, in India. If it is so believed by several lakhs of Hindus throughout the country, definitely, the use of the term gomatha as a synonym for meat used in a cookery show, prima facie, is likely to wound the religious feelings of those believers,” the bench headed by Justice Sunil Thomas observed.Thomas also highlighted that the usage of the term also violated the conditions of the bail granted to her by Kerala High Court in 2018 in a separate case connected to the Sabarimala protests where she had published material offensive to Lord Ayyappa. The court had then, while granting bail to Fathima, directed that she should not through “print, electronic or visual media make, disseminate, share or forward any comment which has the propensity to affect religious sentiments of any community”, Bar and Bench reported.The complainant, in that case, filed a complaint against Fathima and argued she has continuously repeated the word in order to hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. “Uploading of such a highly objectionable video for public viewing may affect the fundamental right of the devotees,” the court pointed out. “Till the trial in Crime No.2405 of 2018 is over, accused shall not directly, indirectly or through any other person publish, transmit, share, upload or disseminate or publish any material or any of her comments through any visual and electronic media, open to public,” it said.The high court has also asked her to remove the video from the internet. It also asked Fathima to report before the police on Mondays and Saturdays over the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-asks-activist-rehana-fathima-to-not-use-gomatha-as-synonym-for-beef/story-T7V7Xhp1vUeEm02adP70VM.html
24-11-2020||India||Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday met chief ministers from several states and Union Territories, which have been reporting rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The pandemic situation across these regions was dealt with in the first part and the strategy to distribute the vaccine against the coronavirus disease, once it is ready, was discussed in the second.Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual meeting.While the Prime Minister made the concluding statement and spoke about the vaccine plan ahead, some of the chief ministers informed Modi about the Covid-19 situation in their states.Here’s who said what at the meeting:Narendra Modi: While making a concluding statement at the end of the review meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said though a final plan cannot be charted yet, the states must start prepping for adequate delivery and storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine. He also asked the chief ministers to send him potential strategies, especially regarding the vaccine, at the earliest. “Safety is as important as speed for us, whichever vaccine India will give to its citizens will be safe on all scientific standards. Vaccine distribution strategy will be chalked out in collective coordination with states. States must also start working cold storage facilities,” he said.Amit Shah: The Union home minister asked the chief ministers of states experiencing Covid-19 spike to draw a strategy to ensure mortality rate due to the viral disease come down below 1% and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level. Shah also told the chief ministers to make the containment zones in their states dynamic. Officials must visit the red zones every week and based on data collected, change the status of a particular area, he said.Arvind Kejriwal: The Delhi chief minister informed Prime Minister Modi that the national capital, which is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 after which the cases have been steadily declining, he said. Kejriwal added that pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring states played a key role in the high severity of the third wave of Covid-19 in the city. He sought Modi’s intervention to come up with a solution to get rid of the pollution.Uddhav Thackeray: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the Prime Minister that the state has formed a task force to ensure distribution of the anti-coronavirus disease vaccine and executing the vaccination programme. Thackeray added that the state is in touch with Adar Poonawala, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against Covid-19.Manohar Lal Khattar: After the meeting, Haryana chief minister said that they have been told to make a strategy to make Covid-19 vaccines available to the general public. As it is not possible to vaccinate everyone at once in the first phase, the shot will be provided to healthcare personnel and people who need it the most. In the second phase, it will be made available for essential service providers and then there will be two phases in which there will be age-wise distribution, he said, according to news agency ANI.Vijay Rupani: Gujarat chief minister said the Prime Minister made it clear that in the first stage, the vaccine will be given to the frontline health workers. In the second stage, it will be provided to police personnel, sanitation workers etc, to those above 50 years of age in the third stage and to those with comorbid conditions in the fourth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-said-what-at-pm-modi-s-review-meet-on-covid-19-situation/story-XD5rmac9PfNFJGy8riCV8L.html
24-11-2020||India||‘What funds did Centre provide for development, flood relief to Hyderabad?’ asks Owaisi||Targetting the BJP, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has asked the Central government what funds it has provided to Hyderabad since 2019 for development or now as flood relief.“Daily one or another person is landing from Delhi through a parachute. PM Narendra Modi and BJP are hurt after I asked what funds have they (BJP) given to Hyderabad for development since 2019? What relief did they (BJP) provide after the floods in the city,” Owaisi said while addressing a public gathering at Azampura under Malakpet Constituency of Hyderabad.Owaisi was campaigning for his party for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, which is slated to be held on December 1 and results of which will be declared after counting of votes on December 4.Read more | ‘BJP intends to create hatred’: AIMIM’s Owaisi responds to Tejasvi Surya’s attack“BJP is frustrated. The Information and Broadcasting Minister came here and said that if people vote for AIMIM, TRS will be benefitted. Some relate me to Jinnah, claim that AIMIM promotes ‘radicalisation’. Now that the GHMC Elections are coming up, they have nothing to tell but make false allegations,” Owaisi said.“BJP is saying that there are 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas in the electoral rolls... If there are 30,000 Rohingyas in the voter list, what is Home Minister Amit Shah doing? Is he sleeping? Isn’t this his job to see how are 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas listed?” he asked challenging the BJP to show names of 1,000 Rohingyas in the electoral list.Earlier, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) chief and Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya had called Asaduddin Owaisi as the new “avatar” of Pakistan’s Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-funds-did-centre-provide-for-development-flood-relief-to-hyderabad-asks-owaisi/story-FFcKXvEYRCTnLC6p3eQy3N.html
24-11-2020||India||Semi-decomposed bodies of couple found in flat||Semi-composed bodies of an elderly couple were recovered from an apartment in the city’s Girish Park area on Tuesday, a senior police officer said.Neighbours alerted the police after they noticed that foul smell was emanating from a flat on the second floor of an apartment on Ram Dulal Sakar Street, he said.The police broke open the door and recovered the bodies of Biswajit Mitra (71) and Sipra Mitra (68).“Preliminary investigation revealed that the couple was depressed due to financial crisis. Though we are yet to find any suicide note, it seems the duo died by suicide,” the investigative officer at Girish Park police station said.The bodies were sent to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for post mortem, he said.“We are waiting for the postmortem report. A probe into the matter has been initiated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/semi-decomposed-bodies-of-couple-found-in-flat/story-HXgGSBUUlgNuK98l9soPsK.html
24-11-2020||India||CBI files closure report in Navruna murder case in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||More than six years after it took up the case of kidnapping and murder of a 14-year-old girl Navruna, the Central Bureau of Investigation filed a closure report in the special CBI court in Muzaffarpur on Monday evening.The CBI had taken over the case on February 24, 2014.Navruna, a seventh standard student, had gone missing from her ancestral house at Chakravorty lane along Muzaffarpur’s Jawahar Lal Road under the town police station on the intervening night of September 17-18, 2012. The land mafia was suspected to have carried out the abduction and murder. They were said to be eyeing a chunk of land, which Navruna’s father, Atulya Chakraborty, wanted to sell. Her disappearance was first investigated by the district police and Crime Investigation Department (CID). With no headway in the case, it was handed over to the CBI.Ajay Kumar, a deputy superintendent of police in the CBI and chief investigator in the case, submitted the closure report on Monday more than a month before the Supreme Court’s December 31 deadline to file a charge sheet and action taken report. It was the tenth extension that the CBI had sought from the Supreme Court.Kumar refused to speak to media persons saying that he was not authorised to do so. But a source in the court said that it was a 40-page report. “The agency has mentioned all details of 86 points of investigation. They chiefly mentioned that they failed to collect evidence against anybody including 10 people who were arrested earlier during the probe. They have also written down the names of 60 witnesses, out of which 7 had undergone brain mapping, polygraphy and narco test,” said the source.He also said that the CBI conceded that it could not collect evidence despite announcing a bounty of Rs 10 lakh for information.“Our endeavour of getting some clues in this regard after the announcement has gone in vain as no one turned up before us with any evidence. It has not worked,” the CBI said in the closure report, according to the source.The agency also asserted that the pieces of a skeleton found in a drain near Chakravorty’s house was of Navruna. “This is the first time that the CBI has acknowledged in writing that the teenager was killed after she was abducted,” he said.Meanwhile the advocate of Chakravorty family, Ranjana Kumari said that she and her client were anticipating the CBI to file a closure report. But Navruna’s father also said that he still has faith in the apex court. “Since some powerful bureaucrats, politicians and land sharks are involved in my daughter’s killing, I was anticipating this from the investigating agency,” said Chakravorty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-closure-report-in-navruna-murder-case-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur/story-Dfodkun9xPZHSb6S8End8L.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19 situation in Bengal under control, CM Mamata Banerjee tells PM Narendra Modi||The Covid-19 situation in West Bengal is under control and the state is tackling the pandemic situation well, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference on Tuesday, a senior government official said. Banerjee is learnt to have urged the Prime Minister to send funds to tackle the pandemic situation and release the due GST compensation. “The chief minister briefed the PM that the Covid-19 situation in West Bengal is under control despite the fact that the state shares international boundaries, festive season has just ended and train services have resumed,” the official added. Also read | Karnataka is well prepared for Covid vaccine delivery: State health ministerShe has also reminded the Prime Minister that the state has already spent more than Rs4,000 crore to tackle the pandemic but the Chas sent less than Rs200 crore. “The chief minister has assured the PM of full cooperation when it comes to the vaccine and its distribution,” the official said. West Bengal has reported 459,000 Covid-19 cases till Monday with more than 3,500 new cases added on November 23 alone. As many as 8,072 persons have died of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-in-bengal-under-control-cm-mamata-banerjee-tells-pm-narendra-modi/story-DRWO6sFlY2wotnBjZsrHIL.html
24-11-2020||India||Gadgets used by Pak’s 4 Jaish terrorists help India solve Jan 31 terror strike||The communication devices used by the four killed Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists at Ban toll plaza in Jammu on November 19 have provided a vital key to establish that Pakistan was also behind a similar infiltration by the same proscribed group on January 31, 2020, people familiar with the matter said.On January 31 this year, Indian security forces gunned down three Jaish terrorists near the same toll plaza and arrested three overground workers after the early morning encounter. Among those arrested was the driver of the truck, Sameer Ahmed Dar.Dar was the first cousin of Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who rammed his explosive-laden Maruti Eeco car into a CRPF bus at Pulwama on February 14, 2019, killing 40 CRPF personnel.Watch: BSF officer enters tunnel used by Jaish terrorists; nails Pakistan role Investigations into the November 19 Nagrota encounter have revealed similarities beyond communication devices used by the two groups of Jaish terrorists and firmly establish that the Pakistani deep state uses Jaish to infiltrate into India from terror camps at Shakargarh across the Samba border, a security official said.The four terrorists, who were killed on 19 November, had entered India through a 200-metre tunnel dug from the Pakistani side.What has surprised Indian investigators is the engineering detail that went into construction of the tunnel at Pillar 189 that was used by Nagrota attackers to reach the pick-up point at Jatwal, 12 km from the International Border.The tunnel, obviously constructed with the help of Pakistani Rangers, is 200 metres long with enough space for terrorists to walk and cross the border. The tunnel is 40 metres long on the Pakistani side entry point.“The Shakargarh Jaish camp is a place where Jaish jihadists trained as far as Peshawar and Bahawalpur assemble to launch into India for terror attacks. The Shakargarh bulge is on the sensitive chicken neck area of India and vital to national security,” said a senior official.Security officials, who compared the communication devices used by the terrorists killed on 19 November found many similarities with the gadgets used by terrorists intercepted in January this year.Land Mobile Radio set MPD-2505 Make-Micro, Made in PakistanOn both the occasions the same LMR sets have been used and had consecutive serial numbers. While the serial number of LMR on January 31 was 908331P00059, the number on November 19 was 908331P00058. Both the sets were named as “ Radio Alias: Freedom Fighter.” The call signs used on January 31 were p1, p2,p4,p5,p55,g1: and on November 19, the signs were p1, p55, p11 and p66.ICOM VHF setsOn both the occasions, similar ICOM sets have been recovered.GPS Device Garmin Etrex 20XThe same type of hand-held device was used in both the incidents for earmarking the infiltration route. Investigators have also observed that both the GPS devices were damaged by the terrorists in a similar manner as they had been trained to do by their Pak handlers.Same frequencies recovered from LMR setsThis means that the communication devices used by the Pakistani handlers are the same.The common digital frequencies are : 143.500Mhz, 147.270 Mhz, 149.310 Mhz, 150.230 Mhz, 151.230 Mhz, 155.610 Mhz, 157.220Mhz, 160.430Mhz, 162.340 Mhz, 165.710 Mhz. The common analog frequencies are : 145.100 Mhz, 144.700Mhz, 143. 702 Mhz, 143.548 Mhz and 143.887 Mhz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communication-gadgets-used-by-4-jaish-terrorists-point-to-pak-role/story-dl83SuJ67WIImquimbILEP.html
24-11-2020||India||Pakistan refusal to act against 26/11 perpetrators shows its ‘insincere approach’: Ex-Pentagon official||Pakistan’s refusal to act against perpetrators of 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, which claimed the lives of over 160 people including six Americans is a testimony to the lack of seriousness from Islamabad in combating terrorism emanating from its soil, said former Pentagon official Michael Rubin. In an opinion piece in Washington Examiner, Rubin, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, writes citizens of dozens of nations have fallen victim to Pakistan-sponsored terror and the Mumbai attacks alone claimed victims from not only the US and India but also from Australia, Canada, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Japan, Israel, the Netherlands, Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and Mauritius.While only six Americans died in Mumbai, the number of American victims of Pakistani terror support in orders of magnitude is higher when Pakistan’s sponsorship of the Taliban is considered.If Pakistan is serious about counterterrorism, it will recognise that there are no factors that justify the Mumbai attacks, asserts Rubin. The Mumbai terror attacks lasted for four days from November 26, 2008, killing 166 people and injuring over 300. In these gruesome attacks, nine terrorists were killed and the lone survivor, Ajmal Amir Kasab, was caught and was sentenced to death at Yerwada Central Jail in Pune in 2012. On November 11, 2012, Kasab was hanged in Yerawada Jail in Pune.Pakistani authorities continue to deny culpability. A trial underway in a Pakistani anti-terrorism court against seven suspects has made little headway in more than a decade, as Pakistani officials serially question the sufficiency and legitimacy of evidence against them.“What happened in India’s largest city and commercial capital was a crime against humanity, which no military or diplomatic dispute excuses. The refusal to arrest and try Lashkar-e-Taiba co-founder Hafiz Muhammad Saeed and the group’s leader, Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, simply highlights the reality that the late Osama bin Laden’s presence in Pakistan was no outlier but was rather evidence of a pattern in which Pakistani authorities protect master terrorists. Pakistan’s insincere approach to countering terror financing, as documented by the Financial Action Task Force, simply reinforces the point,” he writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-refusal-to-act-against-26-11-perpetrators-shows-its-insincere-approach-ex-pentagon-official/story-pEwbusuOjri7OoZprAsW3J.html
24-11-2020||India||Biocon chief hopes for DCGI nod for Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in emergency cases||Biocon Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw on Tuesday said hopefully drugs regulator DCGI will give Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine as soon as it gets approval from the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.“100 Million Doses By January,” Says Adar Poonawalla On Oxford Vaccine - hopefully DCGI will give EUA immediately after MHRA in December to start vaccination in India which is the need of the hour,” Mazumdar-Shaw said in a tweet.On Monday, Poonawalla had said that by January, Serum Institute will have 100 million doses. It already has 40 million doses.He had also expressed happiness at pharma major AstraZeneca’s announcement that its Covid-19 vaccine candidate has been found to be 70 per cent effective on average.Serum is conducting clinical trials of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.On Monday, AstraZeneca had said one dosing regimen showed vaccine efficacy of 90 per cent when the vaccine was given as a half-dose followed by a full dose at least one month apart, while another dosing regimen showed 62 per cent efficacy when given as two full doses at least one month apart.“The combined analysis from both dosing regimens resulted in an average efficacy of 70 per cent,” it had said.AstraZeneca also said it is making rapid progress in manufacturing with a capacity of up to 3 billion doses of the vaccine in 2021 on a rolling basis, pending regulatory approval. “The vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions for at least six months and administered within existing healthcare settings,” it added.India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. PTI AKT ANU ANU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biocon-chief-hopes-for-dcgi-nod-for-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-in-emergency-cases/story-BXScx5USolcqJarrxHAJYO.html
24-11-2020||India||Farm Bills protests: Punjab farmers, Centre to meet for second round of talks on Dec 3||The Centre on Tuesday said it has invited farmer unions from Punjab for the second round of ministerial talks on December 3 to resolve differences over the new agriculture laws.The meeting comes after farmer leaders laid a condition for another central ministerial meeting while calling off their ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab on Monday and lifted the nearly two-month-long blockade, allowing resumption of only goods trains.Speaking to PTI, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said, “We have called the representatives of over 30 farmer organisations for the second round of discussion on December 3 at Vigyan Bhawan at 11 am”.The secretary has sent the invitation to the farmer bodies on behalf of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food Minister Piyush Goyal is also expected to be present in the meeting.Officials from food and agriculture departments of the Punjab government have also been invited for the talks.The first round of talks was held on November 13, but it remained inconclusive, with both sides sticking to their ground.Punjab farmers have been demanding the repeal of the new farm laws and replace them with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also demanded a guarantee on the MSP front, as they claimed that these new laws may lead to the end of minimum support prices (MSP) procurement, which the Centre has denied.When asked about their demand on MSP, the secretary said, “Earlier laws too did not have any mention of MSP. Even the new agri-laws do not mention it. MSP is mentioned only in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) which has not been changed. Till Public Distribution System (PDS) is there, MSP will continue”.The Prime Minister has also stated this and even the Union Agriculture Minister has said in Parliament that MSP will continue, he added.“We have explained in detail to farmer unions about this issue. Hopefully, we will resolve the issue with them at the December 3 meeting,” he noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protests-punjab-farmers-centre-to-meet-for-second-round-of-talks-on-dec-3/story-128A93Rd2hNsTEZDFxb2PN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Puducherry imposes prohibitory orders, allows shops selling essential goods to open||Authorities in Puducherry clamped prohibitory orders and said only milk shops, petrol stations and pharmacies will be allowed to operate as Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and the Union territory and make landfall on Wednesday evening as a severe cyclonic storm. Puducherry’s district magistrate Purva Garg ordered the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code from 9pm on Tuesday till 6am on Thursday in the entire Puducherry region in wake of Cyclone Nivar.Garg said in the order that “with a view to prevent danger to human lite and safety do hereby prohibit the presence or movement of one or more persons in public places in the entire Puducherry region and closure of all shops and establishments from 24-11-2020 9.00 PM to 26-11-2020 6.00 AM, subject to further revision”. “This order shall not apply to agencies/officials of the Government involved in the enforcement of law and order and Cyclone duty. Maintenance of essential services like Milk Booth, Fuel Bunk, Pharmacies and Health services are allowed to continue,” her order said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday he spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible support from Centre in view of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar. “Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry CM V.Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of #CycloneNivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas,” PM Modi tweeted.Also read | Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowPuducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy also said on Tuesday he had apprised the Prime Minister of all precautionary steps taken by his government to face the cyclone. Narayanasamy said all business establishments have been asked to close later in the evening and remove the high-rise advertisement boards. Government employees have been instructed not to avail leave and be at their offices to respond to call for help and emergency control rooms have been set up in all departments.A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Arkonam in neighbouring Tamil Nadu arrived in Puducherry on Tuesday while another team was deployed in Karaikal to take up rescue works, PTI reported. All schools asked to remain open for public examinations were directed to remain closed on Tuesday and Wednesday because of the squally weather.Also read | Cyclone Nivar heads towards south coast: List of major cyclones in India since 2019Puducherry and its suburbs experienced drizzle since Monday night and there was a respite from rain on Tuesday morning. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday that the deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm Nivar and it hovered 450km southeast of Chennai.Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on Thursday evening as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-puducherry-imposes-prohibitory-orders-allows-shops-selling-essential-goods-to-open/story-fPa0ovJTxruHkHD13sTIpJ.html
24-11-2020||India||UP excise dept’s authenticity drive reveals liquor mafia’s wide network||As many as 888 cases have been registered against the liquor mafia in Uttar Pradesh following a joint exercise by the excise department and the police over the last couple of days since six people died after drinking of spurious alcohol in Prayagraj last Friday. A total of 18, 28,640 litres of illegal liquor was seized from people running liquor vends, excise department officials said. A list of such licensees and liquor vends with a dubious track record was also being maintained. Field level officers in the excise department are now busy collecting samples from authorised liquor vends in a bid to check their authenticity. They say they have an uphill task. “With a spurt in deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor, the government has given the excise department the task to ensure that the liquor mafia’s network ends. As we go collecting samples from liquor vends to check authenticity, the enormity of the exercise stares us in the face. It’s a mammoth task,” an excise inspector said. The excise inspector cited the recent case in Banthara locality of Lucknow, where at least three people died after drinking country-made liquor from an authorised vend. Liquor bottles in large numbers were seized from a fair price shop owner in the locality and he has now been arrested. Subsequent investigations revealed that the liquor stock of the country made liquor vend in Banthara hadn’t been checked from November 9 to 13. The role of a Banthara fair price shop owner from whose shops liquor bottles were seized is also under scrutiny. The recent verification drive, which is in its early stages, has already revealed the extent to which the liquor mafia’s network has spread. During an inspection of a country liquor shop in Etah district’s Sikari area, 25 litres of illicit spirit, 83 fake pouches, a roll of fake QR codes (QR code is a type of matrix barcode which is put on liquor bottles to ascertain authenticity), and caramel was recovered on Sunday. Excise officials said a litre of rectified spirit could be used to make up to eight litres of liquor. “By that logic itself, 200 litres of liquor could have been made from the spirit recovered from the Etah liquor vend. For all you know, the seizure could well be the tip of the iceberg. The empty fake pouches and fake barcodes reveal the deadly game that the unscrupulous are playing from authorised liquor vends,” said an excise official posted in eastern UP. Empty liquor pouches were also recovered from an authorised vend at Kalal Khedia in Agra. In Pratapgarh, 88.20 litres of illegal country liquor and 1,310 litres of illegal foreign liquor smuggled into the state from Haryana was recovered on Monday. “FIRs have been registered against licensees of liquor vends. Their licences have been revoked and they would be tried under the Gangsters Act,” said additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. “We are getting liquor samples from authorised vends tested from our laboratories in Meerut, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj. So far, 14,892 samples have been collected from 12,957 shops that have been inspected till now,” Bhoosreddy said. However, in the past, such campaigns after the initial buzz had ended tamely. Sample this: In December 2017, a truck carrying 100 drums of rectified spirit (55 litres each) was intercepted by the special task force (STF) in Kanpur’s Sachendi and two persons, Sahil and Imran, of Gunnaur, Haryana, were arrested. They named a man Pradhan alias Dinesh Mishra to whom they had to deliver the spirit. The Pradhan gang allegedly has expertise in filling liquor in plastic pouches and bottles on which fake labels and holograms were used. STF sources claimed that it had emerged that the Pradhan gang was responsible for supply of liquor to shops in Sachendi and other areas on the outskirts of Kanpur. The STF lodged a case with the Sachendi police. “We were shocked to learn that Pradhan’s name was subsequently dropped from the charge sheet. He was given a clean chit,” said STF sources. In February, the STF arrested Rajesh Jaiswal and Vipin alias Sonu of Kanpur Dehat and recovered ‘Madhuri’ (a country liquor brand) labels, bottle caps and holograms worth Rs 20 lakh. This material was to be used to sell liquor worth Rs 10 crore from shops, according to the FIR. However, three key players of the gang were allegedly let off. Like in the case of Pradhan, the names of key accused were dropped, said sources. “The business of locally brewed and packaged liquor from government approved shops has been going on unchecked for the last four years. The local brew was being supplied at half the cost of the legal one and good profits to all the stake-holders were the driving force,” said STF sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-excise-dept-s-authenticity-drive-reveals-liquor-mafia-s-wide-network/story-5wlOSd8rn1TA7YSwGfzlNL.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate, his party says it’s politicsThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday morning carried out searches at 10 locations including premises linked to Thane-based Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik. The raids are being conducted at multiple places in Mumbai and Thane in connection with a money laundering case. Read moreCyclone Nivar to make landfall on Wednesday evening, Tamil Nadu braces for stormThe deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm, Nivar, and it hovered 450 km southeast of Chennai, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday. Read more ‘They are grown-ups’: Allahabad HC cancels case against Muslim man by wife’s parentsAllahabad High Court has thrown away a case filed against a Muslim man by the parents of his wife, who converted from Hinduism to Islam last year to marry him. The right to choose a partner irrespective of caste, creed or religion is intrinsic to the constitutional right to life and personal liberty, the high court held. Read more Maruti expands its subscribe-a-new-car program to four more citiesMaruti Suzuki is backing its subscription plans to find more and more takers and on Tuesday, announced it is now available in four more cities in the country. The new cities include Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Read more ‘Arre yaar!’: Kid’s adorable tantrums during haircut is winning tweeple. WatchA trip to the barber was not quite the pleasant visit for many in childhood. After some brief struggle, cajoling and promises of ice cream and chocolates, one’s parents had to take them for the dreaded action. If you’re someone who had a flashback after reading these lines, then this video shared on Twitter will definitely leave you with a smile on your face. Watch hereMasked Ananya Panday returns from Dubai decked in limited edition Louis Vuitton worth over Rs 4 lakh, Rs 3k Playboy joggers. SEE PICSAnanya Panday decided to treat herself to a little holiday after the release of her latest Khaali Peeli alongside Ishaan Khatter (on an OTT platform). Read moreSonakshi Sinha soaks in the Maldives sun in a lacy swimsuit-lavender floppy hatAs soon as Sonakshi Sinha landed in the island country, the Dabangg star shared oh-so-stunning pictures from the Maldives beach in a sultry swimsuit and a personalized hat which instantly amped up our vacay goals. Read more Sasural Simar Ka actor Ashiesh Roy dies at 55 from kidney ailmentActor Ashiesh Roy has died at the age of 55 at his home in Mumbai. The actor, who had appeared in TV shows and films in his long career, was suffering from a kidney ailment for a long time. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘If India don’t succeed in ODIs, T20Is, they will get smoked in Tests 4-0,’ says Michael ClarkeIndia are set to face one of their biggest tests this year when they take on Australia. The series is set to kick off with the first ODI taking place in Sydney this Friday. Fans are keeping their eyes on who will be the playing combination in the first ODI - and also wondering what role the conditions in Sydney and bio-bubble have on the game. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-raided-by-enforcement-directorate-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JYmFE9idlFIaQTpVJogxxL.html
24-11-2020||India||At PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19, Amit Shah sets a 3-point target for CMs||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked chief ministers of all the states and Union Territories witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease to ensure Covid-19 mortality rate comes down below 1% and the and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level. Shah made the request at a virtual review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of these states and Union territories.The most important step Shah told the CMs to take was to make the containment zones dynamic. Officials must visit the red zones every week and based on data collected, change the status of a particular area, he said. At present, the data from containment zones is collected fortnightly. The Union home minister asked the chief ministers to do everything in their power to ensure all the three targets are achieved at the earliest.Click here for live updates on Covid-19 The meeting comes at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally has soared past 9.17 million. On Monday, the Supreme Court gave two days’ time to states and the central governments to disclose their preparedness to combat the spike in infections and the expected rise in cases in the coming months. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan was concerned particularly about the prevailing situation in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam.At the Covid-19 review meeting, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the Prime Minister that pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring states played a key role in the high severity of the third wave of Covid-19 in the national capital. Delhi saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 in the third peak following which the cases and positivity rate are steadily decreasing, he informed.Kejriwal sought Modi’s intervention to get rid of the pollution in the city due to stubble burning. He also sought the reservation of additional 1,000 ICU beds in the central government-run hospitals in Delhi for coronavirus patients till the third wave of the infection lasts in the Capital.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageSpeaking about the situation in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that people in the state have become ignorant of the viral infection and have stopped following protocols like wearing masks. She added that the people here think Covid-19 pandemic is over. Only in the North 24 Parganas district people wear masks while in Bankura nobody can be seen exercising precautions.During the meeting, Banerjee also asked for states’ Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to be cleared by the Centre. She was the only one to have raised the issue.Other leaders who attended the meeting include health minister Harsh Vardhan, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.The first round of the meeting has ended. During the second round, PM Modi and the chief ministers will discuss vaccination strategy following which the Prime Minister is likely to issue a concluding statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-pm-modi-s-review-meet-on-covid-19-amit-shah-sets-three-point-target-for-cms/story-teO6BeJJv3QasJI03Gz3GI.html
24-11-2020||India||Kalyan medics to strike work tomorrow after Shiv Sena corporator allegedly abuses doctor||Medical associations in Kalyan comprising 1,463 doctors have called for a one-day strike on Wednesday to protest the alleged defamation of a doctor by Shiv Sena corporator Mahesh Gaikwad on social media. The associations have asked for a written and online apology for the same.The strike has been called by doctors of Indian Medical association (IMA), Kalyan Homeopathic Doctor foundation (KHDF), Kalyan east medical practitioners association and National Integrated medical association, Kalyan.“If our demands are not met we will call for an indefinite strike from November 28. The corporator has been defaming several doctors in the city who are working day and night as frontline warriors. Instead of solving the problems he is targeting the entire fraternity by defaming us, which will not be tolerated,” said Prashant Patil, president, IMA, Kalyan. Dr AShwin Kakkar of Vaishnavi Maternity Hospital was allegedly verbally abused and threatened after a patient’s relative complained that he was not allowed to wait in the premises of the hospital to avoid crowding. “The incident took place on Sunday when Gaikwad came with his associates and slammed and abused the doctor after a patient’s relative complained about not being allowed to wait in the hospital. There are certain rules every patient and their relatives has to follow. Gaikwad was not keen on solving the matter instead he was creating a scene,” added Patil. The decision to go on a day’s strike by the medical associations could affect the entire medical services in the city that is battling the Covid-19 pandemic as the doctors had been working in tandem with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Mahesh Gaikwad did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-medics-to-strike-work-tomorrow-after-shiv-sena-corporator-allegedly-abuses-doctor/story-fPJhYRN7zkZi36yzraMMkJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects dismissed BSF jawan’s petition challenging PM Modi’s election from Varanasi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) constable Tej Bahadur Yadav challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat in last year’s Lok Sabha elections. In delivering the verdict, a three-judge bench comprising chief justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed Yadav’s challenge to the Allahabad High Court’s verdict in this regard. Yadav had been given a ticket by the Samajwadi Party (SP) to contest from the Varanasi constituency. However, the Returning Officer (RO) rejected his nomination on grounds that he did not produce certificate from the EC certifying that his dismissal was not on grounds of disloyalty or corruption. Yadav was sacked from the BSF in 2017 after a video went viral of him complaining about the quality of food served to jawans.His earlier petitions against rejection of his nomination papers have already been rejected.The Supreme Court had on November 18 reserved its verdict over Yadav’s plea challenging PM Modi’s election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-dismissed-bsf-jawan-s-petition-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-from-varanasi/story-xm9MjiizPAXzY3bolYeNHN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar to make landfall on Wednesday evening, Tamil Nadu braces for storm||The deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm, Nivar, and it hovered 450 km southeast of Chennai, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday. Prime minister Narendra Modi has spoken to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu chief minister and Puducherry-- Edapaddi K Palaniswami and V Narayanaswamy, assuring them of assistance from the Centre. Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and make a landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on November 25 evening as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph.Tamil Nadu is applying the lessons learnt from the previous devastating cyclones, Gaja in 2018 and Vardah in 2016, to prepare for the heavy rains and wind that have been forecast from the day in Chennai and districts such as Cuddlaore, Pudukottai and Villupuram. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been mobilised to coastal regions. Six teams are in Cuddalore -- one of the worst affected regions in the state during every monsoon and cyclone. Two NDRF teams are on standby in Chennai and one in Madurai. People in low-lying and flood-prone areas have been asked to move to safer places and district authorities are shifting them to relief camps with food and necessary medical aids. Chief minister Palaniswami has urged people to avoid going out for the next three days. Authorities have warned of damage to thatched roofs, kuchcha roads, water logging, suspension of electricity and uprooting of trees due to the severe cyclone. Civic workers in Chennai have been pressed into clearing waterlogged roads. The water level at Chembarambakkam lake, which swelled and caused the 2015 floods in Chennai, reached 82.62 feet out of 85.40 feet with an inflow of 220 cusecs. “People need not panic. The situation is under good control,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, G Prakash. The city has opened 80 relief camps and another 80 is on stand-by.Southern Railways cancelled a few train services and inter and intra bus-services, including those of private buses, have been suspended in seven districts. Fishing operations are completely suspended. Medical counselling for undergraduate courses scheduled on Tuesday in Chennai has been postponed to November 30. The previous cyclone to make a landfall in Tamil Nadu was Gaja (classified as a very severe cyclonic storm) during the north east monsoon in mid- November 2018. It claimed 46 lives and left a trail of destruction leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless, primarily across ten districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-to-make-landfall-on-wednesday-evening-tamil-nadu-braces-for-storm/story-rLL1jjvAygjYeEeqAkt75H.html
24-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate, his party says it’s politics||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday morning carried out searches at 10 locations including premises linked to Thane-based Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik. The raids are being conducted at multiple places in Mumbai and Thane in connection with a money laundering case.A senior Enforcement Directorate official said the searches were being carried out at locations in Mumbai and Thane linked to promoters of a private company and some politicians. The official declined to give out details of the case. Pratap Sarnaik, chairman of Vihang Group Of Companies that has invested in real estate development in Thane, represents Ovala-Majiwada in the state assembly. He is also the spokesperson of the party in Mira-Bhayander, a city in Thane district.ED officials said premises linked to Pratap Sarnaik’s sons, Purvesh and Vihang, have also been searched.Sarnaik’s party said the raids were an attempt to pressurise Shiv Sena legislators but it wouldn’t work.“If anybody thinks they can use central agencies and form a government they are mistaken. No matter how many notices or such raids are carried out, none of our legislators will be pressurized and bow down to you. This is mere politics. The Enforcement Directorate should not behave as a branch of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Today Pratap Sarnaik and his sons are not in Mumbai and this raid was carried out,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on ED searches.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, said he wasn’t aware of the details of the ED action but nobody should be scared of any such action if they have done no wrong. “The Enforcement Directorate does not initiate any action unless it has solid evidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-raided-by-enforcement-directorate-his-party-says-it-s-politics/story-l0zU6hA9wp2y6c9ZiQGcyN.html
24-11-2020||India||NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon to start post Covid-19 OPD||By the end of next week, the NESCO jumbo Covid entre at Goregaon, run by the Brihanmumbai Municpal Corporation (BMC) will start post-Covid Out Patient Department (OPD) for recovered patients who need attention for health complications, a top official said.Specialists from major hospitals run by the civic body will attend to the patients. “As the number of Covid-19 patients has now decreased, we can use the manpower strength to treat patients who are having complications after recovery,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital and in-charge of the jumbo centre. “We already have specialists from KEM (King Edward Memorial) and Cooper Hospital (Dr R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital) who can attend patients on OPD basis.”As HT reported on Monday, several Covid-19 patients after recovery are developing long-term complications like breathlessness, fatigue, neurological disorder, lung fibrosis, heart diseases and numbness among others. This also leads to the additional economic burden on them as patients have to keep taking treatment for months. Additionally, the jumbo centre which provides treatment to mild and moderate Covid-19 infected patients is also planning to start a post-Covid-19 rehabilitation centre which will include lung-related exercises and physiotherapy. Patients will be provided treatment at free of cost.“I am in the process of procuring few equipment that would help in providing physiotherapy to patients that but it would take a week or so,” Andrade said.Health activists have welcomed the civic body’s move stating that such a centre will help in faster recovery and will be affordable to poor people. “Covid-19 is causing long-term health impacts on patients. But due to lack of rehabilitation programs, many poor people are opting out of it. Considering the growing cases of health complications, it is the need of the hour that the government focuses on post Covid-19 health infrastructure,” said Dr Abhijit More, health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nesco-jumbo-centre-in-goregaon-to-start-post-covid-19-opd/story-jvSIr6YUKr6ciXOPnBSaGK.html
24-11-2020||India||‘They are grown-ups’: Allahabad HC cancels case against Muslim man by wife’s parents||The Allahabad High Court has thrown out a case filed against a Muslim man by the parents of his wife, who converted from Hinduism to Islam last year to marry him. The right to choose a partner irrespective of caste, creed or religion is intrinsic to the constitutional right to life and personal liberty, the high court held, adding that two previous judgments that objected to religious conversion for the purpose of marriage didn’t lay down good law.The bench, comprising justice Pankaj Naqvi and justice Vivek Agarwal, was hearing a petition by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia to quash a police complaint against them by the woman’s father. The petitioners contended they were both majors and competent to choose their life partners. The court agreed with the petitioners, both residents of Kushinagar district.“We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily over a year,” the bench held. “An individual on attaining majority is statutorily conferred a right to choose a partner, which if denied would not only affect his/her human right but also his/her right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” observed the bench.The decision by the two-judge bench, delivered on November 11 but made public on Monday, may pose a legal problem for the Uttar Pradesh government, which is planning a law to regulate interfaith relationships on the basis of the two previous judgments that were both delivered by single-judge benches.The judges held that any interference in a personal relationship would constitute a “serious encroachment” on the right to freedom of choice. “We fail to understand that if the law permits two persons even of the same sex to live together peacefully then neither any individual nor a family nor even state can have an objection to the relationship of two major individuals who out of their own free will are living together,” the verdict said.The judgment also contradicted two previous judgments – one delivered in 2014 and the other in 2020 – that said that religious conversion only for the sake of marriage was not valid under law. “We hold the judgments in the Noor Jahan and Priyanshi (cases) as not laying good law. None of these judgments dealt with the issue of life and liberty of two matured individuals in choosing a partner or their right to freedom of choice as to with whom they would like to live,” the two-judge bench held.In the Noor Jahan case, the HC had dismissed a batch of writ petitions asking for protection of a married couple where the woman converted from Hinduism to Islam. In the Priyanshi case, a Muslim woman converted to marry a Hindu man, and the couple approached the court for police protection.Shortly after the high court passed the judgment in the second case in October, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that his government was planning a law to regulate “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing Hindu activists to describe relationships between Hindu woman and Muslim men.These activists allege that Muslim men “lure” gullible women for conversion, though experts say adult men and women are free to convert for relationships, and the central government told Parliament in February that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies. Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, all ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are also considering similar laws.In the current case, the petitioners sought quashing of a first information report lodged on August 25, 2019, for alleged kidnapping, assault and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The petitioners said they were living together as a couple peacefully for one year and the FIR – filed by the woman’s father – was aimed at ending the marriage. Counsel for the woman’s father opposed the petition and cited the 2014 and 2020 judgments, arguing that conversion only for the sake of marriage is prohibited and such marriages had no sanctity in law.The judges dismissed that argument. “To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown-up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-against-conversion-for-marriage-not-good-law/story-rx0GosBiiGfdaZClZHcXdM.html
24-11-2020||India||Number of new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan falls marginally||The number of Covid19 cases in Rajasthan witnessed a slight dip on Monday with 3,232 new cases, 28 less than Sunday, the health department said. There were 18 casualties on Monday taking the death toll to 2,181. Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 2,47,168 out of which 24,116 are active cases. According to the health department’s data 2,20,871 people have been discharged after treatment till now. Of 33 districts, 10 recorded 100-plus cases with Jaipur topping with 599, four less than Sunday. It was followed by Jodhpur (435), Kota (275), Alwar (276), Ajmer (187), Udaipur (100), Bhilwara (160), Nagaur (134), Ganganagar (102), and Bikaner (182). The number of positive cases per day in Rajasthan has increased by nearly 86% in the last 22 days. A total of 3,260 cases was reported on November 22, which is 85.86% more than the cases reported on November 1 (1,754). With the spike in the cases, the doubling rate has also reduced to 59 days from around 72 days. Experts believe that the increased cases are mainly due to negligence by the people and the onset of winter. The minimum temperature has dipped below 10 degrees in 12 cities of Rajasthan, lowest at Mount Abu, zero degrees; Churu (5.8 degree); and Bhilwara (7.0 degrees). Superintendent of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, biggest Covid19 government hospital, Dr Ajit Singh said the reason for the sudden spike in cases is a change in weather, a decrease in temperature, and community spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-falls-marginally/story-B41FkOtkVtqv5WxWlkmANI.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Today is the death anniversary of 3-day govt formed last year’: Sena’s dig at BJP||Reminding people of the dramatic oath-taking ceremony of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister on November 23 last year, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the day marks the death anniversary of a “three-day government.” Raut’s comment was a jibe at the surprise early morning swearing-in by Fadnavis. The short-lived government was formed with the support of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar, who also took oath as the deputy chief minister at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai early on November 23.Raut assured that their Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will last for the entire term. “Our government will complete four years. Opposition leaders say such things in frustration as all their efforts have failed. They know very well that people of Maharashtra are with this govt,” the Sena leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Raut’s remark came a day after senior BJP leader and Union minister Raosaheb Danve said his party will form a government in Maharashtra in the next two to three months. Former Maharashtra chief minister and Leader of Opposition Fadnavis also told reporters on Monday that the next BJP government’s swearing-in ceremony in the state will be held at an appropriate hour instead of dawn. “We will form a government after the existing Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government falls. The swearing-in will be at the appropriate hour. It will not take place at dawn. But such incidents need not be remembered,” he said.Last year, the government formed by the BJP with Ajit Pawar’s backing lasted for only 80 hours with the NCP leader tendering his resignation as the deputy CM, paving the way for the Shiv Sena alliance with the NCP and the Congress to assume office. Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray took oath as the chief minister of the MVA government on November 28 and Pawar became his deputy.The BJP had won the maximum 105 seats in the Maharashtra assembly elections held last year, followed by the Shiv Sena which bagged 56 seats. The NCP had won 54 seats and the Congress 44.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-is-the-death-anniversary-of-3-day-govt-formed-last-year-sena-s-dig-at-bjp/story-npCqlJGZ8drUft6i0C1iwO.html
24-11-2020||India||Rain and snow to continue in Kashmir till Wednesday afternoon: MeT office||Rain and snowfall which continued in several parts of Kashmir on Tuesday have been forecast till Wednesday afternoon.Rain has been lashing Kashmir valley since Sunday night while the upper reaches of the mountains in north Kashmir experienced snowfall. Snow also fell on the Drass-Sonmarg axis and in some parts of the Pir Panjal range.The MeT said that there is light snowfall in some hilly areas of Jammu and Kashmir rain in some areas of Jammu region.“Weather is overcast in Leh and generally cloudy in Kargil and Drass. Intermittent light to moderate snow with isolated heavy fall (on higher reaches) are most likely to continue till the afternoon of November 25,” the MeT office said.It also said that there could be overall improvement in the weather from November 26 onwards.Tourist spots of Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg received fresh snowfall. Gulmarg received around one foot of snow. The administration has already closed the Mughal Road after fresh snowfall was reported in Shopian region.The J&K Disaster Management department has warned of avalanches in the upper regions of Kashmir especially in northern parts and has asked people to remain vigilant.Gulmarg recorded minus 2.1 degrees Celsius on Monday night, while Srinagar recorded maximum 2.7 degree Celsius and minimum 0.6 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-snow-to-continue-in-kashmir-till-wednesday-afternoon-met-office/story-nhCMnSGNkI5NseJunBC7bJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Assure all possible support to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry from Centre, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday he spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible support from Centre in view of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, “Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry CM V.Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of #CycloneNivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas.”On Tuesday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Nivar has intensified into a cyclonic storm and is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during Wednesday evening. “Deep depression has intensified into a cyclonic storm -- NIVAR over south-west Bay of Bengal -- (Cyclone alert for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts - Yellow Message),” the IMD tweeted. Also Read: Trains and buses cancelled, NDRF teams on alert: Here’s how Tamil Nadu is bracing for Cyclone NivarAccording to news agency ANI, rainfall in both states is expected to start from Tuesday and will go on till Thursday. Extremely heavy rainfall is expected at the North coastal and delta districts. Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Puducherry CM Shri @VNarayanasami regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami held a review meeting and urged his cabinet members and officials to remain fully alert and take requisite measures. The chief minister announced suspension of inter and intra-district bus services in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram along with other districts from 1 PM this afternoon until further orders. Also Read: Severe cyclone Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast on WednesdayOn the other hand, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said that the administration has drawn a multi- pronged to face the cyclonic storm. The government is working to set up 80 relief centres, relief centres, control rooms in all the departments and rehabilitation of people in low-lying areas. All shops have been asked to close on Tuesday evening, Narayanasamy said adding fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-assure-all-possible-support-to-tamil-nadu-puducherry-from-centre-tweets-pm-modi/story-FTjKTnDit2UT0p0RBD4hNN.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar to intensify drive against those not wearing masks||With other states reporting a spike in Covid-19 cases, Bihar is going to intensify its efforts to keep the disease in check.State chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday asked the district magistrates and the superintendents of police to undertake special drives in their respective districts to check for those not wearing masks in public places “We have asked our officers to intensify checking for masks in public places. We have also asked them to penalise the defaulters,” said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi. Occupants of private and commercial vehicles will be checked for masks and will also be subjected to random rapid antigen tests, said officials. Civil surgeons have been asked to hold testing camps in crowded areas, like vegetable markets, commercial areas and bus stand. Airport and railway station authorities have been asked to ensure compliance and also to create public awareness through loudspeakers. Also read | India’s active Covid case burden remains less than 5%: Govt dataThose in public transport, including auto rickshaws and buses, will also be checked and subjected to random Covid testing if they are found without masks. Till Monday, Bihar had reported 231,044 cases and 1,227 deaths, as per the health department’s bulletin. As many as 224,701 people have recovered so far, with 97.25% recovery rate. The number of active cases was 5,115. Bihar has done 13,743,532 tests with 107,624 tests per million so far. On Monday, 106,055 tests were conducted of which 11,992 were through real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), 3,112 TrueNat and the remaining 90,951 through rapid antigen testing kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-to-intensify-drive-against-those-not-wearing-masks/story-dgL86pjPUFh6qoQNgcEfIO.html
24-11-2020||India||India test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missile: Report||India on Tuesday test-fired a land-attack version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. “The target of the missile was on another island there. More details awaited,” reported ANI. “The supersonic cruise missile was testfired at 10 AM today and it successfully hit its target. The test was conducted by the Indian Army which has many regiments of the DRDO-developed Missile system. The strike range of BrahMos missile has now been enhanced to over 400 km,” it added quoting sources. The supersonic cruise missile was testfired at 10 AM today & it successfully hit its target. The test was conducted by the Indian Army which has many regiments of the DRDO-developed Missile system. The strike range of BrahMos missile has now been enhanced to over 400 km: Sources https://t.co/dXlgqi9O2IThis development comes amid reports India will carry out “multiple live tests” of the supersonic missile this week amid ongoing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and, in recent days, the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. As of last month, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had test-fired at least 10 missiles in just 35 days. One of those was BrahMos itself, which was test-fired from INS Chennai on October 18.Also Read | BrahMos missile test-fired from destroyer INS Chennai in Arabian SeaThe BrahMos is a medium-range supersonic cruise missile which can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft or land. It is the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile, as well as the fastest anti-ship cruise missile in operation. BrahMos-II, a hypersonic version of the missile, is also currently under development.BrahMos Aerospace is a joint venture between DRDO and Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyeniya and was established on February 12, 1998. Its name is a combination of India’s Brahmaputra and Russia’s Moskva rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-test-fires-land-attack-version-of-brahmos-missile-near-andaman-and-nicobar-islands/story-jjpXmMYJeCM60DJ4L6V81N.html
24-11-2020||India||Citizens suggest ways to implement ‘Swayampoorna Goa’ scheme||People of Goa have made various suggestions, including repair of sluice gates of a river and face-lift of a Portuguese-era fort, as part of implementation of the state government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa’ programme, an official has said.The government has been taking suggestions from people to implement the programme, which was announced by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant last month to increase economic activities and make every village in the state self-reliant by “harnessing resources available within the area”.Under the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa’ initiative, benefits of all the state and central government schemes will be brought to the doorsteps of people, the chief minister had said.A senior government official, who is in-charge of the initiative, on Monday said, “During our recent visit to Aldona village in North Goa district, locals were enthusiastic about agriculture, fisheries and rural development schemes.” The economy of the Aldona village is predominantly based on agriculture and locals demanded that sluice gates of a river there be repaired immediately so as to prevent inundation of their fields, he said.Citizens also demanded repair of the historic Corjuem fort, which is in a dilapidated condition, to make it a tourist attraction, the official said.The fort, built in 1705 by Portuguese rulers, is located four km away from the Aldona village.“Various suggestions have come up during interaction with local representatives and people in each village. All the inputs are being combined as part of a report that would recommend a way ahead to make Goa self-sustainable,” the official said.He also said the government has put up stalls at Xeldem village in South Goa district to provide a detailed information to people about welfare schemes of various state departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizens-suggest-ways-to-implement-swayampoorna-goa-scheme/story-BK3SdZAB7TQ0A2g8hfz7dN.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s new Covid-19 cases drop marginally; 37,975 new infections recorded in last 24 hours||Daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) registered a marginal fall on Tuesday, with 37,975 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours, as against 44,059 in the previous spike, Union health ministry’s data showed. With this, the country’s overall caseload, the second-highest in the world after that of the United States, went up to 9,177,840 from 9,139,865 on Monday. The latest spike in Covid-19 cases is 13.8% lower than the previous rise.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s total recovered cases from Covid-19 reached 8,604,955 as 42,314 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. Its death toll reached 134,218 with 480 fresh fatalities between Monday and Tuesday morning. Active cases of Covid-19, meanwhile, continue to stay below the 450,000-mark and are currently at 438,667. Recovered cases, active cases and deaths contribute 93.76%, 4.78% and 1.46% of the country’s overall tally of coronavirus disease cases.Also Read | India records 44,059 new infections in last 24 hours, 2.5% drop from yesterdayThese latest numbers come on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to chair a virtual meet with representatives of eight states and Union territories (UTs) over the surge in Covid-19 cases in these regions. The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Kerala, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, as well as that in the Union territory of Delhi, will be discussed during the meeting. The Prime Minister is also expected to discuss the distribution plan of a potential Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | PM Modi may hold Covid-19 review meet with CMs todayDelhi, in particular, has been witnessing a massive surge in its Covid-19 cases in what has been described by many as the “third wave” of the pandemic in the national capital. A series of measures have been announced to contain the pandemic here, including a fine of Rs 2,000, instead of the earlier Rs 500 on those not wearing masks.The Delhi government has also revised the previous limit of 200 guests at wedding ceremonies to just 50. However, for now, the government has ruled out a lockdown in the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-new-covid-19-cases-drop-marginally-37-975-new-infections-recorded-in-last-24-hours/story-byXVm17RjiyPHODgur6QcL.html
24-11-2020||India||Congress’s Goa unit moves SC against its registry for not listing plea against Speaker||The president of the Congress unit in Goa has moved the Supreme Court against the court’s Registry for failing to list the petition seeking directions to the Goa assembly Speaker to expeditiously hear the disqualification pleas the party has filed against its 10 former MLAs who defected to the BJP. The plea, which was last heard on August 8, with a direction from the Chief Justice of India that it be listed after two weeks, is yet to make it to the final board despite the party having moved 13 requests seeking urgent listing and 18 times tentative dates to be allotted for the hearing of the case. “The petition ought to have been listed on or around 26.08.2020. However, the matter has not been listed ever since 11.08.2020 till date in spite of the aforementioned order dated 11.08.2020. As of today, over three months have elapsed since the matter was last listed before this Hon’ble Court for hearing in spite of its explicit directions to put the same up after two weeks,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar said in his fresh petition on November 20 invoking the Supreme Court’s original direction. “This Hon’ble Court while granting an adjournment on the last occasion explicitly passed the aforestated two weeks direction as it well appreciated the urgency inherent in matters which are in the nature of the captioned matter and is conscious of the fact that if not expeditiously disposed, then such matter will be rendered completely infructuous,” Chodankar said. According to Chodankar, the party has continuously followed up with the Registrar of the listing branch no less than dozen times to check on the listing status and that the petition was allotted a tentative date on 17 occasions and despite its urgency, was not being listed. The party fears that its petition may meet the same fate as that of a petition relating to the Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker who allegedly violated a three-month deadline in deciding the disqualification of 22 MLAs, who had ‘defected’ from the Congress to the BJP which was rendered infructuous. “The present matter may suffer the same fate if it is not listed urgently,” Chodankar said. The Registry was not available for commentThe Congress leader had approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Goa assembly Speaker to decide the disqualification petition filed against the 10 MLAs within a period of one month, as the same has been pending since August 8, 2019 — over 15 months (13 months if one excludes the duration of the lockdown in the State of Goa actuated by the Covid–19 pandemic) — and to restrain the MLAs who they say have ex-facie incurred disqualification under the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India from functioning and acting as Ministers and Members of the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-s-goa-unit-moves-sc-against-its-registry-for-not-listing-plea-against-speaker/story-V6J981CwHTgKDPC4GnralO.html
24-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Man arrested for raping minor girl in moving car||The Chhattisgarh police have arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in a moving car along with three others in Raipur last week.“We have arrested the main accused Himanshu Gupta and raids to arrest the other two accused are going on,” said police superintendent Ajay Yadav.Yadav said they immediately registered a case and launched a hunt for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-moving-car/story-bT9MKeHYgX4j44QytjyRQK.html
24-11-2020||India||Trains and buses cancelled, NDRF teams on alert: Here’s how Tamil Nadu is bracing for Cyclone Nivar||Authorities in Tamil Nadu have suspended inter and intra-district bus services in seven of the state’s districts from Tuesday and partially and fully cancelled trains in some districts as severe cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross its coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu government on Monday reviewed the situation and directed district administrations to be on guard as the depression over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by Tuesday and cross the coast as a severe cyclonic storm a day after.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami, during a review meeting, asked his cabinet colleagues and officials to remain fully alert and take appropriate precautionary measures ahead of Cyclone Nivar. A number of directions were issued during the review meeting asking officials of various departments to be on standby with the required equipment, earthmovers, trucks and other machinery from Monday onwards in Pudukottai, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram and Chengalpattu districts.Also read | Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowOfficials were also directed to ensure evacuation of people in vulnerable areas, facilities, including the supply of food in relief camps, safeguarding boats and nets of fishermen, taking up fogging operations, monitoring water levels in big lakes and provision of mobile communication units. Six teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams should be stationed in Cuddalore and two in Chennai with equipment.Suspension of inter and intra-district bus services were announced in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram, Chengalpattu and Pudukottai districts from 1pm on Tuesday till further orders, even as the chief minister appealed people to avoid travelling by their own vehicles except for essential requirements. People should stock themselves with torch lights, candles and matchboxes and also avoid venturing out during gusty winds, Palaniswami added.Also read | Cyclone Nivar heads towards south coast: List of major cyclones in India since 2019Tamil Nadu’s revenue minister RB Udayakumar and electricity minister P Thangamani expressed the preparedness of their ministries ahead of Cyclone Nivar. Udayakumar told reporters that all arrangements are in place to face the cyclone and special attention will be given to following social distancing norms in the relief shelters owing to the coronavirus pandemic. He added that those living in low lying areas should immediately shift to relief camps. Thangamani said that as a precaution power supply will be cut off when the storm crosses the coast on Wednesday.The weather bureau has said that the depression over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-north westwards and lay centred about 520km east southeast of Puducherry and 560km southeast of Chennai. M Mohapatra, India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) director general, said on Monday that Nivar is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. The depression is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a bulletin on Monday.“It is very likely to move north westwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around November 25 afternoon as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph,” it said.Widespread rainfall and thunderstorm were “very likely” over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from Tuesday will Thursday, IMD has warned. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall was very likely over Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perambalur, Kallakurichi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu between Wednesday and Thursday. A high alert has been sounded in Nagapattinam and fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea till Thursday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-and-buses-cancelled-ndrf-teams-on-alert-here-s-how-tamil-nadu-is-bracing-for-cyclone-nivar/story-Vyfcbs6VworiiXYs0QOzdM.html
24-11-2020||India||UP selects 58K banking Sakhis through tech-driven process, CM gives nod for training||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Monday asked the rural development and panchayati raj departments to go ahead with the training of 58,000 women banking correspondent (BC) Sakhis before they begin their job.The direction came as the Uttar Pradesh government completed the first-of-its-kind technology driven process for selecting 58,000 women for as many posts of banking correspondent Sakhis. A total of 58,000 gram panchayats in the state will have a BC Sakhi each. “Once the BC Sakhis begin working, it will help a lot of the villagers in their banking related needs. BC Sakhis will function from their village’s panchayat bhavan,” the chief minister said.Additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayati raj department, Manoj Kumar Singh, informed the chief minister about the completion of the selection process.The Indian Institute of Banking and Finance (IIBF) will now train these BC Sakhis before they begin working. The state government had received 2.17 lakh applications for the induction of 58,000 BC Sakhis. The mobile app-based recruitment process was undertaken amid the Covid-19 pandemic in a statewide exercise. The department of rural development began the selection process in June. In the last three weeks, it interviewed the shortlisted applicants via their smart phones through the BC Sakhi mobile app.“BC Sakhis, using technology, will take banking to the doorsteps of families in their respective villages,” said additional chief secretary Manoj Kumar Singh.On May 21, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister had announced a proposal for the induction of 58,000 BC Sakhis for each of UP’s gram panchayats. “BC Sakhis would become a one-stop solution for all banking services at the doorstep of the poor. The government envisages channelling government services (subsidies, entitlements, pensions etc) and direct benefit transfer (DBT) payouts through these BC Sakhis in the villages, besides taking up a range of banking operations and encouraging villagers for digital transactions,” said Singh.The UP government had launched a mobile app for the entire recruitment process — from application to interviews and final selection. A BC Sakhi would get Rs 4,000 per month as honorarium and a one-time Rs 75,000 easy instalment loan for tech hardware and installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-selects-58k-banking-sakhis-through-tech-driven-process-cm-gives-nod-for-training/story-vrlSUXmP1QIPJMNThIA6nI.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh cancels Ganga Snan Mela, Deepdaan festival due to Covid-19||The Ganga Snan Mela and Deepdaan festival at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district and at Hastinapur in Meerut district have been cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. The Mela (fair) was scheduled to start in Garhmukteshwar on Wednesday and in Hastinapur on Friday.Additional superintendent of police, Hapur, Sarvesh Mishra said the state government decided to cancel the Ganga Snan Mela in Garhmukteshwar after examining a joint report of the district magistrate and the superintendent of police. “A ban on the arrival of devotees has been imposed between November 25 and 30 at the mela venue on the bank of the Ganga in compliance with the order,” said Mishra. He added that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code had been imposed in the area. Every year, thousands of devotees from the nearby districts of western Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan arrive on the bank of the Ganga in Garhmukteshwar for ritual bathing in the river on the occasion of Kartik Purnima and offer Deepdaan for the salvation of their ancestors. As part of Deepdaan, earthen lamps are lit and floated down the river. Mishra said barriers had been put up on the borders of the district to prevent entry of people into the Mela Sthal. The state government allocates Rs 1 crore for the mela every year and the event continues for three to four days. The Meerut zila panchayat organises a similar mela on the bank of the Ganga at Makhdoompur in Hastinapur area every year. Here, too, thousands of devotees gather to bathe in the Ganga. Zila panchayat chairman Kulwinder Singh said that the mela had been cancelled in Hastinapur this year due to the pandemic. “All members were of the opinion that the mela should not be organised at the risk of peoples’ lives,” Singh said. Circle officer, Mawana area, Uday Pratap Singh said people were being sensitised to avoid visiting the riverbank in groups. He also said that barriers may be put up. Kulwinder Singh said that devotees may visit the riverbank individually, but they would not be allowed to move in groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-cancels-ganga-snan-mela-deepdaan-festival-due-to-covid-19/story-37pheIQyp0Wv4wbGWDGXNO.html
24-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: At the helm of tackling key frontier challenges||For someone who entered the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly as a 26-year-old young political worker in 1977, Rajnath Singh has come a long way. Few individuals in Indian political history can match his portfolio of achievements — chief minister of India’s largest state, a Union Cabinet minister for agriculture, the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party who was the organisation’s incharge during the spectacular 2014 win, the Union home minister, and now the Union defence minister. For the former physics lecturer and a man steeped in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, this range of responsibilities has meant a grasp over issues ranging from the local to national. But as defence minister incharge of India’s armed forces and external security, Singh has faced among his toughest challenges this year with the standoff at the Line of Actual Control due to China’s aggression. He will speak on defining national security in the new era at the HT Leadership Summit this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-at-the-helm-of-tackling-key-frontier-challenges/story-BEEk6BIfBdCoKuvXqa0SwJ.html
24-11-2020||India||DEA, FBI to assist India in tracking drug smuggling networks||The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States—which brought down many Colombian and Mexican narcotics syndicates like Pablo Escobar’s, Cali Cartel, Sinaloa Cartel, Tijuana Cartel and others—will discuss sharing intelligence as well as a joint mechanism to track and disrupt the money laundering associated with international drug smuggling networks with India’s lead anti-drugs enforcement agency—Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)—on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said. Virtual assets, typically associated with transnational criminal organisations and illicit drug activities, will particularly be of interest to both sides, people cited above said. The meeting is part of Indo-US Counter-Narcotics Working Group (CNWG), which was envisaged during President Donald Trump’s visit to New Delhi in February this year, will also dwell upon a bilateral counter-narcotics strategy and sharing of intelligence between both sides. Apart from DEA, the Department of State’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL), Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Department of Justice (DOJ), FBI, Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and US Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) are likely to attend the meet. From India, NCB, Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), ministry of health, department of revenue and ministry of external affairs (MEA) will be part of the virtual meet. People cited above said that Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had agreed to a new CNWG that would improve cooperation against illicit drugs and synthetic opioids. “The idea is to enhance the current relationship between relevant Indian and US drug and law enforcement agencies through more regular and structured dialogue and practical cooperation. There is a need to combat the global manufacturing, marketing, movement, and financing associated with illicit drugs and precursors,” said an officer who didn’t want to be named. The DEA will share with India current trends on synthetic opioids and their precursors’ production and trafficking pattern in South Asia as well as discuss avenues to increase information sharing to halt the production and trafficking of fentanyl, related analogues, and its precursors, along with other synthetic drugs. Fentanyl is an opioid used as pain medication and its increased smuggling has agencies worried. The two sides will also update each other on domestic laws and regulations and discuss establishing public-private partnerships for monitoring online drug and precursor trade as well as public-private liaisons between regulatory authorities and producers of precursors chemicals, said a second officer. The NCB has started a campaign to crack down on drug smuggling networks across the country and has identified several syndicates which operate from different parts of the country. In fact, the agency has estimated that heroin business in India is worth around Rs1,44,000 crore (approximately 19 billion US dollars) and there are around 20 lakh dependent users of this high drug in the country. The agency is also cracking down on the drug network in Bollywood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dea-fbi-to-assist-india-in-tracking-drug-smuggling-networks/story-dCIKk47FB7m40snDbBTmnK.html
24-11-2020||India||Kerala decides not to implement police act amendment after widespread protests||The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led government of Kerala on Monday decided not to implement an ordinance it had promulgated to amend the Kerala Police Act, which mandated a jail term and fine for cyber abuse or offensive social media post, amid concern that it could be used to curb press freedom and free speech. In a brief statement days after the ordinance was issued, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was the government’s duty to respect the concern voiced by various quarters. Even allies including the CPI (M)’s junior partner, the Communist Party of India, have expressed reservations on the move.“We have been forced to bring such an amendment in view of growing cyber attacks against women and children. After concerns expressed by various quarters, we have decided not to go ahead with it. Further action will be taken after a detailed debate in the assembly,” said Vijayan, who conceded that even Left supporters had expressed serious reservations over the amendment. His office sent a directive to the state director general of police not to register cases under the new law. Legal experts said hat since it had already become law, the governor will have to promulgate another ordinance or order its withdrawal on the advice of the cabinet.“Unless it is withdrawn, it will remain a law. The governor will have to promulgate another order to nullify it,” said Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash. The government is likely to approach the governor in a day to two with a request to that effect, said a senior government official, who requested anonymity. The governor’s office didn’t react to the latest development. Political observers said it was a major setback to the CM and governor Arif Mohammad Khan, who signed the ordinance on Saturday. What drew flak is that the ordinance covers any means of offensive communication or criticism on any platform and not just social media. Any person who creates or sends out any information that is offensive or intended to offend or threaten another person is liable to face imprisonment of three years or a fine of ₹10,000 or both, according to the amendment. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had also expressed reservations over the ordinance and made it clear that it wouldn’t be implemented in the form in which it had been drafted. Party insiders said the central leadership had sought major changes to the ordinance, but the state unit thought it proper not to implement it. “It is the part of democracy to take corrective steps in case of any mistakes. By deciding not to implement the amendment, the government has upheld high democratic tradition,” said the party’s state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party announced plans to challenge the ordinance in the high court. “It was a clear violation of fundamental rights. With the new ordinance to muzzle criticism, the party has exposed its true colours. Despite major setbacks, the CM is saying it can be discussed in the assembly,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, seeking complete withdrawal of the amendment. The government landed in trouble after a new clause, 118 (A), was inserted in the Kerala Police Act (amendment) ordinance issued on November 21. The government reiterated that it was meant to check online hate crime against women and children, but its contours raised serious doubts among critics and was seen as a ploy to silence dissent. It also empowered police officers to initiate a case on their own and arrest the accused. Police can slap criminal charges on citizens by interpreting any kind of communication through any medium as defamatory.The knee-jerk decision came in the wake of the government’s perceived failure to control the narrative on social media in the wake of many sensational cases, including a gold smuggling racket . After the arrest of former CPI (M) secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a narcotics seizure case, many articles have appeared online against senior leaders and ministers. “The government’s move to rein in criticism has backfired. The belated move to freeze the ordinance following the groundswell of resentment from across the social spectrum does not absolve the ruling party of its double standard on freedom of speech. Damage has already been done,” said political commentator and senior journalist John Mary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-decides-not-to-implement-police-act-amendment-after-widespread-protests/story-nHKXcdSiHQotHITaTn5h1I.html
24-11-2020||India||French firm, Kanpur’s MKU to make night vision devices for armed forces: UP minister||The Thales Group of France will manufacture night vision devices for India’s armed forces in collaboration with the Kanpur-based company MKU, Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said on Monday.The minister gave this information about the investment during the virtual inauguration of the Noida office of Thales. This investment will be part of the Defence Industrial Corridor project in Uttar Pradesh.Singh requested the French company to manufacture components of fighter jets Mirage and Rafale in Uttar Pradesh. The French company specialises in aerospace, space, defence, ground transportation, digital identity and security. It has operations in 68 countries. Singh is the minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, khadi and villages industries, sericulture industries, textile, export promotion, NRI and investment promotion. He is also the state government’s spokesman.The French company’s country head Emmanuel de Roquefeuil, French Ambassador to India Emanuel Lenain and Thales’s India, Africa and Central Asia representative Jean Marc Budin were also present during the event.“Virtually opened #Thales India HQs in Noida. 6 storey, 1100 employees with state of art green building. Was delighted to hear the views of Ambassador of France to India Mr Emmanuel Lenain in building relationship with #UP,” the minister tweeted.“Thales has proposed to make night vision devices for the armed forces in association with Kanpur-based defence company MKU and work is under progress over the proposal,” said Singh in a statement issued after the event. MKU is a manufacturer of electro-optic devices, personal and platform armour solutions for military, paramilitary, homeland security and special forces.On the occasion, the minister also pointed out that earlier, MNCs preferred to invest in South Indian states. But over the last three years they had shown interest in Uttar Pradesh, Singh said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced Defence Corridor project for Uttar Pradesh on February 21, 2018, at the investors’ summit in the state capital. The defence corridor has six nodes: Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-firm-kanpur-s-mku-to-make-night-vision-devices-for-armed-forces-up-minister/story-xAVZmxQIPQCn5Ix4idtsiN.html
24-11-2020||India||‘BJP intends to create hatred’: AIMIM’s Owaisi responds to Tejasvi Surya’s attack||A war of words has broken out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) ahead of the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi responded to BJP lawmaker Tejasvi Surya’s attack on him, remarking that the BJP’s intention “was to create hatred.”“If there are 30,000 Rohingyas in the electoral list, what is home minister Amit Shah doing? Is he sleeping? Isn’t this his job to see how 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas are listed? If the BJP is honest, it should show 1,000 such names by tomorrow,” news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying on Monday.“Their intention is to create hatred. This fight is between Hyderabad and Bhagyanagar. It is now your responsibility to decide who will win,” the Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad was further quoted as saying at a rally. Their intention is to create hatred. This fight is between Hyderabad and Bhagyanagar. It is your responsibility now to decide who will win: AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi(23.11.2020) https://t.co/kkmh6O1Bk5Owaisi’s response came after Surya, also the BJP’s youth wing chief, attacked him earlier in the day, saying that every vote for the AIMIM chief means “a vote against India.” Tejasvi Surya also compared him with Pakistan’s founder Mohammed Ali Jinnah. “Owaisi speaks the language of rabid Islamism, separatism and extremism which Jinnah was also speaking. Owaisi and his brother haven’t allowed development in old Hyderabad. The only thing they have allowed is Rohingya Muslims,” Surya said.Watch | ‘Owaisi like Jinnah; voting for AIMIM a vote against India’: Tejasvi Surya“Every Indian should stand against divisive and communal politics of the Owaisi brothers. If you vote for him in Hyderabad, he becomes strong in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” the BJP leader added.This attack by the BJP on the AIMIM comes even as the latter was accused of being a “vote cutter” in the recently-held Bihar assembly polls and helping the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) win in the eastern state.The GHMC polls are scheduled to take place on December 1. Counting of votes will take place on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-intends-to-create-hatred-aimim-s-owaisi-responds-to-tejasvi-surya-s-attack/story-byX7jU0vzq0rTcMernXAFO.html
24-11-2020||India||Tunnels, drones part of Pakistan’s strategy to keep Jammu sector active||The use of sophistically-dug tunnels from across the border and regular use of drones to deliver arms and ammunition at the international border is part of Pakistan’s new strategy to keep the Jammu sector active rather than just focusing on Kashmir, an assessment by the intelligence agencies and the Border Security Force (BSF) has suggested.Two long and sophisticated tunnels have been detected in Jammu’s Samba sector within three months. The first was discovered on August 29 and another 200-meter long and three feet wide tunnel on Sunday. The second was used by four terrorists who were killed in Nagrota near Jammu last week.The BSF has launched an anti-tunnel drive across the 3,300-km-long international border with Pakistan from Jammu to Gujarat to stop any infiltration. It is also sensitising border residents to be alert about any tunnel or suspicious movement in cases BSF patrols are unavailable, officials aware of the matter said.Also read | India briefs envoys on J&K attack bidMost of these tunnels, a counter-insurgency officer said, are dug under fields that are invisible to Indian troops due to tall elephant grass on the Pakistani side. They are dug during the night. Pakistan Rangers, this officer said, are supposed to cut the grass on their side according to the agreements between the two countries. But instead, Pakistan uses this grass to send terrorists and drugs’ smugglers to this side.“Similarly, as Pakistan is finding it difficult to send infiltrators and arms from the [border] fence or open stretches due to the alertness of BSF, it is moving to other methods like tunnels and drones,” he said.Another officer said Pakistan has increased its activity along the border in Jammu as it is unable to create any impact in Kashmir, where there is a heavy presence of army and central armed police forces. “...Pakistan wants to keep the Jammu border active to claim before the international community that this side of the border is also disputed as they call it working boundary,” said the second officer.The BSF has been exploring various technologies in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation, the Indian Institutes of Technology, Israel and the US to deal with the problem. But there has not been any success in finding any robust anti-tunnel technology yet.“It is difficult to detect a tunnel when it is being dug through physical inspection. Only technology can achieve that. But even technologically advanced countries like Israel and the US are facing the tunnelling problem in the Gaza Strip and along the US-Mexico border,” said a third counter-insurgency official.The larger problem is India’s slow pace of testing and acquiring any such technology.The third officer said any requirement for modern technology at the border is held up in files in the ministries with multiple queries raised by bureaucrats. “The CIBMS [Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System) announced by the government along the India-Pak border has been in trial stage for years in just 5 km stretch. If the trial will take four-five years, imagine how much time actual installation of such a project across 3000 km will take,” he said. “Bureaucracy is the only reason we fail to have the technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tunnels-drones-part-of-pakistan-s-strategy-to-keep-jammu-sector-active/story-9q6jpl7A7UVjGh0cM42zyJ.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nirmala Sitharaman hints at more changes to push growth in coming Budget and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Budget to unveil more changes to push growth, says Nirmala SitharamanNotwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has initiated a series of reforms to promote its Aatmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, and the momentum of the process will continue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, indicating that the coming budget will unveil more structural changes to boost the economy. Read moreBSF officer crawls 150 feet into tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, finds Pak imprintThe director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), Rakesh Asthana, on Monday ordered intensified patrolling of the international border with Pakistan in the Samba and Rajouri sectors of Jammu & Kashmir with the objective of unearthing more cross-border tunnels. Read moreHeavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowSevere cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram of the southern state on Wednesday. Nivar, the first cyclonic storm to impact the Indian coast this season, is likely to bring extremely heavy rain to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Read moreAustralia opener David Warner reacts on India captain Virat Kohli’s paternity leaveAs astonishing as it may sound, Virat Kohli’s paternity leave has turned out to be one of the major topics of discussion ahead of the India vs Australia series. Australia opener David Warner was the latest to voice his opinion on the matter. Read moreCentre plans one EV charging station for every 69,000 petrol pumps: GadkariMinister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has said that the Centre plans to set up at least one EV charging station for every 69,000 petrol pumps to push people to use more electric vehicles in future. Read moreMan creates world record for farthest distance walked barefoot on LEGO bricksHave you ever stepped on a LEGO brick by accident? If so, then you know that no matter how cute and fun-to-play the colourful interlocking plastic bricks may seem, walking on one by mistake can cause real distress. Read moreWatch: Health worker rows 18 kms daily to serve kids, mothers in remote villagesAn Anganwadi worker rows 18 kms to remote villages to attend tribal kids and expecting mothers. Relu Vasave travels to interior villages every day from Maharashtra’s Nandurbar. Relu belongs to Nashik and grew up near Narmada, where she learned swimming. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nirmala-sitharaman-hints-at-more-changes-to-push-growth-in-coming-budget-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nymKMhJFoSuLSZEiFhcN0J.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Modi likely to attend Dev Deepawali celebrations in Varanasi on Nov 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend Dev Deepawali celebrations in Varanasi on November 30, said a senior official of the district administration.If it happens, it will be the first time when Modi would be in the temple town on the occasion of Dev Deepawali. Also, it will be after a gap of eight months due to the Covid-19 pandemic that the PM would be physically present in his parliamentary constituency.Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said preparations were on for the visit. Besides the PM, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Adityanath are also likely to be present there on that day.During his daylong visit, Modi is likely to attend a series of events. He will inaugurate Rajatalab-Handia six lane projects and address his party workers in a meeting proposed in Mirzamurad area of the district. He will also review the progress of Kashi Vishwanath corridor and offer prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. The PM is also expected to attend a light and sound show in Sarnath. “As part of the Dev Deepawali celebrations, a laser show will be organised on the Ganga and around 14 lakh earthen lamps will illuminate the iconic ghats and the riverbank. This is the first time when earthen lamps will be lit on the sprawling sandy bank,” said regional tourism officer Keertiman Srivastava. While nine lakh diyas would be lit on the ghats, another five lakh would be lit on the sandy bank, he added. In addition, cultural events will take place at several ghats while the main event will be held at Rajghat.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma have already held several meetings in this regard to fine-tune preparations for Dev Deepawali celebrations. According to Pt Prasad Dixit, former trustee of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust and an astrologer, Diwali of the deities is celebrated on Kartik Purnima. “This festival is a special part of the ancient culture of Kashi and even finds a mention in Hindu scripture ‘Shiv Puarana’,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-attend-dev-deepawali-celebrations-in-varanasi-on-nov-30/story-1SNLxEytwGMLESyDysKEWL.html
24-11-2020||India||HAL kicks off crucial testing of jet trainer||State-owned plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Monday announced that it has kicked off a crucial developmental test of a jet trainer that was planned as a replacement for the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) ageing Kiran aircraft fleet. The spin flight testing of the much-delayed Sitara intermediate jet trainer (IJT) -- or the HJT-36 single-engine aircraft -- is being seen as a developmental milestone even though there is no indication from IAF about a possible order. The IJT project is running late by several years. “The spin testing of an aircraft is the most crucial phase of its flight testing. The testing will be gradually progressed to assess the behaviour of the aircraft till six turn spins to either side to meet the targeted requirement,” HAL said in a statement. HAL test pilots Group Captain HV Thakur (retd) and Wing Commander P Avasti (retd) conducted the tests on Monday. Spin is a manoeuvre an aircraft gets into on its own when its controls are mishandled.Spin testing seeks to prove that the IJT can do a spin and recover safely from it, experts said. During the first flight test, the aircraft was taken through one turn spin to the left and right to test the spin characteristics, HAL said. Rookie pilots in IAF go through a three-stage training involving the Pilatus PC-7 MkII planes, Kiran trainers and finally the Hawk advanced jet trainers before they can fly fighter jets. As the Kirans are approaching the end of their service life, some amount of Stage 2 training is already being done on the PC-7. Experts doubted if IAF would order the IJT as it was a case of “too little, too late”.The delay in the IJT programme, conceived more than two decades ago, has upset IAF’s calculations, officials said. The project was sanctioned in July 1999 with a grant of ₹180 crore. The IJT, first powered by a French engine and now a Russian one, was expected to get initial operational clearance by 2006 with deliveries to IAF planned a year later. HAL said the IJT has been redesigned for the spin test “by moving the vertical tail aft and extending the rudder surface”. “These changes (made) for ensuring satisfactory spin behaviour required extensive redesign of the rear fuselage and the rudder. The changes have been incorporated in two aircraft with the involvement and clearance from certification agencies at every stage,” the statement said. After being modified, the two aircraft underwent significant flight tests to assess the general handling with the new configuration of fin and rudder, and the jets have been incorporated with the necessary safety devices (anti-spin parachute systems), it said. Meanwhile, IAF plans to buy basic trainer aircraft from HAL to train rookie pilots. The defence ministry in August gave its go-ahead for the purchase of 106 Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) aircraft from HAL to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India movement).Basic trainers figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. IAF is expected to order 70 trainers initially, with the remaining 36 to be bought after the operationalisation of the air force’s fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hal-kicks-off-crucial-testing-of-jet-trainer/story-Br4gWuORaVIhrJqzmtK4yN.html
24-11-2020||India||Complete cold chain set-up by Dec 15 for Covid-19 vaccination: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Monday asked officials to complete all preparations for the prospective Covid-19 vaccination drive, including “robust cold-chain maintenance set-up” in all districts by December 15.Adityanath’s direction came at a meeting with the state-level Covid-19 management team to review pandemic and Unlock status in Uttar Pradesh.“For Covid-19 vaccination, complete all preparations in a time-bound and well-managed manner. Establish inter-department coordination,” he said.Talking about cold-chain for the prospective vaccines, he said: “Ensure robust cold-chain maintenance set-up in all the districts by December 15, so that there is no damage to vaccines and their efficacy at any point in time. Considering the large population of the state, ensure the availability of enough vaccinators and prepare for their training also.”Adityanath said that till the vaccine became available, all Covid protection, prevention, and treatment protocols should continue with the highest alertness. He also said that there should be no relaxation in the drives to make people aware of safety and protection. Covid-19 tests must continue at full capacity and efficiency, he said.He directed the chief secretary’s office to check on the presence of district magistrates and district police chiefs in their respective offices by calling the office landline phones and also on the CUG (closed user group) cell phones of these officers.He also asked for an intensive campaign against the manufacture and sale of spurious liquor, adding that the toughest action should be taken against those involved in it.“Seize the properties of those who are found involved in such trade and then auction those properties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-cold-chain-set-up-by-dec-15-for-covid-19-vaccination-adityanath/story-VC1LnCPE4K8yfjlb1CCUyH.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s active Covid case burden remains less than 5%: Govt data||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is the actual disease burden of the country, remains below 5% of the total positive cases reported from the country to date, shows government data.India’s present active caseload (443,486) is 4.85% of the total positive cases, and has been sustained below the 5% mark. The recovery rate continues to be above 93% as 93.68% of all cases have recovered as on date, according to the data compiled by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.As on Monday, the country registered 41,024 new recoveries in a single day, taking the total recovered cases to 8,562,641. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 8,119,155, the ministry data reveals.Also read | Night curfew to travel restrictions: States take fresh guard against Covid-19For the past 16 days in a row, the total number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily has remained less than 50,000.About 10 states contribute close to 79% of the total new cases reported in a day, of which Delhi (4,454), Maharashtra (4,153) and Kerala (3,757) top the list of most affected Covid-19 states in the country at the moment.Also, 77% of the new recovered cases are also being reported from 10 states with Delhi (7,216), Kerala (5,425), and Maharashtra (3,729) topping the list.About 15 states and Union Territories are currently reporting less than the national average of Covid-19 cases per million population that stands at 6,623 Covid-19 cases as on Monday.Bihar ranks first with 1,839 Covid-19 cases per million population, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 2,235 cases, and in Madhya Pradesh, about 2,362 Covid-19 cases per million of the population are being reported.As for deaths, about 75% of the total 467 new deaths reported in a single day in the country are from 10 states. This highlights that the government focus on containment of the outbreak needs to be on select districts in certain states.“Teams are being regularly sent wherever the government feels the need to assist states in disease management. Centre is always there to help states in whichever way possible,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-case-burden-remains-less-than-5-govt-data/story-LFDsfZz3YSrNSDfdmshTOP.html
24-11-2020||India||Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrow||Severe cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram of the southern state on Wednesday. Nivar, the first cyclonic storm to impact the Indian coast this season will have a wind speed of 100 to 110kmph gusting to 120kmph and bring extremely heavy rain to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday and Thursday.The weather bureau has said that the depression over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-northwestwards and lay centred about 520km east-southeast of Puducherry and 560km southeast of Chennai. M Mohapatra, India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) director general, said on Monday that Nivar is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours.Also read | Tamil Nadu braces for cyclone, NDRF teams on alertOfficials have said that Nivar is an Iranian name and comes from a list of names suggested by the 13 north Indian ocean countries affected by cyclones in the region.Here is what to expect under the influence of Nivar:1. Widespread rainfall and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely from Tuesday to Thursday and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Telangana during Wednesday and Thursday.2. Extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Tuesday and Wednesday, over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and over Rayalseema on Wednesday and Thursday and over Telangana on Thursday.Also read | List of major cyclones in India since 20193. Wind speed of 55-65kmph gusting to 75kmph is prevailing over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal. It would increase gradually becoming 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph over the southwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal from Tuesday morning. It would further increase becoming 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph over the southwest Bay of Bengal from Wednesday morning for subsequent 12 hours.4. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55kmph gusting to 65kmph would prevail along and off Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coast and over the Gulf of Mannar from Tuesday morning. It will gradually increase and become 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph along and off coastal districts of north Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Myladuthurai, Cuddalore, Puducherry, Villupuram and Chengalpattu districts), 80-90 gusting to 100kmph very likely over Tiruvarur, Kanchipuram, Chennai, Tiruvallaur districts from Wednesday forenoon forsubsequent 12 hours.5. Gale wind speed reaching 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph very likely over adjoining the west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off south Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore and Chittoor districts, Gulf of Mannarand along and off districts of south coastal districts of Tamil Nadu from Wednesday morning for subsequent 12 hours.6. Sea conditions are likely to be ‘high’ to ‘very high’, with waves of 6 to 14 metres, along the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday. Tidal wave of one-metre height above the astronomical tide is also expected on Wednesday during landfall.7. Fishermen have been asked not to venture into southwest and adjoining west-central and southeast Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts from Monday to Tuesday. Those out at the sea have been asked to return to the coast and avoid these sea areas.8. The weather bureau has warned of major damage to thatched houses or huts with the possibility of rooftops being blown off and unattached metal sheets flying. There could be damage to power and communication lines, it added. There could be major damage to paved and some damage to unpaved roads and flooding of escape routes. Tree branches could break and large avenue trees could be uprooted. There could be severe damage to banana and papaya trees, horticulture and crops and orchards and major damage to coastal crops and to embankments and salt pans, it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-gale-force-winds-nivar-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-tomorrow/story-FEWpfCXLiSo2Vs2X83oRFM.html
24-11-2020||India||Severe cyclone Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday||Nivar, a severe cyclonic storm, the first one to impact the Indian coast this season, is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on November 25, with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph and bring extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on November 24 and 25.The depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-northwestwards and lies centered about 520 km eastsoutheast of Puducherry and 560 km southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general M Mohapatra said on Monday.Also read | 6 NDRF teams deployed in parts of Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclonic storm warningUnder its influence, the rainfall activity is likely to increase substantially over south peninsular India from November 23 onwards with widespread rainfall and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during November 24 and 26 and over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Telangana during November 25 and 26. Extremely heavy rainfall activity is also very likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during November 24 and 25 and over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Rayalseema on November 25 and 26 and over Telangana on November 26.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southwest and adjoining westcentral and southeast Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts from November 23 to 25. Fishermen out at the sea have been advised to return to the coast and avoid the above sea areas.“Nivar is an Iranian name. It is from a list of cyclone names suggested by the 13 north Indian ocean countries affected by cyclones in the region. Three cyclones have already occurred this year, Amphan, Nisarga and Gati which made landfall on the Somalia coast on Sunday night,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Sea conditions are likely to be high to very high (waves of 6 to 14 metres) along the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast on Wednesday. Tidal wave of 1 metre height above the astronomical tide is also expected on Wednesday during landfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cyclone-nivar-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-on-wednesday/story-5YC3nFVJ7ePSwfPN4198qJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Criminal activity in 11 ‘love jihad’ cases: SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) submitted its report on the instances of alleged “love jihad”, or interfaith marriages, in Kanpur on Monday, detecting criminal activity in 11 cases, but found no evidence of foreign funding or any direct organised operation, a senior police official said.“The SIT found criminal activity had taken place in 11 cases. In other instances, three women denied the charges (against their husbands) and closure reports were filed,” inspector general of police, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal said. The SIT submitted its report to Agarwal. Police sent the 11 accused to jail, charging them with rape, the SIT report said. Love jihad is a term coined by right-wing organisations to denote instances of Muslim men marrying women of other faiths, particularly Hindus, through deception, supposedly to convert them forcibly.The SIT reviewed 14 investigations, both completed and those under progress, in which it was alleged that Muslim men married Hindu women by deception. In these 14 cases, the parents of women had maintained that the men hid their identities to develop physical intimacy, the IG said. “SIT hasn’t (got) any concrete evidence about this being done in an organised manner or that this was being funded from overseas,” he added. SIT was formed about two months ago to revisit the cases of “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-activity-in-11-love-jihad-cases-sit/story-zU4aVkOJyupy6ls4UynV3I.html
24-11-2020||India||Budget to unveil more changes to push growth, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has initiated a series of reforms to promote its Aatmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative), and the momentum of the process will continue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, indicating that the coming budget will unveil more structural changes to boost the economy.Outlining the government’s policy direction from the perspective of multi-national companies (MNCs), she said: “If you were to look at the Indian economy, and where the emphasis would be in the coming budget..., I would start with the fact that the Prime Minister himself has been engaging with the global investor community and talking to them {about} what exactly he looks at for India, how does he view India in this changing environment.” The finance minister was addressing the National MNC Conference organised virtually by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Referring to the recent Virtual Global Investor Roundtable (VGIR-20) where Prime Minister Narendra Modi heard delegates speak about the policy expectations of investors, she said the government had initiated several reforms that are attractive for MNCs, such as a significant corporate tax cut in September 2019. The Prime Minister on November 5 invited 20 major global investors to become part of a “New India” that aims to become self-reliant, calling it a “well-planned economic strategy” to make the country a global manufacturing powerhouse. “Today, India is changing and for the better. From fiscal irresponsibility to fiscal prudence, from high inflation to low inflation, from reckless lending creating non-performing assets [NPAs] to merit-based lending, from infrastructure deficit to infrastructure surplus, from mismanaged urban growth to holistic and balanced growth and from physical to digital infrastructure,” the Prime Minister said.Addressing Indian and MNC executives, Sitharaman said the government’s vision was to forge greater engagement with global economies and become a valuable part of the international supply chain. She assured them that the momentum of economic reforms would continue to make India a hot spot of global investment. The reforms announced by the government under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package have opened up many sectors including niche ones such as nuclear energy and space technology to foreign investors, she said. She said Aatmanirbhar Bharat did not mean insulating India from the rest of the world. It aims to make India an integral part of the global value chain by improving its domestic competitiveness, she added. “Even at the time of the Covid pandemic, the Prime Minister has not lost an opportunity to take deep reforms, to undertake those kinds of reforms which have not seen the light of the day over the decades,” Sitharaman said.“The momentum for reform shall continue. Several more active reform-related steps are being taken up,” she said, adding that the Narendra Modi government has turned the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity to make major reforms that had been pending for decades.The measures include professionalisation of the financial sector and a thrust on disinvestments, she said. “All enterprises, MNCs and India Inc., big, medium and small enterprises, are facing a reset exercise in doing business. We will have to make sure that policies are right to make India an attractive investment destination,” she added. Soumitra Bhattacharya, managing director of Bosch Ltd, said recent landmark reforms in corporate taxation, foreign direct investment (FDI) policies, simplification of agricultural laws, seminal changes in labour laws and the introduction of a production-linked incentive scheme are some of the major reforms introduced by the government, which will add up to making an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Bhattacharya, who is also chairman of the CII National Committee on MNCs, acknowledged the rapid pace of reforms undertaken by the Modi government. “The reforms must continue given the tectonic shifts in global supply chains in a post-Covid world, which are attracting many foreign firms to shift their base to India. This opportunity must be seized fully,” he said. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-to-unveil-more-changes-to-push-growth-says-nirmala-sitharaman/story-hEUO9pDrE8aulwCQyXiUCK.html
24-11-2020||India||SC verdict on plea against PM Modi’s election today||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Tuesday on a petition filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) soldier Tej Bahadur challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat in May 2019. Bahadur’s nomination from Varanasi constituency was rejected on May 1, 2019. The judgment was reserved on November 18 after the court heard Bahadur’s lawyer Pradeep Kumar Yadav who alleged that he was not granted sufficient time by the returning officer (RO) to produce a certificate from the Election Commission of India stating that his dismissal from BSF was not on grounds of corruption or disloyalty. This is mandatory as anybody dismissed on these two grounds cannot contest elections for a period of five years. The lack of this certificate had led to the rejection of Bahadur’s nomination. On the other hand, PM Modi was represented in court by senior advocate Harish Salve who alleged that the petitioner (Bahadur) did not seek additional time from the RO and for lack of the certificate, his nomination was rightly rejected. Bahadur lost his appeal before the Allahabad high court on December 6, 2019, against which he approached the apex court. He was sacked from BSF in April 2017 after he circulated a video on the poor quality of food supplied to BSF jawans serving at the country’s frontiers. The matter was heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, and comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The petition got registered in Supreme Court in March 2020 and was listed on two occasions -- May 22 and November 4. On each occasion, Bahadur moved a letter for adjournment. On November 18 when the matter came up for the third time, Bahadur yet again sought adjournment. The top court was upset by the conduct of the petitioner. The CJI remarked, “Are you an exceptional case that we should keep granting you time. We get a feeling that you are abusing the process of this court.” The bench refused to adjourn the case and said, “We are hearing you because respondent holds a unique office in this country, that of the Prime Minister. We don’t want this matter to be carried on like this.” The Allahabad high court, while dismissing Bahadur’s petition, found that under section 81 of Representation of Peoples Act, he was neither a candidate nor an elector of Varanasi to challenge the election of the Prime Minister. Bahadur’s petition stated that he was an elector from Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-plea-against-pm-modi-s-election-today/story-1hINu9BDihluK51CdSg3bL.html
24-11-2020||India||Delhi HC bars IIT engineer from accessing WhiteHat Jr’s communications||The Delhi high court on Monday temporarily restrained an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-trained engineer from hacking or unauthorizedly accessing coding startup WhiteHat Jr’s internal communication platform.The court was hearing a $2.3 million defamation suit filed by Karan Bajaj, owner of WhiteHat Jr, alleging that Pradeep Poonia was defaming him, his content and teachers on social media outlets. Bajaj has accused Poonia of infringing trademarks and copyright of properties owned by WhiteHat Jr, unauthorizedly accessing the company’s private communications app and sharing the phone numbers of its educators on public platforms .It restrained Poonia from making any remarks on the quality of teachers of WhiteHat Jr or on their educational or professional background.Online education platform Byju’s acquired Mumbai-based WhiteHat Jr earlier this year in an all-cash deal worth $300 million. WhiteHat Jr. is a coding platform that looks to equip students with computer coding skills and is largely aimed at students from classes 9 to 12. Founded in November 2018, the edtech startup helps children aged 6 to 14 years build commercial-ready games and apps online using the fundamentals of coding. It offers four levels of courses including beginner, intermediate, advanced, and professional, business newspaper Mint reported in August.On Monday, justice Mukta Gupta also rebuked Poonia for using derogatory references to homemakers in tweets he posted, after senior advocate and WhiteHart Jr counsel Mukul Rohtagi told the court that Poonia had falsely alleged that WhiteHat Jr employs “housewives” to teach coding. He added that some of those teaching coding on the platform are PhDs and highly qualified. Rohatgi said Poonia had also got a 13-year-old cousin to sign up for free classes on WhiteHat Jr under different names. The cousin records the classes and later, these recordings are used to defame the teachers, who are called names like “glorified salesman,” he claimed..“Who is stopping you from a healthy discussion? They (WhiteHat Jr) have a registered trademark. You are saying that their teachers are housewives, are you saying they are uneducated persons? How can you be so derogatory towards them? This is, of course, defamation,” the judge remarked during the hearing.“Who are you to put their {telephone} numbers in the public domain? Who has given you this right?”……..Is this not malicious that you are stating their teachers are housewives? Even if they are housewives, what is the problem if they’re doing part-time jobs?” it added.Bajaj, a graduate from BITS Pilani has contended that Poonia was repeatedly trolling his company’s content and teachers on the social media platform.The judge asked Poonia to not use, telecast or transmit an||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-bars-iit-engineer-from-accessing-whitehat-jr-s-communications/story-D9BKeRbCK3zpChRYeMHZLK.html
24-11-2020||India||Bihar legislator Akhtarul Iman uses ‘Bharat’ in oath||A Bihar legislator of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi created a flutter on Monday by seeking a clarification on the use of the word Hindustan, instead of Bharat, in the Urdu version of the oath he was given to read out on the inaugural day of the assembly formed after recent elections.At the oath-taking ceremony, Akhtarul Imam said it should ideally be Bharat in the Urdu translation of the script and sought a clarification from the chair. Pro-tem speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi immediately said it should be Bharat. “This has been the practice as well as the provision in the Constitution,” Manhji added.Imam then read out the oath, using Bharat instead of Hindustan. He said the word in the old Urdu translation of the oath needed to be changed for conformity.“I have no problem even if it is Hindustan, but the Constitution clearly says Bharat. We swear in the name of Bharat. Even in Maithili and other languages, it is Bharat. That is why I just pointed it out and sought clarity from the chair,” he added.“I have also said ‘sare jahan se achcha, Hindustan hamaraa.’ But if there is an established practice and the Constitution says so, there should be conformity,” he said.Imam also hit back at the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) for trying to make an issue out of it. “They don’t have any issue, so they keep talking about Kabristan (graveyard) and Pakistan whenever it comes to issues of the poor and minorities,” he said. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel saidt Imam’s move was clearly aimed at creating an issue out of a non-issue. “What difference does it make if it was written Hindustan. Bharat is also known as Jambudweep, India and other names,” he added. Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan presented a contrast to Imam when he read out the oath in Sanskrit. When asked about Imam, he said it was for the MLA to answer.“For me, sare jehan se achcha, Hindustan hamara. That is why, I took oath in Sanskrit to send a message to both AIMIM as well as the BJP, that India a bouquet of different flowers. Sanskrit is the mother of all languages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-legislator-akhtarul-iman-uses-bharat-in-oath/story-Z2O3tOzJ5k22YYXG5aDarI.html
24-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Defining a new era of growth and prosperity||Economic history has shown us that eras of golden growth often last decades. More recently, East and South East Asia are a testament to this fact. Within a generation, the face of a country stands transformed. An era of sustained growth, lasting decades, has so far eluded India. Over the past few years, India has seen both economic and governance reforms. Both the scale and pace of the transformation over the past few years are underappreciated. Also underappreciated is the potential for these reforms to usher in a new era of growth and prosperity.The latest in the set of structural reforms is the introduction of the production linked incentives (PLI) schemes approved by the Cabinet a few days ago. The total budgetary outlay for these schemes is Rs 1.96 lakh crore or $26 billion, and assuming a 5% incentive on production value, this translates to potential production of $520 billion, across a range of sectors. Scale has long kept Indian manufacturing exports uncompetitive in global markets. These PLI schemes will encourage scale, as incentives are linked to output. The effects will be felt across the value chain, spurring activity in the many MSMEs linked to the chain.Before the announcement of these schemes, the government codified 29 Central Labour Laws into four codes and announced historic reforms in agriculture and commercial coal mining. MSME definitions were revised upwards. In previous years, we have seen the introduction of the Goods & Services Tax (GST), the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and the Real Estate Regulatory Authorities (RERA). Corporate tax was slashed to 22% for all companies and 15% for new manufacturing companies. Investments in physical infrastructure have been committed through the National Infrastructure Pipeline. The foreign direct investment (FDI) regime has become more liberal, with limits on FDI raised in many sectors, most recently defence manufacturing. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board was also abolished, streamlining the process.Streamlining of government processes has been a hallmark of this new era. A 79 position improvement was recorded by India in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index in five years. States were also made to compete, further contributing to the improvement in business environment. Formalisation of firms and employment has been encouraged through the introduction of GST and the new Labour Codes, which allow for fixed term employment across sectors, whilst the scheme announced by the Finance Minister, the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, supports the creation of new formal jobs as well.However, this improvement in government processes has not just been left to improving the business environment. There has been a profound transformation in the delivery of government schemes and benefits, ushering in an era of transparency and accuracy, through a concerted effort towards digitisation. The government put its energy in getting the JAM (Jan-Dhan Aadhaar Mobile) trinity going. This has been the single biggest factor for expansion of financial inclusion in India and has presented a unique model for the world. For this to succeed, we needed to open bank accounts and link them to Aadhaar. According to a report by the World Bank, a whopping 55% of all bank accounts created across the world during 2014-17 were opened in India. Fifty-three per cent of the 380 million PMJDY accounts were opened in the name of women. The JAM trinity also enabled direct benefit transfers (DBT). Cumulative direct transfers of Rs 11.1 lakh crore, spanning 56 ministries and 426 schemes have been achieved with zero leakages. The government was able to save Rs 1.7 lakh crore over the past few years, by removing duplicate and fake beneficiaries. One cannot talk of digital transformation without mentioning the impact of digital payments. The enabling infrastructure, the unified payments interface (UPI) was developed and opened up to the private sector. The results are there for all to see. October 2020 saw 2 billion transactions, compared to 1.1 billion just a year ago in October 2019. The volume of transactions is higher than debit and credit cards put together in India. This is yet another example of India paving a new path and serving as a model to the world in financial and digital inclusion. Human resources are critical in India seizing any growth opportunities. Poshan Abhiyaan was launched to battle malnutrition. Ayushman Bharat provided for health insurance to the most vulnerable, as well as creating 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres. The Swacch Bharat Mission improved India’s health and sanitation outcomes. We finally have a New Education Policy (NEP) in over 3 decades. Medical education has been revamped with the creation of the National Medical Council. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is upon us. India must aspire to be at the forefront of this revolution. The government intends to build the foundational layer of tech driven platforms, with the private sector building solutions on top. UPI is a pertinent example. Whether it is the use of frontier technologies in industrial applications or social applications, India presents several use-case scenarios. India can serve as the tech garage for the world, designing solutions that can be implemented across the world. For India to be at the forefront of this revolution, we must continue our push to develop competitiveness in sunrise sectors of growth. The future of mobility is clean, connected, and shared. India must position itself at the forefront of electric mobility and battery storage. There also lies immense potential in digital health and education. Food processing, mobile manufacturing, networking products, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and solar photovoltaic system manufacturing are other sunrise areas.Public policy has a critical role in ushering in sustained periods of growth and prosperity. In recent history, this has been evident in East and South East Asia. The economic and governance reforms undertaken in India over the past few years address critical bottlenecks that have held back India’s growth story and will usher in a new era of growth and prosperity.The writer is Chief Executive Officer, NITI Aayog. Views are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defining-a-new-era-of-growth-and-prosperity/story-VWkcjFjhUPk8qq8CoBpm6K.html
24-11-2020||India||BSF officer crawls 150 feet into tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, finds Pak imprint||The director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), Rakesh Asthana, on Monday ordered intensified patrolling of the international border with Pakistan in the Samba and Rajouri sectors of Jammu & Kashmir with the objective of unearthing more cross-border tunnels like the one used by the four Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists who were killed in a gunfight on November 19.While Indian intelligence agencies are trying to find the names and antecedents of the four Jaish operatives, people aware of the probe said it was clear the attackers stayed inside the tunnel before moving out on the moonless night on November 19. Further evidence of this, the people added, came from an Indian soldier (Commandant Rathore of 173 battalion) crawling 150 feet into the tunnel used by the Jaish terrorists and recovering packets of biscuits and other food wrappers. The manufacturing date of the “Master Cuisine Cupcake” biscuits, a Lahore-based product, was May 2020, and the expiry date was November 17, 2020.Also Read | Pak attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, were commando trained who walked 30 km into India in moonless nightThe people cited above suggested that there must have been a Pakistani spotter, perhaps a Ranger, on the other side of the border to guide the operatives when to safely move out of the tunnel. Intelligence inputs said that the four terrorists were launched from the Shakargarh camp of JeM, and moved towards Mawa in district Samba, between the Ramgarh and Hiranagar sectors. The pick-up point was Jatwal village -- the village bang opposite it on the Pakistani side is Nagwal, which falls under Bari Manhassan near Shakargarh.The plan was foiled when a truck carrying the freshly infiltrated militants was intercepted by security forces on the outskirts of Jammu city on November 19, and the four terrorists were killed in a gunbattle.Also Read | 200-metre tunnel used by Jaish terrorists to sneak into India nails Pak roleA case has been registered into the incident at the police station in Nagrota, and recoveries from the bodies show that the terrorists had plans for a major operation -- they were carrying Rs 1.5 lakh in Indian currency, wire cutters, Chinese Black Star pistols, and grenades, apart from assault rifles and nitrocellulose fuel oil explosives, which were also used in the 2019 Pulwama attack.After the discovery of tunnel, Asthana asked for special tunnel inspection teams to trawl the international border as the entire belt is sensitive to infiltration by JeM. Other Pakistani groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Al Badr are known to infiltrate across the Line of Control (LOC) further north from the Uri and Kupwara sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-officer-crawls-150-feet-into-tunnel-used-by-jaish-terrorists-finds-pak-imprint/story-Dfr1aSyR3UNdbxa0f7RSGN.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates flats for MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated 76 multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament, through video conferencing. The flats, located at Dr BD Marg in the heart of New Delhi, have replaced eight 80-year-old bungalows. Addressing the inauguration ceremony, the Prime Minister said, “Decades old problems don’t end by avoiding them, but by finding solutions,” as he highlighted the landmark legislations and developmental works undertaken by his government since coming to power in 2014. The PM said that although talks regarding the Ambedkar National Memorial began during the term of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, it was built after a gap of 23 years by his government. The new building of the Central Information Commission, the War Memorial near India Gate and the National Police Memorial were also built by this government, he said.Praising the high productivity of Parliament, especially Lok Sabha, Modi said that MPs have taken care of both legislations and the processes in Parliament.He also praised Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for his stewardship of the house and expressed happiness that Parliament proceedings continued even during the pandemic, keeping in mind the protocol to arrest the spread of Covid-19.This period has been “historic” in the nation’s development, the PM said. As the age of 16, 17 and 18 years is very important for the youth, so is the time between the 16th and the 18th Lok Sabha for a young nation like India, he said. “I am confident the next Lok Sabha (2024-29) will also play a very important role in taking the country ahead in this new decade... There is so much for the country that we have to achieve. Be it Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliance) campaign, or economic targets or many other pledges like this, we have to achieve them during this period,” he said.The PM added that green building norms were incorporated during the construction of the multi-storey flats for the MPs. He hoped that the new flats will keep the MPs and all residents safe and sound. A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office had earlier said that the construction of these flats has been completed with savings of about 14 per cent from the sanctioned cost and without time overrun despite the impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-flats-for-mps/story-n3smDes7urlDWDpcM3K3nK.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Refrain from going public on internal issues’ Congress to Gulam Nabi Azad||A day after Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said that a “five-star culture” has gripped his party and that its structure has collapsed, the Congress on Monday asked the “nominated” senior leaders to maintain discipline and refrain from going public on internal issues.“The nominated senior leaders have access to the party leadership. Mr Azad is a CWC nominated member who can just pick up the phone and call anybody instead of speaking publicly,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, addressing a virtual news conference.“These leaders had taught us discipline and how to work in the organisation. So, today when they speak in public, we are shocked. All platforms are available within the party. They are also members of the CWC (Congress Working Committee), nominated members since many years. They have also been ministers in governments and got different responsibilities in the party. They should maintain discipline and refrain from going public on internal issues,” he added.Also Read | Dissent in Congress: From Adhir Chowdhury to Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said whatAzad said on Sunday that the Congress party’s structure has collapsed, and it needs to be rebuilt by having elected leaders from the block to the CWC level. He also said that there is a huge disconnect between the people and the Congress leaders and that a “five-star culture” has gripped the party.Khera said the Congress has an internal system to discuss all issues, including the results of the recent Bihar elections and bypolls. “Last week, there was a meeting where the results of Bihar and other states were discussed in detail. Discussions do happen,” he said.Khera said these leaders should also specify their stand on the organisational elections in the Youth Congress. “You cannot have separate yardsticks. You cannot say that internal elections are not good for the Youth Congress but good for the parent party,” he said.The elections to the Youth Congress faced criticism for their failure to connect with the aspirational India in the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in which the Congress suffered its worst ever electoral drubbing. Questions were also raised over its outreach capabilities as it ceased to be the sword arm of the grand old party.The rumblings come at a time when the party’s key troubleshooter, Ahmed Patel, is in Gurugram-based Medanta hospital after having tested positive for Covid-19.Azad also came under attack from other Congress leaders, including Youth Congress president Srinivas BV, former Lok Sabha member Kuldeep Bishnoi, party spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh, and two former Haryana ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda.Bishnoi, who represents Adampur constituency in the Haryana assembly and is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal, accused Azad of “hatching a conspiracy” with political rivals to break the Congress and “betraying” the Gandhi family.He appealed to Congress leaders and workers not to pay attention to “opportunist leaders” such as Azad.“I want to tell Azad sahib that we will not let the conspiracy he is hatching with the rival parties to break the Congress succeed,” Bishnoi said in a video message on his Twitter handle.“What is your history? In entire life, you have won only three polls, two times Lok Sabha and one-time assembly. Are you talking against the Gandhi family which nominated you to Rajya Sabha on five occasions. I have won more elections than you, two Lok Sabha and four assembly, and I am still a sitting legislator,” Bishnoi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refrain-from-going-public-on-internal-issues-congress-to-gulam-nabi-azad/story-NE9oPC6ss8AXjNn3W2pOQN.html
24-11-2020||India||India first priority for Covid-19 vaccine delivery: Serum Institute||India will be given first priority for the delivery of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine after its British developers claimed success following mass testing, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume said Monday.The chief executive of the Serum Institute of India, Adar Poonawalla, said the manufacturer has already produced 40 million doses of the vaccine so far.“By January, we should have, you know, 100 million doses is minimum because we’ve already made 40 million doses,” Poonawalla, whose father founded the vaccine manufacturer, told television broadcaster NDTV.Poonawalla said he expected that some 90 percent of Serum Institute’s doses were to be sold to the Indian government at around 250 rupees (US$3.00).Also Read | Dosing error turns into lucky punch for AstraZeneca and Oxford“Most of that 90 percent is what’s going to go to the government of India and maybe 10 percent in the private market at the higher price (of 1,000 rupees),” he said.“We’re hoping for this emergency use licence so that by the end of December, January we can start rolling out some (doses).”AstraZeneca and Oxford University said Monday that their drug had proved on average 70 percent effective at stopping the virus after trying it on 23,000 people.The Oxford drug can be transported easily at normal refrigerator temperatures -- unlike some of the other candidates, which require extremely cold storage.AstraZeneca said it planned to produce up to three billion doses of the vaccine in 2021 if it passes the remaining regulatory hurdles.The Serum Institute in August struck a deal with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to produce up to 100 million COVID-19 doses of two different potential vaccines from AstraZeneca and US biotech company Novavax.Once the vaccines gain regulatory approval, the doses could be produced as early as the first half of 2021 for distribution to low- and middle-income countries, Gavi said.India’s Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told India Today TV earlier Monday that he expected between 250-300 million Indians would be immunised by September next year.First in line would be health workers, other frontline workers including the police, paramilitary and those working in sanitisation, as well as people aged above 65, Vardhan added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to meet with state leaders on Tuesday for discussions about the distribution of the vaccine, local media reported.India is the second worst-infected nation after the United States with more than 9.1 million virus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-first-priority-for-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-serum-institute/story-hXYFejSU8iavtAZWxsv6VK.html
24-11-2020||India||India briefs envoys on J&K attack bid||India on Monday briefed the envoys of a select group of countries, including the US and Russia, on the Pakistani origins of the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists who attempted to carry out an attack in Jammu and Kashmir last week. The group of envoys, which also included the heads of mission of France and Japan, were provided a “detailed information docket” with details of the planned attack and a list of items and munitions recovered from the terrorists that “clearly indicated their Pakistani origins”, said a person familiar with the development who spoke on condition of anonymity. The envoys were briefed on how the terrorists sneaked into India through an underground tunnel in the Samba sector, and how preliminary investigations by police and intelligence agencies and markings on AK-47 rifles and other items have led India to conclude the terrorists belonged to Pakistan-based JeM. The briefing by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the attempted attack at Nagrota in Jammu and Kashmir that was foiled on November 19 also focused on the “implications of the incident on security, diplomacy and the battle against terrorism”, the person said. While the envoys of at least three of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council were invited for the briefing, the Chinese ambassador was not among those present, people familiar with the development said. On November 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said security forces in Jammu and Kashmir had foiled a plan by JeM to “wreak major havoc and destruction” by killing four members of the group and seizing a large cache of weapons and explosives. The four terrorists were gunned down during a gun battle on the Jammu-Srinagar highway a day earlier. India had summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Aftab Hassan Khan on November 21 and warned that New Delhi is “committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security”. India also demanded that Pakistan should desist from its policy of supporting terrorists and dismantle the terror infrastructure on its territory. Monday’s briefing was the first of several to be conducted by the external affairs ministry for small groups of envoys in view of the Covid-19 situation. Several secretaries in the ministry will brief heads of missions from countries in their areas of jurisdiction. “The idea is to share information on the attempted attack as widely as possible with the international community,” said a second person. The envoys were told during the briefing that the incident of November 19 was part of Pakistan’s ongoing terror campaign in Jammu and Kashmir and that in 2020 itself, there were some 200 incidents of terrorist violence while 199 terrorists had been neutralised. Details of JeM’s involvement in similar incidents in the past were also shared with the envoys. “In terms of the bigger picture, it is clear the terrorists were planning the biggest terror attack in India since the Pulwama suicide bombing of February 2019 and the implications can be guessed,” said the first person. Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed in the Pulwama attack. “This is part of ongoing efforts to sabotage the district development council elections in Jammu and Kashmir and carry out a terror attack aimed to coincide with the anniversary of the 2008 Mumbai terror strikes,” the first person added. The envoys were also sensitised to India’s concerns regarding Pakistan’s sustained efforts to destabilise the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and to subvert local elections and democracy, the people said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-briefs-envoys-on-j-k-attack-bid/story-z5kLNbbtw28A8yVZRoyLrI.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Modi may hold Covid-19 review meet with CMs today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting on Tuesday with the heads of all States to review Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation on ground and public health measures being taken to control the disease spread.The meeting will be held via video conferencing, and is scheduled to begin around 10am.According to sources, the initial couple of hours will be exclusively dedicated to an interaction with the chief ministers of states that are reporting increase in active case load and daily deaths due to Covid-19.The states slotted for the initial part of the interaction include Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Chandigarh. The PM will discuss vaccine distribution strategy with the other states during the latter half of the interaction.“It is expected to be an extensive review session wherein all issues related to Covid-19 management and vaccine distribution will be discussed threadbare with states. What measures are being taken and what areas need special attention is likely to be discussed,” said an official from the Union health ministry, requesting anonymity as the person is not authorised to speak to media.On Friday, Modi had also held a review meeting on progress being made in Covid-19 vaccine research, procurement and delivery. “That meeting was held with the officials from several government departments that are involved in making arrangement to be able to vaccinate Indians against Covid. Tuesday’s meeting will be with states to know what are the preparations being made on ground,” the official added. From time to time the centre has been rushing teams to states to assist in state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the reported positive cases. In the past 10 days, eight high-level teams have already been sent to high disease burden states: Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Manipur, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The centre has also advised the States to adopt aggressive and widespread testing to ensure that the missed out and undetected positive Covid-19 cases are promptly identified for timely and effective tracing, containment and subsequent treatment.“As an ongoing effort to strengthen efforts of various State/UT Governments for COVID management, the Central Government has been deputing Central teams from time to time to visit various States/UTs. These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any,” says the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-may-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-cms-today/story-RkpOSZAugU2Uwb7dt8CIIN.html
24-11-2020||India||SC says Covid-19 situation worsened in Delhi, Gujarat, asks Centre, states to file status reports||Terming the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation across the country “grim”, the Supreme Court on Monday gave two days time for states and the central government to disclose their preparedness to combat the spike in infections and the expected rise in cases in the coming months. The top court was hearing a suo moto petition on the treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified treatment of dead bodies pending since June this year. Taking up the matter after a long gap (the case was last heard on July 27), a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan was concerned particularly about the prevailing situation in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam. “Last two weeks deaths have increased in Delhi. We need to know what is the situation as on date and if there are shortcomings in providing care to Covid-19 patients,” observed the bench also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the Court that with regard to Delhi, the Union home ministry had been monitoring the situation since November 13 and sought time to file an affidavit to inform the Court on the prevailing status of Covid-19 cases in the country, especially Delhi.The bench even pointed out to Gujarat and asked the state government why it was allowing political parties to take out grand celebrations and permitted big marriage functions. “What is happening in Gujarat? What action have you taken against political parties for taking out grand celebrations (following the recent victory in bye-elections)….Is law not equally applicable to such persons?” Almost all states had filed compliance report of the Court’s July 27 order directing installation of CCTVs in Covid-19 wards and constitution of Expert Committee among a slew of other directions. Taking note of the same, the bench said, “Situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. It is also submitted that the situation in the month of December is likely to worsen and all states have to be prepared to combat the worsened situation regarding Covid-19. We are of the view that the immediate steps are required to be taken by all the States as well as by the Union of India.”India’s proposed Venus mission attracts international payload proposalsBengaluru The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has short-listed 20 space-based experiment proposals, including from France, for its proposed Venus orbiter mission ‘Shukrayaan’ to study the planet for more than four years.These include “collaborative contributions” from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, sources in the Bengaluru- headquartered space agency said.Isro was earlier eyeing June, 2023 for the country’s first mission to Venus. “But we are currently reviewing this mission timeline due to delays arising from the pandemic situation”, an Isro official said. “Future launch opportunity is either in 2024 or 2026”. It was noted that the optimal launch window (when Venus is closest to the Earth) comes about every 19 months. Of the Indian and international payload proposals it received in response to an announcement of opportunity for novel space-based experiments to study Venus, Isro has short- listed 20.“These 20 payload (scientific instruments) proposals, including collaborative contributions from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, are currently under review”, the Isro official said.The one already selected, according to French space agency CNES, is France’s VIRAL instrument (Venus Infrared Atmospheric Gas Linker) co-developed with the Russian space agency Roscosmos, and the LATMOS atmospheres, environments and space observations laboratory attached to the French national scientific research centre CNRS.“Swedish Institute of Space Physics is engaged with India’s mission to Venus”, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-covid-19-situation-worsened-in-delhi-gujarat-asks-centre-states-to-file-status-reports/story-nrAvPLREV6BcN37U5WPyoJ.html
24-11-2020||India||As vaccine trials end, where do Covid-19 treatments stand?||Vaccine developers have been racing against time to find a shot that offers immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The University of Oxford announced on Monday that its vaccine against the viral disease was up to 90% effective in preventing infection, Pfizer Inc. filed for emergency use authorization in the US for its vaccine that showed 995% efficacy last Friday, Moderna said its vaccine was 94.5% effective, even as Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories got ready to begin late stage trails of Russia’s Sputnik V in India this week. Parallelly, major treatment protocols are being revised following results from several global trials that cleared the air on which Covid-19 therapies work better than others.Most Covid-19 treatments fall under three broad categories, antivirals that prevent the virus from multiplying, immune-modulators that regulate the immune response, and combinations that use multiple mechanisms of action.Antiviral remdesivirThe antiviral remdesivir was suspended from the World Health Organization prequalification list that developing countries use as a benchmark for procurement. The suspension followed the health agency’s guidance on Friday against the use of remdesivir in hospitalized patients, regardless of disease severity, after an international guidelines development group found no evidence that the drug improves survival rates, reduces the need for mechanical ventilation, or boosts recovery and other patient outcomes. The group, however, recognized that more research was needed, and supported continued enrolment in trials evaluating remdesivir.“The guidelines group of WHO is separate from Solidarity Trial group as it reviews all evidence, including the WHO trial. They have concluded that there is no evidence of benefit from (remdesivir) in any group of hospitalised patients and that available evidence is inadequate if there is a benefit in non-hospitalised patients. As such, corticosteroids are the only class of drugs with demonstrated benefit on reducing deaths in hospitalised patients. The search for other effective modalities of treatment goes on,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Aspirin and other anti-coagulantsOn the upside, the ubiquitous painkiller and blood-thinning drug aspirin was added to the UK’s Randomised Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) trial in early November. “Clotting is a big problem [in Covid-19]. Aspirin is a widely available, cheap drug which, if it were to work, would be a huge boost,” Peter Horby, the chair of the RECOVERY trial and professor of emerging infectious diseases and global health at the University of Oxford, told joint inquiry committees from the House of Commons in the UK.“We’re [also] seeing better use of anticoagulants — heparin and others — to prevent clotting, and one would anticipate that the introduction of dexamethasone has also had an impact. That would be something that would reduce fatality rates,” said Horby. Monoclonal antibodiesThe US Food and Drug Administration this month issued an emergency use authorisation for the investigational monoclonal antibody therapy bamlanivimab for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adult and paediatric patients who are 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg who are at high risk for progressing to severe disease and/or hospitalization. Bamlanivimab is not authorized for patients who are hospitalized or need oxygen therapy as it may worsen clinical outcomes.Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight harmful antigens, such as viruses and bacteria. Bamlanivimab is directed against the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes COvid-19, and works by stopping the virus from entering human cells.The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ ACTIV-5 Big Effect Trial also began trials of the monoclonal antibodies risankizumab and lenzilumab last month to determine whether they helped hospitalized patients recover faster.Some trials fell short. In October, Eli Lilly and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals suspended their trials of monoclonal antibodies in hospitalised patients on the grounds of lack of efficacy and potential safety concerns.Monoclonal antibodies are approved for Covid-19 treatment in India. “Monoclonal antibodies have some role in early disease, but not in patients who are on oxygen or ventilator support. Since they have a limited role in mild disease, and we know a large number of patients recover on their own, they may not really benefit that much,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi at HT Leadership Summit on Thursday. “We also have to consider whether we will have enough doses to offer everyone, whether the cost can be met as they are expsnsive, and whether they will be needed once the vaccines come,” said Guleria.Anti-parasitic ivermectinStudies have shown that the affordable and widely available drug ivermectin used to treat parasitic infections has antiviral action against the Sars-CoV-2. The use of ivermectin in doses ranging from 200 to 1200 mcg/kg body weight, for a duration of three to seven days, is showing promise in symptomatic relief and viral load reduction.Two studies of ivermectin alone or in combination with doxycycline, found ivermectin-doxycycline combination therapy had a better success of symptomatic relief, shortened recovery duration, reduced adverse effects, and superior patient compliance compared to the hydroxychloroquine-azithromycin combination in mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 disease. A retrospective study of 280 patients treated with ivermectin against standard of care found fewer deaths in the ivermectin group.In India, ivermectin is part of at least five ongoing trials, according to Clinical Trials Registry India, and its benefits are under review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-vaccine-trials-end-where-do-covid-19-treatments-stand/story-tk50w83bk9yviJ4uy3dRrJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, Nature carried a report which shows that we are slowly but surely figuring out the origin of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The report is about two related findings about the virus that came, not from the field, but the freezer. There have been many significant stories about the virus over the past 11 months, so this is something.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageFirst, according to Nature, in two Shamel’s horseshoe bats captured in Cambodia in 2010, and stored in a freezer in a laboratory, scientists came across a coronavirus that seems to be related to Sars-CoV-2. Coronaviruses are family of RNA viruses (coronaviridae) that are known to cause diseases in humans, other mammals, and birds. Some of these are harmless – some common colds are caused by coronaviruses. But some, as we have discovered, can be dangerous. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), Middle East Respiratory System (Mers), and Covid-19 are all severe diseases caused by coronaviruses. Mers, for instance, killed around a third of the people it infected (866 out of 2,519), but most experts admit that this is perhaps an overestimate. Many cases of Mers may have been mild, even undetected, causing nothing more than a minor illness, or nothing at all. Nature reports that the virus found in the Cambodian lab is being sequenced.Second, the journal reports that a Japanese lab found a virus that shares 81% of its genome with Sars-CoV-2 in frozen samples of a Japanese horseshow bat captured in 2013. That isn’t much. There is a 99% similarity within a species. But travel further up the chain (to, say genus), and the divergence widens. For instance, humans and chimpanzees are from the same family (and also sub-family), Hominidae (and Homininae), and our genome is 96% similar to a chimpanzee’s. In general, scientists believe that a genomic similarity in excess of 95% can help them link two species on an evolutionary time-frame. The advantages of doing this with Sars-CoV-2 are clear – it can shed light on the provenance of the virus, even find out whether there was an intermediary in its transmission from bats to humans.Interestingly, the Nature report says that the two findings, in Cambodia and Japan, may well mean that “as yet undiscovered Sars-CoV-2 relatives could be stored in lab freezers”, quoting Aaron Irving, a researcher at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, China.The report came on a day when a third vaccine candidate, AstraZeneca/Oxford’s, published interim results showing a 90% efficacy of the vaccine when administered as a half dose followed by a full one, and a 62% efficacy when administered as two full doses. The overall efficacy was 70.4%, which would have been considered high in any other context but the current one – the study’s results are being released in the wake of results released by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna that show a 95% efficacy of their own vaccine candidates. The AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine is a vector vaccine, using a virus that causes cold in chimpanzees to transport a piece of genetic material from the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to provoke an immune reaction from the body. The vaccine requires ordinary refrigeration, which means it will be easier to transport than Pfizer’s. And a 70% success rate isn’t bad, most flu vaccines have a success rate of around 50%.The good news for India is that Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine-maker, has an agreement with AstraZeneca to make the vaccine in India (and, in fact, took a risk that the vaccine would be successful to get a head start). The company has said 50% of the vaccines it makes will be for the local market. This means that if UK regulators approve the vaccine for use, Indian regulators may follow suit. If all of this does happen, the first doses of the vaccine may be available in India before the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jLmtEikQtYu3ZRpnhJK14M.html
24-11-2020||India||Freight trains services resume in Punjab. Railways plan to run 31 passenger trains till Nov 30||The railway authorities on Monday afternoon resumed the operation of two goods trains under the Ferozepur division, nearly two months after as many as 31 farmers unions in Punjab began a rail blockade in protest against Centre’s new farm laws. Confirming the resumption of services, Ferozepur divisional railway manager Rajesh Agarwal said, “An empty freight train that was stuck in Jalandhar due to blockade by farmer unions started for Delhi. A freight train carrying gypsum from Jammu via Kathua to Lucknow was operated today. More trains will be back on tracks in the coming days.”The Ferozepur division manages railway traffic in major part of Punjab, a part of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir region.Services of 31 passenger trains, including Golden Temple mail, Amritsar-Hardwar, Jan Shatabdi, and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express Special, will be resumed in the next one week, the official said.The trains were run after the inspection of all tracks falling under the Ferozepur division, officials said.Joint teams of the Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force did a comprehensive safety audit of entire track network in the entire the Ferozepur division before the trains were resumed. “The inspection work completed on Monday noon after the train services were resumed,” Agarwal said.Ambala DRM GM Singh said one rake of coal was supplied to Nabha power plant whereas coal consignment to the state-run power utility at Lehra Mohabbat in Bathinda is awaited.“Passenger and goods train service in the division restarted. Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in New Delhi, occupancy in passenger trains is very low and several trains on Delhi-Ambala section and onwards are being cancelled. Otherwise, railways need 72-hours to bring passenger railway traffic back to a normal rate,” he said.Later in the day, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hit out at the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee after the outfit refused to lift the blockade. He said the blockade will put people to major inconvenience and may have grave consequences for the state. “When the state government and every person in Punjab have been extending their full support to the farmers, why is this union taking a stance against their own state,” he asked.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has refused to budge from its stand on clearing rail tracks for passenger trains till the farm laws issue is resolved.This would alienate the committee from people, he said cautioning it against taking such a harsh stand, which could lead them losing the support of the masses.The message that is emanating from the “adamant” stand of the committee is that the union is not really interested in breaking the stalemate on the farm laws issue, Amarinder Singh said.In any case, said the CM, blocking a one-odd track will serve no purpose even for the committee, which incidentally has chosen to stay away from the meeting convened by him on Saturday to urge the farm unions to lift their blockade.Meanwhile, farmers and industrialists in the state welcomed the resumption of train services. Gurcharan Mann, a farmer from Tungwali in Bathinda, said the absence of train services was proving costly to the farming community as the availability of fertilisers was severely hit by the prolonged agitation. “I had to spend Rs 3,000 travelling to Kota in Rajasthan by road for my beekeeping venture whereas train journey costs about Rs 250,” he said. An entrepreneur, Kapil Goyal, said the resumption of train services has brought a sigh of relief to the entire industrial sector of Punjab. “Supply chain was completely disrupted as there was no raw material and finished products could not be delivered to the market. The threat of power cuts, that could have further jolted the manufacturing plants who have yet to get out of the major drop in the demand during the pandemic outbreak,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freight-trains-services-resume-in-punjab-railways-plan-to-run-31-passenger-trains-till-nov-30/story-1kPSHhODrewraM6kFmdogI.html
24-11-2020||India||Maharashtra makes Covid-19 tests mandatory for air passengers travelling from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa||The Maharashtra government on Monday made it mandatory for people travelling to the state from the National Capital Region (NCR), Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa to produce reports showing they have tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), moving to curb a possible spike in infections after the festive season. An air traveller arriving from the places specified by the government, including the national capital of Delhi, will have to show a negative report of an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, considered gold standard for Covid-19 screening. The test has to be undertaken 72 hours before the scheduled time of landing, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. Passengers failing to provide such a report will have to undergo rapid antigen tests (reports of these tests are available quickly) at the airport of arrival. If found positive, they will have to follow existing protocols laid down for Covid-19 patients. Also Read | Start of second Covid-19 wave? States impose fresh set of curbs, curfews are backFor a train traveller, a negative RT-PCR report — the test has to be done 96 hours before the scheduled arrival — will be a valid entry pass. In the absence of any such report, a passenger will be screened at railway stations on arrival for symptoms. “The passengers with the symptoms will have to undergo rapid antigen testing and will be sent to the Covid Care Centres (CCC) if the report comes positive. The cost of the test and treatment will have to be borne by the passengers,” said the notification. This will be applicable for passengers arriving on trains crossing the four regions, which are witnessing a high caseload.There will also be mandatory screening at border check posts for people of the four places coming into Maharashtra by road. Passengers without symptoms will be allowed entry, the order said. The new travel norms will take effect from November 25, home minister Anil Deshmukh said. The order said that all domestic passengers travelling from airports in Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa shall carry RT-PCR negative test reports with them before boarding and show them to teams deputed at the airport of arrival in Maharashtra. “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is requested to check the report before allowing passengers to board flights,” the order said. In a video message, Deshmukh noted that the number of Covid-19 cases have been rising in several states after Diwali. He said the government took the decision to ensure that there is no further rise in Maharashtra. As of Monday, Maharashtra has registered a total of 17,84,361 and 46,653 deaths, the worst in the country. Over the past week (November 15-22), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3% every day, according to covid19india.org. While Delhi (534,317 total cases) is witnessing a third wave of infections, Gujarat (198,899 total cases) and Rajasthan (247,168 total cases) are two of the eight states where the Centre has sent special teams over the past two weeks to take stock of the situation. Goa (46,901 total cases), too, is reporting a rise in cases. The number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.3% every day in Delhi over the past week. The figures for Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa for the same period stand at 1.1%, 0.7% and 0.3%, respectively.With queries being raised as to how hundreds of passengers coming by trains would be checked in Mumbai, the Central and Western Railway clarified that they will not be undertaking the screening of passengers. “The state government-appointed nodal officers from civic bodies/district collectorates were undertaking screenings of passengers outside railway stations when the long route trains resumed after lockdown. The practice will continue this time too. We will provide them with data on the details of passengers and the arrival of trains in Maharashtra. Passenger address and mobile details will also be provided to them,” said a senior Central Railway official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-makes-covid-19-tests-mandatory-for-air-passengers-travelling-from-delhi-rajasthan-gujarat-and-goa/story-7bSisQz7viQKl12JFvYSIM.html
24-11-2020||India||What could be the cost of another lockdown?||Large parts of India are headed towards a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi is already in the middle of its third. With infections rising again and reports of medical infrastructure coming under stress in many places, talk of reimposition of restrictions on mobility has started doing the rounds. In fact, in some places such as Ahmedabad, authorities have already enforced restrictions and partial curfews. Over the past few weeks, images of crowded markets and large-scale violations of social distancing norms have served as precursors of a spike in infections. Even so, any decision to impose a blanket lockdown or even a partial closure of markets must take into account the importance of the retail and recreation sector in the economy and the persistence of the post-lockdown distress in the sector.Shopping has not reached pre-pandemic levels yetWhile anecdotal evidence of crowded markets has been suggesting that both sellers and buyers have given a complete go-by to pandemic-related concerns, data from Google mobility trends shows that markets, especially those dealing with non-essentials are yet to regain their pre-pandemic activity levels. Google has been providing data on community mobility for five categories: retail and recreation, grocery and pharmacy, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and homes as a percentage change from the baseline. The baseline value is the median day-value from the five-week period from January 3 to February 6, 2020. For India, only mobility related to grocery and pharmacy had entered positive territory until November 17, the latest period for which data is available. While the retail and recreation sector reached its highest post-lockdown value on Diwali eve, it was still 15% less than the baseline scenario. In fact, a comparison with the United States and Brazil, the first- and third-ranked countries in terms of the total Covid-19 cases — India is second — shows that the retail and recreation sector may have suffered the most in India. Reportage from Delhi, which saw among the most crowded markets before Diwali, confirms the devastation of the tourism sector because of the pandemic (bit.ly/39kvlsLbit.ly). Retail and recreation sector is the biggest source of non-farm employment How important is the retail and recreation sector in India? It is the most important source of livelihood outside of agriculture. Data from the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the latest period for which data is available, shows that trade, hotel and restaurants had the single largest share in employment after agriculture. Its all-India share in employment was higher than both construction and manufacturing. In cities, more than one in five jobs are generated by this sector.   Trade is among the relatively better-paying mass employment sectors outside agricultureGetting people out of agriculture into remunerative jobs is India’s biggest economic challenge. The textbook case of economic transformation from an agrarian to industrial economy has eluded India thus far. Manufacturing’s share in employment and gross domestic product (GDP) has been almost stagnant in India during the past few decades. Manufacturing’s share in employment and GDP was 10.6% and 14.5% in 1993-94, the first post-1991 year for which National Sample Survey Office’s (NSSO) employment figures are available. This increased to 12.1% and 18.1% by 2018-19, the latest period for which data is available. Construction and trade have emerged as the main source of non-farm employment in the post-1991 period in the country. The Reserve Bank of India’s KLEM (Capital with a K, Labour, Energy, Material) database captures this very well. In 2017-18, the latest period for which this data is available, these two sectors had a share of almost 40% in total non-farm employment in the country. However, unlike construction, where labour earnings have stagnated in real terms, trade has seen a rise in per-worker earnings over time. This underlines the sector’s importance in supporting mass incomes.  A new lockdown will deliver yet another blow to the retail and recreation sector, which has not even recovered from the pandemic’s impact until now. Such a disruption can create both demand and supply side disruptions in the economy. Most experts have been sceptical about the question whether the recent economic recovery reflects a sustained improvement or a pent-up/festive demand blip. A blow to the sector, which is one of the biggest sources of mass employment, will have an adverse impact on incomes and therefore demand. At a time when inflation, especially in food items, has reached alarming proportions, restrictions or closure of markets are bound to make things worse. It would be better if all options other than a lockdown are explored before unleashing the most extreme step in the government’s pandemic playbook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-lockdown-must-consider-its-costs-on-domestic-trade/story-Di5n6Jcp2VoAnnkmMbRBhJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Boost for India as Oxford vaccine candidate shot up to 90% successful||The University of Oxford and pharma major AstraZeneca on Monday said their coronavirus vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, announcing what may be the most crucial development for India to realistically begin expecting by the end of the year the first shots to prevent Covid-19 infections.Known as AZD1222, the vaccine has long been the best hope for India — it is cheaper to make, easier to store and distribute, faster to scale up than its two rivals that have shown promise till now, and its principal manufacturer is Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which has committed to reserving half of what it produces for India. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the inventors of the inoculation announced that their clinical trials showed it worked in both the doses they were testing. When people got two shots of equal strength, it was 62% effective, but when the initial dose was halved, the efficacy rose to 90%. The weighted average of the two was 70.4%. “These findings show that we have an effective vaccine that will save many lives. Excitingly, we’ve found that one of our dosing regimens may be around 90% effective and if this dosing regimen is used, more people could be vaccinated with planned vaccine supply,” said Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the Oxford Vaccine Trial.“The announcement today takes us another step closer to the time when we can use vaccines to bring an end to the devastation caused by Sars-CoV-2,” added his colleague, Sarah Gilbert, professor of Vaccinology at the University of Oxford.The difference in performance of the vaccine when initial dose was halved was not immediately explained. “I think all of us expected that the two high doses would be the best response,” said Pollard. “We think that by giving a smaller first dose, that we’re priming the immune system differently. We’re setting it up better to respond.” Gilbert said the better result with a smaller initial dose could be because this better “mimics what happens in a real infection”. One of the objectives of Phase 3 tests is to determine the right dosage.The makers of the vaccine will now approach regulators with the full data from the trial to seek an emergency use licence, which will allow for it to be given to people who need it at the earliest: health care workers at the frontlines of the pandemic and people vulnerable to serious illness. SII’s CEO said at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit last week that his company would do the same as soon as the UK permissions came through. He reiterated his position to two TV channels on Monday, and said that at this rate the vaccine should be available for emergency use by the end of the year, and to the general public by around March 2021.In early June, Oxford-AstraZeneca announced a deal with SII to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), which now makes this vaccine the only one yet that appears to be affordable as well as effective for billions of people who live in these countries. “This means we have a vaccine for the world,” Pollard added during a press conference in London. The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, which showed efficacy of about 95% each, are significantly more expensive than the Oxford vaccine and require much more stringent transportation and storage norms because they remain effective in much lower temperatures.The June deal also represented a leap of faith that now appears to have paid off for SII. Poonawalla said at the HT Leadership Summit that the company invested in retooling and stockpiling millions of doses even before it had proven effective. “I felt it was my moral responsibility to take the decision then because if I didn’t, countless lives would be lost next year,” he said, expecting the gamble to pay off, which it now appears to have. SII has produced around 40 million doses as of now and the company will be able to supply 100 million doses by January, Poonawalla said. The latest news was “certainly better than what we expected it to be”, he told two TV channels on Monday. He also reiterated cost estimates he first made during HTLS last week: The vaccine will be priced around $3-4 (Rs 250-Rs 300) per dose for the Indian government. “In the private market, it will be priced around ₹1,000 after taking into account commissions to distributors,” he told the TV channels.It is not clear whether the government will allow direct sales of vaccines since it has taken over all aspects related to procurement in India. Individual state government too are not allowed to source these, according to Union government orders. This was the third consecutive Monday this month for vaccine makers to announce that their shots had shown to work in initial findings from their trials. The first was by American drugmaker Pfizer and German partner BioNTech, who on November 9 said their shot was 94.5% effective in reducing Covid-19 infections. On November 16, another American company, Moderna, released similar results. Both of these work on a new platform and cost close to 10 times more that AZD1222. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine requires temperatures as low as -70°C to store. The Oxford vaccine, in contrast, “can be easily administered in existing health care systems, stored at fridge temperature (2-8 °C) and distributed using existing logistics,” the university said in a statement.Authorities in India said they will wait till any of the vaccine candidates are granted an approval in regions where they have applied. “As for following up on the progress made on vaccine research, the government is continuously in talks with the parties involved. However, the actual procurement process will begin the day any of these vaccines gets regulatory approvals. So far, none of these vaccines has secured emergency use authorization (EUA) so there is no question yet of vaccine procurement,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary. The subject expert committee at India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will also be looking at the basis on which approvals are granted to vaccines in other countries.Experts said that while it is important to fast-track approvals during a pandemic, it is not advisable to cut corners as far as safety data is concerned.“Regulators need to scrupulously examine data when submitted — in India as well as other countries. Safety data as well as efficacy data are both important. Science should not be stampeded but regulation can move into the fast track while following all the traffic rules,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management. Experts treating patients say 70% efficacy itself is good since most vaccines against respiratory illnesses do not have more than 50-60% effectiveness. “Seventy per cent is quite decent, but our concern should be more towards the safety of the vaccine candidate. It should be safe as efficacy for influenza vaccine is also about 50%,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-boost-for-india-as-oxford-vaccine-candidate-shot-up-to-90-successful/story-dwlnhOgTlpFkDW2pU8TMVM.html
24-11-2020||India||Start of second Covid-19 wave? States impose fresh set of curbs, curfews are back||Several states on Monday announced additional restrictions to arrest the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as a spike in cases continued in the northern and westerns states. A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people in the state to follow personal protection measures, the government on Monday announced that no person travelling from Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa will be allowed to enter the state without a negative RT-PCR test report conducted 72 to 96 hours before landing in the state.Delhi is in the midst of a third wave of Covid-19 infections, recording an average of 6,351 new cases per day over the past week. The city has also added more than 100 daily deaths for the past three days, as per the state government’s data.The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday said that all schools and colleges will remain closed till December 31, and imposed night curfews (8pm to 6am) in the four worst-affected districts -- Mandi, Kangra, Shimla and Kullu -- till December 15.The Madhya Pradesh government also extended the night curfew to six cities including Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore and Jabalpur. Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19In Gujarat, even as the weekend curfew ended in Ahmedabad, the government has imposed night curfews in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. The Rajasthan government, which had earlier announced imposition of night curfews in eight districts of the state, has now put in place prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in several districts of the state. Government and private offices in the state have been directed to function with only 75% of their strength. Additionally, the state has asked all private hospitals to provide daycare facilities to Covid-19 patients at the government prescribed rates.Over the past week, most states have reversed the relaxation given to social gatherings such as marriage and political functions. While Madhya Pradesh restricted the number of guests at a gathering to 250, in Uttar Pradesh, not more than 100 people can attend the event, and 200 in Himachal Pradesh. In Odisha, places of worship will remain closed till further orders.The country has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight. In Rajasthan, the new positive cases reported over the last four days were half of the active cases in the state. Meanwhile, one-fifth of the total Covid-19 cases in Gujarat have been reported in the past fortnight. Maharashtra, too, is witnessing an increase in daily cases. On Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 91,75,640 while the death toll reached 1,34,238.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-of-second-covid-19-wave-states-impose-fresh-set-of-curbs-curfews-are-back/story-dKtSNcuFzmfxcYz6CwcPBI.html
24-11-2020||India||Tarun Gogoi, man who led Assam from violence to peace dies at 84||Veteran Congress leader, former Union minister, and three-time Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, who rose from grassroots politics to steer the restive northeastern state towards order and development after decades of bloody insurgency, died on Monday evening in Guwahati of Covid-19 complications. He was 84. Gogoi, the seniormost Congress leader in the state was leading preparations for the next assembly elections due early next year, contracted the infection on August 25. He remained at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for two months, was discharged on October 25 after testing negative for the virus, but readmitted on November 2 after complaining of breathlessness.His condition deteriorated on November 21 after multi-organ failure, and he was put on invasive ventilation. He died at 5:34 pm, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists, adding that doctors found his heart had stopped. He is survived by his wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima, and son Gaurav, a two-time Lok Sabha MP. “His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam….his passing away marks the end of an era,” tweeted President Ram Nath Kovind. The Assam government declared a three-day state mourning for the departed leader. His body will be taken to his residence in Guwahati and to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra on Tuesday for the public to offer their respects. The last rites will be performed in Guwahati on Thursday. “Shri Tarun Gogoi ji was a popular leader and veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Congress president Sonia Gandhi described Gogoi as one of the tallest leaders of the party who was admired and respected for his extraordinary wisdom, vision and ability. “With his long years of experience as an MLA, an MP, a central minister and chief minister of Assam, he was someone to whose unfailingly wise counsel and advice we could always turn to,” she said.First as a Lok Sabha member between 1971 and 2001 and then as the state’s longest-serving chief minister between 2001 and 2016, Gogoi intimately associated with Assam’s politics for nearly half a century. A soft-spoken leader with an affable governance style, Gogoi was admired across the political divide, and tribute poured in on Monday from his erstwhile political rivals. “Tarun Gogoi was a people’s leader who had great contribution in Assam’s political and public sphere. Even though we were in Opposition parties, we shared a wonderful rapport and he was a guiding figure,” said current CM and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sarbananda Sonowal. Sarma, a protégé of Gogoi who left the Congress in 2015 over political differences, said his mentor’s absence creates a vacuum in Assam’s politics that will be difficult to fill. “I was lucky to have worked under him. He rescued Assam from a period of darkness & led it for 15 yrs ensuring a new phase of development,” said Sarma. Gogoi was born on April 1, 1936 at Rangajan Tea Estate in Jorhat district and trained as a lawyer from Gauhati University. After a few years as an advocate, he took a plunge into politics in 1968 when he was elected as member of Jorhat municipal board. Three years later, he got elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time from Jorhat. Gogoi was re-elected to Lok Sabha for two more terms from Jorhat, in 1977 and 1983. Between 1983 and 1990, he held several senior posts in Congress including the party’s general secretary as well as Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president. Gogoi got elected to the Lok Sabha for the fourth time in 1991 from Kaliabor, a constituency he represented two more times in 1998 and 1999 respectively. Gogoi’s son Gaurav now represents Congress from Kaliabor. The veteran politician was also a Union minister between 1991 and 1995 handling the portfolio of food processing ministry in the PV Narasimha Rao Cabinet. After a long stint in Delhi, Gogoi returned to politics in Assam at the turn of the millennium and led the Congress government for three consecutive terms between 2001 and 2016. He was representing Titabar assembly seat at the time of his death. When he took charge in 2001, Assam was emerging from decades of insurgency and economic uncertainty with its infrastructure in a shambles and deep sectarian divides threatening development. Gogoi is credited with tamping down on local agitations, boosting tax revenues and soothing tensions through his middle-of-the-road consensus-building style. Gogoi developed a reputation as an approachable and pragmatic leader who opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and claimed the National Register of Ciitzens – which left out 1.9 million people from its rolls in 2019 – was his brainchild, though he picked holes in its implementation. In his second term, the government battled scams but was also buoyed by several insurgent groups deciding to negotiate a peaceful settlement. Building roads and creating employment opportunities for young people were two key schemes that helped shore up support for the Congress. An avid reader, Gogoi was fond of gardening and watching sport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarun-gogoi-man-who-led-assam-from-violence-to-peace-dies-at-84/story-JgfPPCu4TqWfFOnvOjSbxL.html
24-11-2020||India||Database of frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine on priority soon in Tamil Nadu||With the need for a Covid-19 vaccine gaining new urgency, public health experts in Tamil Nadu want to be ready and begin vaccination as soon as it is available. The state is creating a database of its frontline healthcare workers and has formed two committees to prepare for the distribution of a vaccine once it is rolled out. Two of the four vaccine candidates in India are being tested in Tamil Nadu. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to have a virtual meeting with chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami among other state leaders on Tuesday to discuss a distribution strategy for the vaccine. The process of enlisting medical institutions-- 2,800 government ones and 35,000 private ones -- which includes hospitals and medical colleges, began in September. The directorate of public health (DPH) gave the institutions a template to identify the healthcare workers who could be doctors, nurses, lab technicians and paramedics. The institutions are in the process of preparing the line list which will be collated at the district-level and sent to DPH’s head office in Chennai. “Once a common portal by the Government of India is ready, we will upload our database,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of DPH and the principal investigator for vaccine trials in Tamil Nadu. DPH will also issue an identity number for every individual who would get the vaccine on priority to protect against the novel coronavirus.Three committees were formed a couple of days ago to plan for distribution of vaccine on priority basis and oversee logistical requirements including supply chain. One is the state health task force led by health secretary J Radhakrishnan to oversee daily functions, a state steering committee headed by chief secretary K Shanmugam and a district task force headed by the district magistrate. A government order to form these committees was issued on November 11 and they were subsequently formed.Human clinical trials for Covishield and Covaxin vaccinations are being conducted in the state. The second phase of Covishield is nearing completion. It is developed by Oxford University/Astra Zeneca and is being produced in a Pune laboratory. “So far there have been no adverse reactions or events in candidates in the first and second doses that were given,” said Selvavinayagam. Trials for the indigenous Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, are set to begin soon in Tamil Nadu. In October, chief minister Palaniswami announced that the state would provide free vaccinations for all. Palaniswami is the chief minister candidate for AIADMK in the assembly polls slated for early 2021. AIADMK’s ally, the BJP had promised free vaccinations in their 2020 assembly election manifesto for Bihar. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance retained power in the eastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/database-of-frontline-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-on-priority-soon-in-tamil-nadu/story-1ol2QxndHVFQ1TKcWyBwjM.html
24-11-2020||India||200-metre tunnel used by Jaish terrorists to sneak into India nails Pak role||The Border Security Force (BSF) found clinching evidence that the four Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists killed in the November 19 Nagrota encounter had indeed travelled to Jammu and Kashmir from Pakistan with the discovery of a 200-metre-long and almost 8-metre-deep professionally engineered underground tunnel on the international border early on Sunday.The location of the tunnel, with a diameter of 12-14 inches at the Indian end, was nearly 160 metres long from the international border and estimated to be around 40 metres long on the Pakistani side. The tunnel, according to top security officials, had been newly dug and appeared to have been used for the first time by the four Jaish suicide attackers. “ It appears that proper engineering effort has gone into construction of the tunnel and the hand of the establishment is quite evident,” a senior counter-terrorism official said on condition of anonymity.Watch l BSF officer enters tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, nails Pakistan roleWith the help of a Taiwan-made, hand-held eTrex 20X Garmin global positioning system (GPS) device carried by the terrorists, Indian security agencies and the BSF were able to track the exact route the jihadists followed after entering India through the tunnel and boarding a truck 12 kilometres away from the border. Data was recovered from the GPS device despite the terrorists trying their best to destroy it before getting killed by security forces.Also Read | Pak attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, were commando trained who walked 30 km into India in moonless nightWhile the location of the tunnel exit in India is at latitude 32. 45648 N and longitude 75.121815 E, the entry point in Pakistan is near three Ranger outposts called Chak Bura, Rajab Sahid and Asif Sahid. The tunnel was detected by a team of seven BSF personnel led by Deepak Rana of 48 batallion who conducted search between 5.40 am and 7.50 am on Sunday morning. The underground tunnel was difficult to locate as its mouth had been carefully concealed and meticulously covered with soil and wild growth with Pakistani Engro Urea Fertilizer sand bags used to strengthen and reinforce the infiltration route for the Jaish terrorists.Data collected from the GPS indicates that the terrorists entered India just next to the 189 boundary pillar and close to BSF border outpost Regal, which is located near pillar 193. The first way-point on the GPS is nearly a kilometre from the border. The terrorists then walked approximately 12 kilometres to national highway number 44 after bypassing an Army camp and a railway track, and boarded the truck around midnight on November 19. Also Read | India summons Pak high commission official over Nagrota encounter, conveys strong concernSecurity agencies have been able to plot the exact route with all the way-points to Jatwal village next to the highway. The truck then took them towards Nagrota where the four were gunned down in an intelligence-led operation. Repeated attempts to capture one of the terrorists came to naught as the Jaish killers had been commando-trained.While intelligence agencies are now trying to decipher the recovered mobiles from the terrorists, security agencies have now foolproof evidence to nail Pakistan and the handlers of the Jaish attackers. India will also lodge a strong protest with Pakistani Rangers, who allowed the infiltration under their watch.Although the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is expected to give relief to Pakistan by removing it from the Grey List in February 2021, the evidence collected by India clearly shows that Islamabad continues to sponsor terror against India with its deep state harbouring proscribed groups such as the JeM, whose entire leadership is based in Bahawalpur.According to officials familiar with the development, the Narendra Modi government plans to prepare a full dossier on the foiled attack and send it to all friendly countries and financial institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-metre-tunnel-used-by-jaish-terrorists-to-sneak-into-india-nails-pak-role/story-zWeG1ILYayK6An9oP8YJNN.html
