25-11-2020||India||BJP’s victory run will stop in Bengal, says CM Mamata; promises more time for party||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) victory run will end in West Bengal next year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at a rally in Bankura district on Wednesday and accused the Communist Party of India (Marxist) of helping the saffron camp. “The BJP will suffer a blow in national politics in 2021,” she said. “The BJP is a curse for the country. It has to be stopped. It did not win the Bihar assembly elections. It defeated others through manipulation,” said Banerjee. She announced that she was starting her assembly poll campaign from Bankura because the BJP won both the Lok Sabha seats in the district in 2019. Incidentally, while on a tour of Bankura on November 5, Union home minister Amit Shah had set the tone for the Bengal elections by asking BJP leaders to win more than 200 of the 294 seats. “I will take complete responsibility from now on. I was too involved in administrative duties and could not give so much time (to the party). That’s why I am starting with Bankura,” Banerjee said on Wednesday. She once again alleged that the lunch Shah and other BJP leaders had at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a member of the tribal community at Chaturdihi village in Bankura, was cooked by a Brahmin brought from outside. The assembly polls in Bengal are due in about five months. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. “I promise you (BJP) will not win a single assembly seat in Bankura next year,” said the chief minister at the rally held at Sanukpahari. “Some people think that if by chance you come to power they may make a fortune. Let me clarify that you stand no chance in the Bengal polls,” she added. “You are using Central probe agencies to scare some TMC leaders. I dare you to arrest me and put me in jail. I will ensure Bengal’s victory even from inside a jail,” said Banerjee. In her 45-minute speech, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief sent out a strong message to her own party leaders and workers and asked youth and student front leaders to work hard for the next six months and keep an eye on suspicious activities such as secret meetings at odd hours. “People are being lured with money and provoked to switch camps. I am keeping track of everything. I know who is contacting whom. Bengal does not surrender to the lure of money… Money was given to a lot of people before the Lok Sabha polls. We were not aware of that. But now we are on the alert and each and every person accepting money will be caught,” said Banerjee who was on a three-day tour of Bankura district. Banerjee sent a strong message to rebel leaders in the TMC without dropping names. “A lot of people are curious to know who will be the party’s election observers in Bankura, Midnapore, Jalpaiguri or other districts. Let me tell you I am the observer everywhere as a party worker, not as leader.” “CPI (M) leaders are greedy. BJP leaders are exploiters. TMC should be identified for its sacrifice,” she said. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh held a rally at Suri town in adjoining Birbhum district around the same time. “The TMC cannot win the polls through manipulation and intimidation. Central forces will be deployed near polling booths and local policemen will be posted far away. The nation cannot be safe as long as the BJP does not win Bengal because the TMC is turning it into a haven for terror outfits,” Ghosh said at the rally. Birbhum has a Muslim population of 37.06 % according to the 2011 census. Ghosh addressed the minority community in his speech. “Muslims have suffered the most in non-BJP-ruled states, including West Bengal. They will be safe once the BJP is in power. Nobody will touch the minority community members,” he said. Incidentally, while addressing a tea session at Suri town in the morning, Ghosh alleged that Bengal has witnessed more terror activities than Kashmir. “Ghosh should leave Bengal as he has no idea about this state,” said TMC MP and party spokesperson Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-victory-run-will-stop-in-bengal-says-cm-mamata-promises-more-time-for-party/story-H6Wcmm57dVjhiDDEQ1IshM.html
25-11-2020||India||1 of conjoined twins separated in India’s first craniopagus surgery dies||Kalia, the 5-year-old tribal boy from Odisha’s Kandhamal district who was separated from his conjoined twin Jaga in a series of operations in August-October 2017 in India’s first Craniopagus surgery passed away at a government hospital in Cuttack on Wednesday evening.Kalia, fused at the head with his twin Jaga since birth in 2015, was separated from his sibling by a team of doctors at AIIMS New Delhi in India’s first Craniopagus surgery in the course of 45 hours of surgery conducted over two months. The twins, who were then 27-months-old, were first operated on August 28, 2017 by a team of 20 specialists and their heads were finally separated in another operation in October. While there was considerable improvement in the health condition of Jaga, Kalia’s recovery was comparatively slower as doctors said it would take him six more months to recover fully.After the post-operative rehabilitation and care in AIIMS New Delhi for almost 2 years, the twins returned to Odisha in September last year, but did not go back to their home in Kandhamal and remained at SCB Medical College under the supervision of a team of doctors. The parents of the kids were, however, apprehensive of lack of proper care in Odisha, but were convinced by the AIIMS doctors that there would be no issues. Their treatment was being done under a protocol developed by AIIMS Delhi.SCB doctors said Kalia had no issues till his condition deteriorated last week. “Five days ago, Kalia’s condition suddenly turned critical. Today, he developed septicemia and passed away,” said Dr Bhubanananda Maharana, emergency officer of the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack.The conjoined twins born to auto rickshaw driver Bhuyan Kanhar and his wife Pushpanjali Kanhar in Milipada in Kandhamal district came to notice in July 2017 after the parents with the help of an NGO tried to seek treatment. The news caught the attention of the media and the Odisha government took full responsibility of the treatment and sanctioned Rs 1 crore. After due consultation, the twins were sent to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Craniopagus twins happen once in 3 million births, and 50% of those affected die within 24 hours. Half of such kids die either at birth or within 24 hours. They shared blood vessels and brain tissues, a very rare condition. In India, no twins fused at the head had been separated till Jaga and Kalia were separated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-of-conjoined-twins-separated-in-india-s-first-craniopagus-surgery-dies/story-rcaQjPBJgsbNUjYPmNuF2M.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Once bitten twice shy, Chennai residents park cars on flyover||As the very severe cyclonic storm Nivar inched closer to the coast, residents of one of the worst hit areas during the 2015 deluge here found a flyover the safer place to park their cars to avert their vehicles from getting submerged.Determined to avoid a repeat of the 2015 scenario when scores of four-wheelers were filled with flood waters, several residents of Madipakkam in the southern part of the city left their vehicles on the margins of the bridge overlooking the Mass Rapid Transit System railway station in nearby Velacherry.With the owners one after the other parking their vehicles, the bridge was lined up with swanky cars on both sides of the overpass presenting a never before seen spectacle, civic workers said.Also Read | Cyclone Nivar’s landfall begins, rains pound Tamil Nadu coast In 2015, several cars parked in the city localities like Madipakkam and Kotturpuram were either partially or wholly submerged which depreciated their value to a great extent besides affecting the performance of such vehicles.The Greater Chennai Corporation, meanwhile said nil water stagnation has been ensured in all the 22 subways in the city and water logging in low lying areas being drained swiftly by using heavy duty motors and in about 52 locations, uprooted trees were removed quickly.Over 1,200 people living in low lying areas in addition to the homeless have all been accommodated in safe shelters, the GCC said.The city and suburbs were lashed by heavy intermittent rains through the day.The severe cyclonic storm Nivar over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west northwards, intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm, lay about 160 km off Chennai and likely to cross the coast before dawn on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-once-bitten-twice-shy-chennai-residents-park-cars-on-flyover/story-1cf8REPEcEyM4fO7ZMPb6K.html
25-11-2020||India||Farmers at border for ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, Haryana determined to stop them: 10 points||The farmers in Haryana, protesting against the three farm laws recently passed by Parliament, are marching towards Delhi. Their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march is scheduled for Thursday.Thousands of farmers have assembled with their tractor-trailers near the Haryana borders in Punjab. Farmer bodies said they will hold a dharna (sit-in protest) wherever stopped from moving towards the national capital.Here are the latest developments on the build-up for ‘Delhi Chalo’ march:• The BJP government in Haryana has said it will seal its borders with Congress-run Punjab for the next two days, stopping farmers on their march to Delhi. The Haryana authorities also imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of protesters.• Haryana police used water cannons at least twice - in Ambala and Kurukshetra - on Wednesday to disperse protesting farmers and stop them from going to Delhi. The Haryana government also suspended its bus service to Punjab for November 26 and 27, state transport minister Mool Chand Sharma told news agency PTI. The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) too suspended its bus services to Haryana for the next two days.• Vehicular traffic was severely disrupted at a few places for several hours on Wednesday because of the clashes between farmers and the policemen. A few Army vehicles also remained stranded in Kurukshetra district for some time due to the agitation, officials said.• Braving the cold and rainy weather, thousands of farmers assembled on Wednesday along with their tractor trolleys on the Punjab side of the inter-state border. The farmers have stopped their cavalcade near Samana Bahu village of Karnal district for a night halt; they will proceed for Delhi on Thursday morning. • These farmers, carrying ration for six months, left for the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest from Ludhiana under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Wednesday.• In a video message on Wednesday, BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni urged the farmers of Haryana to join the protest and ensure a huge gathering in Delhi. He also asked the farmers to break the barricades if the police try to stop them.• Various outfits which have supported the march said that more than 1 lakh farmers will march to Delhi. They have been protesting for the past two months. “Now we will march to Delhi to demand change in the new farm laws. We will block national highways connected with Punjab,” said Harmeet Singh Kadian, farmer leader of BKU.• BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Wednesday that around 25,000 women will participate in the protest march and over 4,000 tractor-trailers have been arranged for it. “We are ready for the battle, which may last long,” said Kokrikalan.• The Centre had on Tuesday invited over 30 farmer organisations from Punjab for the second round of ministerial talks on December 3 to resolve differences over the new agriculture laws. • Parliament had passed the three agriculture bills - the Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - in September. Several Opposition parties have termed these legislations as anti-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-at-border-for-delhi-chalo-march-haryana-determined-to-stop-them-10-points/story-1YSWszQQzeJ6oBW9j9U0IJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Assam bracing up for final journey of beloved former CM Tarun Gogoi||The Assam government is making preparations for around 1,000 people to attend the last rites of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi, to be performed with full state honours at the Nabagraha cremation ground here on Thursday, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Sarma told reporters all arrangements will be ready by late tonight and the three-time former chief minister will be given a befitting farewell by the people of the state.“I have directed the authorities to prepare the venue in a manner fit for the occasion,” the minister said.Gogoi died on Monday after a four-month battle with Covid-19 and related complications.The cremation ground is being spruced up with a fresh coat of paint and workers of the Guwahati Municipal Corporation are also at the venue.Gogoi’s final journey will begin from Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, where his mortal remains have been kept for people to pay their last respects, at 9 am on Thursday.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, his cabinet colleagues, family members of Gogoi, leaders of opposition parties, senior officials and Congress party workers would be present on the occasion.Traffic would be restricted in the area for a few hours till his body reaches the venue around 11 am.Regarding the choice of the venue, Sarma said it was “decided by the family and conveyed to us by the state Congress leadership. We respect their decision and will make all arrangements according to their wishes”.He said the state’s first chief minister (then termed as premier) Lokopriyo Gopinath Bordoloi was also cremated at Nabagraha and “it is befitting that Gogoi with his immense contribution to the state is also cremated at the same venue”.On building a memorial for the former chief minister, the minister said, “these are very sensitive issues which only the family can decide... the government will not like to interfere”.“The state government is, however, committed to ensure that Gogoi’s legacy lives on and will extend all cooperation to the family,” he added.Meanwhile, officials said the mortal remains of Gogoi will be taken to a church, namghar (Vaishnav prayer hall), mosque, temple and a Bihu field in a procession, likely to be attended by around thousands, before cremation on Thursday.Congress Assam unit president Ripun Bora said the party is expecting over 10,000 people from across the state to join the last journey of Gogoi from Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra.“The administration has arranged for 1,000 seats inside the pandal in the crematorium complex. However, other people can watch the proceedings on giant LED screens installed outside,” the Rajya Sabha MP told reporters here.Congress Spokesperson Rhituporna Konwar, who for years has been handling the media for Gogoi, said the mortal remains will be taken to his official residence at Dispur for completing rituals before the last rites. “After that, it will be taken in a procession to different places like church, namghar, mosque and temple. It will also travel to the Latasil playground, where the oldest Bihu function of Guwahati takes place,” he said.Konwar said prayers will be organised in all the religious places where Gogoi’s body will be taken to.As per his family’s wish, the mortal remains were kept at the historic Kalakshetra complex in Guwahati since Tuesday evening for the public to offer tributes and catch a final glimpse of the former chief minister.Giving the detailed travel plan, Guwahati Police Deputy Commissioner (Traffic) Pranjit Bora said the funeral convoy is scheduled to leave Kalakshetra complex at 9 am on Thursday for his official residence.“From there, it will go to his personal house at Beltola and then to a church in Rukminigaon. Then, it will move along the Guwahati-Shillong Road and reach the namghar at Sundarpur on Zoo Road, followed by Burha Jame Masjid at Ambari,” he told a press conference.The Sukleswar and Ugratara temples will be the last halt points before reaching Nabagraha, Bora said.The DCP said there will be traffic restrictions at several places in the city and the public should be prepared for heavy congestion on GS Road, Zoo Road, MG Road and GNB Road along with several smaller lanes and bye-lanes till Thursday evening.“We have been told that there will be a puja in Ahom rituals, followed by Hindu tradition before the pyre is lit,” an office bearer of the Nabagraha crematorium committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bracing-up-for-final-journey-of-beloved-former-cm-tarun-gogoi/story-5NZtBMydKL6D8jCucH25jJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Meet 25-year-old Syed Areej Safvi, first Ladishah girl from Kashmir||For hundreds of years, Kashmir’s Ladishah, a form of folk genre, was dominated by men till modernity and militancy in the valley triggered its decline. Now a woman has emerged on the scene and caught the imagination of youth.Syed Areej Safvi, 25, has apparently become the first woman in Kashmir to write and perform Ladishah – a form of satire in verse, making commentaries on social and political conditions in the society. It is a type of folk ballad with humour forming an essential part of its presentation.Areej was introduced to this cultural form when she saw Ladishah being broadcast every Sunday on an Urdu TV news channel. It was penned by Kashmiri journalist Rajesh Raina and performed by Rajendra Tikoo. Apart from her love for Kashmir culture and language, the immediate trigger to write and perform Ladishah herself was brought after the constitutional changes which nullified the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year.“I always wanted to do something for Kashmir and its culture and language. I love listening to Ladishah personally. Mostly I would follow Rajendra Tikoo ji performing Ladishah every Sunday. And I wrote my first Ladishah in December 2019 on PSA (Public Safety Act) being used against Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti,” Areej said.“Ladishah has social messaging. It is an alternative opinion about issues in the society and I am very passionate about this and want to do more on public speaking and social activism,” she said.Ladishah is traditionally performed on stage, in street plays wearing traditional dress like a turban and playing an instrument with hands – a small thin iron rod with iron rings which would make a ringing sound. The person would sing critical commentaries using a comical tone and tenor to bring home the point while taking on the establishment or the people. Areej has adopted the content along with the tone and tenor but does not use the instrument so far. While the traditional Ladishah used the platforms of open stage, theatre and then TV and radio, Areej uploaded her videos on her YouTube channel, occasionally wearing a traditional Karakuli cap over her headgear. The videos are becoming popular among the youth.“After I uploaded the videos, I realised that I am the first female to do this. Iwas expecting a huge backlash but on the contrary I got huge support. There have been hate messages, people who try to pull me down but usually I ignore them,” she said.Areej, a resident of Old City’s Alamgari Bazar, graduated in humanities and is pursuing post graduation in psychology. From the very beginning she says that she has been interested in writing, particularly Urdu language and poetry. She has been commenting on issues and writing Gazals before dwelling into the genre of Ladishah.Her themes are not only social but even political, criticising not only society but even the establishment. She has performed Ladishah on arrest of journalists, 4G internet ban, VPN, women’s issues, extravagance in marriages, among others. The only child of her parents, she said that her father and mother have been supportive but there are people in the extended joint family who are not comfortable with her choice.“It needs huge courage and patience to do anything in our society. I love this so nothing can stop me. There are people who are not okay with what I am doing but I am trying to convince them about my choice,” she said.She said that she was getting messages from youngsters particularly women. “There are people who now say that if she can do this we can also pursue our choices. There have been women who texted me and said: ‘Thank you very much, now our parents also think that we can do whatever we like’,” she said.ZareefAhmad Zareef, a 77-year-old satirical poet of Kashmir who retired as cultural officer of J&K government, said that he had only witnessed men performing Ladishah.“I had not seen any woman in Ladishah till now. It is a forward movement. Ladishah has been a traditional character of Kashmir culture and if Areej really wants to turn her interest into an art, if a new chapter of this art form has to begin, she has to wholeheartedly adopt this, including its instrument,” he said.Those associated with writing Ladishah say that it had gone into oblivion due to the situation in Kashmir valley. Zareef, who has been writing Ladishah for Doordarshan and theatre before the militancy erupted in the valley in 1989, said that the art form has been in decline.“Before militancy, we used to have drama as well as Ladishah regularly at Tagore Halland also at drama clubs in old city,” he said.He said that Ladishah has been part of Band Pather – folk theatre of Kashmir performed in open spaces even during the time when Kashmir was ruled by Maharajas. “Band Pather with its live performance and special costumes used to be a form of entertainment for the kings and commons from old times. And when there was a need for a break during the performance, a Ladishah would come out to present its solo performance,” he said.He said that Ladishahs were critical but full of humour. “If people wanted to convey their problems to the king, Ladishah would present it humorously so that it makes him aware of the issue but does not annoy him at the same time,” he said.He said that Ladishahs would go from village to village and visit the city to perform.“In villages, he would be given rice while in cities he would get some bucks for his performance,” he said.Some cultural experts say that Ladishah was hundreds of years old and was impromptu.Dr Rafiq Masoodi, former secretary cultural academy and former additional director general Doordarshan, said that Ladishah is the purest form of Kashmiri folklore.“As per experts like MY Taing, Ladishah is over 1500 years old. It is all unscripted like Wanwun (Kashmiri women singing rhythmically on special occasions like Eid),” he said.He said that it was part of Bhand Pather but later progressed as it developed its own costume.“Ladishah would visit from door to door and compose his creation on the spot depending on the surroundings and then collect offerings. That has been the beauty of Ladishah,” he said. However, he believes that it should not be modified to make it modern. “Acting should not be mixed in it. Things get lost after mixing,” he said. “I saw Areej performing and gave her my blessings. I also gave her some suggestions which she accepted,” he said.Some feel that the reach of new technology is helping these types of traditional practices to reach youth.RajeshRaina, 49, a senior journalist who has been writing Ladishah weekly for a newschannel for the past eight years, said that this art form was dying, particularly after the introduction of TV, radio and cinema.“Ladishah is close to my heart from the beginning but broadcast media like TV and radio gave it a blow. Now there was some interest among the new generation with the percolation of digital media,” he said.He said that his interest in Ladishah was triggered by his fascination for this form since childhood. “I used to watch Ladishah on stage in Akingam which was my maternal home. From childhood it was in my mind and when I joined a TV channel as an editor I decided to introduce it. I have been writing Ladishah for the past 8-9 years mostly on current issues but unfortunately we are not able to incorporate much humour as every other day sad things happen in Kashmir,” he said.He said that Areej performing Ladishah was an encouraging sign.“Ladishah was a male dominated genre but now a girl from Kashmir is coming forward which is a big thing. People are also appreciating that girls are now coming forward to even adopt Ladishah. We should encourage her,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-25-year-old-syed-areej-safvi-first-ladishah-girl-from-kashmir/story-56D9ImzAaz7o278IViK8BP.html
25-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 482 new Covid-19 cases, 12 more patients die||Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported 482 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 72,642. Twelve more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1185. Out of 72,642 who have tested positive so far, a total of 66,147 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state to 91.06%. The positivity rate in Uttarakhand now stands at 5.68%. On Wednesday, 444 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum of 140 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Wednesday, a maximum of 157 cases were reported from Dehradun district. With five positive cases, Bageshwar district reported the least number of cases on Wednesday. Dehradun district has so far reported a maximum of 20,583 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (11,914), US Nagar (10,182) and Nainital (8,372). The state health department has so far tested 12.77 lakh people of which results of over 16,900 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-482-new-covid-19-cases-12-more-patients-die/story-tjl245USGnixKuaGCp6YUO.html
25-11-2020||India||Trade unions to go on nationwide strike on Thursday||Central trade unions will go on a nationwide strike on Thursday and expects participation of over 25 crore workers to protest against various policies of the central government. In a statement on Wednesday, a joint platform of ten central unions said tremendous preparations have been done as more than 25 crore workers are expected to participate in the strike across the country. Various independent federations and associations are also part of the joint platform. The ten central unions include Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC) and Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA). Others are All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). The BJP-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will not participate in the strike. “The platform of Central Trade Union organisations namely INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC and independent sectoral federations and associations are organising nationwide strike on 26th November 2020,” the statement said. The united front of farmer organisations -- AIKSCC -- has also extended its support to the general strike and would be mobilising their members in rural areas to express solidarity with the striking workers. The strike is to protest against the new farm and labour laws, among others, as well as to raise various demands. Scheme workers, domestic workers, construction workers, beedi workers, hawkers, vendors, agricultural workers, self-employed in rural and urban areas have also decided to come on to the streets for ‘chakka jam’. In many states, auto and taxi drivers have also decided to keep off the roads. The federations of railway and defence employees have decided to have large mobilisation on the day to express their solidarity with the strike and the demands of the unions. “As part of the activities, our Delhi units are organising industrial strikes in the industrial areas of Delhi and also making humble gathering at Jantar Mantar near crossing of Parliament Street and Tolstoy Marg (at) 12 noon,” the statement said. National leaders of central trade unions would be present and would also address the gathering. The demands of the joint platform include cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month tor all non-income tax paying families and 10 kilograms free ration per person per month to all needy people. The unions have also demanded expansion of MGNREGA, the rural employment guarantee scheme, to provide 200 days’ work in a year in rural areas at enhanced wages and also extension of the employment guarantee to urban areas. They have also asked the government to withdraw all “anti-farmer laws and anti-worker labour codes and stop privatisation of public sector, including the financial sector and stop corporatisation of government-run manufacturing and service entities like railways, ordinance factories, ports etc”. Among other demands, the unions have sought withdrawal of the “draconian circular on forced premature retirement of government and PSU employees”. Other demands of the unions include ‘pension to all’, scrapping NPS (National Pension System) and restoration of earlier pension with improvement in EPS-95 (Employees’ Pension Scheme-1995 run by retirement fund body EPFO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-to-go-on-nationwide-strike-on-thursday/story-ra1cS9mNx7MNoycI9QbhVO.html
25-11-2020||India||Citing delays, Maharashtra exempts airlines’ crew from mandatory Covid test||The Maharashtra government has granted special exemption to cabin and cockpit crew of all airlines at all airports in the state from undergoing the mandatory reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.The decision comes after national carrier Air India had written to the state government to exempt them from the tests as they operate daily passenger and cargo flights to and from the state.Air India spokesperson confirmed that the airline had requested Maharashtra government to exempt their crew members from RT-PCR tests. The notice issued to all the municipal collectors by the state government on Wednesday read, “The state government has received requests from Air India stating that it is operating Vande Bharat flights and various cargo flights in and out of Maharashtra on a daily basis. The national carrier is currently operating around 42 daily flights to and from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). The state government observed that the Covid RT-PCR test, that has been made compulsory for all persons arriving at the airports, leads to delay in scheduling of flights. The government hence decided to exempt all the crew from this test.“All on duty cockpit and cabin crew of all the airlines carrying valid identity cards be exempted from RT-PCR test at all airports in Maharashtra subject to following of all necessary Covid related protocols by the respective airlines in the said regard.”Passengers arriving in Mumbai and other cities in the state however were seen to be confused on the new state norms on RT-PCR tests. Twitter was flooded with passengers’ doubts directed at Mumbai airport officials and also to the airlines. While some enquired if the test could be done on arrival at Mumbai, others asked if passengers booked on connecting flights from Mumbai also needed to undergo the Covid test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citing-delays-maharashtra-exempts-airlines-crew-from-mandatory-covid-test/story-3NrWL3PI98dmxdxMIjBkFL.html
25-11-2020||India||Pandemic has redefined storytelling: Manoj Joshi||Actor Manoj Joshi says with the pandemic-enforced new normal, cinema too is redefining itself. “The thought process of writers and view-point of the audience both has changed. In coronakaal, I feel the focus will be more on rustic and real stories. Superstars ruling the roost, this won’t happen anymore!”Best known for his role of Chanakya in serial ‘…Ashoka’ and a string of films, Joshi is currently shooting for ‘Dehati Disco’ in Lucknow.“Realistic cinema, that we saw in the 80s and 90s, is back. ‘Aajkal mitti ki kahani banne lagi hai’ and substance-oriented stories are being made. With character-driven cinema being made, actors like us have started getting good roles. From better it has become best for us,” said the ‘Ready’ actor.Talking about his new project he said, “This film (with Ganesh Acharya) is also a rooted story where we are showing that we have so much in our culture that we don’t need to get carried away with Western influences. In UP alone, we have Bundelkhand, Purvanchal, Western UP or Awadh and there is so much to be told.”Joshi has been acting for the last 30 years, though his first commercial film was ‘Sarfrosh’ in 1997. “Today nepotism and groupism is a hot topic but it always existed in the film industry and everywhere. But I did not care about it and kept working as ‘kaam se hi kaam milta hai!’ God is kind enough that I am working in all media in three languages.”Talking about his UP connection, he said, “I have shot a film with Raghuvir Yadav, ‘Kashi In Search of Ganga’ and ‘Ram Ki Janmbhoomi’. My play ‘Chanakya’ has been staged in not just in most major cities of UP but in villages too.“From achar (pickle) to ‘itr’ or my favourite Chikankari clothes, I always pick something or the other from Lucknow. Though I am a vegetarian yet I relish a lot of delicacies at this place which is a delight for non-vegetarians,” he said.Joshi was also invited to the chief minister’s office for suggestions related to the upcoming film city in Noida. “I was here with my friend and producer Nitin Desai and gave my input to the government,” he said, expressing a desire to work in a film on Pt Deendayal Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pandemic-has-redefined-storytelling-manoj-joshi/story-Tjxdk0VFq36aEYCLh8Ch3K.html
25-11-2020||India||LU days helped Jalota musically!||‘Bhajan Samraat’ and Padma Shri recipient Anup Jalota says learning of Hindi literature from Lucknow University helped him a lot in his career. “I got knowledge about writers and poets from LU which came in useful since I sing bhajan. My understanding of the language and ‘bhaav’ (expression) has helped me in my musical presentations,” said the singer. He performed on the campus from where he passed out in 1973 and dedicated composition ‘Sabse sunder vishwavidyalay’ during the centennial celebrations. During his LU days, his subjects were political science, sociology, Hindi literature and English. “Talk about LU and its faculty and the beautiful-sprawling campus comes to mind. Another highlight was IT College in close vicinity which was a big attraction for boys. I was a brilliant student but I did not have any interest in studies,” he says with a hearty laugh. The singer recalled an anecdote, “English mujhe zyada samajh nahi aati thi so I just attended only one class. Theatre legend Raj Bisaria saheb was our professor. He knew that I used to sing but bunk classes, so when he saw me in class he said, ‘Aapne takleef kyon ki…jaiye kahi gana-wana gaiye.’ And, I walked out!” His hobbies were music and drama. “In the same period, I was leaning classical music at Bhatkhande Music Institute and was doing small stage performances as well. Then I used to sing film songs ‘Musafir hoon yaron’ and ‘Main shayar to nahi’ on stage. I was participating in all inter-university cultural functions and used to win so people used to love me a lot. I used to compose as well.” Acting too was his hobby. “I used to do lot of drama and that is why I like acting too and people recently saw me recently in OTT series ‘Pataal Lok’ and audience will see me lot more on screen.” At the age of 16, he gave audition at All India Radio in Lucknow but failed. “Then I gave audition in Allahabad and today I have been awarded special top grade by AIR,” he recalls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lu-days-helped-jalota-musically/story-4A0SGTQoePAfi1fnGZ7jxH.html
25-11-2020||India||India, Bahrain to strengthen Covid-related cooperation||India and Bahrain said on Wednesday they will strengthen their Covid-19-related cooperation and enhance their ties in key areas such as defence, maritime security, space technology and trade and investment. These matters figured in visiting external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s meetings with Bahrain’s top leadership. The minister is currently on a three-nation trip to the extended neighbourhood that will also take him to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Seychelles. “Both sides affirmed to further strengthen their Covid-related cooperation. They also expressed satisfaction on operationalisation of [an] air bubble arrangement between the two countries,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry. Jaishankar and his Bahrain counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani discussed bilateral, regional and global issues, including cooperation in dealing with post-Covid-19 challenges. “They agreed to further strengthen the historic India-Bahrain ties, including in areas of defence and maritime security, space technology, trade and investment, infrastructure, IT, fintech, health, hydrocarbon and renewable energy,” the statement said. Jaishankar thanked the leadership of Bahrain for hosting more than 300,000 Indians and “taking exceptional care of the community during the Covid-19 pandemic”. Bahrain’s leadership appreciated the Indian community’s contribution to development and the aid provided by India during the pandemic, including medicines, medical equipment and medical professionals. Besides the foreign minister, Jaishankar met Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa and deputy prime minister Shaikh Ali bin Khalifa Al Khalifa. He conveyed the Indian government’s condolences on the death of Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, the former prime minister, and recalled his contributions in strengthening bilateral relations and for the welfare of the Indian community in Bahrain. Jaishankar also interacted with leaders of the Indian community in virtual mode. He visited the 200-year-old Shreenathji temple in Manama. The temple and the “Little India” around it stand testimony to the friendship between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bahrain-to-strengthen-covid-related-cooperation/story-pQ8i6PDZXLKJAtOc3p1iVL.html
25-11-2020||India||Kashmir not on agenda of OIC foreign ministers’ meet||The Kashmir issue is not on the agenda of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to be held in Niger during November 27-28, resulting in consternation in Pakistan, which has sought to repeatedly raise the matter at international forums. A statement issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office on Wednesday to announce foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s participation in the meeting of the OIC’s council of foreign ministers claimed the two-day session will discuss a range of issues facing the Muslim world, including the “Jammu and Kashmir dispute”. However, official statements issued by OIC in English and Arabic make no mention of the Kashmir issue being on the agenda for the meeting. The Pakistani foreign ministry’s statement further said Qureshi intended to highlight the “aggravating human rights and humanitarian situation” in Jammu and Kashmir in the aftermath of India’s decision to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status in August 2019. OIC’s official statements quoted the organisation’s secretary general Yousef Al-Othaimeen as saying that the meeting of the foreign ministers, being held with the theme of “United against terrorism for peace and development”, has an agenda that includes “topics and issues of concern to the Muslim world”. “In addition to the Palestinian cause, the fight against violence, extremism and terrorism, Islamophobia and defamation of religious, the Council will discuss the situation of Muslim minorities and communities in non-member states, fundraising for the Rohingya cause at the International Court of Justice (ICJ), as well as the promotion of dialogue among civilisations, cultures and religions, and other emerging matters,” the English statement said, without making any reference to the Kashmir issue. The statement in Arabic too was silent on the Kashmir issue. The development comes at a time when Pakistan’s relations with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), both key players in the 56-member OIC, are strained. Saudi Arabia has sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018 after it was irked by Islamabad’s criticism of Riyadh’s position on the Kashmir issue. After being rebuffed by the Saudi leadership on the Kashmir issue, Prime Minister Imran Khan had made an unsuccessful attempt to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries with Turkey and Malaysia. On Wednesday, UAE temporarily suspended issuing visas to citizens of Pakistan, Afghanistan and some other countries over security concerns. The UAE too has been cool to Pakistan’s overtures on the Kashmir issue. The Indian government has worked to strengthen ties with countries in West Asia, a major source of energy and home to some nine million expatriates, in the past few years. In 2019, Pakistan had been irked when former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj was invited as a guest of honour to address the plenary session of the meeting of foreign ministers of OIC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-not-on-agenda-of-oic-foreign-ministers-meet/story-JxV8Naq7fpy83HPV8fM8cL.html
25-11-2020||India||J-K authorities issue avalanche warning in 12 districts||An avalanche warning was issued in 12 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday in view of heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of the Union Territory (UT) in the last three days, officials said here.A ‘medium danger’ avalanche warning has been issued for the higher reaches of Kishtwar, Kupwara and Bandipora districts, they said.The officials added that a ‘low danger’ warning was issued for the higher reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Anantnag, Kulgam, Baramulla, Ganderbal and Leh districts of the UT.The authorities have asked people to remain cautious and not venture out in avalanche-prone areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-authorities-issue-avalanche-warning-in-12-districts/story-pYuNuI5HTZ7dMD7DVYbnSI.html
25-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Flood-relief food kits provided by Rahul Gandhi found abandoned in Wayanad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Flood relief kits given by Rahul Gandhi found abandoned in his constituency WayanadThousands of flood-relief food kits provided by Congress MP from Wayanad (north Kerala) Rahul Gandhi were found abandoned in a vacant shop in Nilambur in Malappuram district. The “criminal waste” triggered widespread criticism from many quarters including local residents and Left leaders. Read moreDigital gadgets and platforms are stealing your time, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that digital platforms and tech gadgets are stealing our time and we must assign some time for ourselves. The prime minister was speaking at the event held to celebrate the Centennial Foundation Day of Lucknow University where he unveiled Rs 100 commemorative coin. Read moreJagan Reddy launches interest-free loans scheme for Andhra street vendorsThe YSR Congress Party government in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday launched yet another welfare scheme - Jagananna Thodu (Brother Jagan’s support) - aimed at providing interest-free loans to small traders and street vendors in the state. Read more20-year-old woman abducted, raped for 14 days in man’s captivity in Kota jungle: PoliceA 20-year-old woman has accused a man of abducting and raping her for 14 days while keeping her in his captivity in a jungle near Mandana town of Kota district, police said on Wednesday. In her complaint lodged at the Anta police station in neighbouring Baran district, the woman said she was able to approach the police after her father managed to rescue her from the 22-year-old man’s captivity on November 22. Read moreCOVAXX gets supply deals worth $2.8 billion for potential Covid-19 vaccineCOVAXX, a unit of United Biomedical Inc, said on Thursday it has received purchase commitments totaling $2.8 billion to deliver more than 140 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to developing countries, including Brazil, Peru and Ecuador. Read moreKangana Ranaut lauds Jallikattu as India’s official entry at Oscars 2021, says ‘movie mafia gang is hiding in their houses’Kangana Ranaut applauded the decision to send Malayalam film Jallikattu as India’s official entry for the Best International Feature Film category at the 93rd Academy Awards. She called it the result of the scrutiny that the Bollywood ‘mafia’ is being subjected to and suggested that they were unable to tilt the scales in their favour through lobbying. Read moreBoy writes to Santa, asks if God ‘loves him for being gay’. Tweet will leave you emotionalWriting letters to Santa is a Christmas tradition loved by thousands of children. In fact, United States Postal Service (USPS), each year, also runs a special program called the Operation Santa. In this, kids from all over America write to Santa about their wishes. Read moreBest looks of Sara Ali Khan fashionably twinning with mother Amrita Singh that will take you on a trip down memory laneSara Ali Khan’s wardrobe is one of the most enviable when it comes to Gen-Z Bollywood stars and star kids, and she experiments with her traditional looks with as much ease as she does her gowns and hot shorts. Read moreWatch: Coast Guard ship on alert as Cyclone Nivar approaches; NDRF DG briefs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-flood-relief-food-kits-provided-by-rahul-gandhi-found-abandoned-in-wayanad-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zvvTRxZAa4rze0Dz2qpavL.html
25-11-2020||India||Maha govt exempts on-duty cockpit and cabin crew from mandatory Covid-19 tests||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday exempted on-duty cockpit and cabin crew members of all airlines from the mandatory RT-PCR test across airports in the state. The exemption, however, will be subjected to following all necessary Covid-related protocols by the respective airlines, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar said in an order. The exemption was granted after the state government received a request from the national carrier Air India in this regard, the order stated. In its revised standard operating procedures on preventive measures to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, issued on November 23, the state government made it mandatory for all persons seeking to enter the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa to carry RT-PCR negative reports amid the rising number of cases in these states. “The state government has received a request from Air India stating that it is operating Vande Bharat flights and multiple cargo flights in and out of Maharashtra on a regular basis. “This involves a large number of flight and cockpit crew (pilots and cabin crew) to travel into Maharashtra from various states to either operate or be positioned for flight duties on a daily basis,” the order said. However, as per the guidelines of the state, Covid RT-PCR (Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction) has been made compulsory for all persons arriving at the airport, which leads to delay in scheduling in flights, it said. “In the light of the above state, it is stated that henceforth all on duty cabin crew and cockpit crew of all airlines carrying valid identity cards be exempted from RT-PCR test at all airports in Maharashtra subject to following of necessary Covid-related protocols by the respective airlines in the said regard,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-exempts-on-duty-cockpit-and-cabin-crew-from-mandatory-covid-19-tests/story-n6q0vkLrkx3r317kmntW0J.html
25-11-2020||India||Assam declares half-day holiday tomorrow as mark of respect for former CM Tarun Gogoi||The Assam government has declared a half-day holiday on Thursday as a mark of respect to former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who passed away on Monday due to post-Covid-19 complications. Gogoi’s last rites are scheduled to be performed on Thursday afternoon at Nabagraha crematorium in Guwahati and the half-holiday coincides with it. Earlier, the government had announced a three-day state mourning. “The state government of Assam expresses profound sorrow at the sad demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former chief minister of Assam. As a mark of respect to the departed soul, the government of Assam has declared half-holiday at 1 pm on the day of cremation on November 26,” said an order issued by the general administration department. “During this period, all state government offices, semi government offices, public sector undertakings, corporations, boards, educational institutions etc. will remain closed,” the order added. Gogoi’s body is at present kept at Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra in Guwahati for the public to pay last respects. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi along with two party general secretaries KC Venugopal and Jitendra Singh arrived in Guwahati on Wednesday morning to pay last respects to Gogoi. Gandhi landed at Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport on a chartered flight from Goa and went straight to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra. From there he went to Gogoi’s official residence in Guwahati to meet the former leader’s family members including wife Dolly and son Gaurav, a Lok Sabha MP from Assam. “Gogoiji was not just a leader of Assam. He was a formidable chief minister and a national leader. He inspired us by bringing the people of Assam together and by bringing peace to the state,” said Gandhi. “I spent many hours with him and he was my teacher, my guru and he explained to me like nobody can on what Assam is, what its people are and the complexities and beauties of the state,” he added. Gandhi along with Venugopal left for Delhi on Wednesday itself whereas Singh, who is also the party in-charge for Assam, stayed back to attend the cremation. “On Thursday, Gogoi’s body will be taken to his official residence early in the morning for some rituals. From there it will be taken in a procession to a church, a mosque, two temples and a ‘naam-ghar’ (prayer house) before being taken to the cremation site,” informed state Congress president Ripun Bora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-declares-half-day-holiday-tomorrow-as-mark-of-respect-for-former-cm-tarun-gogoi/story-32mNDOCXdveicnJXwV09KL.html
25-11-2020||India||COVAXX gets supply deals worth $2.8 billion for potential Covid-19 vaccine||COVAXX, a unit of United Biomedical Inc, said on Thursday it has received purchase commitments totaling $2.8 billion to deliver more than 140 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to developing countries, including Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.The multitope peptide-based vaccine is currently in early-stage trials in Taiwan, lagging some of the frontrunners in the race to develop a safe and effective vaccine.The US based company signed an agreement in September with Brazilian lab and hospital group DASA S.A. to conduct mid-to-late stage trials in Brazil for the vaccine.COVAXX estimates it can produce 100 million doses in first half of next year and 1 billion by end of 2021.Last month, the company signed a logistics partnership with Maersk for transportation and supply chain services that will be needed to deliver the vaccine around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covaxx-gets-supply-deals-worth-2-8-bln-for-potential-covid-19-vaccine/story-XiikpHqCqbXprGnSINU6YM.html
25-11-2020||India||20-year-old woman abducted, raped for 14 days in Kota jungle: Police||A 20-year-old woman has accused a man of abducting and raping her for 14 days while keeping her in his captivity in a jungle near Mandana town of Kota district, police said on Wednesday.In her complaint lodged at the Anta police station in neighbouring Baran district, the woman said she was able to approach the police after her father managed to rescue her from the 22-year-old man’s captivity on November 22.The woman said accused Phorulal Odd, a resident of Kapren town in Bundi district, abducted her on November 9 from her maternal uncle’s village where she had gone to attend a marriage in the family, said Anta police station SHO Umesh Manaria.He said the woman alleged that the man abducted her on his motorcycle when she had gone to the field to answer the nature’s call and took her to a jungle where she was held hostage by the man and was raped repeatedly, said the SHO.She told police that during her captivity, one day she managed to call up her father who rescued her, said the SHO, adding the father, however, had not lodged any complaint with the police when her daughter had gone missing.The SHO said on the woman’s complaint, the police have lodged an FIR against the man for kidnapping and rape and is trying to nab him.The woman was earlier examined medically and her statement was recorded by a magistrate, said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-year-old-woman-abducted-raped-for-14-days-in-man-s-captivity-in-kota-jungle-police/story-NbNCbSFzywyjB6AhovgoZN.html
25-11-2020||India||Jagan Reddy launches interest-free loans scheme for Andhra street vendors||The YSR Congress Party government in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday launched yet another welfare scheme - Jagananna Thodu (Brother Jagan’s support) - aimed at providing interest-free loans to small traders and street vendors in the state. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the scheme in a virtual mode from his camp office at Tadepalli in Amaravati. He deposited Rs 905 crore in the account of 9.05 lakh small traders towards reimbursement of interests on bank loans. Interacting with beneficiaries through video conferencing mode, the chief minister said small and petty vendors and artisans won’t have to go for private borrowing at high interest rates hereafter and could obtain hassle-free loans from the banks under Jagananna Thodu scheme to cater to their working capital. “Hitherto, banks were not providing loans to these roadside vendors as they come under unorganised sector. But now, they can get the bank loans under the new scheme. The government themselves will arrange loans to these vendors through village volunteers and welfare assistants of village and ward secretariats who would identify the beneficiaries and submit the lists to the banks,” he said. Through this scheme, the banks would provide loans to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore to nearly 10 lakh people and the government would bear the interest of Rs 60 crore to Rs 100 crore annually. Assuming that the loan repayment period is 10 years, the government will be spending Rs 1,000 crore towards reimbursement of interest, the chief minister said. He said the banks shall credit the loan amount of Rs 10,000 to the beneficiaries’ accounts within a week or 10 days. The beneficiaries will also be provided with QR-based smart ID cards and if they repay the loan amount in the given timeline, the state government shall reimburse the interest once in every three months directly to the beneficiaries’ accounts, making them eligible to take the next loan. The beneficiaries eligible for loans under Jagananna Thodu scheme include vegetable vendors, fruit vendors, small shopkeepers, pushcart vendors, and traditional artisans. “If any eligible person was not covered in this scheme, they can still apply through volunteers, and upon verification, they will be provided with the scheme benefits in a month or two. Also, they can call on the 1902 toll-free number to get enrolled,” Jagan said. Opposition Telugu Desam Party described the scheme as a mere publicity stunt by the Jagan government. “The scheme is actually a Centrally sponsored scheme launched by the NDA government in May as part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat package in the name of “Pradhan Mantri Swanidhi,” TDP official spokesman K Pattabhi said. He said as per the Central scheme, small loans to the extent of Rs 10,000 would be provided to 50 lakh petty traders and roadside vendors towards working capital. The scheme had already been under implementation in other states including Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, he pointed out. “Now, the YSRCP government is giving a big build up as if it is a new scheme and issuing full-page advertisements in the media causing huge burden on the state exchequer,” the TDP leader alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-launches-interest-free-loans-scheme-for-andhra-street-vendors/story-PVlclKEmsTSqdJYog38FWO.html
25-11-2020||India||Widespread rainfall likely over J&K, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh||Under the influence of Western disturbances over Afghanistan and neighbourhood, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall/snow and isolated hailstorms is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), on Wednesday. ♦ Under the influence of Western Disturbance over Afghanistan & neighbourhood, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall/snow and isolated hailstorms is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on 25th“Scattered rainfall/thunderstorm activity with isolated hailstorms is very likely over Uttarakhand also during the same period,” the tweet by IMD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rainfall-likely-over-j-k-ladakh-himachal-pradesh/story-7wsO5265qHxWLhf5cKxicI.html
25-11-2020||India||Flood relief kits given by Rahul Gandhi found abandoned in his constituency Wayanad||Thousands of flood-relief food kits provided by Congress MP from Wayanad (north Kerala) Rahul Gandhi were found abandoned in a vacant shop in Nilambur in Malappuram district. The “criminal waste” triggered widespread criticism from many quarters including local residents and Left leaders. Embarrassed district Congress president V V Prakash has ordered an inquiry into the incident. Rotten food kits carrying the photo of Gandhi and printed MP in bold were found when a vacant shop which was closed for many months was opened. “We have no idea how it happened. It is really unfortunate. But those responsible won’t be spared,” the DCC president said adding he also informed the state leadership about this. Wayanad had witnessed numerous landslides after heavy rains during the last monsoon. The Congress leader who emerged victorious from the seat in 2019 elections had promptly responded and rushed enough food kits to his constituency. A truck-load of such food kits were found abandoned on Wednesday. Later, CPI (M) workers carried out a protest rally in the area alleging Congress leaders did it deliberately. “Many such consignments were lying and rotting in many places. It is criminal negligence. These kits were meant for flood-affected poor people. It exposes local Congress leaders’ callous attitude. Hope Rahul Gandhi will notice this,” said Nilambur MLA PV Anwar. A local resident said most of the kits were rotten and some had maggots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-relief-kits-given-by-rahul-gandhi-found-abandoned-in-his-constituency-wayanad/story-7y5UdUKzTfdWahPmK2klON.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Why is BJP talking about Bin Laden, Pakistan in Hyderabad polls’: KTR||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state minister for municipal administration KT Rama Rao on Wednesday accused Bharatiya Janata Party of whipping up religious passions and stoking communal fire in Hyderabad to gain a few seats in the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to be held on December 1. “How can a leader of a responsible national party like BJP talk about conducting surgical strikes on the old city of Hyderabad? Why do they have such an utter hatred toward Muslims? Why do they talk about Babur, Bin Laden and Pakistan in local elections like GHMC, as if there are no other issues concerning the people of the city?” the TRS leader asked in an interaction with the media. He sought to know what the NDA government was doing when Rohingyas were allegedly entering the country illegally. “International borders are monitored by the Centre, not the TRS. What was it doing in the last six years? Why have they allowed the so-called illegal migrants? Who gave them Aadhaar cards?” he asked. Telangana BJP president and parliamentarian Bandi Sanjay on Tuesday kicked up a controversy stating that if his party captured power in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation in the December 1 elections, it would carry out “surgical strikes” on the Muslim-dominated old city of Hyderabad to drive away Rohingyas and pro-Pakistani people living illegally.KTR, as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s son is popularly known, lashed out at Union minister Prakash Javadekar for releasing a “charge sheet” against the state government, calling it as a “MIM-TRS Sarkar,” and using the picture of Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi along with the chief minister. “Does Javadekar have any shame? Is MIM a part of the TRS cabinet? It clearly shows the BJP’s utter contempt towards Muslims,” he said. He pointed out that it was the BJP which had forged an alliance with the PDP to form the government in Kashmir. “That shows its political opportunism. But in Hyderabad, we never had an alliance with the MIM, but fought against it in the elections. In the last GHMC elections, the TRS had won five seats in the MIM-dominated old city. This time, we are going to win at least 10 seats defeating MIM,” KTR said. The TRS working president said the reason why the BJP should not win the GHMC elections was that it would create communal disturbances in the city. “Though the law and order will still be under the control of the TRS government, the BJP will foment trouble in the otherwise peaceful Hyderabad and that will disturb the tranquillity in the entire Telangana. Was it not the BJP which triggered communal violence in Delhi recently?” he asked. KTR said the BJP was banking on communal divide to garner votes in the GHMC elections, as it had no other achievement to talk about. “The BJP-led NDA government had meted out step-motherly treatment to Telangana. When there were floods in Karnataka, the Modi government released Rs 669 crore immediately and in Gujarat floods, Modi toured personally and announced Rs 500 crore relief. But when Hyderabad suffered worst-ever floods, not a single rupee has been released till date,” he alleged. He described as “idiotic” the argument of the BJP leaders that the state had got sufficient funds under disaster relief funds. “It is a statutory allocation due to the state and would have come even if there were no floods. How much additional money did the Centre release to the state?” he asked. The TRS leader further said the BJP had no right to seek votes from the youth, as it had cancelled the prestigious Information Technology Investment Region project sanctioned to Hyderabad by the previous UPA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-bjp-talking-about-bin-laden-pakistan-in-hyderabad-polls-ktr/story-NoBV3jt5cMDniyVmPKAKwM.html
25-11-2020||India||Niti releases compendium on Covid practices by states/UTs||Government think tank Niti Aayog on Wednesday released a compendium of practices that states and union territories have adopted for containing and managing the outbreak of coronavirus.The compendium was released by Niti Aayog member V K Paul and Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant.“While there is much to be gained by learning from global practices for tackling the pandemic, it is equally important to take note of practices that are grounded in our realities. “Instead of expecting every state to reinvent the wheel, dissemination of such practices allows them to learn from each other and help find solutions to common problems,” Kant said in the foreword.          The government think tank in a statement said it reached out to all states and union territories by email and telephonically, requesting them to share any practices that they believe had been useful for Covid-19 mitigation and management.         The statement further said the practices in the compendium have been arranged under six sections - public health and clinical response, governance mechanisms, digital health, integrated model,  welfare of migrants and other vulnerable groups, and other practices.According to the statement, practices adopted by states/UTs in the fight against Covid-19 range from preparation of comprehensive route maps for contact tracing to operationalization of mobile vans for testing and providing essential health services to the doorsteps of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/niti-releases-compendium-on-covid-practices-by-states-uts/story-bCxOcQB0xediGf58jMpycJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Digital gadgets and platforms are stealing your time, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that digital platforms and tech gadgets are stealing our time and we must assign some time for ourselves. The prime minister was speaking at the event held to celebrate the Centennial Foundation Day of Lucknow University where he unveiled Rs 100 commemorative coin.“In today’s fast-paced lifestyle, we’re leaving behind the habit of introspection. Digital gadgets and platforms are stealing your time but you must set aside some time for yourself. It is very important to know yourself. It will directly affect your capacity and will power,” PM Modi said.The prime minister attended the event through video conferencing and also released a special commemorative postal stamp issued by India Post and its special cover during the event. Apart from PM Modi, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is a Lok Sabha member from Lucknow, also attended the event.During his speech, PM Modi also urged Lucknow University to conduct research on local products and to add topics such as branding and marketing into their existing course. “Why should the university not do an analysis of local skills, courses related to local products, and skill development in districts that fall under its academic limits?”“The university can do research on local products and modern solutions needed for value addition. Branding, marketing, and strategies related to the management of the local products can be part of your course,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-gadgets-and-platforms-are-stealing-your-time-says-pm-modi/story-DmZyaqCOuEyjKEpNMsl57H.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar to make landfall after 2 am on Thursday, over 1 lakh people evacuated across TN: NDRF chief||Cyclone Nivar, heading towards Tamil Nadu coast, will make landfall after 2 am on Thursday, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director-general SN Pradhan said on Wednesday.He also said that over one lakh people have been evacuated in Tamil Nadu.“Cyclone Nivar may make landfall after 2 am on November 26. Over one lakh people have been evacuated across Tamil Nadu and more than 1,000 people have been evacuated in Puducherry,” Pradhan told news agency ANI.Earlier, ANI had quoted Pradhan as saying that teams of the response force have been on the ground for the last two days.Also Read: Airport operations shut, roads blocked in Chennai before Cyclone Nivar makes landfall tonightCyclone Nivar has intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) adding it lies about 90 km south east of Cuddalore, 220 km from Chennai and 150 km from Puducherry.The Chennai airport on Wednesday evening had cancelled all flight operations from 7 pm on Wednesday till 7 am on Thursday. The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and the severity of approaching Cyclone, the airport authorities added.Also Read: ‘Preparing for worst’, says NDRF chief as Cyclone Nivar nearsMeanwhile, the Railways cancelled more than a dozen special trains on Wednesday and Thursday which were scheduled to either originate from and terminate in southern states. The Railways added that a full refund will be given for the trains which were fully cancelled in view of the cyclone and the time limit for availing them has been extended to six months from the date of journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-may-make-landfall-after-2-am-on-thursday-over-1-lakh-people-evacuated-across-tamil-nadu/story-3xnp2nACYMqa2mBuVgytaM.html
25-11-2020||India||“I had to learn and unlearn a lot to carve a niche for myself”||With a career spanning over two decades, actor Amar Upadhyay feels things have changed completely over the years and competition has grown manifold. “I have been a part of it all. I have not just seen but also been part of the boom with the iconic show ‘Kyunki Saas Bhi...’ that was a trendsetter. It’s not that there was no competition then but on a very small scale as there were only a few channels. But today the competition has gone up so we have to raise the bar too,” said the ‘LOC Kargil’ actor. Remembering his earlier days, the suave actor said, “My acting journey started much before ‘Kyunki.... I started by doing ads then the comedy ‘Dekh Bhai Dekh’ happened when I was just 17. This show gave me first taste of success. Later, I tried my hands in reality show and enjoyed my stint there too. So it has been a fulfilling journey. I had to learn and unlearn a lot to carve a niche for myself as a performer.” Amar is absolutely thrilled to be back on television in a new avatar. Talking about his new show, he said, “It’s a wish come true for me because I’m doing a show with Ekta (Kapoor) again so it’s like home coming for me. Also the show has given me a character that I always wanted to play. I have to learn the Haryanvi accent. I hope my character of Virendra Pratap Singh in the show ‘Molkki’ will be appreciated by all.” On his upcoming projects, Amar said currently other than TV he was busy with three films, including ‘Kagaz’, where he plays an antagonist, a cameo in ‘Bob Bishwas’ and Bhool Bhulaiyaa-2. It was being shot in Lucknow suburbs when the lockdown happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-had-to-learn-and-unlearn-a-lot-to-carve-a-niche-for-myself/story-B6okPUm3NFj2nAW4B7XnKK.html
25-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena is not Maharashtra: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said the Shiv Sena is not Maharashtra, and asserted that it was his party which worked towards protecting the identity of the state when it was in power for five years.He also accused the Sena of labelling those who levelled charges of corruption against it as being “Maharashtra-drohi” (anti-Maharashtra).“Nobody becomes Maharashtra-drohi just because someone calls that person so. When allegations of corruption are levelled against them, they call that person a Maharashtra- drohi,” Fadnavis said in a press conference.He was replying to a query whether the Shiv Sena was painting the BJP as Maharashtra-drohi in matters pertaining to actor Kangana Ranaut, Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and Shiv Sena leader Pratap Sarnaik.“It was the BJP which worked towards keeping the identity of Maharashtra intact when it was in power for five years...We made Maharashtra number one state, surpassing Gujarat in terms of investments and I am proud that I was the chief minister (at that time),” he added.“The Shiv Sena should understand one thing that they are not Maharashtra,” he added.When asked about NCP’s state unit chief Jayant Patil’s allegations about bogus voters registration ahead of the upcoming graduate and teachers’ constituencies elections, Fadnavis said it means that the NCP leader has accepted the defeat.“There is no EVM, so he knows that if they face defeat, they would not be able to blame on it. Which is why he is making such claims,” he said.On being asked about his support to Uttar Pradesh’s ordinance on ‘love jihad and whether he thinks it was possible in a progressive state like Maharashtra, he said, “How can be the law on love jihad called regressive? The terms progressive and regressive are individuals perspective. I am surprised about Shiv Sena, which had once taken a strong position against ‘love jihad’.” “They wrote big editorials, sought legislation against love jihad, but now they have taken a U-turn,” he added.Replying to a question about Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray telling Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the ‘politicisation’ of COVID-19 situation in the state by the BJP, Fadanvis said, “It is a welcome sign that the state government has taken cognisance of BJP’s agitations in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-is-not-maharashtra-fadnavis/story-3acJKxxDI51OXWN2PmazHK.html
25-11-2020||India||India leases hi-tech US naval drones to boost surveillance, intel||The Indian Navy has leased a pair of MQ-9B SeaGuardian unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) from the United States to boost its intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities, in the midst of a border row with China in the Ladakh theatre and increased Chinese activity in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The two MQ-9Bs have been leased for one year, one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity, without disclosing the cost of the lease. A variant of the Predator B drones manufactured by US firm General Atomics, the hi-tech maritime drones have been based at the Naval Air Station Rajali in Tamil Nadu, which is also home to the Indian Navy’s fleet of P-8I long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft. The MQ-9Bs will allow the navy to keep a close watch on the IOR at a time when it has stepped up surveillance and activities in the region to check China’s ambitions, a second official said. The UAVs arrived in India in early November and began undertaking missions last week though the navy has not publicised the lease deal, the officials said. The MQ-9B is the first piece of military hardware to be leased by India after the government announced new weapon-acquisition procedures that allowed the option of leasing weapons and systems. The Defence Acquisition Procedure-2020, which came into effect on October 1, permits the leasing of military hardware to cut down on costs associated with buying equipment. Experts said the MQ-9Bs would boost the navy’s situational awareness over land and sea with their range and endurance. “Most drones are very useful operationally and could also be cost-effective platforms for maritime surveillance. I hope indigenous drones for such purposes are under development, but as an interim measure the MQ-9Bs could be quite critical,” said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd). Capable of operating at an altitude of 40,000 feet, the MQ-9B UAVs have an endurance of 30 hours and a range of more than 5,000 nautical miles - capabilities that the Indian Navy will exploit fully to monitor the IOR, the officials said. Speaking at an event on November 6, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singhsaid a “great power competition” was playing out “fairly vigorously” in the IOR. “The IOR is one of the most militarised regions… Also, there are differing interpretations of international laws and there is this fear that ‘Global Commons’ can change to ‘Contested Seas’, threatening free flow of commerce and trade,” he said. India is keeping tabs on China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the Chinese navy doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity. India plans to induct a total of 30 such UAVs, including armed versions, for the three services for a whopping $4 billion. According to General Atomics, the MQ-9B can operate in adverse weather conditions because of “improved structural fatigue and damage tolerance and more robust flight control software.” The navy currently operates a mix of Israeli-built Heron and Searcher UAVs for intelligence-gathering and surveillance. It has a vast area of responsibility in the IOR spanning millions of square kilometres, with warships deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Strait of Malacca and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa. India’s exclusive economic zone alone measures 2.4 million square kilometres, which is also the navy’s responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-leases-hi-tech-us-naval-drones-to-boost-surveillance-intel/story-NeW0gNA1HYJ44V3m9C5qAL.html
25-11-2020||India||Airport operations shut, roads blocked in Chennai before Cyclone Nivar makes landfall tonight||Torrential rain and heavy winds continued to lash Chennai and the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, even as Cyclone Nivar intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm moving at 16kmph. The cyclonic storm lay about 90 km southeast of Cuddalore, 150 kilometres from Puducherry and 220 km from Chennai according to the IMD.“Even after landfall, the system is likely to maintain its cyclonic intensity for about 6 hours and weaken gradually,” the weather office said in its 4.30 pm bulletin. Rainfall has been predicted to continue until November 27,” said S Balachandran, Director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai.After 6.00 pm, 5,000 cusecs of water was released from the Chembaramakkam reservoir into the Adyar River, which is an increase from 1,000 cusecs released at noon. ALSO READ | Chennai airport shuts operations as Cyclone Nivar nearsAs of 5.00 pm, 1,217 people including 259 children were evacuated and sent to 25 relief camps in Chennai. All major arterial roads in Chennai have been closed until further orders.A public holiday has been announced on Thursday too across 16 districts. Electricity supply was interrupted in several parts of Chennai and other districts with trees and electricity poles being uprooted. Buses and cars were stranded on roads and subways. Airport operations of domestic and international flights at the Chennai airport have been suspended from 7.00 pm on November 25 to 7.00 am on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airport-operations-shut-roads-blocked-in-chennai-before-cyclone-nivar-makes-landfall-tonight/story-J7Cy8lePlaFqh0qGPyqaRI.html
25-11-2020||India||GST invoices fraud: ‘Mastermind’ who created 115 fake firms among 59 arrested||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has so far arrested 59 people, including three chartered accountants (CAs), in 10 days of its nationwide drive against submission of fake Goods and Services Tax (GST) invoices.According to people aware of the developments, Mitesh M Shah, who the DGGI has named the mastermind of the fake invoices scam, is among those arrested. Shah created 115 fake firms to avail and pass on fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) worth Rs 50.24 crore on fake invoices of miscellaneous goods/services in Vadodara, Gujarat, they added.A woman mastermind too has been arrested, the people cited above said.So far, the DGGI has registered 793 cases and identified 2,802 such entities involved. It has also sent a letter to Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to take obligatory action for professional misconduct against the three CAs who have been arrested from Ludhiana and Hyderabad.Eight people were arrested in DGGI raids today. Out of these, four - Mahendrabhai Desai of M/s Sanjay Corporation, Rakesh Kumar Chavda of M/s Setal Enterprise, Mohd lshaq lsmail Ansari of M/s Lohiya Enterprise and Jignesh Kumar R Patel - were arrested by its Ahmedabad unit. Two others - Parth Jain and Ranjan Kumar Saha - were also arrested from Bengaluru and Kolkata, respectively.On Tuesday, searches and surveys were conducted in 32 cities - Bhubaneswar, Meerut, Bhopal, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad, Siliguri, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Kanpur, Nagpur, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Visakhapatnam, Coimbatore, Surat, Vadodara, Una, Rajkot, Kochi, Hosur, Gurugram, Pune, Ludhiana, Ranchi, Belagavi, Patna, Guwahati, Raipur and Jammu.The CGST Commissionerates and the DGGI recovered Rs 177.50 crore in cash in these raids. Efforts are on to apprehend some of the fraudsters who are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-invoices-fraud-mastermind-who-created-115-fake-firms-among-59-arrested/story-hNZqfNvV6tbvYWPFf3JUAI.html
25-11-2020||India||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik writes to PM Modi, seeks clarity on timeline of board exams||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday urged PM Narendra Modi to bring about clarity on the timeframe for carrying out the Board and Higher Secondary Examinations and also the duration of the academic session 2020-21.In a letter to PM Modi, Patnaik said in the absence of clarity on the academic session and both the Standard-X and Standard-XII Board examinations, all enrolled students and their parents/teachers are in a state of uncertainty. “It is leading to anxiety among all,” Patnaik wrote.“As all competitive entrance examinations and admission to institutions of higher education are interlinked, national guidelines with tentative timelines will help the states in framing appropriate strategy. It will also help students who are anxious about the examination dates to plan and prepare accordingly. We have been trying to reach out to the maximum number of students digitally through different modes, but it is not possible to cover all students and prepare them to face Boards and different competitive examinations,” he said. Patnaik also informed Modi that the state government has decided to keep educational institutions closed till December 31, for the safety of students after due consultation with different stakeholders and experts.Last week, Odisha School and mass education minister Sameer Dash had said metric and higher secondary examinations in the state are likely to be delayed in the current academic session asserting that the exams would not be held without offline classes for at least 3 months.“We’re bound to conduct exams for the sake of the career of our students. But we will definitely see that the students are not deprived of the teaching facility meant for taking the mandatory exams. Facility of classroom teaching for our students for a minimum of three months has to be ensured before the exams this time,” he said.The Central Board of Secondary Education has recently announced holding of practical examination for Std-12 students in January this year, a move that has drawn flak from several people who asked how could the Board hold the exam without schools conducting a single practical class due to Covid-19. The CBSE, which is yet to arrive at a decision on the Std 10 and 12 examination schedules, is likely to do so in a week’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-clarity-on-timeline-of-board-exams/story-fWa2qJdgQc8lA0JeZdlApO.html
25-11-2020||India||Bombay HC quashes woman’s FIR against doctor husband over Covid-19 duty||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday quashed an FIR filed by a woman against her doctor husband, after she told the court that the move was a result of stress due to long hours of Covid-19 duty.The woman, a professor of microbiology, informed a bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik that she had been married for 20 years and work stress during the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic had affected her marital life. The FIR was filed under charges including domestic violence in March, at the time when the couple had been working for 18 hours a day, she said.Although the court wanted to interview the husband, the woman, a resident of Pune, said her husband was on duty at a government-run hospital.“In March and April, when the coronavirus-related work had increased in hospitals, there was too much stress. We were working for 18 hours every day and this led to a lot of misunderstandings,” the woman informed the court.Following counselling though, the couple with two children, had decided to continue living together, she told the bench during a virtual hearing. Quashing the FIR, the bench said it was “very happy” to note that the couple had decided to resolve its differences and live together.The court also said it had a “high regard” for doctors working day and night across the country to combat the pandemic, at the cost of their personal and family lives.“We have tremendous respect for doctors and the work that they have done in such times,” the bench said.The court decided to quash the case, even as one of the lawyers interjected. To this, the court said it had heard his client in serial and did not want to hear the case any further.“Haven’t you heard, jab miyan biwi raazi...,” the bench told the lawyer in a lighter vein.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-quashes-woman-s-fir-against-doctor-husband-over-covid-19-duty/story-zeTFPbzGuI7yrmfRKeYaaI.html
25-11-2020||India||Nepali citizen arrested with leopard skin in Uttarakhand’s Champawat||The Uttarakhand forest department on Wednesday arrested a Nepali citizen and recovered a leopard hide from him in Champawat district, forest officials said. Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) Haldwani said, “We received a tip-off that some people were planning to sell a leopard hide.” “Following the input, we constituted a team under the leadership of Sharda Range officer Mahesh Singh Bisht and started checking in the Brahmadev forest beat area in Champawat. On Wednesday morning about 7 am, we found a person who behaved suspiciously,” he said. Kumar said, “Our team saw a Nepali person who had a plastic bag. When he saw our team, he started running away. The team chased him and succeeded in arresting him. When we looked inside the plastic bag, we found there was a leopard hide in it.” The DFO said the accused has been identified as one Balraj Sarki, resident of Kanchanpur district in Nepal. “We have arrested and booked him under Section 9 and other relevant sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972,” he added. This is not the first such incident in Champawat district. In February, a 45-year-old person was arrested with three leopard hides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepali-citizen-arrested-with-leopard-skin-in-uttarakhand-s-champawat/story-x3CUSV0VZoxAm9SIb8IBpJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Chennai airport shuts operations as Cyclone Nivar nears||The Chennai airport on Wednesday evening said that it has suspended flight operations from 7 pm on Wednesday till 7 am tomorrow as Cyclone Nivar is approaching.“Due to #CycloneNivar aircraft operations at #AAI #Chennaiairport will remain suspended from 1900hrs of 25.11.2020 (today) to 0700hrs of 26.11.2020 (tmrw). The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and the severity of approaching Cyclone,” the airport said on its Twitter handle.This comes after the Southern Railway cancelled seven trains scheduled for Thursday.Also Read: ‘Preparing for worst’, says NDRF chief as Cyclone Nivar nearsAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), very severe cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross between Mamallapuram and Karaikal during midnight hours and early hours of Thursday. Due to #CycloneNivar aircraft operations at #AAI #Chennaiairport will remain suspended from 1900hrs of 25.11.2020 (today) to 0700hrs of 26.11.2020 (tmrw). The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and the severity of approching Cyclone. @pibchennaiMeanwhile, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) chief SN Pradhan told news agency ANI that 25 teams have been deployed throughout Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh adding that all efforts are being made to minimise damage.Pradhan also said over 30,000 people have been evacuated from Tamil Nadu.Watch: Tamil Nadu, Puducherry brace for Cyclone Nivar with Covid protocols Earlier, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday visited Chembarambakkam lake to review the ground situation. State’s additional chief secretary Atulya Misra emphasised on the need to ensure all coronavirus (Covid-19) protocols are followed and masks and sanitisers are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-airport-shuts-operations-from-7-pm-tonight-till-7-am-on-thursday-as-cyclone-nivar-nears/story-HzMTn4SKl0Ehi67lqn82CL.html
25-11-2020||India||AP CM launches PM SVANidhi scheme, names it after himself||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched the PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, meant for extending collateral-free loans up to Rs 10,000 each to street vendors, but named it after himself, drawing flak from the BJP.The Chief Minister renamed the Central Sector Scheme, fully-funded by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, after himself as ‘Jagananna Todu’, claiming that the state government would bear the full interest on the loans. Slamming the Chief Minister over this, the state BJP pointed out that Jagan has usurped one more Central scheme and affixed his own name to it.“PM SVANidhi has been brought in as part of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package post-Covid-19.It is shameful that the Chief Minister has changed the schemes name,” BJP state general secretary S Vishnuvardhan Reddy said in a statement.Under PM SVANidhi, the vendors availing of loans are eligible to get an interest subsidy of seven per cent.The AP government, however, made it a zero interest scheme, saying the interest amount would be reimbursed every quarter and credited into the borrowers account.The Centre introduced the PM SVANidhi as a special micro-credit facility for street vendors to help them resume their businesses after the Covid-19 Unlock. Launching the scheme through a video conference with some of the beneficiaries, the Chief Minister said street vendors had a crucial share in the economy, but were so far forced to depend on private moneylenders for working capital needs.“The street vendors are in the unorganised sector and have no access to institutional credit. The private lenders charged 3, 4 or even 10 per cent interest. We wanted to usher in a change in their lives by offering them institutional credit,” Jagan said.In the first phase 9.05 lakh street vendors in the state would be given Rs 905 crore as interest-free loan, he said.“If you repay the loan promptly, the banks will extend fresh credit, even higher amounts, the Chief Minister added.He assured that no eligible vendor would be left out of the scheme and the application process would continue for one or two more months. Ministers P R C Reddy, Botsa Satyanarayana, A Suresh, M Sankara Narayana and officials took part in the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-cm-launches-pm-svanidhi-scheme-names-it-after-himself/story-J3IEnNRrqzGOMRITQK0t7O.html
25-11-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla to arrive in Nepal on maiden visit on Thursday||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will arrive in Kathmandu on Thursday on his maiden official visit to Nepal during which he will hold talks with his Nepalese counterpart and other top leaders and discuss wide ranging areas of bilateral cooperation.Shringla is visiting Nepal at the invitation of foreign secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal, amid a strain in bilateral ties following a bitter border row between the two countries.This will be a continuation of the regular exchange of high level visits between the two friendly neighbours, the Nepalese foreign ministry said in a statement this week.“During the visit, Shringla will hold bilateral meeting with his Nepali counterpart and discuss wide ranging areas of cooperation between Nepal and India,” it said.“The Indian foreign secretary will also call on the high-level dignitaries of Nepal,” the statement said, without identifying them.He will also hand over Covid-19 related support to the Government of Nepal before wrapping up his two-day visit on Friday.Earlier this month, Indian Army chief Gen. M M Naravane travelled to Nepal on a three-day visit during which he held talks with Nepal’s top leadership and discussed bilateral relations.During the visit, he called on Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, who is also the defence minister of Nepal. Oli told him that problems between Nepal and India would be resolved through dialogue.Gen Naravane’s three-day visit to Nepal was largely aimed at resetting bilateral ties that came under severe strain following a bitter border row between the two countries.The ties between the two countries came under strain after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory.Days later, Nepal came out with the new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories.After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply, calling it a “unilateral act” and cautioning Kathmandu that such “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it.In its reaction, after Nepal’s lower house of parliament approved the bill, India had also termed as untenable the “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims by the neighbouring country.India had said Nepal’s action violates an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. Meanwhile, Chinese defence minister Gen. Wei Fenghe is scheduled to visit Nepal shortly after Shringla returns home, according to Foreign Ministry sources here.Wei is likely to arrive here on Sunday on a four-day official visit, though the date of the trip is yet to be officially announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-to-arrive-in-nepal-on-maiden-visit-on-thursday/story-7NQz8vMuKjVv2TEiYT5YXM.html
25-11-2020||India||Centre asks states to take steps to reopen medical colleges from or before Dec 1||The Union Health Ministry Wednesday asked state governments to initiate steps for reopening of medical colleges from December 1 or before it, but with strict adherence to all Covid-19 related guidelines. Educational institutions in the country have been closed since March in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to the chief secretaries and the administrators of all states and Union Territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also suggested making non-Covid beds available in sufficient numbers in affiliated medical college-hospitals to facilitate undergraduate training.The Health Ministry has obtained concurrence from the Ministry of Home Affairs for re-opening of medical colleges, the letter mentioned. “Accordingly, the states and UTs may take necessary steps to open the medical colleges on or before December 1, 2020,” the health secretary said in his letter dated November 25. “Needless to say, all SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of spread of epidemic issued by Central/states and UT governments will be followed scrupulously by all the colleges,” he said.The Centre’s directive comes in the wake of the National Medical Commission recommending reopening of medical colleges from December 1 or before it for the MBBS students already pursuing their courses.The NMC, which has received representations from students and medical colleges, noted that the current batch of interns (2020) have not completed their required clinical training and unless they do it, they would not be eligible for appearing for the PG-NEET exam. It also noted that the PG-NEET exam for the academic year 2021-22 has been delayed as the eligible candidates will be completing their training late. Their training is required to be completed at the earliest so that the PG -NEET exam for the academic year 2021-22 can be held accordingly, it said.“Delay in resuming the training would have a cascading effect on training of next PG and super-speciality courses in the coming years,” the NMC noted.“The delayed new academic session for 2020-21 should commence from February 1, 2021. The new PG session for the academic year 2020-21 should begin from at least July 1, 2021 and therefore the PG-NEET exam for AY 2020-21 would need to be scheduled around March-April 2021,” the NMC said in a communique to the Health Ministry on November 12.With opening of medical colleges and to facilitate UG training, all medical colleges affiliated hospitals would need to have sufficient number of beds for non-COVID patients and hence facilities for both outpatient and inpatient management for non-COVID patients must be re-started, if not already done, the NMC stated.Further, it noted that the students today (and would-be doctors tomorrow) should also be familiar with the inherent threats and opportunities in healthcare systems which they would eventually handle themselves. It should not become a missed opportunity for medical students to learn the skills of epidemic management as public health professional, the NMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-take-steps-to-reopen-medical-colleges-from-or-before-dec-1/story-3AnVU4eU1WEab0b4lJe1lI.html
25-11-2020||India||PM Modi releases book on life and ideals of Guru Nanak Dev||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday released a book on the life and ideals of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism and first of its 10 gurus.In a tweet, Modi posted a picture of him releasing the book and noted that the book has been penned by Kirpal Singh, who is based in Chandigarh.Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was also present during the book release.“Released a book on the life and ideals of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. The book has been penned by Kirpal Singh Ji, who is based in Chandigarh,” the PM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-book-on-life-and-ideals-of-guru-nanak-dev/story-BZDY9QFleSJDFd0LJrwAZK.html
25-11-2020||India||Malegaon blast: Bombay HC to pass orders on implead plea on Friday||The Bombay High Court will pass orders on November 27 whether Nisar Ahmed Bilal, whose son was killed in the 2008 Malegaon blast, can be permitted to intervene in the plea filed by accused Lt Colonel Prasad Shrikant Purohit seeking that charges against him be quashed.A bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on Wednesday heard Bilal’s counsel senior advocate BA Desai and Purohit’s counsel Neela Gokhale before closing the arguments for order.Six people were killed and 100 others injured when a bomb strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon in Nashik district of Maharashtra on September 29, 2008.Advocate Desai urged the bench to implead his client as a party to the case and admit the intervention application since the victim had a right to be heard.He said Bilal was also an intervening party in the trial in the case pending hearing before a special NIA court in Mumbai.In his plea, Bilal said that he had lost his son in the blast, and therefore, he was an “aggrieved party” in the case, who deserved to be heard.Gokhale, however, opposed Bilal’s application arguing that Purohit had sought that charges against him be quashed since the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had failed to get a prior sanction under section 197 of the CrPC to prosecute him.“Since the plea was on the limited procedural ground of the sanction, it did not warrant any intervention by the victims,” Gokhale told the bench.In September this year, Purohit had filed a pleain the HC seeking quashing of all charges.During the first hearing of Purohit’s plea, his counsel and former attorney general, Mukul Rohtagi, had told the bench that Purohit had been working for the Indian Army’s military intelligence unit.He said Purohit had attended conspiracy meetings before the 2008 Malegaon blast as part of “discharging his duties” as a military intelligence officer. Therefore, the NIA should have sought a prior sanction under section 197 of the CrPC to prosecute him, Rohtagi had said.Section 197 of the CrPC lays down the procedure for prosecution of public servants and mandates that a prior sanction be sought from the government.Rohtagi had further said that the Army had reinstated Purohit in 2017 after the Supreme Court granted him bail.He said the supreme court had recorded in its bail order that Purohit had been attending the meetings as part of discharging his duties.The NIA, however, had opposed Purohit’s plea.In an affidavit filed in court in September, the agency said that in attending the conspiracy meetings, Purohit was not working for the Army, and therefore, no sanction under 197 of the Crpc was required for his prosecution.Purohit was arrested in the case in 2009.As per the NIA, the bike to which the bomb was strapped belonged to Purohit’s co-accused and BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur.On Wednesday, NIA’s counsel Sandesh Patil told the bench that the trial in the case had been suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic, but it would resume on a day-to-day basis from the next month. Of the 400 witnesses in the case, 140 had been examined so far, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malegaon-blast-bombay-hc-to-pass-orders-on-implead-plea-on-friday/story-LsKYRM5ys4QBvhyCBiKmuK.html
25-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand emerges as hideout for criminals from NCR, Punjab and Haryana||The arrests of wanted gangsters of Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Haryana hiding in the state seems to be a new challenge for the Uttarakhand Police, who want to do away with this emerging trend. The recent arrest of three shooters in US Nagar district who were wanted in Haryana and had a bounty of Rs 50,000-1 lakh is the latest development among criminals from the aforementioned states hiding in Uttarakhand to escape the police in their respective states. Earlier, in February this year, a wanted gangster by Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan police, Anil Pehelwan was arrested by Uttarakhand police while he was hiding in Dehradun. He had a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on him. Before that in January 2018, another dreaded gangster from Punjab, Harsimrandeep Singh alias Simma with a Rs 2 lakh reward was arrested from the state. Similarly, in one of the major arrests, two close aides of the infamous 2016 Nabha jailbreaker, Parminder Singh, were nabbed from Dehradun in the same year. The police had then said that the accused planned the daring jailbreak in Punjab’s Nabha in their hideout in Dehradun only. Amid the arrests of the wanted gangsters from state, especially its capital city, senior superintendent of police Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi said, “It is not at all becoming a safe haven or hideout for the gangsters or northern states. Police have been keeping a tight vigil and meticulously examining people coming to stay here from outside.”He said that in some cases it happens that criminals after committing a crime in their state or are wanted there, come here to hide but, “that doesn’t mean that it is becoming a safe haven.” “Police here regularly carry out campaigns for tenant verification and act on any inputs about any suspected elements. Also, if you compare the number of wanted gangsters nabbed in other major cities in North, to ours, the number is very less,” said Joshi. He, however, termed the arrest of gangsters in the city as a result of “tight vigil” of capital police. “The gangsters hiding here from other states, were arrested by our police only which shows that we are working actively on the ground with efficiency,” said Joshi. With low crime rate, gangsters think that police in Uttarakhand is inactive: Expert On the arrest of wanted gangsters of other states hiding in Uttarakhand, former state director general of police, Aloke B Lal said in crime world usually the criminals hide in other states after committing a crime in their own state. “They usually hide where they have their relatives or known persons. However, saying that, Uttarakhand also has a very low crime rate in comparison to its neighbouring states. This makes an impression in the criminals that the police might be less active or efficient which make them think that they can hide here,” said Lal. “However, it is not at all true as our state police is as efficient as neighbouring states and UTs like UP, Delhi or Punjab. If it was not true then the gangsters hiding wouldn’t have been nabbed here,” he said. Sharing database of criminals is importantThe retired DGP added that to prevent the state from being a safe haven for the wanted gangsters of other states, sharing of criminals’ database is the key. “In US, the authorities have an extensive database of the criminals which is shared by their state police departments. In India, it is under development at present. Once it’s done, it would be vital for one state police to nab criminals wanted in other states,” said Lal. Arresting gangsters proves police’s efficiency: DG (law & order) Director general (law & order), Uttarakhand police, Ashok Kumar however, termed the arresting of criminals and gangsters of other states in Uttarakhand as “proof of state police’s efficiency.” “These arrests don’t prove that our state is becoming a safe haven for gangsters of states like Punjab, Haryana and Delhi UT. In fact, it proves that our police is fully alert and on vigil which resulted in these arrests,” said Kumar. He added, “We are keeping extra vigil in our border districts including Haridwar, US Nagar and Dehradun.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-emerges-as-hideout-for-criminals-from-ncr-punjab-and-haryana/story-LCleAymXAScfjxnJ66O2eJ.html
25-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Under MHA’s new Covid guidelines, night curfews allowed but lockdown needs Centre’s approval||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Night curfews allowed, lockdown needs Centre’s nod in new Covid protocolDue to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in various states, the Centre on Wednesday allowed states and union territories to impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation. However, they cannot impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre, according to an order issued by the ministry of home affairs on Wednesday. Read more15-day window fine, but clearing backlog will take months: Punjab industryAt a time the industry in the state wants to literally fly out of its current situation towards recovery and normalcy, the resumption of goods trains, though a breather, only highlights that it will be a long, hard clawback for all stakeholders. The sheer quantity of backlog to be cleared and uncertainty over what happens after 15 days, if no permanent solution is found to end the farmers’ stir, are adding to the disquiet among owners. Read moreHaryana blocks borders as farmers march to Delhi protesting against agri lawsHeavy police have been deployed on the NH44 near Shahbad town of Kurukshetra district in Haryana to stop farmers who were moving towards Delhi to join the national protest against the farm laws. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur, accompanied by Superintendent of People Himanshu Garg, has reached Shahbad to review the situation. Read moreTop Chinese vaccine maker seeks govt nod to market Covid-19 shotsChina’s leading vaccine producer China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) said on Wednesday it has applied with the country’s regulators to market its Covid-19 vaccine. The announcement was made by Sinopharm general manager, Shi Shengyi, state media reported. Read moreVikas Khanna shares question asked on KBC for netizens. Can you answer it?Celebrity chef Vikas Khanna has dropped a question for tweeple and chances are you may know the answer. In a tweet, Khanna posted a question from the popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati hosted by Amitabh Bachchan. Read moreMalaika Arora turns up the heat in coral Ziad Nakad gown, Bvlgari Serpenti inspired necklaceMalaika Arora keeps treating fans with gorgeous outfits, perfect yoga poses and occasional sneak peaks into her personal life. The 47-year-old recently returned from a trip to Dharamsala with beau Arjun Kapoor, best friend Kareena Kapoor Khan, who came along with husband Saif Ali Khan and son Taimur Ali Khan. Read more‘You have got to make him open’: Aakash Chopra names batsman who ‘even score a double hundred in ODIs’The first match of India’s tour of Australia will be played on November 27th at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The first One Day International of the three-match series will see both the teams fight it out with each other to gain momentum in the contest. There will be a notable absentee in the team as vice-captain Rohit Sharma will sit out as he is still recovering from an injury. Read moreMH-CET 2020: Engineering aspirants to be awarded full marks for errors in 29 questionsAfter months of delay, engineering aspirants waiting for the results of their entrance exam have reason to cheer. In a circular released on its website, the Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) cell has revealed that many objections raised by students against questions as key in the CET exams held in September and October have been accepted. Read moreWatch: Royal Bengal Tiger attacks locals after straying out of Assam’s forest||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-under-mha-s-new-covid-guidelines-night-curfews-allowed-but-lockdown-needs-centre-s-approval/story-DXHXvmPetnLUQRe7IBGUgL.html
25-11-2020||India||MHA issues new Covid guidelines: What is permitted and what is not?||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines with regard to the surveillance, containment and caution in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic which has affected over 9.22 million people across the country.The guidelines which will be effective from December 1, were released amid a recent spike in Covid-19 cases across several states and union territories (UTs) after the festivities and start of the winter season. The states and UTs, according to the situation, can impose local restrictions with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, the home ministry in its release said.Also Read: MHA issues fresh Covid-19 guidelines for surveillance, containment, cautionFor containment zones, the ministry has only allowed essential activities along with intensive house-to-house surveillance. There will be a strict perimetre placed to ensure there is no movement of people inside or outside the containment zones except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. Other such regulations include quick isolation of Covid-19 infected patients either at home or at treatment facilities.The ministry has allowed conduction of all other non-essential activities outside containment zones.Also Watch l Covid, vaccine race & what we don’t know yet | Dr Guleria & Dr Jha #HTLS2020 However, certain activities are only allowed with the following restrictions: 1. International air travel of passengers, as permitted by the Union home ministry (MHA).2. Cinema halls and theatres, with up to 50 per cent capacity. 3. Swimming pools, only for training of athletes. 4. Exhibition halls, only for business to business (B2B) purposes. 5. Social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious gatherings with up to a maximum of 50 percent of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces; and keeping of the size of the premises in view, in case of open spaces. States and UTs may reduce the ceiling to 100 people or less, in closed spaces.For all such activities outside the containment zones, states and UTs would be required to follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour norms issued by the ministry which are as follows: 1. States and UTs shall take all necessary steps to promote Covid appropriate behaviour and ensure strict enforcement of wearing face masks/coverings, social distancing and hand hygiene. 2. To enforce the most crucial requirement of wearing face masks/coverings, states and UTs may consider administrative actions including imposition of fines for those people who do not follow the regulation in public and work spaces.Also Read: Night curfews allowed, lockdown needs Centre’s nod in new Covid protocol3. For observing social distancing in crowded places - mostly in markets, public transports and weekly bazaars - the Union health ministry would issue a Standard of Procedure (SOP) which should be strictly followed by all states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-new-covid-guidelines-what-is-permitted-and-what-is-not/story-HdDuKhRRg00oMr95cmMz1I.html
25-11-2020||India||Ex-DSP Davinder Singh: NIA arrests PDP youth wing chief||National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested PDP youth wing president, Waheed ur Rehman Parra, in connection with a terror case. Parra was being interrogated at the agency’s New Delhi headquarters for the past two days after his name surfaced in connection with the probe into suspended deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh’s case. He is the first politician to be arrested in this case.PTI quoted NIA spokesperson as saying, “Today, NIA arrested Waheed Ur Rehman Parra, the youth wing leader of People’s Democratic Party, in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in conspiracy with the other accused persons.”Meanwhile, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti termed the arrest as blackmail and said youth president was falsely charged.“BJP milks illegal scrapping of Article 370 in every nook and corner of the country. But when it comes to Kashmiris questioning its abrogation they are locked up & punished. Everyone knows at whose behest Davinder Singh worked for. Ironic that they have the gall to blame others,” she tweeted.”Waheed has no connection whatsoever with this man & is being falsely charged. All just to blackmail & intimidate PDP & other mainstream political parties in J&K,” she added.Also read | NIA raids in Kashmir in case involving ex-cop Davinder SinghShe went on to say that Parra was illegally arrested in 2019 as well. “Yet his belief in democracy didn’t waver & he chose to contest DDC elections. Seems like those who place their faith in the power of democracy will earn the wrath of a hostile & communal government. I can personally vouch for Waheed’s integrity, honesty & character. Its upto the judiciary now to dispense justice & ensure @parawahid is released at the earliest,” she tweeted.Parra was set to contest the district development council polls from South Kashmir. He has a strong base among the youth in south Kashmir and was pivotal in organising many public programmes of the party.Suspended deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh was arrested in January 11 while allegedly ferrying Hizbul commander Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, advocate Mohammad Shafi Mir and another militant, Rafi Ahmad Rather, to Jammu in his car. The case was later handed over to NIA which conducted several raids in different parts of Kashmir. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-dsp-davinder-singh-nia-arrests-pdp-youth-wing-chief/story-5IzDwlV5ZkwOEuWxrCfHXP.html
25-11-2020||India||Night curfews allowed, lockdown needs Centre’s nod in new Covid protocol||Due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in various states, the Centre on Wednesday allowed states and union territories to impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation. However, they cannot impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre, according to an order issued by the ministry of home affairs on Wednesday. The MHA also said that state governments can consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures in cities where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10 percent so that the number of employees attending offices at the same time can be reduced. The new guidelines – termed ‘Guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution’- will remain in force from December 1 to December 31. They have been issued a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a meeting with the chief ministers of several states during which the severity of the third wave of infection was flagged by several leaders present. The order said that “the main focus of the latest guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19 which is visible in the steady decline in the number of active cases in the country”. Also Watch l Covid, vaccine race & what we don’t know yet | Dr Guleria & Dr Jha #HTLS2020 “Further, keeping in view the recent spike in new cases in few states/UTs, ongoing festival season and onset of winter, it is emphasised that to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focussed on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines/SOPs (standard operating procedures) issued by MHA and ministry of health and family welfare,” the order said. It said that local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. “States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19 such as night curfew. However, state/UTs shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the central Government,” it said. The MHA also gave freedom to the state governments to take administrative action against people not following the basic Covid safety measures. It said, “State/UT governments shall take all necessary measures to promote Covid-19 appropriate behavior and to ensure strict enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing.” In order to enforce the core requirement of wearing face masks, states and UTs may consider administrative actions, including “imposition of appropriate fines, on persons not wearing face masks in public and work spaces”, the MHA said. For observance of social distancing in crowded places, especially in markets, weekly bazars and public transport, it said that the health ministry will issue a SOP soon. The ministry said that there shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-order-night-curfews-but-no-lockdown-in-new-covid-guidelines/story-jbVfE70qQJiC6ufgr6nQUK.html
25-11-2020||India||White House considers lifting European travel restrictions||The White House is considering rescinding entry bans for most non-US citizens who recently were in Brazil, Britain, Ireland and 26 other European countries, five US and airline officials told Reuters.The Trump administration imposed the bans in a bid to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic. It is not considering lifting separate entry bans on most non-US citizens who have recently been in China or Iran, the officials said.The plan has won the backing of White House coronavirus task-force members, public health and other federal agencies, the people briefed on the matter said, but President Donald Trump has not made a final decision and the timing remains uncertain.The White House, Department of Homeland Security and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) did not comment.Many administration officials argue the restrictions no longer make sense given that most countries around the world are not subject to the entry ban. They contend lifting the restrictions would be a boost to struggling US airlines, which have seen international travel fall by 70%, according to airline industry data.Trump may still opt not to lift the restrictions, given the high number of coronavirus infections in Europe. One potential hurdle is the fact that European countries are not likely to immediately allow most Americans to resume visits, officials said.The European countries that are subject to the US entry restrictions include the 26 members of the Schengen area that allow travel across open borders.The US restrictions barring most visitors from Europe have been in place since mid-March, while the Brazilian entry ban was imposed in May. Trump implemented the first ban on most non-US visitors from China on Jan. 31 and then added Iran in February.The restrictions bar entry of most non-US residents who have been in those countries in the previous 14 days, but the U.S. State Department has been granting some “national interest exceptions” to allow travelers from Europe related to “humanitarian travel, public health response, and national security.”The United States has also approved exceptions for some European business travelers, investors, academics, students and journalists.Nearly all of Europe still bans most US travelers from visiting, while Britain and Ireland allow American visits but require two-weeks quarantine upon arrival. Brazil allows US travelers.On Saturday, the CDC issued new travel and testing recommendations for international air travelers recommending they “get tested with a viral test 1-3 days before their flight to reduce spread during travel. Travelers should get tested 3-5 days after travel and stay home for 7 days.”Airlines for America, a group representing American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines Holdings and others, on Tuesday noted it has “been advocating for the federal government to set a national standard on testing in order to lift travel restrictions.”In a statement to Reuters, the group called the CDC guidance a step in the right direction, adding that they hoped it would be “followed by a recognition that testing can be used to safely reopen borders without quarantines.”Some airlines and officials think testing could be the key to widely resuming international travel. The United States has held talks with several countries about the possibility of passenger testing programs between pairs of major cities.Asked about the prospects of travel restrictions being lifted, a US Transportation Department spokesman said “the department stands ready to support the safe resumption of international flights to and from the U.S.” “Conversations are ongoing between the federal government, international partners, and industry stakeholders on these matters.” In September, the CDC ended enhanced screening of some international passengers for the coronavirus and dropped requirements that travelers coming from those countries arrive at 15 designated U.S. airports that had been imposed at the start of the beginning of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/white-house-considers-lifting-european-travel-restrictions/story-3mqZ2gjjmJFkcuEAmTYMXJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19 guidelines: Centre’s nod to states, UTs to implement strict laws against persons not wearing face masks||In order to ensure consistency in the practice of wearing face masks among people, states and union territories may consider implementing stricter rules, the Union ministry of home affairs said in its new guidelines released on Wednesday. “In order to enforce the core requirement of wearing of face masks, states and UTs may consider administrative actions, including imposition of appropriate fines, on persons not wearing face masks in public and work spaces,” the home ministry said.The Centre’s fresh guidelines ‘Guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution’, will come into force from December 1. MHA’s new guidelines against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories where the leaders discussed the current coronavirus situation in the country and measures to counter it.Also Read| MHA issues new Covid guidelines: What is permitted and what is not?In the new guidelines issued on Wednesday, the states and UTs have been urged to promote appropriate behaviour and strict laws against Covid-19 such as use of face masks, hand washing hygiene and maintaining social distance in public places.“State/ UT governments shall take all necessary measures to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and to ensure strict enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing,” the home ministry said.The Centre further said that the National Directives for Covid-19 Management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, so as to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“Local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed Containment measures are strictly followed and State/ UT Governments shall ensure the accountability of the officers concerned in this regard,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-can-imposing-fines-on-persons-not-wearing-face-masks-in-public-work-spaces-mha/story-j0YyGUuy5lMUquV5ifyOyK.html
25-11-2020||India||Haryana blocks borders as farmers march to Delhi protesting against agri laws||Heavy police have been deployed on the NH44 near Shahbad town of Kurukshetra district in Haryana to stop farmers who were moving towards Delhi to join the national protest against the farm laws.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur, accompanied by Superintendent of People Himanshu Garg, has reached Shahbad to review the situation. Thousands of farmers, led by BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, started their journey on tractor trailers, cars and bikes to reach Delhi from Mohra grain market in Ambala district.Upon being stopped by police and district administration in Ambala, the farmers removed the barricades forcibly and moved forward.As they entered Kurukshetra district, the farmers from the area also joined them. However, district administration of Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts have also blocked the state border to prevent farmers from Punjab from entering Haryana.“Yes, the police have been deployed at the state border in Cheeka of Kaithal district and the farmers from Punjab will not be allowed to enter Haryana,” said Kaithal SP Shahank Kumar Sawan.Leaders associated with the BKU (Charuni) urged their supporters to reach Mohra grain market in Ambala by Wednesday morning.The messages were being circulated on social media the BKU leaders making repeated appeals to farmers to reach the grain market to ensure a huge gathering, a day before the scheduled Delhi-Koonch (Delhi March) call given by several farmer unions of the country for a national level protest against farm laws on November 26 and 27. Per information, the farmers will stop their cavalcade at Gharaunda in Karnal for night stay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-blocks-borders-as-farmers-march-to-delhi-protesting-against-agri-laws/story-FM1bs8NdsPDteUtHwP4kPM.html
25-11-2020||India||File your property returns or face disciplinary action, CVC tells government officials||Anguished by Central government officials not filing their property details on time, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has issued a warning to all the departments and organisations of disciplinary action if they don’t complete the exercise by November 30, people familiar with the development said. The apex vigilance body has expressed concern over prolonged delay in filing of such details by government officials. “Timely filing of property return by officials of ministries/departments/organisations is one of the mandatory requirements under Conduct Rules. Property returns are also a good tool for CVOs (chief vigilance officers) to detect the source of funding of the assets of the officials and to find out whether these have been acquired through legal means,” CVC said in a communication to all Central government departments, chairman and managing directors of public sector banks and insurance companies among others. “Non-filing of property returns constitutes good and sufficient reasons for instituting disciplinary action against the delinquent officials,” the CVC added. It had found, while examining the reports submitted by some of the CVOs, that in most of the organisations, many of the officials are yet to file their annual immovable or movable property return for the previous year i.e., 2019. The last date for filing of return in most of the organisations is January 31. “Almost nine months have lapsed since and the organisations are yet to secure 100% compliance in this regard,” CVC said. Meanwhile, the ministry of home affairs has also shot off a similar letter to all Indian Police Service (IPS) officers across the country to file their immovable property return for 2020 by January 31 next year. In case the officers failed to file returns by then, concerned officer’s vigilance clearance will be denied, MHA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/file-your-property-returns-or-face-disciplinary-action-cvc-tells-government-officials/story-tYsGgUORGqfkGJNqDjsRMJ.html
25-11-2020||India||In fresh Covid-19 guidelines, home ministry empowers states to impose local restrictions like night curfew||The Union home ministry on Wednesday released guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution during the time of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The home ministry said that the main focus of the guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19 which is visible in the steady decline in number of active cases in the country.One of the points in the new guidelines, which will come into force from December 1, is empowering the states to impose local restrictions, including night curfew. The guidelines will remain in place till December 31.“States and union territories (UTs), based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19 such as night curfew,” the home ministry said in a release.However, the state and UT governments can’t impose local lockdown outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the central government, the release further added.“Local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed,” the home ministry said.The government had first imposed a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease in March. From 21 days, the duration of the lockdown kept increasing when the infection was at its peak.The first set of relaxations (called Unlock 1.0) was announced in June, which led to the opening of restaurants, shopping malls etc. Since then, the government has been opening the economy in phases.But with the recent surge in the number of new Covid-19 cases in various cities, there are fears of the resurgence of the disease. Experts have also warned that the situation could worsen in winters. So, the government has cautioned people against letting their guards down and have urged people to keep following Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-home-ministry-empowers-states-to-impose-night-curfews/story-bWzQ93luj2TCXF7WuK2fzK.html
25-11-2020||India||Rajasthan’s ACB arrests 4 Mumbai cops for allegedly taking bribe||Rajasthan’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has arrested a sub-inspector and three constables of Mumbai Police for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 2 lakh for not arresting a complainant’s father, the Bureau’s top official said Wednesday. The accused were arrested red-handed from a hotel near Jaipur’s railway station Tuesday evening. The arrested are sub-inspector Prashant Shide and constables Laxman, Subhash Pandurang and Sachin Ashok Gudke, posted in Borivali police station of Mumbai. Director General of Police, ACB, BL Soni said one Aman Sharma had complained that the four Mumbai policemen had showed up at their place in search of their tenant Vinod claiming that a case of fraud had been filed against him Borivali police station.While Vinod was not found in the house, the four policemen allegedly pressured Aman’s father to help them nab the tenant and threatened to arrest him instead if he did not oblige them. They also demanded a bribe of Rs 2 lakh not to arrest him.Vinod, a cloth merchant, is a resident of Mumbai had been living in Jaipur for some time. After verification, the ACB team laid a trap and arrested the accused policemen from a hotel near railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-acb-arrests-4-mumbai-cops-for-allegedly-taking-bribe/story-bdLiqxJoPLHSQkCy5ubz3J.html
25-11-2020||India||Centre issues fresh Covid-19 guidelines, lists stricter rules for containment zones||The Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday released a fresh set of guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The fresh norms will be effective from December 1, 2020 and will remain in place till December 31. In line with home minister Amit Shah’s call for “dynamic containment zones” during the chief ministers’ meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the Covid-19 situation in the country, his ministry has asked states and Union Territories to ensure demarcation of containment zones by the district authorities at the micro level.Covid-19 rules and containment measures prescribed by the health ministry strictly need to be followed in demarcated containment zones. There shall be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services, the MHA said in statement. Surveillance teams will conduct intensive house-to-house surveillance and quick isolation of Covid-19 patients shall be ensured in treatment facilities or home, it added. Also Watch l How long to control Covid-19 pandemic? Top doctors respond on #HTLS2020 The Centre has also allowed states to impose local restrictions, including night curfews to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. The states, however, cannot impose any local lockdown, outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the central government. It has also told states to ensure social distancing in workplaces and said that they may consider staggered timings. “In cities, where the weekly Case Positivity Rate is in more than 10 percent, States and UTs concerned shall consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures, with a view to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time, thereby ensuring social distancing,” it said in a statement. The home ministry said that the main focus of the guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19, which it said is visible in the steady decline in the number of active cases in the country. The fresh guidelines come at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally has surpassed 9.22 million with 444,746 active cases. While the virus has claimed 134,699 lives, as many as 8,642,771 have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-effective-from-dec-1-for-surveillance-containment-and-caution/story-1R8dBEqtmEEmXUdBUkQjfP.html
25-11-2020||India||Junaid Mattu returns as Srinagar Municipal Corporation mayor||Junaid Azim Mattu on Wednesday became the mayor of Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) for the second time after winning the mayoral elections of SMC.Mattu, 35, who was formerly associated with National Conference and Peoples Conference, got 62% of the total votes in the open ballot elections which were held at SMC’s corporate hall.“Junaid Azim Mattu has been elected as the mayor. He got votes of 44 councillors out of 70,” said SMC secretary Akbar Lone.Mattu tweeted about his win, calling it an emphatic verdict. “What a humbling, emphatic verdict! We have touched the 2/3rd majority mark! Thank You to my fellow Hon’ble Corporators and the people of Srinagar for your trust and faith again. Together we will all serve Srinagar and take it to new heights!” he said.The total strength of SMC council is 74 out of which four seats are vacant. Mattu defeated former deputy mayor Sheikh Imran while the third contestant, Aijaz Rasool of Congress, withdrew from the contest during voting.“Imran got seven votes while 19 councillors abstained from voting. Aijaz Rasool withdrew during the session,” Lone said.The Congress had asked Rasool to withdraw and issued a whip to its councillors, 16 in number, to vote in favour of Imran.Mattu was removevd as the SMC mayor in June after he lost a no-confidence motion moved against him by some corporators. He had then claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the National Conference had joined hands in Srinagar to remove him. Interestingly, he had won the 2018 elections with the BJP’s support. Mattu, who returned from the US barely a decade ago to join politics, had resigned from the NC only to participate in the polls in 2018. He later became part of the Sajjad Lone-led Peoples Conference till September this year when he parted ways with the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junaid-mattu-returns-as-srinagar-municipal-corporation-mayor/story-HH3BVt9h6l2xs3BEzdwPiL.html
25-11-2020||India||District authorities setting up micro-containment zones as Covid-19 cases surge in Delhi||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, some district authorities have been setting up micro-containment zones where two or more infections have been reported for better management of the pandemic, officials said on Wednesday.Normally, an area is marked containment zone where three or more Covid-19 cases are detected. But it is a dynamic exercise, conducted by district authorities on a need-based manner, they said.The Delhi Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation, 2020, authorises district magistrates to seal off a geographical area, banning entry and exit of the population from the containment zone and to take any measures directed by the health department to prevent the spread of the disease.According to a senior Delhi government official, micro-containment zones have been formed in the southwest and northwest districts, while other districts were also using a flexible approach to ensure restricting virus transmission in the best possible way.Read more | Arvind Kejriwal asks experts to audit Covid-19 deaths, suggest measures to reduce fatalities in DelhiThe southwest district magistrate had on Sunday issued an order for setting up of micro-containment zones in view of “large scale outbreak” of the novel coronavirus in the district.“To contain the further spread of the disease, it is hereby ordered that micro-containment zone shall be formed upon detection of two or more Covid-19 positive cases in the same house/building/in the vicinity of each other,” stated the order.A senior district official said the step was taken for better enforcement of quarantine measures.According to the latest data, there are 4,980 containment zones in the city with the maximum 863 in the southwest district. In the northeast district too, authorities have been using two or more cases criterion to carve out more micro-containment zones.“The purpose of setting up a containment zone is to ensure prevention of the spread of Covid-19 and save people from infection. The change (in criteria) will help better monitoring of the situation,” said a senior district officer in northeast Delhi.Officials said micro-containment zones also means that while the infected people are quarantined, the residents of the neighbourhood are saved from inconveniences.By this, the number of containment zones has gone up but people covered have gone down, a government data showed.In July, the city had around 1,000 bigger containment zones with over four lakh people, however, by mid-November, there were 4,467 containment zones covering 1.61 lakh people, figures showed.In a containment zone, entry and exit are not permitted, with district and health officials providing necessary supplies and monitoring infected persons.For the past few weeks, Delhi has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus infection with the city reporting 6,224 fresh Covid-19 cases and 109 deaths on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/district-authorities-setting-up-micro-containment-zones-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-delhi/story-1tebbIGoXhyZvn0Z7OypXK.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Preparing for worst’, says NDRF chief as Cyclone Nivar nears||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has said that they are preparing for worst as ‘very severe’ cyclonic storm Nivar is hurtling towards the Tamil Nadu coast.“Cyclone Nivar is categorised as ‘very severe’. With this perspective, we’re preparing for worst. Our teams have been on the ground for last twodays. Till now, 25 teams been deployed through Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh,” NDRF director general SN Pradhan said, according to news agency ANI.“More than 30,000 people have been evacuated from Tamil Nadu and 7,000 from Puducherry. Central, state and local governments are working in tandem. All efforts are being made to minimise damage,” he added.the Puducherry government said the administrative machinery is fully geared up to meet any exigency arising out of the situation.Also Watch l Watch: Tamil Nadu, Puducherry brace for Cyclone Nivar with Covid protocols Since Tuesday night, the union territory has been experiencing intermittent moderate rain due to the influence of the cyclonic storm, which is 250 km off Chennai, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The cyclone is expected to make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal in Tamil Nadu late on Wednesday night or early Thursday, according to IMD.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami has declared Thursday a public holiday for 13 districts including Chennai, Vellore, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Chengelpet and Kancheepuram considering the safety of people.Wednesday has already been declared a holiday.In its latest weather bulletin, the IMD said that the storm, 190 km from Puducherry is very likely to move northwestwards and cross coasts as a “very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph.”South coastal Andhra Pradesh is also likely to witness showers at most places today.The Tamil Nadu government appealed to people living in coastal districts to not venture out of their homes and requested those living in low lying areas to reach the cyclone shelters in their respective regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparing-for-worst-says-ndrf-chief-as-cyclone-nivar-nears/story-5fyFfdBmCBBjkcUYyUwbeK.html
25-11-2020||India||3-day session of MP Assembly from Dec 28||A three-day session of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly will be held from December 28, state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Narottam Mishra said on Wednesday.Three sittings of the House will be held between December 28 and 30, Mishra told reporters.Some bills will be introduced and various other legislative works will be conducted during the session, the minister said.In view of the rising incidents of alleged ‘love jihad, the government is likely to introduce the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020, which proposes a rigorous imprisonment of five years for luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion.A session was earlier scheduled to be held from July 20, but it was cancelled in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Later, a three-day session was announced from September 21, but it was curtailed to one day, considering the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Meanwhile, Congress MLA Dr Govind Singh said the duration of state Assembly session should be at least 10 days so that members can discuss about problems in their areas and other issues in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-day-session-of-mp-assembly-from-dec-28/story-t7NWVHoHBJ5DLgxR31fnSN.html
25-11-2020||India||Elephant herd demolishes hospital wall in Odisha’s Khurda district||Hundreds of patients in the a district headquarters hospital of Khurda district of Odisha suffered panic attacks last Tuesday after a herd of 18 wild elephants strayed into the hospital compound after breaking its wall, officials said.Officials said the herd from nearby Chandaka elephant sanctuary had bulldozed into the hospital compound by breaking the boundary wall. Though they did not enter the hospital building, several patients in the hospital panicked.Khurda district’s chief medical officer Biswa Ranjan Pati said the herd had come late in the night and demolished a part of the wall. “Earlier another herd had damaged also the wall. But are relieved that this herd did not enter the building,” he said.A team of 20 forest officials of Khurda division arrived at the spot to drive away the elephants using firecrackers. But instead of heading for the forest, the elephants settled in a cashew orchard.A forest official said they would try to drive away the elephants only after the evening.A team of officials of the Central Electricity Supply Utility of Odisha is also keeping an eye on the movement of the elephants because high tension electric lines near the hospital. Earlier on October 4, two elephants from a herd of around 20-25 elephants had entered the hospital compound by breaking down a portion of the boundary wall.With paddy crops ready for harvest, elephants are now roaming human habitations in search of food. On the night of November 20, a herd of 24 elephants had strayed into four villages of Khurda district going on rampage and damaging hundreds of acres of paddy crop. On November 22, a herd of 30 elephants wreaked havoc in Tildega area under Ujjwalapur range in Balisankara block of Sundargarh district damaging acres of paddy crop. Two persons were trampled to death in Sundargarh district last week.Last month, the Odisha government formed a task force headed by its chief wildlife warden to prepare a three-year master plan for reduction of man-animal conflict. The master plan to be submitted by the end of this month would suggest different activities that the department needs to do in the next three years for reducing the man-animal conflict. The long-term plan would help the forest department respond in a proper fashion instead of a knee-jerk reaction every time such a conflict occurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-herd-demolishes-hospital-wall-in-odisha-s-khurda-district/story-rxfhyXBAzheoGTuqlHStVN.html
25-11-2020||India||Jaishankar hails contributions of Indian diaspora in Bahrain for strengthening bilateral ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday virtually interacted with the members of the Indian diaspora in Bahrain via video conference and appreciated their valuable contributions to the strengthening of the bilateral ties.Jaishankar is on a two-day visit to Bahrain from November 24 to 25. It is the first leg of his six-day three-nation tour to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, beginning Tuesday. The visit is seen as important as it comes in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic that has wreaked havoc across the world.“Glad to interact virtually, with members of the Indian community in Bahrain. Thank them for keeping India’s flag flying high. Appreciate their valuable contribution to the strengthening of our bilateral ties,” Jaishankar tweeted soon after the online interaction.Earlier in the day, he visited the centuries-old Lord Sri Krishna temple at the Bahrain capital, Manama. “Began the day with darshan at the 200 year-old Shreenathji Temple at Manama. A testimony to our time- tested and close bonds with Bahrain. A testimony to our time- tested and close bonds with Bahrain,” Jaishankar tweeted.Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the USD 4.2 million redevelopment project of the temple.On Tuesday, Jaishankar held talks on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest with his Bahraini counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani.He also conveyed condolences on behalf of the government and people of India to the Bahraini leadership on the sad demise of Prime Minister of Bahrain Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa on November 11. During the meeting, the external affairs minister also thanked Bahrain for taking “special care” of the Indian diaspora in the Gulf kingdom during the coronavirus crisis.The novel coronavirus has infected over 85,800 people and claimed 339 lives in the Gulf nation.According to the website of the Indian Embassy in Bahrain, the country has around 350,000 Indian nationals, which comprise a third of Bahrain’s total population of 1.4 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-hails-contributions-of-indian-diaspora-in-bahrain-for-strengthening-bilateral-ties/story-Trp51MXAkzIP4IgRrnZezM.html
25-11-2020||India||Owaisi trying to divert attention from ‘love-jihad’, says Telangana BJP leader NV Subhash||Reacting to AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi’s comments about ‘love jihad’, Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader NV Subhash said that Owaisi was trying to avoid public attention on the matter and people were shocked to see such a prompt reaction to a law proposed to bring to curb conspiracy behind religious conversions.The AIMIM chief had earlier said that the BJP was trying to bring laws against ‘love jihad’ as they were unable to solve problems like unemployment and joblessness.“The law will target inter-religious marriages with the intention or conspiracy to convert. Why is the Majlis leader worrying about this? His statements were an attempt to give false colours to ‘love jihad’. This practice bringing religious issues to the fore in electioneering is very usual. Using this strategy, his party won five seats in the Bihar elections,” Subhash said.Read more | ‘BJP intends to create hatred’: AIMIM’s Owaisi responds to Tejasvi Surya’s attackHe further said, “Owaisi should remember that the nation effectively faced the Covid-19 situation with a minimum death rate and under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stimulus packages worth Rs 1.19 crore had been rolled out as part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan 3.0.”Subhash further dubbed his threats against UAPA Bill and proposed laws against ‘love jihad’ as a poll gimmick to garner votes in the upcoming GHMC elections.“In a bid to score majority seats in the GHMC elections, the Majlis leader will play some other minority card to divert the attention of the people. This is ‘dramabazi’ by Owaisi and his party. The same tactics have been used over decades for political survival,” the BJP leader further said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-trying-to-divert-attention-from-love-jihad-says-telangana-bjp-leader-nv-subhash/story-rwCDhZJM7WixqcemfyDx8L.html
25-11-2020||India||Ban on firecrackers an example of judicial overreach: Venkaiah Naidu||Labelling the recent ban on firecrackers an example of judicial overreach, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday set the tone of the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference that will discuss “harmonious coordination between legislature, executive and judiciary”. Naidu reminded the conference that the Constitution has “demarcated clear domains for each of these three organs on the lines of separation of powers” and said “harmony lies in each organ doing its job without interfering with that of the others”.President of India Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the two-day session—marking his first physical participation at a public event after over eight months—here in Gujarat. Under the chairmanship of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the event will see a series of working sessions before Prime Minister of India addresses it on Thursday. Also Read: Oppn has an important role: President Kovind at All India Presiding Officers’ ConferenceNaidu acknowledged that the Supreme Court and high courts have delivered several “far-reaching verdicts in furtherance of socio-economic objectives” apart from their correctional interventions. “But occasionally, concerns have been raised as to whether they were entering the domains of the legislative and the executive wings,” he said.“There have been debates as to whether some issues should have been more legitimately left to the other organs of the government. For example, Deepavali fireworks; cess on registration and movement of vehicles from the National Capital Region through Delhi; banning use of vehicles of certain make after 10 or 15 years; monitoring police investigations; denying the executive any role in the appointment of judges by instituting collegium which is said to be an extra-constitutional body; invalidating the National Judicial Accountability Commission Act seeking to ensure transparency and accountability are being cited as instances of judicial over reach,” he said, implying that the legislative should have been given space to act on these issues. The National Green Tribunal—the Supreme Court’s environment arm—clamped a blanket ban on firecrackers in Delhi, its surrounding areas and cities with poor air quality. The court, however, allowed the sale and use of green crackers.Naidu argued that to be in its best state, India should have its the three organs of the ‘State’ performing “to the best of its potential in the domain specified for each of them, in pursuit of the mandate defined in the Constitution”.To be sure, Naidu also spoke about legislative and executive excesses such as rules under subordinate legislation violating provisions of original legislation and how violation of people’s rights and liberties by the executive is. at times, “too visible for comfort.”He also mentioned 39th amendment to the Constitution placing the election of President, Vice-President and Prime Minister beyond the scope of judicial scrutiny as legislative over activism.A harmonious relationship between three wings of the Indian state “warrants a spirit of mutual respect, responsibility and restraint. Unfortunately, there have been several instances of crossing the boundaries,” Naidu added.Senior advocate Raj Panjwani told HT, “Legislature has the entire space to correct all wrongs or actions detrimental to society. The role of the judiciary is limited to testing the legality and competence of legislative and executive actions. The problem begins when the legislature fails to correct the wrongs that are a threat to the society at large and also to an individual’s fundamental rights. It is in this scenario, due to failure of the legislature as well as executive to take prompt and appropriate action, in particular with issues concerning the environment, the Constitution empowers the judiciary to step in and fill the vacuum caused by this inaction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-firecrackers-an-example-of-judicial-overreach-venkaiah-naidu/story-NqbZ6s4IXG0rwRNTZKaABJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Cabinet approves amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank||The government on Wednesday approved merger of crisis-ridden Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India Ltd (DBIL) and removed restrictions on withdrawal of deposits by depositors.The Union Cabinet has approved the merger of the LVB with DBS Bank India Limited, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters, adding the decision will provide comfort to 20 lakh depositors and protect the services of 4,000 employees.“Cabinet approves Scheme of Amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank India Limited; with this there will no further restrictions on the depositors regarding withdrawal of their deposits,” the official spokesperson said in a tweet.The minister said that those responsible for deteriorating financial health of the LVB would be penalised.The government had earlier on November 17 on the advice of the RBI imposed a 30-day moratorium on the crisis-ridden LVB restricting cash withdrawal at Rs 25,000 per depositor.The RBI simultaneously placed in public domain a draft scheme of amalgamation of LVB with DBIL, a banking company incorporated in India under Companies Act, 2013, and having its Registered Office at New Delhi.The Reserve Bank had also superseded the board of the LVB and appointed T N Manoharan, former non-executive chairman of Canara Bank, as administrator of the bank for 30 days.LVB is the second private sector bank after Yes Bank which has run into rough weather during this year. In March, capital-starved Yes Bank was placed under a moratorium. The government rescued Yes Bank by asking state-run State Bank of India to infuse Rs 7,250 crore and take 45 per cent stake in the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-amalgamation-of-lakshmi-vilas-bank-with-dbs-bank-india-ltd/story-tfH6PulPpvn1OS4B10RvLO.html
25-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel to be laid to rest at native place in Gujarat||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who died at a hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday, will be laid to rest at his native village Piraman in Gujarat’s Bharuch district, an aide of the leader said.After getting the news of Patel’s demise, some residents of Piraman village, located in Ankleshwar taluka, recalled his contributions towards development of the place, and some said he was like a “father figure” to them.Patel had wished to be buried besides his parents near his ancestral house in Piraman village of Bharuch, local Congress leader and Patel’s close aide Nazubhai Fadwala said.Patel, 71, who served as the Congress’s backroom strategist for years, died due to multi-organ failure in the early hours of Wednesday. He was suffering from complications related to Covid-19.The mortal remains of Patel will be brought to the village by evening, and the burial is likely to place on Thursday, Fadwala said, adding that the funeral will be conducted as per the Covid-19 protocols.Read more | Ahmed Patel: Congress’ indispensable man, an emissary and an archetypal party person“It was Ahmed bhai’s last wish to be laid to rest next to his parent’s graves in Piraman. He was very much attached to his village and often visited the place. A grave is being dug at a cemetery where his parents were buried,” he said.“He was very close to his parents, especially his mother, and he would sit at her grave for long every time he visited Piraman,” he said.A ground was also being cleared for a mass funeral prayer to be conducted with proper social distancing, he said.Local resident Suleiman Patel said the entire village was sad to know about the Congress leader’s demise.“He was like my father. The entire village is grief- stricken,” he said. Another villager Ganeshbhai said he was shocked after hearing the news of Ahmed Patel’s demise. “He was very much attached to his village. He contributed significantly for the development of the village.His death is an irreparable loss to us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-to-be-laid-to-rest-at-native-place-in-gujarat/story-xTYyZ2WIVJ6o6rCEbO527H.html
25-11-2020||India||PDP youth wing leader Waheed Parra arrested by NIA in connection with terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested PDP youth wing president Waheed Parra in connection with a terror case, officials said.Parra, who recently filed his nomination for the District Development Council (DDC) elections from Pulwama in South Kashmir, was being questioned at the NIA headquarters here since Monday for his alleged involvement with the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group.The name of Parra, who was instrumental in the revival of the PDP in south Kashmir, especially in militancy-infested Pulwama, surfaced during the probe into the suspended Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Singh case.“Today NIA arrested Waheed Ur Rehman Parra, the youth wing leader of People’s Democratic Party, in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in conspiracy with the other accused persons,” NIA’s spokesperson said.On Monday, talking to PTI, Parra had expressed ignorance about the case for which he was being questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-youth-wing-leader-waheed-parra-arrested-by-nia-in-connection-with-terror-case/story-1YTXVa3p8bfseZ05z50YxI.html
25-11-2020||India||Centre launches portal for transgender persons||The ministry of social justice and empowerment on Wednesday launched a portal that will allow transgender persons to apply online for certification of their self-perceived gender identity.Launched by Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot, the portal will allow transgender persons to upload an affidavit declaring their gender identity, which will then become the basis for their identity certificates to be issued by the district magistrate. One is expected to get an identity card within 30 days of the district authorities reviewing the application. Following the passage of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019, the law allows for self-perceived identification by an applicant for an identity certificate. Also read | National Council for Transgender Persons formedTransgender persons who have already recorded a change in gender identity, prior to the enactment of the law, will not need to apply for a certificate of identity under the rules notified on September 25. The portal will also enable them to register their grievances and help build a database of the community.Commenting on the move, Bittu Karthik, an associate professor at the Ashoka University, said, “I am glad online services enabling trans persons to get identity certificates have begun. It is unfortunate that it rolls back non-medicalised self-identification granted by NALSA, and that once one is declared as transgender, one becomes a citizen governed by discriminatory criminal and civil laws.”The ministry will also open shelter homes for trans people in each state. The first such home was inaugurated in Gujarat today and will offer shelter and skill training to those in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-portal-for-transgender-persons/story-nBUrcrLLTYMQUsn2ZPWGRL.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Getting difficult to supply items’: Jaish’s No. 2 tells terrorists in Kashmir||Mufti Rauf Asghar, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) operational commander, who had coordinated the infiltration of four heavily-armed operatives into India this month to wreak havoc, has told Jaish terrorists in Kashmir that it was becoming difficult to supply them the necessary “items”, a reference to explosives and weapons. Mufti Rauf Asghar sent the message to Jaish operatives in Kashmir soon after the gunbattle at Ban toll plaza in Jammu’s Nagrota that led to the elimination of four Pakistani terrorists within hours of crossing the border, people familiar with the matter said.Mufti Asghar is the younger brother of JeM chief and UN designated global terrorist Masood Azhar who is reported to have been under treatment for a life-threatening spine aliment. Asghar is considered the terror group’s de facto chief in his elder brother’s absence and had overseen the infiltration of the four terrorists from Bahawalpur in Pakistan’s Punjab province.Also Read: Pak’s million mutinies, ghosts and Doval’s doctrine of ‘defensive offence’The 19 November encounter was a huge setback for the terror group, given how heavily Asghar had invested in their training and infiltration. Border Security Force officials who have seen the 200-metre tunnel dug under the border fence said the engineering detail that had gone into digging the tunnel in Pakistan’s Shakargarh area was a surprise. They were well-armed too.11 AK-47 rifles, 3 pistols, 29 hand grenades and 6 grenades to be fired from an under barrel grenade launcher were seized.Also Read: Tunnels, drones part of Pakistan’s strategy to keep Jammu sector activeAccording to intelligence reports, the infiltration of the four terrorists was part of an effort by Pakistan-based terrorist groups to prepare for a major drive in Jammu and Kashmir. They have become especially active after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.The reports said terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is also mobilising cadres from its Chelabandi camp in Muzaffarabad to fresh locations in Neelum Valley across the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan. And the Hizbul Mujahideen training nearly 400 cadres at a newly constructed facility in the forest area of Oghi in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (KPK).The Jaish, intelligence reports indicate, is not the only one feeling the heat. According to one input, the Al Badr group is exploring ways to infiltrate into India from Bangladesh after security forces tightened the security grid across the LoC in Kashmir.Indian intelligence officials suspect the attempt to carry out terror strikes at high-value targets could be a diversionary tactic by the Pakistani army and ISI chiefs, under pressure from Opposition parties in the country, to bring the focus back on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/getting-difficult-to-supply-items-jaish-s-no-2-tells-terrorists-in-kashmir/story-rWRl5GItMu6UUrSJXhpC1I.html
25-11-2020||India||With 4 MLCs elected to assembly, Bihar Upper House has 17 vacancies to fill||Four more seats in the 75-member Bihar legislative council have fallen vacant after the assembly elections, taking its total number of vacancies to 17. The vacancies arose following the election of BJP’s Vinod Narayan Jha, JD(U)’s Dilip Rai and Manoj Yadav and RJD’s Reetlal Yadav to the assembly. Earlier, council member Sunil Kumar died due to Covid-19 in July. As far as the remaining 12 vacant seats are concerned, nomination to them has remained stuck for a long time for want of an understanding among the NDA constituents. Also read | Bihar: Grand Alliance fields RJD MLA for Speaker’s postThese 12 seats are the ones nominated through the Governor’s quota on the state government’s recommendation. Ten members -- all from the JD(U) -- completed their term in May 2019 and the seats have remained vacant since. Also, the term of two ministers in the previous Nitish Kumar Cabinet ended just four days before the announcement of election results, as their membership ended on May 6, 2020, and they could not continue as minister for more than six months without getting re-elected. The ministers were Dr Ashok Choudhary and Neeraj Kumar. In the new Cabinet also, two ministers -- JD(U) working president Dr Ashok Choudhary and Mukesh Sahni of the Vikashsheel Inshaan Party (VIP) -- are members of neither of the Houses.Bihar is one of the only seven states in the country to have a bi-cameral legislature with both Lower House (assembly) and Upper House (council). The council has 12 seats of teachers’ and graduates’ constituencies each of which eight were vacant which were filled earlier this month through election. Four seats went to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), two to the Left parties and one each to the Congress and an independent candidate. “After the assembly session, the government may try to fill the vacancies at the earliest. As far as election is concerned, three of the four seats are of urban local bodies, while less than six months of late Sunil Kumar’s tenure remain,” said council chairman Avadhesh Narayan Singh.“As a result, the election will only be held for the seat of Vinod Narayan Jha who was elected unopposed to the council from the Vidhan Sabha quota in 2016. The urban local bodies’ elections will be held as per schedule,” he added. Twenty four seats are filled through election from the urban local bodies. At present, JD(U) remains the biggest party in the council with 21 seats, followed by the BJP (18). However, the composition may change if all the vacancies are filled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-mlcs-elected-to-assembly-bihar-upper-house-has-17-vacancies-to-fill/story-PyGrICfongiTFKqxGFZ5hN.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Southern Railway, South Western Railway cancel trains. Check full list here||With Cyclone Nivar set to make landfall in Tamil Nadu late on Wednesday, the Indian Railways has cancelled at least eight trains from and in the southern region. The Southern Railway has cancelled six trains - two for Wednesday, three for Thursday and one for Saturday. Two trains have been cancelled by the South Western Railway for Thursday in view of the impending cyclone.Additionally, 26 flights to and from Chennai have been cancelled, news agency ANI reported quoting Chennai airport officials as saying. Twenty-six flights from/to Chennai cancelled due to #CycloneNivar: Chennai AirportSouthern RailwayCancelled for November 25: Train no 06011 (Kanniyakumari-Nizamuddin Special), 05119 (Rameswaram-Manduadih Special)Cancelled for November 26: Train no 02066 (Karaikuddi-Chennai Egmore-Karaikuddi Specials), 02636/02635 (Madurai-Chennai Egmore-Madurai Specials), 06795/06976 (Chennai Egmore-Tiruchirappalli-Chennai Egmore Specials)Cancelled for November 28: Train no 06012 (Nizamuddin-Kanniyakumari Special)Partially cancelled for November 25: Train no 06232 (Mysuru-Mayiladuthurai Special) partially cancelled between Tiruchirappalli and Mayiladuthurai and will run between Mysuru and TiruchirappalliPartally cancelled for November 26: Train no 06231 (Mayiladuthurai-Mysuru Special) partially cancelled between Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchirappalli and will run between Tiruchirappalli and MysuruPartially cancelled for November 25: Train no 06188 (Ernakulam-Karaikkal Special) partially cancelled between Tiruchirappalli and Karaikkal and will run between Ernakulam and TiruchirappalliPartially cancelled for November 26: Train no 06187 (Karaikkal-Ernakulam Special) partially cancelled between Karaikkal and Tiruchirappalli and will run between Tiruchirappalli and ErnakulamPartially cancelled for November 26: Train no 02083/02084 (Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore) Jan Shatabdi Specials partially cancelled between Tiruchirappalli and Mayiladuthurai and will run between Coimbatore and TiruchirappalliSouth Western RailwayTrain no. 06075/06076 (MGR Chennai Central-KSR Bengaluru-MGR Chennai Central) Double Decker and 02607/02608 (MGR Chennai Central-KSR Bengaluru-MGR Chennai Central) Festival Special cancelled for November 26||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-southern-railway-south-western-railway-cancel-trains-check-full-list-here/story-n4vfJ5CNiGSUgm9CIhPMTM.html
25-11-2020||India||First EU citizens may be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December end||First European Union citizens could be vaccinated against the coronavirus by the end of the next month, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen announced on Wednesday.The pandemic situation remains serious, “with nearly 3,000 deaths a day,” von der Leyen admitted. Relaxing restrictions “too much and too fast” could lead to a third wave after Christmas, the European Commission president warned, calling on the EU to “learn from the summer.”Click here for complete coverage of Coronavirus pandemic“But there is also good news. The European Commission has by now secured contracts on vaccines with six pharmaceutical companies. The first European citizens might already be vaccinated before the end of December. There is finally light at the end of the tunnel ... Vaccines are important, but what counts is vaccination,” von der Leyen told the European parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/first-eu-citizens-may-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-by-december-end/story-jKDa8VIOwGoREf0ylZppcO.html
25-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel’s demise irreparable loss to party: Ex-PM Manmohan Singh||Senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh on Wednesday called party colleague Ahmed Patel “one of the most trusted leaders of the Congress Party and a great friend of mine” as he remembered the Rajya Sabha lawmaker. Patel died earlier in the day at the age of 71.Patel, who was critical since the last few days, was admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on November 15 after he developed complications. His son Faisal said he died at 3.30am. The parliamentarian had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on October 1 and was hospitalised weeks later on November 15.“I am saddened to hear the shocking news of the untimely death of Ahmed Patel. Ahmed Patel ji was one of the most trusted leaders of the Congress Party and a great friend of mine. His passing away is an irreparable loss to the Congress Party. My heartfelt condolences to the members of the bereaved family,” Singh, a former prime minister, said in a statement.Ahmed Patel was among Congress’ key-strategists and held several important roles within the party. Patel was also an eight-time parliamentarian - he was a Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat five times and served as Lok Sabha MP thrice.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also shared his condolences and, in a tweet, highlighted Patel’s role in strengthening the Congress party. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi called him ‘an irreplaceable friend and colleague’ in her statement.Several Congress leaders paid their tributes to the parliamentarian. Congress’ Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, who is currently in Guwahati to attend the final rites of another Congress veteran politician and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, called Patel a “pillar of the Congress party”. Congress leader Kapil Sibal penned a small poem in memory of Ahmed Patel while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that his death “leaves an immense void.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-s-demise-irreparable-loss-to-party-ex-pm-manmohan-singh/story-hljzqKeUoo7830jnX6zmlJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Bihar govt to begin paddy procurement next week, targets 30 lakh MT||In a major relief to despondent farmers, the Bihar government’s cooperative department has decided to launch paddy procurement through the primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) and Vyapar Mandal outlets across the state next week, officials said. The department aims to procure around 30 lakh metric tonne of paddy from the farmers at the minimum support price of ₹1,868 per quintal, up ₹53 from the last year. It has already released a bank guarantee of Rs 2,200 crore to the cooperative banks concerned to shell out necessary credits to the PACS. Secretary, state cooperative department, Vandana Preyashi said that a joint order of the cooperative and the food and consumer protection departments had been issued on Monday in this regard. The task force set up in all the districts for procurement of paddy had been asked to meet and finalise the strategy for procurement in their respective districts at the earliest. “So far, the task force in 18 districts already met and started the ground work for procurement. Rest of the districts would follow suit soon. The department has already got a bank guarantee of ₹5,500 crore for paddy procurement this year,” said the secretary. A sense of despondency had started creeping in among the farmers as the state government did not issue any clarification regarding delay in paddy procurement. Last year, the PACS had launched the procurement from November 15. Procurement of foodgrains on the MSP was one of the main poll agenda of the opposition parties, particularly the Congress, during the recent assembly election. Last year, the cooperative department had procured about 25 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from the farmers at the MSP of ₹1,815 per quintal. Officials said that it was the heaviest quantity of paddy procurement by the state government so far. “Custom milled rice - the rate on which millers deliver back rice to the state food corporation - was also very encouraging. It’s almost 99%,” said Preyashi. The Congress party is, however, not content with the rate of paddy being offered to the farmers of Bihar. “We had promised to offer ₹2,500 per quintal paddy on the pattern of Chattisgarh. Even the Jharkhand government is paying a bonus of Rs 132 in addition to the MSP to farmers on every quintal of paddy procured,” said Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. A section of farmers, however, apprehended that PACS and Vyapar Mandal might further delay the procurement process citing excess moisture or absence of capacity to store them. “Some of PACS have godowns with capacities of 1,000 tonnes while others have capacities of 500 tonnes, 200 tonnes and 100 tonnes. The total capacity of all the godowns owned by PACS across the state is about 11 lakh tonnes,” said Nawalesh Sharma, a farmer of Bikramganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-to-begin-paddy-procurement-next-week-targets-30-lakh-mt/story-dA2FrkyJNwafJQpoT9eCvO.html
25-11-2020||India||Punjab imposes night curfew from 10 pm-5 am starting December 1, doubles fine for violating Covid-19 norms||Punjab on Wednesday became the latest state to announce fresh restrictions, including night curfew and doubling of fine for not wearing masks or following social distancing norms, amid rising cases in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and apprehensions of a second wave.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh ordered night curfew in all towns and cities of Punjab from 10pm to 5am from December 1.The chief minister has doubled the fine for violating Covid-19 protocols to Rs 1,000 which would also be applicable from December 1. Apart from this, all hotels restaurants and wedding venues would close at 9.30 pm. The following curbs will be reviewed on December 15. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPunjab has so far logged 147,665 Covid-19 cases which include 6,834 active cases, over 136,000 recoveries and 4,653 deaths. As many as 614 people were reported positive while 22 more succumbed to the infection on Tuesday. Out of the fresh Covid-19 cases, maximum were added by Ludhiana (103), followed by Jalandhar (94) and Patiala (82), according to the health department’s bulletin. The state has tested over 3.5 million samples so far. Chief minister Singh was not a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Covid-19 review meeting with other states on Tuesday as he was not well. His media adviser said the chief minister was tested for coronavirus and the report came out negative. Also Read: Kejriwal asks experts to audit Covid-19 deaths, suggest measures to reduce fatalities in DelhiMeanwhile, India’s Covid-19 went past 9.22 million after 44,376 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases have continue to remain below the 500,000-mark while over 8.6 million people have recovered so far and the overall recovery rate stands at 93.72 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-punjab-to-impose-night-curfew-from-december-1-doubles-fine-for-violating-virus-norms/story-p6vtI7TdCtElXgj9nMY03O.html
25-11-2020||India||UP to develop Tulsidas and Valmiki ashrams into tourist spots||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has directed the tourism and culture departments to develop Rajapur and Lalapur, the two places in Chitrakoot district of Bundelkhand associated with great poet Tulsidas and famous sage Valmiki, officials said Tuesday. Rajapur, a town and tehsil of Chitrakoot, is associated with Tulsidas who authored the Ramcharit Manas while Lalapur located on the Chitrakoot-Prayagraj highway is associated with Maharishi Valmiki who penned the Ramayana in Sanskrit. During a review of Chitrakoot division on September 5, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to ready a plan for road linkage to Rajapur and Lalapur. On October 31, on the occasion of the anniversary of sage Valmiki, Adityanath had visited Valmiki ashram in Lalapur, some 30 kilometers from Prayagraj. “The chief minister then had ordered that the area around the ashram be developed into a tourist spot. So now, we intend to develop it with roads and ropeways, light and sound systems. The sage’s ashram is located atop a hill and to reach there one has to climb at least 480 stairs,” an official said. Principal secretary, tourism and culture Mukesh Meshramsaid in the first phase the forest department had been given the task of preparing the approach route till the ashram. These aren’t the only areas that are being developed. In fact, the state government has drawn up an ambitious plan to develop places associated with saints and sages or those known for their temples. In eastern UP’s Vindhyachal region of Mirzapur, for instance, the government has decided to develop a Vindhyavasini Mandir Corridor, modelled on the lines of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The corridor would have a 50-feet wide parikrama path (circumambulation route) around the temple of Goddess Vindhyavasini. The project was approved by the UP cabinet on October 30. Even in Amethi, a Congress bastion that the BJP breached in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the government has planned to develop lesser known but locally important temples and sites. The Nand Mahar, named after ‘Nand Baba’ who is believed to have nurtured Lord Krishna when he was enacting ‘Baal leela’, the Kalikan Dhaam, the Kadu Nala forest area as well as the Bijli Pasi fort in adjacent Rae Bareli are some of the spots that the BJP government plans to develop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-develop-tulsidas-and-valmiki-ashrams-into-tourist-spots/story-vz1GPFCSfc27zNaqQiHP0O.html
25-11-2020||India||BJP’s Vijay Kumar Sinha elected Bihar Speaker amid opposition ruckus||Vijay Kumar Sinha was on Wednesday elected the Speaker of the 17th Vidhan Sabha in Bihar, becoming the first BJP leader to achieve the feat in the state. Sinha was elected amid ruckus by RJD members who questioned the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar in the House. CM Kumar is a member of the Legislative Council.While 126 votes went in favour of the motion for Sinha’s election, 114 were against him. After that, Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi urged chief minister Nitish Kumar and leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav to escort Vijay Sinha to the chair of the Speaker. It is the first time in Bihar since 2005 that the BJP has fielded its candidate for the Speaker’s post, on earlier occasions it was bagged by ally JD(U). The JD(U) managed just 43 seats in the recently concluded elections, while the BJP emerged the second biggest party with 74 seats. As soon as the House assembled, and Manjhi started the procedure for election, the opposition created ruckus demanding a secret ballot. However, Manjhi rejected the demand, saying there was no provision of secret ballot on Constitutional matters. The RJD had fielded Awadh Bihari Choudhary as the Grand Alliance (GA) candidate for the Speaker’s post. Manjhi called for a voice vote on the motion for election of Speaker and announced the verdict in favour of the NDA candidate, but with the numbers of the Opposition and the treasury benches quite close, the difference was not distinct. The Opposition objected and Manjhi, accepting the objection, called for division. The opposition, however, again created ruckus, questioning the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar in the House, as he was not the member of the Vidhan Sabha. Manjhi said that only the members of the House would participate in voting, but the presence of the chief minister was in the capacity of the leader of the House and there was nothing wrong with it. “I have been a member of the House for the last 40 years and there is nothing wrong with it,” he said, asking the parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary to clarify the rules. Choudhary, who was the Speaker in the 16th Vidhan Sabha, said that it had been an established tradition of the House that the CM remained present in the House even during voting without participation. “He will not participate in voting, but there is nothing wrong in his presence. This is an unnecessary issue and the opposition also knows it. Many a time in the past the CM has remained present in the House during voting, but did not vote,” he added. In the past, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has been seen sitting in the Lok Sabha during voting even though he was a member of the Rajya Sabha. The Opposition was, however, unrelenting, as it continued shouting slogans, demanding that the CM as well as other two ministers - Ashok Choudhary and Mukesh Sahni - be moved out of the House during voting despite Manjhi’s continued insistence that Kumar was present in the capacity of the leader of the House only. Choudhary and Sahni are not members of any House at present. The Leader of Opposition, however, said that the rules were being violated right in the presence of the Pro-tem Speaker. “They stole the mandate in 2015 and have again done it. Now, it is happening before the chair. It is a mockery of democracy,” he added, while the opposition members sat in the well. In the midst of the din, with the opposition unmoved, Manjhi again read out the motion for election of Sinha as the Speaker once again and asked those in favour to stand up for counting. “Your disruption is meaningless and clearly shows that you have some weakness and are trying to stall proceedings. If you have the numbers, go back to your seats and be counted. If you have the numbers, that will show. I have clearly said that those not members of the House would not vote, but they could remain present,” he added. Despite counting those in favour of the motion for Sinha’s election, the Opposition remained unmoved, disregarding the Chair’s repeated requests to get back to their seats. Later, Manjhi adjourned the House for five minutes. As soon as the House reassembled, Ajit Sharma urged the Chair for an attendance register, as some outside members were also present, but Manjhi rejected it and ordered those in favour of the motion to stand up once again for counting. Tejashwi Yadav tried to question the presence of the CM, but Manjhi reiterated that he was there as leader of the House. Later, the Speaker asked those against the motion to stand up for counting. After the counting, the Opposition was again in the well, shouting slogans. Manjhi urged the opposition members to get back to their seats for announcement of results. Constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap, too, later said that there was nothing wrong in the presence of the CM in the House and the ruling of the Speaker was paramount. “Such things have happened in the past also, but this is the first time such a demand has been raised. The leader of the House can remain present in the House. It appears clearly a political move,” Kashyap added. The NDA commands 125 members plus it has the support of an independent and the lone member of the LJP. The RJD, with 110 members, was hoping that ‘conscience voting’ will tilt the scale in its favour. The AIMIM’s stand that the Speaker should be a unanimous choice also dampened the opposition alliance’s prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-vijay-kumar-sinha-elected-bihar-speaker-amid-opposition-ruckus/story-DKJTdxtYEyWJXyzk1kvPVJ.html
25-11-2020||India||The centrality of Ahmed Patel in Indian politics||In a parliamentary democracy, power is diffused. The legislature is where the sovereignty of citizens is expressed through representatives; the executive is where real authority is exercised, shaping lives of citizens and steering the nation through everyday crises. The political coalition or party which enjoys a majority drives the political outlook and vision governing decisions; the bureaucracy influences both policy formulation and acts as a policy executor; the judiciary keeps an eye on whether the exercise of this authority is being done within the framework of the Constitution; big business has its priorities, and through political funding, often wields an invisible influence on policy; the media plays the role of a watchdog; and civil society represents, often, the views of organised citizens with specific interests which need to be heard and accommodated for deeper legitimacy.If there was one Congress leader who had an almost instinctive understanding of how to manage these various sources and sites of power, it was Ahmed Patel. And that is why his loss is the most significant setback to India’s Grand Old Party in recent times. The setback is even deeper because the Congress—after losing two consecutive Lok Sabha elections and multiple state elections, being perceived as directionless, in the midst of uncertainty over leadership and a cold war between diverse interest groups—is now left bereft of perhaps the one man who had the ability to bridge stakeholders within the power apparatus of the party, and between the party and its possible constituents of support outside.Also Read: Great friend, irreplaceable comrade: Congress leaders remember Ahmed PatelAhmed Patel entered Parliament when the Congress was in Opposition for the first time in Indian history—after the Emergency. Like many others who cut their teeth in those difficult times when the Congress was being attacked by those in government and facing an internal churn, Patel made his choice early on. He would stay loyal to Indira Gandhi and the family.But it was during Rajiv Gandhi’s time that Patel began understanding the dynamics of power—forming a part of the troika of parliamentary secretaries the PM appointed. It was here that Patel understood the power and constraints within which the prime minister, even one with 400-plus seats, operated; he saw the power of the Parliament, even where the Opposition was at its weakest; he saw the importance of keeping the party organisation together, in the midst of emerging mutinies against the young PM; he saw how handling contradictions that emerge from religion and caste was central to managing politics (an area of familiarity since his home state, Gujarat, too, was often the site of both communal and caste clashes). It was here that he began forming lifelong networks within the party, and his loyalty to the Nehru-Gandhi family deepened.But if he cut his teeth with Rajiv Gandhi, it was with Sonia Gandhi that Patel truly came into his own. Once again, like at the beginning of his political career, the Congress was in crisis in the late 1990s and early 2000s—Sonia Gandhi had just entered formal politics and had not yet attained the respect of all within her own party; Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power and being rated as the most popular prime minister of recent times; Patel’s home state of Gujarat was now firmly in the grip of the Bharatiya Janata Party, with an unprecedented degree of Hindu-Muslim polarisation and with Patel himself being made acutely conscious of his Muslim identity. Few thought the Congress could return to power.But it did, pulling off a surprise in the 2004 polls. And that is when Patel began harnessing all the skills that he had developed in the preceding two-and-a-half decades. India had the most unusual experiment of the party president (Sonia Gandhi) constituting one element of the power matrix and the prime minister (Manmohan Singh) constituting another. There may be diverse views on whether this experiment was healthy or even appropriate for democracy—but if it lasted for a decade, the man who played a central role in navigating the relationship, determining the messages that went from the party to the government, and playing the messenger at the highest levels of power was Ahmed Patel.Also Read: Ahmed Patel: Congress’ indispensable man, an emissary and an archetypal party personBetween 2004 and 2014, it would not be an exaggeration to suggest that no major political or policy decision happened without either Ahmed Patel’s consent or his knowledge. The man who developed a legendary reputation for operating largely at night became the key gatekeeper to Sonia Gandhi—in terms of who she would meet, what she would prioritise, and which way she would veer—and the most formidable, but largely invisible, power centre in India in recent decades.If a Congress leader had a grievance, he went to Patel. If a state was headed for elections, it was left to Patel to determine the candidates and tone of the campaign. If a Cabinet reshuffle had to take place, it was Patel who deliberated on the names with Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. If an ally had to be managed, it was Patel who worked his phones. If resources had to be mobilised, it was Patel who tapped his corporate network, often leveraging his Gujarati roots with the country’s biggest business houses. If a top bureaucratic appointment was in the offing, officials lined up, quietly—and yes, again in the middle of the night—to make their case to Patel. If the Opposition had to be countered—either by political management or using the instruments of the State (including in violation of the spirit of democratic norms)—it was Patel who gave the green signal. If the media strategy was to be decided, Patel gave the talking points to the party’s spokespersons or briefed journalists, almost always off the record. If a party unit in a state was in the grip of a factional divide, it was left to Patel to read the riot act and reconcile interests. This, indeed, was the hard mechanics of politics that Patel thrived in—away from the public glare on the more orchestrated elements of political theatre.In the last six years, Patel had to deal with two distinct transitions. One was the change in the national political climate, with a dominant BJP, led by his old acquaintance, and some suggest, friend, from his Gujarat days — Narendra Modi—changing the vocabulary and rules of Indian politics. But it was not as much Modi, with whom Patel did share cordial ties, but Amit Shah, who saw Patel as among those responsible for the cases against him in Gujarat, who decided to challenge Patel’s power—including in the thriller of a contest for his Rajya Sabha seat from Gujarat in 2017. Patel won that battle, and this was testament to how, even at his weakest, he had the instruments to secure his interests.The second was the more immediate internal generational transition within his own party, with Sonia Gandhi stepping back and Rahul Gandhi emerging as the next leader. Rahul Gandhi was understood to have deep scepticism of the party’s “Old Guard”, which he blamed for the weaknesses of the United Progressive Alliance government and for the larger political culture within the Congress. Rahul Gandhi appeared to think that the presence of well-entrenched political leaders around his father and mother had led them to make political mistakes. Never confirmed by either side, and often the subject of Delhi’s political grapevine, Patel—in this viewpoint—represented the Old.But over the past few years, even Rahul Gandhi appeared to recognise the indispensability of Ahmed Patel. He played a key, but behind-the-scenes role, along with his old friend who too had cut his teeth in the late 1970s and early ’80s, Ashok Gehlot, in helping Rahul Gandhi mount an aggressive campaign in the Gujarat elections of 2017; he played his part in managing the Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh elections in 2018, with success; as treasurer, he ensured that the Congress—despite being out of power—had the resources to put up a fight in 2019; with Sonia Gandhi‘s return as the party chief, he helped rehabilitate Bhupinder Hooda in Haryana, posing a challenge to the BJP in state polls; and he was a behind-the-scenes architect of the Maharashtra alliance with another of his older, former colleagues, Sharad Pawar.For a man who entered the national political theatre when the Congress was in Opposition 43 years ago, and has left the theatre of life when the Congress is in Opposition now, Ahmed Patel’s life was marked by his relationship with power, even though he wore that power very lightly, with a smile, often understating his own authority and being tentative about any evolving political situation. Or perhaps it was because he had seen power so up close that there was also this tentativeness about Patel; certitudes, he knew, did not work in democratic politics.There can be a strong critique of his importance—for should a man who largely operated invisibly have exercised such power without the commensurate public accountability? Was he so immersed in just navigating the corridors of power in central Delhi that he failed to read the political currents on the ground and prepare his party leadership accordingly? But irrespective of one’s views on Patel, there is little doubt that he remained a true, loyal, indispensable pillar of the Congress—and, by extension, of Indian politics. The party will feel his loss deeply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-centrality-of-ahmed-patel-in-indian-politics/story-zZpBEDzhUqDqFeNCVeZfdN.html
25-11-2020||India||NDA likely to name BJP nominee for Rajya Sabha bypoll, LJP gets cold shoulder||NDA partners in Bihar have started backroom talks to put up a joint candidate, preferably from the BJP, to fill up a Rajya Sabha seat that fell vacant following the death of LJP founder and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan.The reason why the BJP likely to get the seat despite the LJP led by Chirag Paswan having a natural claim is said to be the objections raised by the Janata Dal (United) which is extremely upset with the 38-year-old Paswan scion who put up candidates against its nominees in the recent assembly election. The LJP played the role of a spoilsport to reduce the JD(U)’s tally to just 43 seats.Paswan’s term in the Rajya Sabha was till April 2, 2024. This means, the new incumbent to the seat would have a term for almost four years. Sources said the JD(U) leadership has already intimated the BJP about its reservations about the LJP’s nominee amid speculations that Chirag was initially keen on making his mother Reena Paswan the candidate for the seat arguing it would be a right tribute to the deceased former union minister who had shared a close bond with the BJP till his end. “The JD(U) at no cost would support a LJP candidate. There are certain reservations on it and we stand by it,” said a senior JD(U) functionary who did not want to be named.The BJP, knowing well how important the JD (U) is for the NDA that has a small majority in the 243-member house is not in any mood to annoy chief minister Nitish Kumar and has almost made up its mind to put its candidate for the seat. A candidate from the JD(U) cannot be ruled out at the moment though the JD(U) bagged two seats out of three NDA got in its kitty against five vacant seats from Bihar in the Rajya Sabha polls last March. The BJP, is also in no mood to give LJP the seat which was in the saffron party’s kitty till Ravishankar Prasad was elected to the Lok Sabha. “This is our seat. Late Ramvilas ji was adjusted on our seat because of the formula worked out during the Lok Sabha polls as the late leader enjoyed respect of all NDA leaders,” clarified a BJP state functionary. Even the LJP camp, aware of its limitations to push for its own nominee has apparently sent feelers to the BJP that any candidate from its side would be acceptable to the party. “We have left it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to decide on the candidate. The LJP has been reiterating that the party is with the BJP at the Centre,” said party’s state spokesperson Asraf Ansari. Significantly, the names of many candidates from the BJP are doing the rounds for the seat including former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain and former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, whose candidature for the RS berth is based on the perception that the senior BJP leader was not given the post of deputy CM this time and he could be accommodated suitably at the Union cabinet. Shahnawaj too is a strong candidate having waited for a long time to get a RS berth. “I am not aware of any move about my candidature for RS berth. I cannot comment on speculations,” Modi said, when asked about the likelihood of him being the BJP’s nominee to the vacant seat for the upper house of Parliament. However, BJP sources say that one cannot rule out a surprise element as far as Rajya Sabha polls are concerned just as it was in the case of the deputy CM’s post. As things stand, there are chances the nominee for the RS seat from the NDA – which could win the seat easily having 126 MLAs as against 122 required for sailing through in the election- would be decided in the next few days after the first session of the 17th assembly concludes on Friday. The chances of the opposition RJD-led Grand Alliance putting up a candidate cannot be ruled out given how it cornered the state government in the Speaker’s election by fielding its own nominee. In case, the GA puts a candidate for the RS seat, the election would be no less a close finish as chances of cross voting cannot be ruled out, which could put the ruling NDA in trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-likely-to-name-bjp-nominee-for-rajya-sabha-bypoll-ljp-gets-cold-shoulder/story-VOBowuiEgazFQeUrQJJANO.html
25-11-2020||India||BJP’s Vijay Sinha elected Speaker of Bihar assembly||BJP MLA Vijay Kumar Sinha was on Wednesday elected as Speaker of the Bihar assembly by a majority vote.Sinha, who was the candidate of the ruling NDA, got 126 votes as against 114 polled in favour of RJD’s Awadh Bihari Chaudhary who was fielded by the opposition Grand Alliance.The voting was marred by rumpus caused by opposition members who protested presence of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the floor of the House on the ground that he was a member of the legislative council.The chair,however, overruled the objection saying being leader of the house the chief minister’s presence is legitimate.The opposition also demanded voting by secret ballot which was turned down by pro tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi who went ahead with headcount after dissatisfaction was raised by the opposition over voice vote.Later, the chief minister, Deputy Chief Ministers- Tar Kishor Prasad and Renu Devi- and opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav escorted Sinha to the Speaker’s chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-vijay-sinha-elected-speaker-of-bihar-assembly/story-x5l9sMSf2R4KvLUO8NYdAL.html
25-11-2020||India||Oppn has an important role: President Kovind at All India Presiding Officers’ Conference||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday spoke about the role of the opposition in a democracy as he inaugurated a conference of presiding officers of legislative bodies in Gujarat’s Kevadia. “In a parliamentary democracy, along with the ruling party, the opposition also has an important role, so the two must ensure harmony and cooperate to conduct meaningful discussions,” Kovind said.The President also invoked India’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Speaker of the first Lok Sabha, Ganesh Vasudev Mavalankar. “It is a matter of great pleasure that this conference of All India Presiding Officers’ Conference is being held near the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. This statue of him is the tallest statue in the world. It is a matter of pride for all of us countrymen,” President Kovind said at the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference.“Mavalankar believed that Parliament and the state ‍Legislature should operate in a way that is best for the public interest,” he said, adding that the all members must forget their political differences and arrive at a consensus focused at achieving the objective of public interest.The Lok Sabha has organised the two-day conference at the banks of the Narmada River to celebrate the Constitution Day. The theme of the event is “Harmonious Coordination Between Legislature, Executive and Judiciary - Key to a Vibrant Democracy.”The 80th meeting of presiding officers of the Indian legislative assemblies and Parliament marked the return of the outdoor appearance of President Kovind in public programmes after almost seven months. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kovind had cut down on visitors, attended events virtually and avoided travelling outside Rashtrapati Bhavan.Vice president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat, the state’s chief minister Vijay Rupani were among those who attended the programme. Speaker Birla is also the chairperson of the conference.The All India Presiding Officers Conference began in 1921 and the Gujarat event marks its centenary year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-has-an-important-role-president-kovind-at-all-india-presiding-officers-conference/story-Ly1wNZ5xv4NqQxh6sDuREP.html
25-11-2020||India||‘At times, the legislature too has tended to cross the line’: Vice President Naidu||Underlining that none of the three organs of the State can claim to be supreme as only the Constitution is paramount, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said some court verdicts gave a distinct impression of the judiciary’s overreach.He said the legislature, the executive and the judiciary are bound to work within their respective domains as defined in the Constitution.Addressing the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference on “Harmonious Coordination between Legislature, Executive and Judiciary - Key to Vibrant Democracy”, Naidu said harmony lies in each organ doing its job without interfering with that of the others.This warrants a spirit of mutual respect, responsibility and restraint. Unfortunately, there have been several instances of crossing the boundaries, he said.Naidu said there have been quite a few judicial pronouncements that gave a distinct impression of an overreach.Citing some instances, he said it is not desirable for the judiciary to be perceived as acting as the “super executive” or the “super legislature”. “Since independence, the Supreme Court and the high courts have delivered several far-reaching verdicts in furtherance of socio-economic objectives, besides making correctional interventions. But occasionally, concerns have been raised as to whether they were entering the domains of the legislative and executive wings.“There have been debates as to whether some issues should have been more legitimately left to the other organs of the government,” the vice president said.The higher judiciary deciding on Diwali fireworks, denying the executive any role in the appointment of judges through collegiums, invalidating the National Judicial Appointments Commission Act seeking to enforce accountability and transparency were some of the instances cited by Naidu.“At times, the legislature too has tended to cross the line. The 39th Constitution amendment placing the election of president, vice president and prime minister beyond the scope of judicial scrutiny in the circumstances in 1975 is one such instance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-times-the-legislature-too-has-tended-to-cross-the-line-vice-president-naidu/story-DgGOy7ZrdCBhEKPdovSgFL.html
25-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel: Congress’ indispensable man, an emissary and an archetypal party person||The Congress has lost Ahmed Patel when it needed him the most. Forever understated and low profile, he was fiercely loyal to the party and its top leadership, especially Sonia Gandhi, whom he served as political secretary even before the formation of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime in 2004.Patel was to Sonia Gandhi what RK Dhawan was to her mother-in-law, Indira Gandhi. Always a man of few words, he kept out of the media glare, carrying out her edicts without standing up to be seen. The power he drew from his proximity to the party president was discreetly used in her name. At times he was an emissary, at times a plenipotentiary.Having the leader’s ear and her confidence lent Patel the aura and the gravitas to interface with party colleagues and alliance partners. He was at once a Gandhi confidant, point person, and troubleshooter. But for his backroom stratagem, the Manmohan Singh regime wouldn’t have survived the Opposition’s no-trust motion after the Left parties withdrew support over the Indo-US nuclear deal in 2008. That, perhaps, was the only time when Patel seemed to take credit for a job well done, fleetingly letting his guard down to show this writer a congratulatory SMS he received from Gandhi.Also Read: Great friend, irreplaceable comrade: Congress leaders remember Ahmed PatelA three-term Lok Sabha and five-time Rajya Sabha member, Patel never held a ministerial office, be it under Rajiv Gandhi, whom he served as parliamentary secretary in the early 1980s, or in the UPA regime. He was an archetypal party person, an apparatchik whose membership of the Congress’s core group fetched him a slot on the high table with the PM, Gandhi, and a select group of top ministers: AK Antony, Arjun Singh and Pranab Mukherjee.Not surprising then that he was the repository of all information in the Congress. As the one who knew the leadership’s mind, he spoke, when required, in monosyllables, using innuendoes to drop hints. He advised Gandhi but never transgressed his brief. As the media’s go-to man in the Congress, his word was as good as that of the high command. The position fetched him as many friends across parties as he had rivals within the Congress.There was no dearth of senior colleagues who envied him deeply; who conspired and ran whisper campaigns against him, incessantly attributing to him their personal comeuppance and the party’s organisational woes. He often was the whipping boy who kept his counsel to weather personal storms that were aplenty. His success lay in the fact that even his worst detractors ran to him for help on finding themselves in a spot.The one time Patel seemed to go wrong was when he hinted at the then telecom minister A Raja’s ejection from the Cabinet at the height of the 2G scam that hit UPA-2. But there, too, he hadn’t misread the leadership’s inclination to drop the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader. The PM had made up his mind. His prerogative was negated by the “compulsions of coalition” that saw the DMK patriarch, M Karunanidhi, insisting on Raja’s continuation.Crisis in fact hit the UPA-2 in the early phases of the Congress-led coalition’s return to power in 2009. At the heart of it was Sharm El Sheikh. It was left to Patel to convey to the PM the party’s strong disapproval of his joint statement (drawing its name from the Egyptian resort) with the then Pakistan prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani.The Congress brass was startled by the agreement delinking action against terrorism from the bilateral composite dialogue process. Not just that, the first ever reference to Balochistan (where Pakistan accuses India of fomenting trouble) in an India-Pak communiqué gave the Bharatiya Janata Party the ammunition to go all guns booming for the government.On his way to Egypt, Singh visited France to attend its national day function. The Congress was as much in the dark about the participation of an Indian contingent at the Bastille Day parade. From all available accounts, Patel was at his deferential best during his call on the PM, with whom he had cordial relations. The polite message he had for him was: there’s a party that runs the government and is accountable for all its actions.“Whence do we find another one like him,” bemoaned P Chidambaram in a condolence tweet. The tribute was as apt as it was telling about Patel’s indispensability to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-congress-indispensable-man-an-emissary-and-an-archetypal-party-person/story-Nsua8N5up0zwBHZZ6YWRqK.html
25-11-2020||India||Murder suspect in Chhattisgarh allegedly dies after police torture||A junior engineer of Electricity Department, who was one of the suspects in a murder case died due to police torture in Surajpur district 330 km north of Raipur, the family alleged on Wednesday. The police refuted the allegations as baseless and said he engineer died in hospital due to a heart attack. The junior engineer, Punam Katlam, was posted in Surajpur’s Latori sub-station of electricity department and was one of the three suspects in a murder which took place on November 22. Police said that the engineer along with three others killed one Harish Chand Rajwada (24) on November 22 after a fight over some issue. “On November 23, when we started investigation, we learnt that Katlam and four others including Rajwada had been drinking at the murder spot. When we started quizzing Katlam he said that he was feeling uneasy and hence he was immediately shifted to hospital in the evening. In the morning of November 24, Katlam had a heart attack when he went to toilet along with another person,” said Superintendent of Police, Surajpur, Rajesh Kukreja. However, the family alleged that Katlam was detained by the Surajpur police and was badly beaten. “There are injury marks on my brother’s body, which suggest torture after he was detained by the police,” said Deepak Katlam, who is a policeman himself.Deepak demanded a high-level enquiry into the death of his brother. Kukreja refuted the allegations said that the injury marks were because of the scuffle which took place during the murder of Harish Chand. “They had huge fight with wooden sticks during the scuffle with Harish Chand,” SP said. The SP further said that police have requested the district judge to initiate a judicial enquiry into the matter after the allegations of the family. “We want transparency into the issue hence we requested a judicial enquiry,” SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-accused-in-chhattisgarh-allegedly-dies-after-police-torture/story-JQX5aZ0qiVFBni86R8B7MN.html
25-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India rubbishes Pakistan’s ‘terror dossier’, reminds world of bin Laden’s presence in Abbottabad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India again rubbishes Pakistan’s ‘terror dossier’, reminds world of bin Laden’s presence in AbbottabadIndia’s envoy to the United Nations (UN) on Wednesday reminded the world community of slain al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden’s prolonged presence in Pakistan while dismissing Islamabad’s dossier on New Delhi’s alleged involvement in acts of terrorism. Read moreCovid-19: Preparations on to vaccinate 250-300 million Indians on priorityIndia is gearing up to vaccinate at least 250-300 million people, including about 30 million health care and frontline workers, against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by July next year, for which it will be looking at procuring about 500-600 million vaccine doses. Read more Cyclone Nivar: No flooding, water from Chembarambakkam to be released, say officialsAuthorities have assured there will be no flooding in Chennai and adjoining districts even as heavy rains ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Nivar on Wednesday inundated several water bodies in the capital city of Tamil Nadu as they have ensured the restricted release of surplus water and strengthening of river bunds over the years. Read moreWoman calls 911 to report a ‘dead body’ washed ashore. Turns out to be thisMany bizarre incidents available on the Internet are enough to spark questions like ‘what’, ‘why’ and ‘how’ in one’s mind. And this incident shared by a Facebook page Ocean Hour, perfectly captures that definition. Read moreIs Thar SUV waiting period now 9 months? Anand Mahindra assures rise in outputMahindra Thar SUV may have garnered a lot of interest among customers, but the waiting period for the new avatar of the iconic off-roader is getting longer with time. Earlier this month, HT Auto reported waiting period for Thar SUVs extended to seven months. Read more Durgamati trailer: Bhumi Pednekar goes from the victim to one doling revenge in this spooky Akshay Kumar filmBhumi Pednkera’s Durgamati trailer sets up two different timelines with justice and revenge as the themes that tie them together. Out to get Arshad Warsi’s activist leader, Mahie Gill’s cop zeroes in on a prisoner, played by Bhumi Pednekar. Watch here‘They are India’s two best wicketkeeper-batsmen now’: Sourav Ganguly makes his pick among Pant, Saha, Rahul, and SamsonEver since MS Dhoni announced his retirement from international cricket, the debate on who should be India’s next wicket-keeper batsman has gained momentum like never before. Read more ‘Peace process must be Afghan-led, owned & controlled…’: S JaishankarExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called for an immediate ceasefire to stop violence in Afghanistan. While speaking at the Afghanistan 2020 Conference, Jaishankar said that peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned & Afghan-controlled. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-rubbishes-pakistan-s-terror-dossier-reminds-world-of-bin-laden-s-presence-in-abbottabad-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9a0munFhoTgC6mCFy8ougM.html
25-11-2020||India||RJD MLAs create ruckus in Bihar assembly, oppose voice vote in Speaker election||There was a ruckus in the Bihar assembly on Wednesday on the third day of the five-day session as legislators of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) jumped into the well of the House opposing voice vote for the election of the Speaker during the day.Citing the presence of members of the legislative council - Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and cabinet minister Ashok Choudhary - in the House, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said, “Rules should be followed during the election of the Speaker.”Protem Speaker of Bihar Legislative Assembly and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) party, Jitan Ram Manjhi, countered Yadav’s claim. “Those from the other House aren’t voting for Speaker election, but there is no problem with them being present here,” Manjhi said. #WATCH: RJD MLAs creates ruckus in Bihar Assembly, show rulebook to Protem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi.Manjhi says, "Those from other House aren't voting for Speaker election, but no problem in their presence." Bihar CM & Minister Ashok Choudhary present in Assembly are MLCs. https://t.co/SPDgsurypf pic.twitter.com/ttj2J5bMXKThe RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) has fielded Awadh Bihari Choudhary as their candidate against the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) nominee Vijay Kumar Sinha for the post of the Speaker in the Bihar assembly. The Opposition’s move is the first test of strength for chief minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government which has a slender majority in the 243-member House.“The RJD, and GA allies, Congress and three Left parties, felt the need to field our own candidate as Choudhary is a senior legislator with wide experience and has the ability to run the House impartially by striking a balance between Opposition and ruling parties. His election as Speaker would help members raise people’s issues and get them addressed,” Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leader of the GA and Leader of the Opposition leader in the assembly, had said.After filing their nominations on Tuesday afternoon, both Choudhary, who is a six-time RJD MLA and Sinha, a senior BJP MLA, expressed confidence about having the required number of MLAs to win the election. Both of them have served as ministers in previous governments.The decision to field Choudhary is a breakaway from the traditional practice of election of the Speaker unanimously. It points to how the Opposition, with its 110 MLAs, is in no mood to give the NDA, with 126 MLAs, much leeway inside the assembly. More so, because the NDA banks heavily on the support of smaller allies like Vikasheel Inssan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM)(S).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mlas-create-ruckus-in-bihar-assembly-oppose-voice-vote-in-speaker-election/story-ZdttG9lBfQFmp9ypBVlF2N.html
25-11-2020||India||28 foreign companies invested Rs 9,357 cr in UP amid Covid pandemic: Govt||At the investors’ summit organised in the state capital in February 2018, the state government had signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) worth Rs 4.28 lakh crore with 1,045 companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-foreign-companies-invested-rs-9-357-cr-in-up-amid-covid-pandemic-govt/story-hqiZfuHIgqV7hGe6tmhwpO.html
25-11-2020||India||BMC gets proactive to check spread of Covid-19 as migrants return to Mumbai||In order to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19 among migrants who have returned to Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked local doctors to refer symptomatic patients from slums to their administrative ward offices.The BMC will then contact these patients to test and treat them at their facilities.Officials of civic wards with significant slum populations had held a meeting with local doctors on Monday.A senior civic official said, “We have asked them to refer Covid symptomatic patients from slums. After the daily Covid cases in the city have drastically reduced since September, we are ensuring that reverse migration should not lead to a surge in cases.”The BMC which was expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases after Diwali, has stocked required medicines and oxygen supply to the same level as it was needed during peak of the pandemic in September. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have seen a steady growth of daily Covid cases after Diwali which is a good sign. Having said that, we have made arrangements to the highest level. Oxygen supply has been scaled up to what it was needed during the Covid peak.”Even though the active cases at present are around 10, 000, the BMC says that it is equipped to handle more than 38, 000 active patients in the city. “Nearly 10 per cent of the total oxygen supply is being used since the active cases are low. We have kept the staff of vacant beds on standby in case there is a rise in cases. The city is equipped to handle a Covid surge,” Kakani added.Last week, the BMC had prepared a list of 20, 000 homes that were found locked during the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey and had decided to revisit these homes and conduct Covid tests if needed. The majority of these homes are believed to be of those who left Mumbai after the lockdown was announced in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-gets-proactive-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-as-migrants-return-to-mumbai/story-TYSa3X0UgkodjYDfQPGy5M.html
25-11-2020||India||Great friend, irreplaceable comrade: Congress leaders remember Ahmed Patel||Senior Congress leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh, party president Sonia Gandhi and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, on Wednesday paid their tributes to veteran party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel, who died earlier in the day. Faisal Patel, Ahmed Patel’s son, announced the death of his father because of multiple organ failure on Twitter. Ahmed Patel had tested positive for Covid-19 a month ago.Congress party president Sonia Gandhi said that Ahmed Patel was a colleague whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress party. She called him “an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend” and offered her empathy and support for his grieving family. Dr Manmohan Singh called Ahmed Patel a great friend and a trusted leader of the party and that his passing away is an “irreparable loss to the Congress party.”“In the shocking demise of Shri. Ahmed Patel ji, the Congress Party has lost one of its strongest pillars & the nation has lost a deeply dedicated leader. With a heavy heart we pay our profound condolences to his family & his followers at this time of grief,” the Congress party tweeted.Also read: The centrality of Ahmed Patel in Indian politicsLeader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad tweeted, “Extremely sad and shocked on the demise of Ahmed bhai. Really no words to express the pain and sorrow. You will always be remembered and cherished in our heart. Rest in peace my brother. #AhmadPatel.”Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister KC Venugopal expressed his condolences to the family of Ahmed Patel and remembered him as dedicated and humble. He also said that the party will miss the wise words of Ahmed Patel.Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress’ general secretary, expressed his condolences saying that Ahmed Patel was closer to everyone in the party and always considered the party as his family.निशब्द..जिन्हें हर छोटा बड़ा, दोस्त, साथी..विरोधी भी...एक ही नाम से सम्मान देते- ‘अहमद भाई’!वो जिन्होंने सदा निष्ठा व कर्तव्य निभाया,वो जिन्होंने सदा पार्टी को ही परिवार माना,वो जिन्होंने सदा राजनीतिक लकीरें मिटा दिलों पर छाप छोड़ी,अब भी विश्वास नही..अलविदा "अहमद जी"🙏 pic.twitter.com/NRCwHPNZLlRajya Sabha MP and senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal tweeted that “Congress has lost It’s Northern Star who guided it for long” and fondly remembered his long and steadfast friendship with Ahmed Patel.Also read: Had friends across parties: Leaders mourn Ahmed Patel’s deathEarlier in the day, party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi also expressed their condolences on Twitter to Patel’s family. Rahul Gandhi called him a pillar of the Congress party and a tremendous asset. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said his passing away has left an immense void and called him a wise and experienced colleague.Faisal Patel has urged well-wishers to adhere strictly to Covid-19 regulations by avoiding mass gatherings and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-friend-irreplaceable-comrade-congress-leaders-remember-ahmed-patel/story-XJl0Rva8xAe3kwCPtYHAsL.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: No flooding, water from Chembarambakkam to be released, say officials||Authorities have assured there will be no flooding in Chennai and adjoining districts even as heavy rains ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Nivar on Wednesday inundated several water bodies in the capital city of Tamil Nadu as they have ensured the restricted release of surplus water and strengthening of river bunds over the years.They have said 1,000 cubic metres per second or cusecs of water will be released from the Chembarambakkam reservoir on Wednesday afternoon and that families living along the Adyar River, which is linked to the reservoir, have been asked to be vigilant. The sudden release on huge quantities of water from Chembarambakkam, a source of drinking water for Chennai, into the Adyar River had resulted in the devastating floods in 2015 in Chennai and adjoining districts.Cleck here for latest updates on Cyclone NivarThe Central Water Commission (CWC) had asked authorities to maintain a vigil on reservoirs during high-intensity rainfall, saying there could be spillover from the Chembarambakkam reservoir. “Vigil has to be kept in reservoirs during high-intensity rainfall as catchments are nearly saturated. Further intense rainfall will lead to Chembarambakkam reservoir leading to spill and flood-type situation in rivers downstream,” CWC Chennai had said earlier in the week.The commission has issued a fresh flood warning for the coming 24 hours in areas of coastal Tamil Nadu and south coastal Andhra Pradesh. “Flash Flood Guidance Outlook has been issued for the next 24 hours and for subsequent 12 hours issued by IMD that is valid till November 25th at 11:30 hours. Various watersheds in Coastal Tamil Nadu and South Coastal Andhra Pradesh are appended,” the CWC Official Flood Forecast had tweeted. “Situation is under constant watch and surveillance,” it added.Also read | Cyclone Nivar: How to be safe before, during and after the stormHeavy rains continued on Wednesday inundating several localities in Chennai even as arterial roads and residential localities were waterlogged. More than 20 trees were uprooted and 100 people have been evacuated to relief camps in the city. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and rescue personnel have intensified rescue operations in Mahabalipuram, Cuddalore and Nagapattinam.India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday that landfall of Cyclone Nirvar has been delayed. It said Nivar may to move northwestwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during midnight of November 25 and early hours of November 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145kmph.Cyclone Nivar lay centred about 290km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 300km east southeast of Puducherry and 350km south southeast of Chennai, it said in its morning bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-no-flooding-water-from-chembarambakkam-to-be-released-say-officials/story-JiXJhoqo1IPLte0G0R3DXO.html
25-11-2020||India||China says India’s latest app ban order violates WTO rules||China on Wednesday opposed India’s decision to ban 43 more Chinese-origin mobile phone applications on security grounds and contended that the move violated the rules of the World trade Organization (WTO). On Tuesday, India imposed a fresh ban on Chinese-origin apps, the fourth time it has done so since the border standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) emerged in the open in May. With this, the total number of Chinese-origin apps banned by India has gone up to 267. “We firmly oppose the Indian side’s repeated use of ‘national security’ as an excuse to prohibit some mobile apps with Chinese background,” said Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong. Also Read: India’s ban on 43 Chinese apps is the 4th strike since Ladakh stand offJi called on India to withdraw the ban on the ground that it went against the WTO’s rules. “We hope the Indian side provides a fair, impartial and non-discriminatory business environment for all market players from various countries, including China, and rectify the discriminatory practices violating WTO rules,” she said. Also Watch l India bans more Chinese apps: AliExpress, SnackVideo, CamCard in list of 43 The Chinese government, Ji said, has always required that overseas Chinese companies “abide by international rules, operate in compliance with laws and regulations and conform to public order and good morals”. China and India represent “opportunities of development to each other rather than threats”, Ji said, reiterating a line taken by Beijing since the border standoff began. “Both sides should bring bilateral economic and trade relations back to the right path for mutual benefit and win-win results on the basis of dialogue and negotiation,” she added. The border standoff involving tens of thousands of troops from both sides is currently in its seventh month, and several rounds of diplomatic and military talks have failed to lead to a breakthrough in disengagement and de-escalation at key friction points such as Pangong Lake, Hot Spring and Depsang. Troops from both sides have now dug in for the harsh winter, and India has been rushing equipment such as winter clothing and shelters to soldiers in forward areas. Since the standoff emerged in the open, India has tightened rules related to Chinese investments in the country and cracked down on Chinese-origin apps under provisions of the Information Technology Act, saying they “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. India initially banned 59 Chinese-origin apps on June 29, before banning 47 more on July 28, 118 more on September 2 and 43 more on November 24. Among the apps banned on Tuesday was the one of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba’s AliExpress app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-india-s-latest-app-ban-order-violates-wto-rules/story-xgktTlRi1Jyg06C3rmC6xJ.html
25-11-2020||India||From January 1, add 0 before dialling a mobile number from your landline||The department of telecommunications (DoT) in a circular said landline users will have to add a zero before calling any mobile number January 1 onwards. The department of telecommunications accepted the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s (TRAI) recommendations because the move would allow creating numbering space for fixed-line and mobile services.The circular dated November 20 also said that it may inform landline customers about this change. “Fixed-to-mobile calls shall be dialled with prefix ‘0’. Suitable announcement may be fed in the fixed line switches to apprise the fixed line subscribers about the requirement of dialling the prefix ‘0’ for all fixed-to-mobile calls,” it said. “All the fixed line subscribers should be provided with `0’ dialling facility, that is, STD dialling facility,” the circular posted on DoT’s website said.DoT has given telecom service providers till January 1 to implement the newly-recommended changes. This change was recommended by TRAI to DoT earlier this year in May. According to PTI, TRAI had said that adding a 0 to a mobile number while dialling from a fixed-line number. TRAI also said that introducing this new pattern will add 2,544 million additional numbering resources for mobile service providers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-january-1-add-0-before-dialling-a-mobile-number-from-your-landline/story-LmhDYWuGQmDn8kQmuwaK9K.html
25-11-2020||India||Bengal assembly elections around corner, TMC desperate to brand BJP as outsider||With less than six months left for the crucial 2021 Bengal assembly elections, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) is desperately trying to brand its principal rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as an outsider in the state, while trying to boost its own connect with the voters. “Some people come down just before the elections and go back after making tall claims. But I stay here, not just during Chhath Puja, but also during Durga Puja, Christsman and Eid. This is my parampara,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said earlier this week, while adding that people need not be afraid of outsiders. The BJP has hit back, saying that Banerjee’s statements indicate that she has taken it for granted that West Bengal has turned into West Bangladesh, where people need to produce documents to enter the state. Also read | Bihar battle won, BJP turns focus to Bengal, vows to transform it into GujaratThe TMC has upped its ante against the BJP on this front, more so after the latter sent five of its Central leaders, hailing from other states, to take stock of the party’s preparedness in the state. “What happened to their district presidents? Why did they need to parachute leaders from outside the state?” questioned veteran TMC leader and minister Partha Chatterjee. “Have things come to such a low that Bengal and Bengalis will bow down to them? Should Bengalis accept leaders from other states thrust upon them?” said state minister Bratya Basu. Basu also said that outsiders who do not know Rabindranath Tagore are dictating terms to the people of the state. “We had seen how violence perpetrated by them led to desecration of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar’s bust (during May 2019 Lok Sabha polls campaign),” Basu added. Leaders of BJP’s state unit said that the CM was doing more harm to Bengalis by trying to project some people as outsiders. “More than four million Bengalis are working in other states. What if they are tagged as outsiders and asked to return to Bengal? Will Mamata Banerjee be able to provide them jobs? Has she taken for granted that the state of West Bengal has become West Bangladesh? Do we need to produce documents to enter Bengal just the way it was in Kashmir?” Dilip Ghosh, chief of the BJP’s state unit had said to reporters on Saturday. Meanwhile, in a bid to build its own connect with the people, the state administration has announced a programme, Duare Duare Paschim Banga Sarkar (West Bengal government at every doorstep) to address the grievances of the people. “Party leaders have been asked to increase their connection with the local people living in towns and villages. Every Saturday, leaders will be visiting villages and towns. They would be taking along the local administration. This would not just build local connect but will also help address grievances on the spot,” said a senior TMC minister. Ridiculing the programme, the BJP said TMC leaders should also take the local police with them as people were peeved with them. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where the BJP won 40% of the vote share in Bengal and bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in the state, the party is now eyeing the state assembly. “The BJP had sent its Central leaders to the state. They have done their work and have returned while the state unit continues to work on ground. But the TMC is so terrified that they are still talking about the Central leaders,” said Ghosh. The party is aiming for at least 200 of 294 seats in the House and is putting together its biggest election machinery ever in the state. Top state office-bearers of the BJP said party leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit for polls. They would be part of a 45-member team to be set up for each constituency which will be helped by the existing district committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assembly-elections-around-corner-tmc-desperate-to-brand-bjp-as-outsider/story-NmMnfWKGTRizRtXJZ5taTK.html
25-11-2020||India||Is Hyderabad in Pakistan, asks KTR after Telangana BJP chief’s ‘surgical strike’ remark||Telangana IT and municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday lashed out at BJP Telangana president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar for his “surgical strike in old city of Hyderabad” comment.“Is Hyderabad in Pakistan? Are you in your conscious state? The one who is in the government must do a surgical strike on poverty, unemployment, the ones assaulting women in Uttar Pradesh. What has happened to Hyderabad? Do you want to do a surgical strike as people here are living together? For winning seats do you want to set fire in Hyderabad,” Rao said while addressing a public gathering here.The Telangana Rashtriya Samiti (TRS) leader said that people here must understand, people of different religions are living together for many years.Earlier on Tuesday, the Telangana BJP President Kumar said that the TRS and AIMIM were trying to win GHMC polls with Rohingyas, Pakistani and Afghanistani voters.“GHMC polls should be conducted without illegal voters from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Rohingyas. We will conduct a surgical strike in old city once we win the polls,” Kumar said in an address while campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls in Hyderabad.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls will be held on December 1 and results will be declared on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-hyderabad-in-pakistan-asks-ktr-after-telangana-bjp-chief-s-surgical-strike-remark/story-TwAnb2eQNp9WUZBzmnHaGI.html
25-11-2020||India||Weather to improve in J&K, Ladakh with decrease in rain, snowfall: IMD||Weather in the Kashmir Valley is likely to improve with light snow and rainfall only in isolated places, predicted the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials said it was raining or snowing lightly at most places of J&K, Drass Zojila axis and the sky was overcast to cloudy in the rest of Ladakh. “As expected, there’s gradual decrease in rain /snow since early morning. We expect a significant improvement in weather from afternoon in both the UTs,” said a senior IMD officer on Wednesday.He said the weather will most likely remain dry till December 3. “Isolated light rain or snow can’t be ruled out. No significant weather [change] is expected for the next eight days.”The IMD said that people, especially those living in snow bound areas, should remain alert to a possible avalanche as there is a lot of snow accumulation on hills. Despite snowfall, the traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway is plying. The alternate Mughal Road is closed for traffic. Srinagar recorded 5.6 degrees Celcius maximum and 1.6 degrees Celsius minimum temperature on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-to-improve-in-j-k-ladakh-with-decrease-in-rain-snowfall-imd/story-PKWpgfTpQeBi167WzutcYJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi arrives in Guwahati to pay respects to former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi along with two senior leaders of the party arrived in Guwahati on Wednesday morning to pay their last respects to former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi who died on Monday due to post-Covid complications Gandhi landed at Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport on a chartered flight from Goa along with party general secretaries KC Venugopal and Jitendra Singh. Soon after landing, he along with the other two leaders went directly to Gogoi’s official residence in Guwahati to meet the former leader’s family members including wife Dolly and son Gaurav, a Lok Sabha MP from Assam. From there, he will go to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra in the city, where the mortal remains of Gogoi was moved Tuesday evening, and offer last respects to the departed leader. Gandhi and Venugopal will leave for Delhi after that while Singh, who is also the party in-charge for Assam, will stay back to attend the cremation scheduled on Thursday. The last rites of Gogoi will be performed at Nabagraha cremation grounds in Guwahati on Thursday morning. The body is slated to be carried from Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra to a mosque, temple, gurudwara and church before it is taken to the cremation ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-arrives-in-guwahati-to-pay-respects-to-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi/story-bmRnvbEK16zWowbKlh6NQJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19: In Maharashtra, mortality rate in 21-40 year age group low despite high infection||Although many Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are reported in age groups of 21-30 years and 31-40 years, the case fatality rate (CFR) in these groups is as low as 0.28 % and 0.67% respectively. As per the data presented by the state health department before the state Cabinet on November 19, of the total cases in Maharashtra, 21.19% are in the 31-40 year age group and 18.40% in 21-30 year age group.The CFR is high among the people above 60 years old. Though the caseload in 61-70 year group is 10.09% of the total cases, its mortality rate is 7.86%, which increased among people in 71-80 year group to 12.15%. It is 15.57% and 14.69% in the age groups of 81-90 and 91-100 years respectively.State CFR stands at 2.63%. Mortality among females is very low at 5.13% against that among males at 8.54%. The ratio of male and female patients in the caseload is 38:62. Also read | Screening of passengers from Covid hot spots begins Wednesday in Mumbai, details are hereMaharashtra has 1,789,800 cases and 46,683 deaths reported till Tuesday evening. Five districts of Pune, Thane, Nagpur, Mumbai and Nagpur have more than 20,000 cases per million population. The test rate per million population in the state has increased to 74,207 though Maharashtra is still much below the national rate (95,641 tests) and is among the top 15 states with over 200,000 cases. Delhi tops the chart with 279,000 tests per million, followed by Andhra Pradesh (179,000), Kerala (160,000) and Karnataka (148,000).State’s case fatality rate has been around 2.64% in over eight weeks. Of the total 36 districts, 17 have a higher CFR than that of the state with Mumbai at 3.91%.The state’s doubling rate has reached 330 days, while its recovery rate stands at 92.75%. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We have directed the district authorities to ramp up the infrastructure anticipating a surge. The districts that are lagging in preparedness for the projected surge will upgrade themselves in next few days. The experience they gained during the first peak will help them in preparations for the second wave. We have set up liquid oxygen supply plants in 16 districts and it is underway in 14 other districts.”According to the data, Maharashtra has 363,000 isolation beds, of which 214,000 are for confirmed Covid-19 cases and the remaining 149,000 for suspected cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-mortality-rate-in-21-40-year-age-group-low-despite-high-infection/story-vCYmFSoAHYe1hVnVSdSnpK.html
25-11-2020||India||PM Modi likely to lay foundation stone for new Parliament building in Dec: Report||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament building in the first half of December, sources said. The sources further said that around five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, in the Parliament complex are also likely to be relocated temporarily due to the construction work and they will be reinstalled at prominent places within the new complex once the project is completed. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project and it is expected to be completed in 21 months from the start of construction work.The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation’s power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. Although the proposed date of laying the foundation stone of the new Parliament building is around December 10, the final date would depend on the availability of the prime minister, the sources said. According to the plan, the new Parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs, will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating “paperless offices”. The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The sources said that five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, at the existing Parliament complex are likely to be relocated temporarily and they would be reinstalled once the construction work of the new Parliament building is completed. The iconic 16-feet high statue of Mahatma Gandhi is located opposite Gate Number 1 of Parliament House. The statue greets visitors entering Parliament House and has also been the location of gatherings, protests and press interactions by MPs. According to Rajya Sabha’s website, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a meditating posture sculpted by Ram Sutar, was unveiled by the then President of India Dr Shankar Dayal Sharma on October 2, 1993. It also said that the statue was donated by the Ministry of Urban Development. In September, Tata Projects Limited had won the bid to construct a new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The existing building is a British-era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi. The foundation stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. According to the CPWD, the existing Parliament building will continue to function during the entire period of execution of the project. Once the new building is built, the existing Parliament building will be used for other purposes. The CPWD had said, “The plinth of the new building shall match that of the existing one, which is approximately 1.8 metres above the ground level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-likely-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-new-parliament-building-in-december-report/story-pzGY7rHW0Bk4Ch4W4wSDKI.html
25-11-2020||India||TMC desperately trying to fix chinks in armour but new ones continue to show up||Even as the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal is trying to put its house in order and rushing its top leaders to pacify rebels ahead of the crucial 2021 elections, chinks continue to show up in its armour with party veterans launching veiled attacks against each other.While TMC MP Saugata Roy held two meetings with a seemingly dissatisfied transport minister Suvendu Adhikariwho has launched a veiled challenge at the party’s leadership. Adhikari was not available for comment. “I met Adhikari. I will brief the party’s top leadership. Some misunderstanding has happened,” said Roy after meeting Adhikari in Kolkata on Monday. He, however, refused to divulge any details.In north Bengal, another minister Rabindranath Ghosh was sent to meet Mihir Goswami, a rebel TMC MLA from Cooch Behar. Goswami has recently said that TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee was no more in control of the party.“Adhikari has never said that he is coming to BJP. But they (TMC) are hell bent on pushing him towards BJP. We don’t need any leaders. But if anyone wants to put up a fight against the ongoing injustice he is welcome,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of BJP’s Bengal unit. While the TMC’s top leadership were trying to fix the rift with Adhikari, another TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee launched a veiled attack against the transport minister.“Leave the party if you have guts. I have seen many rebels. Why are you still a minister even after being a rebel? Are you yet to receive the assurance (from another political party)? Kalyan Banerjee.Though infighting is not new in the TMC, the current spate has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees during a reshuffle in July this year. Done on the recommendations of poll strategist Prashant Kishor, the structural changes have made many old-timers insecure.Meanwhile in Kolkata, another minister Sadhan Pande and TMC MLA Paresh Paul sniped at each other. This is, however, not the first time that the minister has voiced his protest against a section of the party leaders. After cyclone Amphan, the minister had attacked the TMC government over the manner in which the aftermath of the cyclone was handled. The BJP which has emerged as the principal opposition in the state has upped its ante saying that the TMC is a sinking ship.“TMC is a sinking ship. Just like Mamata Banerjee has killed democracy within the state, the same is being practiced in their party. Discontent is brewing among the entire TMC cadre. Everyone is sure about the end of the long run of violence and appeasement politics of Mamata Banerjee,” tweeted Arvind Menon, national secretary of BJP who has been made co-incharge of the party in West Bengal for the upcoming election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-desperately-trying-to-fix-chinks-in-armour-but-new-ones-continue-to-show-up/story-xXcvx1FRQvIoG9KN4sb18L.html
25-11-2020||India||Chiranjeevi praises KCR for TRS manifesto in GHMC polls, draws flak from BJP supporters||Popular Telugu actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi on Tuesday praised Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, also known as KCR, for announcing several sops for the film industry in his party’s manifesto for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Chiranjeevi’s appreciation for KCR comes within three days of days his younger brother Pawan Kalyan, also a popular actor and president of Jana Sena Party, extending support to Bharatiya Janata Party in the GHMC elections. Both the TRS and BJP are involved in a bitter fight for capturing power in the GHMC. Chiranjeevi, along with other functionaries of the Telugu film industry, met the chief minister on Sunday and discussed the problems faced by the industry, including producers and distributors, due to Coronavirus pandemic. On Monday, KCR announced in the party manifesto that the TRS government would reimburse the State GST for small budget films (up to Rs 10 crore), allow theatres to increase the number of shows per day and make ticket pricing flexible following the losses incurred by the industry that has been having a dry run in the past eight months. Appreciating KCR’s gesture, Chiranjeevi tweeted: “Heartfelt thanks to Hon’ble CM Shri #KCR garu for the relief measures to the film industry. Trust that these compassionate measures surely will go a long way in reviving the industry badly hit by the pandemic and put it back on the path to progress. #TelanganaCMO.” Chiranjeevi’s son Ram Charan who is also a popular actor joined his father in thanking the Telangana government for the relief measures which will go a long way towards restoration of normalcy in Telugu film industry. Chiranjeevi’s appreciation for KCR drew flak from fans of his younger brother Pawan Kalyan and the BJP ranks. “This is not the time to support KCR when elections are being held, brother. If possible, you have to support your brother or keep silent. But please don’t indulge in cheap politics,” a supporter of Pawan Kalyan commented on Chiranjeevi’s tweet. Another fan of Pawan commented that it was enough if Chiranjeevi felt happy with the sops for film industry. “Please think about common man, who suffered most. You should bother about the problems being faced by common people, not just film industry,” he said. “It is okay if the government showers sops on people of film industry. But what about the lives of the people who watch the movies? It is because of their hard-earned money the film industry is surviving. But you forget your role in the once-in-five years elections,” another fan of Pawan Kalyan observed. Chiranjeevi made an unsuccessful attempt in politics by floating Praja Rajyam Party in 2008 but was forced to merge it with the Congress in 2012. He became Rajya Sabha member and Union minister of state for tourism in Manmohan Singh cabinet. After the Congress party’s debacle in 2014 polls, Chiranjeevi quietly distanced himself from politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chiranjeevi-praises-kcr-for-trs-manifesto-in-ghmc-polls-draws-flak-from-bjp-supporters/story-J5DX0Cf2Q3cynRKwEEo9VM.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Preparations on to vaccinate 250-300 million Indians on priority||India is gearing up to vaccinate at least 250-300 million people, including about 30 million health care and frontline workers, against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by July next year, for which it will be looking at procuring about 500-600 million vaccine doses.The Centre is regularly following up with the states to devise measures to successfully launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country that is likely to start in the first quarter of next year when the vaccine is expected to be made available for use.Initially, the approvals to manufacturers are likely to be under the emergency use authorisation, and later after analysing full phase-3 clinical trials data, there will be marketing approvals in place for use by general public. Also read | Russia says vaccine 95% effective, roll-out in Jan“A crucial part of the strategy is to get the exact list of people who need to be vaccinated on priority. States were asked to draw up a list of the population groups which will be given the vaccine in the first phase. To begin with, we are looking at vaccinating about 30 million frontline workers. That’s our topmost priority as they are at maximum risk of exposure to the virus,” said a senior health ministry official.Also Watch l SII’s Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine, pricing and rollout at #HTLS2020 Different categories have been made for vaccine administration on priority by the Centre’s national vaccine committee on Covid-19.Corona warriors, including health care and frontline workers, people above 65 years of age, those between 50 and 65 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with chronic diseases are on the list that is to be given the vaccine on priority.Union health ministry has asked states to set up committees to oversee and coordinate the vaccination process at the ground level while making sure that there are minimal disruptions in other routine healthcare services.In a letter written to states earlier, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan suggested constitution of committees at state and district levels to review preparatory activities. “In all likelihood, the Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially, starting from healthcare workers. Therefore, it is important to create a strong advisory and coordination mechanism at the state and district level to guide the process of Covid-19 vaccine introduction while ensuring minimal disruption of other routine healthcare services, including immunisation,” according to the terms of references shared with the states. The committees will also coordinate cold chain augmentation, capacity building activities of vaccinators and field staff, wherever needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-preparations-on-to-vaccinate-250-300-million-indians-on-priority/story-vwvouYhBhGq8eEOaUH0aMM.html
25-11-2020||India||One day-jump of 44,376 Covid-19 takes India’s infection tally past 9.22 million||India recorded a fresh spike of 44,376 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past 24 hours pushing the country’s infection tally past 9.22 million, figures on Union ministry’s health and family welfare showed on Wednesday morning.Of the 9,222,216 confirmed cases in the country, 444,746 are active, 134,699 have died of the disease and 8,642,771 have recovered either at Covid-19 designated hospitals or in-home isolation. The increased number of daily cases may prove to be the cause of worry as after remaining below 39,000 for three days last week, the cases again soared past 40,000 daily and have been on the rise since.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The recovery rate of 93.72%, however, continues to bring solace. This comes at a time when three manufacturers have claimed success in mass testing of their vaccine candidates, raising hope that the world is closer to finding protection against Covid-19. At a meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories with the higher caseload, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that his government’s priority would be to ensure a vaccine reaches everyone after it meets scientific criteria.At the virtual meeting, the Prime Minister asked chief ministers to start prepping for cold storage facilities for the vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Modi also told the state heads to ensure that the mortality rate due to Covid-19 remains below 1% and that the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level. He asked them to chalk out strategies regarding the disease control and vaccine distribution and share with him at the earliest.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageRussia on Tuesday said that its vaccine candidate Sputnik V was 95% effective and would be cheaper and easier to store than some alternatives. The vaccine will cost less than $10 a dose and be available in international markets from February 2021, said its developer Gamaleya Center and the Russian Direct Investment Fund.The global caseload has surpassed 59,759,535 with the United States continuing to report the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 12,589,229. The coronavirus disease has claimed 1,407,873 lives worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-day-jump-of-44-376-covid-19-takes-infection-tally-past-9-22-million/story-fgVfXcFBHumGzmBvcNXDOL.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Khichdification’ of medical education, practice: IMA on surgery nod for Ayurveda||The IMA on Tuesday demanded withdrawal of a Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) notification authorising post-graduate Ayurveda practitioners to be trained to perform general surgical procedures, saying the move was a “khichadification”, or a confused mix, of medical education and practice. The November 20 notification by the CCIM, a statutory body under the AYUSH Ministry to regulate the Indian systems of medicine, listed 39 general surgery procedures and around 19 procedures involving the eye, ear, nose and throat by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on November 22 had condemned the move, describing it as a “retrograde step of mixing the systems”.    In a statement issued on Tuesday, the IMA said the long list of modern medicine surgeries that have been enlisted under Shalya Tantra and Shalakya Tantra squarely fall under the ambit, authority and jurisdiction of the modern medicine practice. While the AYUSH Ministry issued a clarification claiming that the technical terms and modern developments are a common heritage of mankind, the IMA rejected their clarification as being “deceptive camouflage of mixing the systems of medicine”.  “The entire modern medical profession of the nation feels betrayed by the level of violation and encroachment by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM). It is nothing but a blatant attempt at mixopathy and khichadification of medical education and practice. The CCIM amendments cannot be seen in isolation. The National Education Policy 2020 speaks of medical pluralism and lateral entry laying the foundation legitimising mixopathy,” it said. “India remains at the frontier of modern medicine today with medical care of international standards and well-reputed Indian doctors serving the globe. What is the point in losing such a legacy and leadership,” asked IMA national president Rajan Sharma. Seeking an emergency session, the Central Working Committee of IMA has directed all the 28 state branches to hold their State Working Committees. The quantum and timing of the first all-India response to the situation is being determined which, IMA said, it ensures will not be later than December 2. “This is not the issue of the profession alone, but also entails serious inroads into the healthcare delivery system of the country. This involves calibration of patient care for years to come and people of India have a right to understand these manoeuvres. The patient’s choice to choose the system of medicine is being taken away in the naked attempt to mix all systems of medicine,” said IMA secretary general RV Asokan. “The empty words of the AYUSH Ministry of deep commitment to maintain the authenticity of Indian systems of medicine and that it is against any mixing of systems sound hollow in their pregnant silence to the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy, 2020 and the infamous attempts of NITI Aayog to mix all systems of medicine into a single integrative system. They remain culpable and cannot be absolved of the crime,” he said. The IMA further stated that there are a plethora of issues arising out of such indiligent decisions which will directly impact patientcare and safety and it also questioned about the use of terminologies by Ayurveda practitioners. Questioning if AYUSH have their own anesthesia drugs and procedures, IMA asked whether the pre-anesthetic medication would be named as AYUSH drug, and the AYUSH doctors would be termed as AYUSH anesthetists. “It is very obvious that AYUSH is dependent on modern medicine doctors, anaesthesia, antibiotics and equipment to perform modern medicine surgical procedures. It fails the test of logic behind such irresponsible initiative placing thousands of gullible patients at risk,” the doctors’ body said in the statement. It questioned what about postoperative care and infection control and how will a system not subscribing to microbial theory find a way to control sepsis. It asked how the government will find adequate resources to create new infrastructure from nowhere to fend for this modern medicine B team. “The object and purpose of mixing the systems is perhaps borne out of a false claim on heritage. The medical colleges in Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai were established in 19th century and remain heritage of man.” “Some of the sensational discoveries like the malarial parasite and its treatment were formulated in India. Modern medicine is as much Indian... Rapid strides in modern medicine like vaccination and chemotherapy of tuberculosis took their baby steps in India,” Sharma added. It said the IMA is prepared for the ensuing long-drawn struggle for existence and identity. All associations of the fraternity including the specialities and students are determined to resist this ill-advised adventure in national life, the IMA said, adding the health of generations of Indians is at stake. According to the November 20 gazette notification the procedures listed include removal of metallic and non-metallic foreign bodies from non-vital organs, excision of simple cyst or benign tumours (lipoma, fibroma, schwanoma etc) of non-vital organs, amputation of gangrene, traumatic wound management,  foreign body removal from stomach, squint surgery, cataract surgery and functional endoscopic sinus surgery. PTI PLB AAR AAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khichdification-of-medical-education-practice-ima-on-surgery-nod-for-ayurveda/story-3ExjFU5O3qWRk4PXdXQXEP.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: How to be safe before, during and after the storm||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared the guidelines, suggesting some dos and don’ts before, during and after Cyclone Nivar, which is expected to make landfall on Wednesday night. Cyclone Nivar is likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts on Wednesday night as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with a wind speed of 120 to 130kmph gusting to 145kmph.Nivar has already intensified into a severe cyclonic storm over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 6kmph during past six hours, according to the weather office. It lay centred over southwest Bay of Bengal about 300km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 310km east southeast of Puducherry and 370km south southeast of Chennai, it added. It is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours. #Cyclone | ACT NOW! Follow these do’s and don’ts to #StaySafe from cyclone! #CycloneNivar pic.twitter.com/6yHaxWliMmAlso read | Cyclone Nivar: Tamil Nadu govt pulling out all stops to ensure no repeat of 2015 floodsAlso Watch l Cyclone Nivar: Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on alert ahead of landfall Here’s what you can do to keep safe before the cyclone:1. Ignore rumours. Stay calm, do not panic.2. Keep your mobile phones charged to ensure connectivity. Use SMS3. Listen to the radio, watch TV, read newspapers for weather updates.4. Keep your documents and valuables in waterproof containers.5. Prepare an emergency kit with essential items for safety and survival6. Untie animals to ensure their safety.7. Keep a battery-operated torch with enough dry cells.8. Anchor removable objects that may fly with strong winds like a dustbin.9. Stock up on plenty of non-perishable food that can be used in an emergency.Also read | NCMC reviews preparedness for very severe cyclone NivarHere are safety measures to follow during and after cyclone:Indoors1. Switch off electrical mains and gas supply.2. Keep your doors and windows shut.3. If your house feels unsafe, leave early before the onset of a cyclone.4. Listen to the radio or transistor5. Drink boiled or chlorinated water.6. Rely only on official warning.Outdoors1. Do not enter damaged buildings.2. Watch out for broken electric pole, wires and other sharp objects.3. Seek a safe shelter as soon as possible.Here are some NDMA suggestions to follow after the cyclone:1. If you are at a shelter, remain there until informed that you can return home safely.2. You must get inoculated against diseases immediately.3. Avoid loose, dangling wires from lamp posts.4. If you have to drive, do it carefully.5. Clear debris from your premises immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-how-to-be-safe-before-during-and-after-the-storm/story-bjjPEg4qNumKjpUiZbcMoO.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Russia’s efficacy claims, US to provide 6.4 million doses for emergency cases||The global search for a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) might soon come to an end as various biotech firms, developing a potential shot, have started sharing data on the efficacy of their respective candidates. Many countries, including India, have started planning on distribution of a vaccine, as and when one becomes available.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe global caseload of Covid-19, meanwhile, has passed six million with more than 1.4 million people succumbing to the disease, as per a tally maintained by worldometers. The tally also shows more than 41.5 million people have defeated Covid-19 thus far.Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. Russia, which claims to have developed the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine-Sputnik V, on Tuesday said the candidate showed 91.4% efficacy on second analysis of clinical trial data and the overall efficacy of 95% of two doses combined. The vaccine has been developed jointly by the state-run Gamaleya Research institute and the Russian health ministry.Also Read | Covid-19: Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine for coronavirus is 95% effective, cheaper than others, say developers2. Ambassadors and envoys from 100 countries will visit the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals on December 4, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. He further said the visit was earlier scheduled for November 27 but was later postponed. SII, which is the world’s largest vaccine maker, has partnered with Oxford University and AstraZeneca for their vaccine candidate.3. The United States will distribute 6.4 million doses of the Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE vaccine candidate in the first week if it gets emergency use authorisation (EUA), officials have said. A US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) committee will decide on December 10 if the vaccine is safe and efficient enough to be used in emergency cases.4. French president Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday said vaccination for Covid-19 could start by December if a candidate is approved by health regulators. “We are going to organise a swift and massive vaccination campaign,” Macron said in a televised address to the nation while detailing how the country would start easing a lockdown this weekend.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-russia-s-efficacy-claims-us-to-provide-6-4-million-doses-for-emergency-cases/story-3EjYJ9MiKlrO8FoEGqOkyN.html
25-11-2020||India||Varanasi’s smart surveillance system: 3,000 cameras to keep watch over city||As part of the smart city project, 3,000 surveillance cameras, including 22 facial recognition cameras, will be installed at 720 locations across Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, to develop a smart surveillance system. Facial recognition cameras, installed at various locations, will be connected to the Kashi Integrated Command Control Centre (KICCC), now functional near the Varanasi Nagar Nigam, a senior officer associated with the project said. Varanasi Smart City chief executive officer and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi that the facial recognition camera project is being implemented using sophisticated Indian, European and American technology. If required, the number of facial recognition cameras will be increased, he said. Also read | PM Modi likely to attend Dev Deepawali celebrations in Varanasi on Nov 30The optical fibre line for the same is being laid and the project is worth about Rs128 crore. Rathi said that work on the project began in July this year and is likely to be completed by March next year. Facial recognition cameras help in nabbing criminals. An official associated with the project said pictures of known criminals will be on the database at KICCC. If a wanted criminal is captured on a facial recognition camera, it will alert the police personnel on duty at the KICCC. They will, in turn, inform the concerned police station and the criminal will be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-s-smart-surveillance-system-3-000-cameras-to-keep-watch-over-city/story-TcOV8GaOTicDwYsFEvHQqJ.html
25-11-2020||India||NSCN says counter-insurgency ops will have ‘disastrous consequences’||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) – the largest Naga rebel group which is currently in the final stages of peace talks with the Central government - has criticised the counter-insurgency operations against its cadres in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and warned of “disastrous consequences” for both sides.It said the intensified operations against it has come as a rude shock. In a statement on Tuesday, it asserted that the Central government should handle the situation with great sensitivity and not prod its security forces to run amok against the NSCN.“In such a situation NSCN members cannot allow themselves to be sitting ducks. Our patience should not be translated as weak and helpless,” the NSCN (IM) said in a statement on Tuesday. “The consequences would be disastrous for both the parties.”The ceasefire with the NSCN (IM) does not apply to Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. The NSCN (IM)’s statement came on a day when chief of army staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane arrived in Kohima as part of his three-day visit to various formations under the army’s Eastern Command to review security and operational preparedness.The rebel group is of the view that the 1997 Indo-Naga ceasefire was signed with high hope for both the negotiating parties but ironically, when it came to jurisdiction of ceasefire, the government of India continues to speak in “ambivalent terms” even after 23 years of political talks.“Naga political issue cannot be undermined in such a manner that contradict the well-established historical and political rights of the Naga people spread across Nagaland, Manipur, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Myanmar,” it said.It maintained that the political rights of the Naga people is no longer an issue that needed any review as the signing of the Framework Agreement on the August 3, 2015 is a “living document” to take the government of India and NSCN (IM) through for the final solution.The group alleged that the Centre continued to waver when it only needed to exercise is its political will for a final deal. “This is a sign of weakness and insincerity,” it said.Maintaining that the framework agreement was symbolic of the Naga people’s desire to co-exist peacefully with India, the NSCN-IM claimed it has not been reciprocated with the correct political steps.“The Naga people’s sincere approach and search for permanent peace has been touted time and again to suit India’s colonial divide and rule policy. This is evidently seen in the ongoing Indo-Naga political talks,” it stated.It also said that the Naga people believed in a solution based on mutual respect of one another’s position, not in forced union bereft of political wisdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-says-counter-insurgency-ops-will-have-disastrous-consequences/story-tT1GqRcOcFsc2FmukgHgBI.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 2,274 fresh cases take UP tally to 531,000||As many as 2,274 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s total count to 531,000 since the start of the pandemic in March.The highest number of cases was reported in Lucknow (282), followed by Ghaziabad (245), Meerut (169), Gautam Buddha Nagar (152), Varanasi (106), Kanpur (85), Prayagraj (81), Agra (80) and Mathura (62).While no fresh case was reported from Pilibhit, one case each was reported from Shravasti and Sant Kabir Nagar districts, three cases each in Balrampur, Amroha and Maharajganj districts, four cases in Mahoba, Kasganj, Kushinagar and Deoria districts, and five cases each in Hamirpur and Bhadohi districts.Also read | Covid-19 vaccines: What they do, where they standThirty four deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours. Five deaths each were reported from Lucknow, Meerut and Kanpur, three each from Prayagraj and Gautam Buddha Nagar, two each from Etawah, Baghpat and Farrukhabad and one each from Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Gonda, Fatehpur, Mainpuri and Etah districts. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said 2,022 patients were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of those discharged to 499,000.There were 23,928 active cases in the state on Tuesday, of which, 10,971 patients were in home isolation, 2,327 were admitted to private hospitals and the remaining were undergoing treatment in government hospitals, he said.On Monday, 160,000 samples were tested in the state, taking the total test count to 18.2 million. Till Tuesday, the health teams surveyed 29.2 million houses and 143.3 million people across the state. The positivity rate was 1.6% and the recovery rate was 94.06% on Tuesday, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-2-274-fresh-cases-take-up-tally-to-531-000/story-f6SJoQpu2YYbbCC74l1y3H.html
25-11-2020||India||100kg heroin in empty fuel tank seized from Lankan boat. Pakistan is the source||The Indian Coast Guard has seized drugs, including 100kg of heroin, from a Sri Lankan boat in the high seas south of Thoothukudi during a nine-day operation that started on November 17, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Six crew members, who identified themselves as Sri Lankan nationals, have been detained and are being interrogated.During their initial questioning, the crew members told Coast Guard officials that the drugs were transferred onto the Sri Lankan vessel “Shenaya Duwa” on the high seas by a Pakistani dhow from Karachi. The drugs were meant to be sent to western countries and Australia.Coast Guard officials had found 99 packets of heroin, 20 small boxes of synthetic drugs, five 9mm pistols and a Thuraya satellite phone set,” a second official associated with the operation said. The drugs had been hidden in an empty fuel tank on board.According to the crew members, the boat is allegedly owned by Alensu Kuttige Sinha Deeptha Sani Fernando from Negombo, a city on the west coast of Sri Lanka.The six were taken to the port of Thoothukudi, earlier known as Tuticorin, where they are being interrogated by a multi-agency team of officials.“Pakistan not only exports jihad but also drugs, which is used to fund terrorism,” one of the officials associated with the operation said.Besides investigating the potential recipients of the drugs in Tamil Nadu, Narcotics Control Bureau officials will also try to identify the source of the drugs in Pakistan. Officials said a Pakistan-based high valued drug trafficker with possible backup from the Pakistani deep state spearheads the multinational operation of trafficking of Afghan heroin.Investigation of huge seizures in the past have indicated connections of drug traffickers from across the borders with terrorist organisations such as Lashkar-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.Officials said the NCB is working to dismantle the international supply chains used by drug traffickers but India’s geographic location does make this an arduous task. India is sandwiched between Golden Crescent on the northwestern frontier and Golden Triangle on the northeastern frontier. New Delhi has been working closely with Colombo and Male, sharing and receiving information about drug trafficking. The NCB has helped Sri Lanka, and Maldives to effect big seizures totaling 1,500 kgs of heroin in 2019-20 alone.Officials said they had received a message from the Sri Lankan coast guard about the boat when they were questioning the six crew members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-intercepts-sri-lankan-boat-seizes-more-than-100kg-of-drugs/story-dmSOMuxvmBJY1oLKhykPvL.html
25-11-2020||India||As temperature drops, Patna’s air quality also deteriorates||With a dip in temperature, the air quality in Patna is approaching an alarming level as the city recorded poor air quality on both Monday and Tuesday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna, based on six monitoring stations across the city, stood at 292 which was classified as poor.Of the six monitoring stations, Danapur recorded the worst air quality with an AQI of 412 which fell under the severe category, followed by IGSC Planetarium Complex which recorded very poor air quality with an AQI of 331. While Muradpur,. Rajbanshi Nagar, Samanpura and Shikarpur air monitoring stations recorded an AQI between 240 and 280, all falling under the poor category.Muzaffarpur also recorded poor air quality with an index of 261 while Gaya recorded moderate air quality with AQI of 152.Also read | Stubble fires spiked in Punjab this year, dropped in Haryana, shows CPCB dataOn Monday, air quality of Patna remained poor with an AQI of 252 which was moderate till Sunday.For regulating air pollution during winters, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has taken several initiatives which will yield desirable result in coming years.Officials of the control board said that deterioration of air quality is linked with dip in mercury. Patna logged a maximum temperature of 27.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh said, “When the temperature falls, dust particles rise along with winds, turning the air quality comparatively poorer. Air quality starts worsening from rainy season and peaks during winter every year. Besides, geographical factors are also responsible for worsening air quality as Patna is situated near the Gangetic plain where alluvial soil is in abundance. During winters, soil particles rise, contributing to air pollution.” “We have introduced green technology at 60% brick kilns to reduce emission of hazardous gas. In the next two years, we expect to achieve 100% target. Besides, we are also working to concretise kuchcha pavements”, Ghosh added. Meanwhile, environmentalist in the city appealed the residents not to burst crackers in the on-going wedding season to prevent further deterioration of air quality. Ramapati Kumar, chief executive officer of the Centre of Environment and Energy Development (CEED), said, “Poor air quality causes respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure. With the wedding season on, people burst crackers, which leads to air and noise pollution. Vehicular movement and construction work have also gained momentum with the lift of lockdown. Environmental pollution cannot be reduced without active involvement of the public. Wearing face mask is the only way to avoid inhaling toxic pollutants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-temperature-drops-patna-s-air-quality-also-deteriorates/story-pnuN2ZtN9yZ0fPqqli3KSN.html
25-11-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea challenging PM Modi’s election from Varanasi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday “nipped in the bud” a petition challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a member of Parliament (MP) from the Varanasi constituency in Uttar Pradesh during the general election held last year.The petition was moved by sacked constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) Tej Bahadur whose nomination as a candidate from the Varanasi seat was rejected by the returning officer. On December 6 last year, the Allahabad high court had knocked down Bahadur’s appeal on the ground that he was neither an elector nor a candidate under section 83 of the Representation of Peoples Act to challenge the winning candidate’s election. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench of the apex court headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde confirmed this view and dismissed the petition without issuing a notice to PM Modi.“Section 83 of the Act allows only an elector or candidate to maintain an election petition…In this sense, the election petition can also be set to be barred by section 81 read with section 86(1) of the Act. We are, therefore, of the view that the present election petition has been rightly nipped in the bud. The civil appeal is therefore dismissed,” said the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The short order of 13 pages was authored by the CJI who examined the lone argument put forth by the sacked soldier that the officer who rejected his nomination failed to grant him additional time. Bahadur’s nomination was rejected as he failed to furnish a certificate from the Election Commission of India stating that his dismissal from service was on grounds other than corruption or disloyalty.This document is essential under section 33(3) of the Representation of Peoples Act. Any candidate who has been sacked on the above ground is barred from contesting polls for five years. Bahadur was sacked in April 2017 for circulating a video on the poor quality of food supplied to BSF jawans serving for the country and hence, the production of this certificate for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls was essential. Bahadur failed two nominations – one on April 24, 2019, as an independent candidate and later on April 29 as the candidate of the Samajwadi Party. In one form, he mentioned he was dismissed on grounds of disloyalty while in the other form he denied it. This led the returning officer to seek a certificate from EC, the absence of which led to rejection of his nomination.Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for the Prime Minister, informed the court that granting additional time is left to the discretion of the returning officer and the appellant (Bahadur) cannot claim it as a matter of right. Since there was no proof forthcoming that he demanded more time, the court rejected this argument and said, “The appeal does not raise any arguable question of fact or law and admitting the appeal would amount to an exercise in futility for the court to do so.”Even on the maintainability of the petition, the apex court was of the view that Bahadur could not challenge the election of PM Modi as a voter of Varanasi since he was enrolled as an elector of Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency in Haryana. And as his nomination stood rejected before polls, he was not a “duly nominated candidate” to maintain his present appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-from-varanasi/story-hA7yCLVlViVtbNpuyUKDqO.html
25-11-2020||India||UP’s new bio-fuel policy to reduce pollution due to stubble burning||The Uttar Pradesh government is ready with a new bio-fuel policy which is being seen as a significant move to deal effectively with the environmental crisis arising out of stubble burning by farmers in the state.The proposed policy seeks to promote and incentivise setting up of power generation plants based on paddy straws and also makes it mandatory for state-owned thermal stations to use agricultural residue as raw material with coal to fire the power plants. “The draft policy titled Uttar Pradesh Bio-Fuel Policy-2020 is ready and will soon be put before the cabinet for approval before the final policy is rolled out to effectively manage crop residues/stubble, among other things, in the state,” said a senior official dealing with the issue. According to the draft policy accessed by Hindustan Times, the state government will provide various incentives to private developers to set up paddy straw-based biomass power plants of 100 mw each through competitive biddings in the first phase, and depending on the experience, 300 mw plants can be set up in the next phase.To assure developers of remunerable returns on their investment, it will be binding on the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) to enter into long-term power purchase agreements with them to buy power from such plants for 20 years at the tariff to be fixed by the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC). The state government will provide an annual grant of more than Rs 250 crore to the UPPCL to buy power that might be a little costlier than what it procures from other sources. “Setting up such power plants will stop 10 million tonnes (MT) of paddy straw from being burnt by farmers in their fields every year,” the draft policy points out. It is estimated that that around 16 MT paddy straw is produced in the state, of which 4 MT is used by farmers themselves while the 12 MT paddy straw is burnt in the fields. Another significant feature of the proposed policy is that it seeks to make it mandatory for the UP Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (Uprvunl) to use agricultural residue in ‘pellet’ form as a raw material along with coal in its power plants to generate electricity. The NTPC, according to sources, is already using agricultural residue along with coal to fire its thermal plants at various places across the country after it found the experiment at the Dadri thermal plant to be successful. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had floated the idea three years ago. Under the new policy, local urban bodies will make the solid waste available to the biomass energy plants at their premises free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-new-bio-fuel-policy-to-reduce-pollution-due-to-stubble-burning/story-9T1Chsfa19IHKJ4asX3S1I.html
25-11-2020||India||Gujarat: Legislative officers’ meet to mark President Kovind’s first physical event in 7 months||The 80th meeting of presiding officers of the Indian legislative assemblies and Parliament, a two-day event at the banks of Narmada river, will mark the return of the outdoor appearance of President Ram Nath Kovind in public programmes. The President, who will inaugurate the event on Wednesday, will be physically participating in an event after a gap of almost seven months. He was advised against physical meetings and programmes in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. For the past seven months, the President cut down on visitors, inaugurated programmes and events online and avoided travelling outside Rashtrapati Bhavan. Also Read: President Kovind worships at Tirupati Balaji temple“Yes, the presiding officers meeting and the celebrations of Constitution Day would mark the President’s first public event after a long gap due to Covid-19,” said a Rashtrapati Bhavan officer. The President will fly to Vadodara from Delhi on Wednesday in the brand new, state of the art VVIP aircraft that saw its maiden flight to Chennai on Tuesday as the President went to visit Tirupati. While the VVIP aircraft too starts flying for official trips, the much-touted seaplane is also being used in this programme. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla flew in to Kevadia in the sea plane from Ahmedabad on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-legislative-officers-meeting-to-mark-president-kovind-s-first-physical-appearance-in-7-months/story-XLo3woNYR2E1lSXmsiVH3O.html
25-11-2020||India||UP panchayat elections 2021: AAP will contest on all seats||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest on all seats in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections due early next year, party MP and state in-charge Sanjay Singh told media persons on Tuesday. The decision was taken at the end of a two-day state executive committee meeting of the party. “A form will be issued for aspiring candidates in all districts. District committees will forward completed forms to the state committee,” added Singh. Also read | UP makes ‘love jihad’ a punishable offenceHe also said that changes will be made in the state and district committees of the party so as to ensure representatives in every village across the state. The party is also demanding direct election of zilla panchayat adhyaksh and block pramukh. At present, both the officials are selected by zilla panchayat members and kshetra panchayat members. On the occasion, Singh also attacked the BJP government over the law-and-order situation in the state. The women’s wing of the party staged a protest at Parivartan Chowk in the state capital over rising crime against women. Similar protests were staged in several cities across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-panchayat-elections-2021-aap-will-contest-on-all-seats/story-BjGL3GSxDQlkAKYFnZaivO.html
25-11-2020||India||UGC forms panel to probe irregularities in Jamia Hamdard||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has formed a four-member fact-finding team to examine allegations of financial and administrative irregularities in the functioning of the Jamia Hamdard deemed university, including whether its governance structure is in accordance with the prescribed norms, according to a person aware of the development. This assumes significance since governance issues have emerged in an educational body designated as one of the Institutions of Eminence (IoE), a tag UGC has conferred on 10 public and 10 private universities to encourage them become world class teaching and research bodies as per a 2016 budget decision. UGC formed the committee after a complaint by Hamid Ahmed, the chancellor of the university, against vice-chancellor Seyed Ehtesham Hasnain, according to the person cited above who did not want to be named. “There have been charges and counter-charges from both sides — which are of serious nature. Considering the importance of an institution that has been included among those selected for the IoE process, and also since it (the deemed university) receives UGC grants, the commission has formed an expert panel that will look into a range of areas regarding the functioning,” said this person. While Ahmed has alleged irregularities related to financial and administrative matters, Hasnain has submitted a point-by-point rebuttal, he said. The four-member committee, which will conduct the probe, comprises Rama Shanker Dubey, vice chancellor, Central University of Gujarat; Avinash C Pandey, former vice chancellor, Bundelkhand University; RD Sahay, a former senior official in the human resource development (now renamed education) ministry; and Mohammed Shabbir of Aligarh Muslim University’s law department. A UGC official has also been made the coordinating officer of the panel.The panel will not just submit its report to UGC on alleged financial and administrative irregularities and Hasnain’s response but also on whether the governance structure of the institute is in line with norms. It will also look into processes of appointments and whether top functionaries such as the chancellor and vice chancellor were appointed as per norms, according to the person cited above.Another area being looked into is whether the institute is maintaining its academic, administrative and financial records properly and whether all courses offered have got requisite approvals, according to a UGC order.Hasnain, when contacted, said that he was aware of the UGC move, but asserted that he followed all norms during his stint. He emphasised that he has had a long and distinguished career as an academic and held several top positions. He raised questions regarding the decisions taken by Ahmed and added that he had apprised the UGC about them.HT tried to reach out to Ahmed through officials of the university but there was no response till the filing of this report. When asked whether the developments will have a bearing on Jamia Hamdard’s IoE tag — announced in September 2019 — a senior government official, who requested anonymity, said that the findings of the reports of the four-member committee were crucial in this regard. “The IoE programme does expect high standards of governance,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-forms-panel-to-probe-irregularities-in-jamia-hamdard/story-PV1GUx2rP4GetkojRIBCnN.html
25-11-2020||India||Had friends across parties: Leaders mourn Ahmed Patel’s death||President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Sonia Gandhi were among leaders who on Wednesday condoled the death of Ahmed Patel, who died on after multi-organ failure at a hospital in Gurugram where he was undergoing treatment after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was 71.Patel’s son, Faisal Patel, said in a tweet that the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat died at 3.30am on Wednesday. “With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad & untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for COVID-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah,” he tweeted, requesting all their well-wishers to adhere to the Covid-19 regulations by avoiding mass gatherings.Also read | Ahmed Patel: Congress’ chief trouble shooter and master strategist is no morePatel, also the treasurer of the Congress party, had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 1 and was admitted to the intensive care unit of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on November 15.Here is what the leaders said:President Kovind“Distressed to know that veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel is no more. An astute Parliamentarian, Shri Patel combined the skills of a strategist and the charm of a mass leader. His amiability won him friends across party lines. My condolences to his family and friends,” the President tweeted.Venkaiah Naidu“Deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP, Shri Ahmed Patel. He was an able parliamentarian and always maintained cordial relations with leaders across the political spectrum. My condolences to the bereaved family members. May his soul rest in peace,” the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.Prime Minister Modi“Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.Sonia Gandhi“In Sh. Ahmed Patel, I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress Party. His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others,” Sonia Gandhi said in her condolence message for Patel, who served as her political secretary for years.“I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support,” the Congress president said.Rahul Gandhi“It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset. We will miss him. My love and condolences to Faisal, Mumtaz & the family,” the former Congress president tweeted.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra“Ahmed ji was not only a wise and experienced colleague to whom I constantly turned for advice and counsel, he was a friend who stood by us all, steadfast, loyal, and dependable to the end. His passing away leaves an immense void. May his soul rest in peace,” she tweeted.Randeep Singh Surjewala“I am speechless. For a person whom all friends and opponents used the epithet - ‘Ahmed Bhai’. He always performed his duty and remained committed. He always considered the party as his family. He transcended party lines and touched everyone’s hearts. I still cannot believe it. Alvida Ahmed ji,” the Congress general secretary tweeted.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel“The news of the demise of the valuable gem of the party Ahmed Bhai, who was steadfast in his commitment to the Congress ideology, is shocking for all of us. His passing away is an irreparable loss for Congress, Gujarat and the entire country. God may provide his family members strength. Om Shanti,” Baghel tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-friends-across-parties-leaders-mourn-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-DfnDcNXY9MRSipAcAaNSkL.html
25-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Heavy rains in Chennai ahead of Cyclone Nivar’s landfall and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rains lash Chennai ahead of Cyclone Nivar’s landfallTamil Nadu’s Chennai received very heavy rainfall on Wednesday morning even as the powerful Cyclone Nivar is barrelling towards the southeastern coast prompting authorities to declare a holiday, ban public gatherings, closing shops and mobilising thousands of rescue personnel. Read more‘Pillar of Congress party’: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condole Ahmed Patel’s deathCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday condoled the demise of senior party leader Ahmed Patel, who passed away in the early hours of the day due to Covid-19 complications at the age of 71. Read morePak’s million mutinies, ghosts and Doval’s doctrine of ‘defensive offence’For decades, India has been on the receiving end of Pakistan’s relentless export of terrorism, the commodity in which it has enjoyed both a comparative as well as a competitive advantage. Read moreDonald Trump puts out ‘poll results’, says nearly 99% not in favour of conceding defeat to Joe BidenUS President Donald Trump, who is yet to concede his election loss to Joe Biden on Tuesday put out a tweet showing “poll results” on whether he should concede defeat to the Democrat. According to the “poll results,” 98.9% were not in favour of Trump conceding to Biden, while 1.1% were. Read moreSourav Ganguly, Gabba, and a century that was enoughUnbeknownst to his teammates or the press, Sourav Ganguly made a secret visit to Sydney in the dead of the Australian winter in July 2003, a good half-year before the Indian team was to tour the country in December. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan decks up in wedding finery as he shoots with wife Jaya and daughter Shweta, says ‘family at work’Amitabh Bachchan, Jaya Bachchan and Shweta Bachchan Nanda recently came together for a shoot and pictures from the same show them dressed in ethnic wedding wear. Amitabh has shared several candid pictures from the shoot as they shot with all precautions amid coronavirus pandemic. Read moreTesla market value breaches $500 billion in meteoric rallyTesla Inc blew past $500 billion in market value on Tuesday as investors snapped up its shares in the run-up to its debut in the S&P 500, extending a meteoric rally that has seen it surge over 500% this year. Read moreAnand Mahindra says music like this is form of ‘renewable energy’. Watch to see if you agreeIf you’re searching for content to get you pumped up as you start your day, look no further. This musical post by Anand Mahindra may just do the trick.The chairman of Mahindra Group retweeted this video of musicians Manavgeet Gill and Simran Kaur singing the track Kann Kar Gal Sun from his official Twitter account on November 24. Read moreWatch: India tests BrahMos missile’s land-attack version amid border tensionIndia tested land-attack version of BrahMos missile on November 24. The test was reportedly conducted at Andaman-Nicobar Islands. The missile hit the target successfully which was placed on another island. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-heavy-rains-in-chennai-ahead-of-cyclone-nivar-s-landfall-and-all-the-latest-news/story-novlGb8duAGosMpuYsZpdL.html
25-11-2020||India||Upcoming Ayodhya airport to be named after Lord Ram||The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to name the upcoming airport in Ayodhya the Maryada Purshottam Shriram Airport. A state government statement said the Cabinet, led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, approved the name for the airport and decided to submit the proposal to the civil aviation ministry. The land acquisition process for the airport in Ayodhya is currently underway. The Uttar Pradesh government is engaged in the development of Ayodhya and its promotion as a global religious tourism site. The government is also in the process of hiring a global consultant for the overall development of Ayodhya—infrastructure, conservation, tourism, etc. Also Read: Ayodhya’s chaudah kosi parikrama starts amid Covid-19 scareThe naming of the Ayodhya airport was among the 21 different proposals that the UP Cabinet approved on Tuesday, including the ordinance Uttar Pradesh Vidhi Viruddh Dharm Samparivartan Pratishedh Adhyadesh 2020 (UP prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020). The government has introduced the ordinance to check unlawful religious conversion using force, coercion, enticement, deceit, fraudulence or marriage. After the Cabinet decision on Ayodhya airport, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya tweeted in Hindi: Yogi UP government’s cabinet has approved the naming of Ayodhya airport as Maryada Purshotam Shriram Airport. Your state government is committed towards positioning Shriram Lala’s city Ayodhya among the top religious places in the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-airport-to-be-named-after-lord-ram/story-dG6COFTZmKzPmB3lukkNvI.html
25-11-2020||India||Stubble fires spiked in Punjab this year, dropped in Haryana, shows CPCB data||Stubble fires in Punjab increased by 46.5% this year compared to last year while they reduced by 28.6% in Haryana according to an assessment note released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday.In Punjab, the total count of active fire events reported in 2020 is 76,537 while in 2019 it was 52,225 (Sept 21-Nov 22). Sangrur, Bathinda and Firozpur continued to record highest fire counts and reported an increase of 45.7%, 35% and 40.5% compared to last year. Moga, Amritsar, Fazilka, Ludhiana have shown more than 75% increase in fire counts in comparison to 2019.Also read | IIT-K’s air quality sensors highlight the need for hyper-local air quality monitoringIn 2020, all the districts of Punjab except Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar have shown an upward trend in fire counts and have witnessed the lack of ground level implementation of the Centrally supported in-situ mechanisation scheme for crop stubble management. The average contribution of stubble burning to PM 2.5 load in Delhi has increased from 10% (11 Oct – 10 Dec, 2019) to 15.63% (10 Oct -22 Nov, 2020). In 2020, 26 days recorded more than 10% contribution to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load between Oct 10 and November 22, while 21 days were reported for the same period in 2019.In Haryana, total fire counts this year is 4,675 compared to 6,551 last year (during 25 Sept-22 Nov). Fatehabad, Kaithal and Karnal continued to record highest fire counts but recorded a reduction by 40% compared to last year. Fire counts in Palwal and Kurushetra reduced by 50-60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-fires-spiked-in-punjab-this-year-dropped-in-haryana-shows-cpcb-data/story-RrOtAHUHueU3FQ6MfXIF5K.html
25-11-2020||India||Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast as ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ tonight||Cyclone Nivar, (pronounced Nivaar, meaning atmosphere), is likely to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday night as a “very severe cyclonic storm” with a wind speed of 120 to 130kmph gusting to 145 kmph.Nivar has already intensified into a severe cyclonic storm over the southwest Bay of Bengal and moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 6kmph in the past six hours and lay centred over southwest Bay of Bengal about 300km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 310km east southeast of Puducherry and 370km south southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours.Nivar is then likely to move west-northwestwards for next 6 hours and northwestwards thereafter. It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry on Wednesday night as a very severe cyclonic storm, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its 6am bulletin.Till Tuesday, IMD had said Nivar was likely to make landfall during the late evening hours but that has been upgraded to night in the Wednesday morning bulletin. Very heavy rainfall of 12 mm has been recorded in Chennai from 8.30 am on Tuesday to 5.30am of Wednesday.Also Read: At 401, Delhi’s air quality slips into severe categoryUntil Tuesday afternoon, the forecast was that Nivar would cross the Tamil Nadu coast as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100 to 110kmph gusting to 120 kmph. But the cyclone intensified rapidly, according to independent scientists.Widespread rain with thunderstorm activity is very likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during November 24 to 25, and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema during November 25 to 26, and southeast Telangana on November 26. Extremely heavy rainfall (over 20 cm) activity is likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perabalu districts during November 24 and Kadalur, Kallakurchi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu to Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karaikal districts during November 25) and over Nellore and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh on November 25 and over Rayalseema and southeast Telangana on November 26.IMD scientists said that it was not possible to confirm the exact time and location of landfall until Wednesday afternoon when models will have a clearer picture.Gale wind speed reaching 75-85kmph gusting to 95kmph is prevailing over Southwest Bay of Bengal. It would further increase, becoming 110-120kmph gusting to 135kmph over the southwest Bay of Bengal from November 25 morning, increasing to 120-130kmph gusting to 145kmph during noon to night of November 25. Sea condition is high over Southwest Bay of Bengal and rough to very rough along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, south Andhra Pradesh coasts and over Gulf of Mannar. It would gradually become very high (9 to 14 metres wave height) over the southwest Bay of Bengal from November 24 night and phenomenal (over 14 metres wave height) over the same area from noon to night of November 25.Tidal waves of about 1-1.5m height above the astronomical tide are very likely to inundate the low-lying areas of north coastal districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry near the place of landfall according to the IMD bulletin. Total destruction of thatched houses, extensive damage to kutcha houses is likely, apart from bending or uprooting of communication lines, flooding of escape routes, disruption of railways, etc.There is red category warning for extremely heavy rain in coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 25 and for Rayalseema on November 26. “The cyclone has gradually intensified and wind speed has increased so the warnings have changed,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre on Tuesday evening.“In November 2017, cyclone Okchi intensified very rapidly from a moderate cyclone to a very severe cyclone in 24 hours resulting in the death of 844 people in India and Sri Lanka. The environmental conditions are similar for cyclone Nivar, with warmer waters and winds favouring rapid intensification to a very severe cyclone in 24 hours…” wrote Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune on his social media post. “The area from where the cyclone is passing is 1 to 1.5 degrees Celsius warmer than normal as per National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s real time data.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nivar-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-as-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-tonight/story-L6Bu8CNVRHVvdbdrzpcmWJ.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Lost an irreplaceable comrade, faithful colleague’: Congress president Sonia Gandhi condoles Ahmed Patel’s death||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday condoled the death of veteran Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel’s death. Sonia Gandhi in a statement said that she has lost an ‘irreplaceable comrade and a friend.’Ahmed Patel: Congress’ chief trouble shooter and master strategist is no moreCongress President Smt Sonia Gandhi’s condolence message on the demise of Shri Ahmed Patel. pic.twitter.com/JiOwjr3j1nSonia Gandhi said, “In Sh. Ahmed Patel, I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress Party. His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others.”She further added, “I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support.”Ahmed Patel passed away in the early hours of Wednesday morning after he developed complications due to Covid-19. His son Faisal Patel announced the news of his death via Twitter. Faisal Patel in his statement said, “With profound grief and sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020 at 3:30am. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. I request all well-wishers to adhere to Covid-19 law and order regulations by avoiding any mass gatherings and to also maintain social distancing norms at all times.”Patel had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 1. He was hospitalised on November 15 after his health condition deteriorated. Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace.Prime minister Narendra Modi also condoled the death of the senior Congressman. He expressed his sadness upon receiving the news of Patel’s death and took to Twitter to share his condolences. He wrote, “Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-an-irreplaceable-comrade-faithful-colleague-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-condoles-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-XYzRupCZdGxTQtGdUsuSeL.html
25-11-2020||India||TRP Scam: Hansa Research hid info on commercial interests with TV channels says Mumbai Police||The holding company of Hansa Research has commercial interests with various TV channels, but it did not share this information with Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), said the Mumbai police charge sheet in the television rating points (TRP) scam which was filed in a court here on Tuesday.The 1,400-page charge sheet was submitted before a magistrate’s court earlier in the day by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Mumbai Crime Branch which is probing the case related to alleged rigging of TRPs.During investigation, it came to light that Hansa Vision Pvt Ltd, the holding company of Hansa Research Pvt Ltd, has commercial interests with various TV channels, but it did not disclose about them to BARC, the document said.The scam came to light last month when ratings agency BARC filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa had been tasked with installing BARC barometers, which record viewership data.According to a synopsis of the charge sheet, Hansa Research did not inform Meterology Data Ltd (MDL), a unit of BARC, about its commercial interests with TV channels and hid that information.The charge sheet said there is no procedure to investigate or to conduct an inquiry and to take action against employees or officers of Hansa Research Group for any malpractice.Five out of the 12 persons arrested so far in connection with the scam are former employees of Hansa Research Group, it said.Hansa Research Group has the responsibility to install barometers and look after their maintenance in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra on behalf of BARC.Employees who look after installation and maintenance of BARC barometers are called relationship managers.These relationship managers are mandated to be in contact with people in households where barometers have been installed and prevent any malpractice to manipulate TRPs.Accused Vishal Bhandari, who was a relationship manager with the company, gave money to households to watch Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie, and Republic TV channels for a longer period of time, the charge sheet said.He also accepted money from his aides as commission due to which there was damage to the company’s reputation and led to cheating of advertisers and companies who promoted their products, the document said.Bhandari compromised database of barometers and induced advertisers to air their commercial on specific channels, the charge sheet said.The charge sheet said channel owners/directors and persons related to them, who are in the list of wanted accused, were also involved in various financial malpractices.Republic TV’s western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh and owners of two channels are among those arrested in the scam, he said.Republic TV and other accused have denied any wrongdoing and manipulation of the TRP system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-hansa-research-hid-info-on-commercial-interests-with-tv-channels-says-mumbai-police/story-1Mjoi1yt8yXcbixKTmMszI.html
25-11-2020||India||Heavy rains lash Chennai ahead of Cyclone Nivar’s landfall||Tamil Nadu’s Chennai received very heavy rainfall on Wednesday morning even as the powerful Cyclone Nivar is barrelling towards the southeastern coast prompting authorities to declare a holiday, ban public gatherings, closing shops and mobilising thousands of rescue personnel. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said Cyclone Nivar is set to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as a “very severe cyclonic storm” late on Wednesday. Parts of Andhra Pradesh are also forecast to be slammed by the cyclone.The cyclone is expected to make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal late on Wednesday with a wind speed of up to 145kmph, according to IMD. IMD said, in a series of tweets on Wednesday morning, that “very heavy rainfall - 120 mm - recorded in Chennai/Minabakkam” from 8:30am on Tuesday to 5:30am as of Wednesday. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards for next 06 hours and northwestwards thereafter; cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram during the night of 25th Nov as a very severe cyclonic storm with wind speed 120-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph,” it said.Also read | Assure all possible support to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry from Centre, tweets PM Modi“Near latitude 10.2°N and longitude 82.0°E about 300 km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 310 km east southeast of Puducherry and 370 km south southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify further into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm during next 12 hours,” the weather bureau said in another tweet. “The Severe Cyclonic Storm NIVAR over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 06 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 0230 hrs IST of 25th November, 2020 over southwest Bay of Bengal,” it added.Also Watch l Cyclone Nivar: Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on alert ahead of landfall Also Read | Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast as ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ tonightTamil Nadu’s chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared Wednesday a public holiday and said it could be extended. In Puducherry, public gatherings were banned from late Tuesday until early Thursday. Shops in the Union territory, except those for essential services like pharmacies and petrol stations, were to be shut until the cyclone passes.Also read | Trains and buses cancelled, NDRF teams on alert: Here’s how Tamil Nadu is bracing for Cyclone NivarThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed as many as 30 teams in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh and 20 additional teams have been kept on standby to help assist local authorities on possible evacuations of residents from vulnerable coastal areas, the Centre has said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea, while people in coastal areas are also being evacuated to shelter houses.IndiGo flights to or from the southern region, mainly Chennai, have been disrupted. “A total of 49 flights that were scheduled for tomorrow (Wednesday) have been cancelled. We will monitor the situation and decide on the further course of action for November 26. We are accommodating passengers on next available flights at no additional charges, waiving off cancellation fee and the refunding full ticket amount,” IndiGo said in a statement on Tuesday.Southern Railway has cancelled a few train services and inter and intra bus-services, including those of private buses, have been suspended in seven districts of Tamil Nadu. Medical counselling for undergraduate courses scheduled on Tuesday in Chennai has been postponed to November 30.Before this Gaja, which was classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, made landfall in Tamil Nadu during the northeast monsoon in mid-November 2018, claiming 46 lives and left a trail of destruction in the southern state.Cyclone Nivar’s centre is expected to pass some 175 kilometres northeast of Sri Lanka’s northernmost Kankesanthurai coastal town early Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-lash-chennai-ahead-of-cyclone-nivar-s-landfall/story-3FR1Qp0woZYBN7Ds9Mc82M.html
25-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel: Congress’ chief trouble shooter and master strategist is no more||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel died in early hours of Wednesday due to multiple organ failures after having tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last month, his son Faisal Patel announced in a tweet. He was 71. Popularly known as ‘Babu bhai’, ‘Ahmed Bhai’ and ‘AP’ in political circles, Patel had been the chief crisis manager, the key trouble shooter, the go-to man in emergency situations and a master strategist for the Congress for decades. Born on August 21, 1949, at Piraman village near Bharuch in Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, he represented the state eight times in Parliament – three times as a Lok Sabha member from Bharuch and five times as a Rajya Sabha member. ‘Lost an irreplaceable comrade, faithful colleague’: Congress president Sonia Gandhi condoles Ahmed Patel’s deathA Gandhi family loyalist, Patel was one of the most powerful leaders in the Congress and is said to have repeatedly turned down the offers to join the central government when the party was in power. Watch l Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel passes away, tributes pour in Having served as political secretary to Congress president Sonia Gandhi from 2001 to 2017 when she handed over the reins of the organisation to her son Rahul Gandhi, Patel remained a vital link between the party high command and leaders and workers, and also between the party and the government besides the allies. Patel played an important role during the 10 years of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government but always maintained a low profile. ‘Pillar of Congress party’: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condole Ahmed Patel’s deathIt was an unwritten rule those days that the crew of news channels would switch off their cameras whenever Patel spoke to the media. Journalists would often look for hints from him to confirm their leads. It was due to his crisis management skills that the Congress-led government managed to win the trust vote in 2008 after the Left parties had withdrawn their support to the UPA over the Indo-US nuclear deal. In August 2018, the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi appointed Patel as the party treasurer, a post he had held from October 1996 to July 2000. His role in strengthening Congress will be remembered: PM Modi condoles Ahmed Patel’s deathThe appointment came at a time when the Congress was grappling with its worst financial crisis. Several Congress leaders had admitted to “severe funds crunch” during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The crisis, blamed on corporate houses moving away from the Congress, continued through subsequent elections. Patel had obviously been brought back as the treasurer to use his contacts with the industrialists to mobilise the resources for the party to fight the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. A member of the powerful Congress Working Committee (CWC) since April 1992, Patel also served as the parliamentary secretary to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1985-86. Apart from being Gujarat Congress president from January 1986 to October 1988, he was party general secretary twice from September 1985 to January 1986 and then from May 1992 to October 1996. Patel won his fifth term from Gujarat in 2017 after a nail-biting finish in the bitterly fought Rajya Sabha elections, which had become a prestige battle between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Patel was known for settling internal dissensions in the party but his death came at a time when the Congress is battling crisis over the leadership issue. A group of 23 leaders wrote to the Congress president last month seeking complete overhaul of the party and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the 135-year-old organisation. They renewed their call after the drubbing in Bihar assembly elections and by-polls in several states. With its chief trouble shooter gone, a battered Congress stares at tough times and a hard road ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-congress-chief-trouble-shooter-and-master-strategist-is-no-more/story-bocAP6Glg1RdRthmewGffN.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Tamil Nadu govt pulling out all stops to ensure no repeat of 2015 floods||The Tamil Nadu government is pulling out all stops to ensure no repeat of the 2015 floods in the city,as they mounted a vigil on four reservoirs,anticipating a rapid rise in water levels in view of heavy rains forecast due to cyclone Nivar,likely to cross the state coast on Wednesday.The administration has taken necessary precautions to release the water in phases and avert flooding, as in 2015, in the event of upsurge in the storage levels, a senior Public Works Department (PWD) official said.The combined storage level in the reservoirs at Poondi, Cholavaram, Red Hills and Chembarambakkam stood at 64.15 per cent or 8.156 TMC ft against the full capacity of 12.713 TMC ft, which is slightly higher compared to the quantum two days ago. Chembarambakkam which has nearly 80 per cent water (21.22 feet against its full level capacity of 24 feet) has become a cause for concern for residents, reminding them of the 2015 deluge.“Even if rains were to lash the metro, owing to the approaching cyclone, causing the water to rise sharply, there should not be any threat,” a senior PWD official claimed. When the issue was taken up with Commissioner of Revenue Administration, K Phanindra Reddy, he said the inflow into Chembarambakkam lake would be around 6,500 cusecs only when there are heavy rains and this can be easily diverted to Adyar river, which has a capacity to carry 60,000 cusecs water.“People need not harbour fears about flooding,” he said.Further, necessary precautions have been taken to release the water in phases and not cause flooding,as in 2015, he told reporters here. Reddy said people would be intimated in advance about the release of water from Chembarambakkam lake, if the government decides to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-tamil-nadu-govt-pulling-out-all-stops-to-ensure-no-repeat-of-2015-floods/story-1EnmPVmzn2az5EKX97iaGI.html
25-11-2020||India||Pak’s million mutinies, ghosts and Doval’s doctrine of ‘defensive offence’||For decades, India has been on the receiving end of Pakistan’s relentless export of terrorism, the commodity in which it has enjoyed both a comparative as well as a competitive advantage. Faced with Pakistan’s use of terrorism as an instrument of state policy, India struggled to devise an adequate response. After every big terror attack, there was a standard response in India: the government threatened to retaliate and talking heads on TV nudged government strategists to pay back Pakistan in the same coin. The standard response to this unsolicited advice was that India couldn’t stoop to Pakistan’s level. But many security experts have reasoned that the real reason was that India just never bothered to build the leverages, capacities and capabilities that would have allowed New Delhi to hit Pakistan where it hurt.Since 2014, however, things started to change, or so we are being told by the Pakistanis.For some time now, the Pakistanis have been trying to implicate India in problems that are really the result of blowback of their own flirtation with terrorism and using it as an instrument of the security and foreign policy of the state. There is, however, no solid evidence to back up Pakistan’s allegations against India, unless of course, someone is ready to subscribe to the pulp-fiction dossier, or if you will, shoddy ‘literature’, that Pakistan recently publicised with much fanfare.If the Pakistani ‘dossier’ were to be taken at its face value, it would seem that India has more than paid back to Pakistan. That Indian spooks have succeeded spectacularly in Pakistan by not only engineering the greatest intelligence coup of the century – turning Pakistan’s strategic assets into its deadliest enemies – but also boxed in Pakistan so hard by exploiting its fault-lines that it now fears its very survival.The accusations and ‘achievements’ being attributed to India, however, aren’t true.Also Watch l How Pakistan is hoodwinking FATF and the world on terror funding Because if these were, then Pakistan would certainly have a smoking gun that was more convincing than a ‘dummy dossier’ or a kidnapped former naval officer who has been presented as some kind of an Indian James Bond.Even so, the fact that the Pakistanis are petrified of India doing to them what they have been doing for decades to India is something that at least gives India a major psychological advantage over her arch enemy. At one level, it puts the Pakistanis on the defensive; at another level, it makes them chase ghosts and prevents them or distracts them from fixing the things that are actually responsible for the ‘million mutinies’ erupting in several parts of the country or are on the verge of exploding in Pakistan. As is their wont, Pakistan always looks for exogenous actors and factors to explain their problems.National Security Advisor Ajit Doval has been their favourite bugbear for some years.Pakistanis have latched on to a speech Doval had given at a university long before he was appointed NSA. In that speech, he had spoken about the need for India to craft a strategic response to Pakistani export of terrorism. After he was appointed NSA by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014, Pakistan’s strategists presumed that the Doval doctrine of ‘defensive offence’ – “go and attack the place from where an offence is coming from” – had been operationalised.According to Pakistan, this doctrine is all about paying Pakistan back in the same coin. In other words, Pakistan’s security analysts believed that India would use terrorism to respond to Pakistan’s terrorism. In fact, Doval appears to have instilled such trepidation in the Pakistanis that from the moment he became NSA, some retired personnel of the Pakistani military cleared to appear on and write in Pakistani media have been trying to paint him as some kind of a one-man army who can disrupt, disorder and dismantle Pakistan.The Doval doctrine soon became part of Pakistan’s strategic folklore.By and by, the ‘doctrine’ has been elevated to the status of being an embodiment of the ‘5th generation’ war that every Pakistani military person loves to mouth incessantly that India is supposed to be waging on Pakistan.The reality is, however, nowhere close to what the Pakistanis imagine it to be.If at all there is a Doval doctrine, then it has manifested itself not in any covert action that Pakistan keeps accusing India of but in the overt action – the 2016 surgical strikes and 2019 Balakot airstrikes. While there is no denying that India’s posture and approach to tackling terrorism emanating from Pakistan has changed in style and substance since 2014, India continues to remain loath to using proxies or non-state actors against Pakistan.In other words, India doesn’t still subscribe to using terrorism as an instrument of state policy; rather India is now using state power as a legitimate instrument for the protection of the state and furthering its objectives. The Balakot air strike in 2019 and the surgical strike in 2016 are prime examples.This is very different from what Pakistan accuses India of.Pakistan has often raised the issue of alleged Indian sponsored terrorism with its interlocutors from other countries, only to be rebuffed. On any number of occasions, Americans at the most senior levels of successive administrations have refuted Pakistan’s allegations against India. And yet Pakistan continues to peddle the same old version in the hope that one day, perhaps, someone will buy their story.The fact, however, is that virtually every terror attack that Pakistan tries to place at India’s door has its roots and links inside Pakistan and is the result of the deep state’s affair with jihadism going horribly wrong. Other militant attacks – by Baloch or Sindhi freedom fighters, or even by disgruntled elements in Pakistan-occupied Gilgit Baltistan and the Pashtun areas in Pakistan – are also the outcome of the neo-colonial model followed by the Pakistan army against people who it calls its own.Take for example the heavy-handed treatment meted out to the entirely peaceful Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM) which is fighting for constitutionalism but is accused of being a catspaw of India. That the struggle for constitutionalism is seen as treason is something that can only happen in a Praetorian state like Pakistan. Ditto for the jailed civil rights activists in Gilgit Baltistan.If peaceful, political and civil society movements are going to be crushed by the Pakistan military and the ‘deep state’, and the disaffected people pick up the gun, how is it India’s doing?The sudden spate of accusations being hurled against India is essentially nothing more than the perpetrator playing the victim even as it ratchets up violence in Jammu and Kashmir.On its part, Pakistan doesn’t even admit to the involvement of its terrorists and spy agency ISI to the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks though security agencies worldwide concur on Pakistan’s role in the terror attacks. In the “most wanted” list released earlier this month, Pakistan was careful to skip the names of the mastermind and key conspirators of the Mumbai terror attacks. The Federal Investigation Agency did name 20-odd people accused of a role in the attacks but these were mostly members of the crew of two boats used by the attackers to travel to Mumbai and those who helped finance the attacks through money transfers.But Pakistan’s denials don’t mean its hands are clean.As far as India is concerned, the ‘D’ doctrine isn’t so much the Doval Doctrine as it is the Deterrence doctrine. But if the Pakistanis prefer to name it after the Indian NSA, there is no reason for India to deny them their dread of Doval. Quite to the contrary, India needs to press ahead filling Pakistan’s deep state with fear about India’s response and let Pakistan chase ghosts and shadows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-s-million-mutinies-ghosts-and-doval-s-doctrine-of-defensive-offence/story-PWGAPIeG3xu21s7z7D4NaN.html
25-11-2020||India||‘Pillar of Congress party’: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condole Ahmed Patel’s death||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday condoled the demise of senior party leader Ahmed Patel, who passed away in the early hours of the day due to Covid-19 complications at the age of 71.Also Read | Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel passes away due to Covid-19 complications“It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset. We will miss him. My love and condolences to Faisal, Mumtaz & the family,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset. We will miss him. My love and condolences to Faisal, Mumtaz & the family. pic.twitter.com/sZaOXOIMEXPriyanka Gandhi Vadra, meanwhile, tweeted: “Ahmed ji was not only a wise and experienced colleague to whom I constantly turned for advice and counsel, he was a friend who stood by us all, steadfast, loyal, and dependable to the end. His passing away leaves an immense void. May his soul rest in peace.” Ahmed ji was not only a wise and experienced colleague to whom I constantly turned for advice and counsel, he was a friend who stood by us all, steadfast, loyal, and dependable to the end. His passing away leaves an immense void. May his soul rest in peace.Patel, a current Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat who in his eighth term as a parliamentarian, had on October 1 tweeted to announce he had tested positive for Covid-19. Considered a key aide of interim party president Sonia Gandhi, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital on November 15 for further treatment.Patel’s son Faisal announced the news of his father’s death on Twitter. “With profound grief and sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020 at 3:30am. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. I request all well-wishers to adhere to Covid-19 law and order regulations by avoiding any mass gatherings and to also maintain social distancing norms at all times,” Faisal Patel tweeted. @ahmedpatel pic.twitter.com/7bboZbQ2A6Another senior Congress leader, former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, had passed away on Monday. In August, Gogoi, too, had tested positive for Covid-19. He was rushed to hospital earlier this month after complaining of breathlessness and breathed his last there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pillar-of-congress-party-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-condole-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-LoyFdE5ok78sWWBnPcUWGM.html
25-11-2020||India||Nagrota terrorists’ gadgets prove Pak hand in earlier infiltration bid||Communication devices recovered from four killed Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists at Ban toll plaza on November 19 have provided a vital key to establish that Pakistan was also behind a similar infiltration by the same proscribed group on January 31.Pakistan-based terrorist groups have become especially active after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and have been preparing for a major drive in Jammu and Kashmir, according to intelligence reports. The reports add that terrorist group Lashar-e-Tayyeba (LeT) is mobilizing cadre from its Chelabandi camp in Muzaffarabad to fresh locations in Neelum Valley across the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan. The Hizbul Mujahideen is training nearly 400 cadre at a newly constructed facility in forest area of Oghi in Khyber-Paktunkhwa (KPK). The Al Badr group is exploring ways to infiltrate into India from Bangladesh after security forces have turned the heat on infiltration across LoC in Kashmir.Also Read | India briefs select group of envoys on attempted attack in Nagrota by JeMBut interestingly, the reports say that Jaish operational commander Mufti Rauf Asghar has told his cadre after the November 19 Nagrota encounter that it is becoming difficult to supply “items” to them in Kashmir. On January 31, Indian security forces gunned down three Jaish terrorists near the same toll plaza and arrested three overground workers after an early morning encounter. Among those arrested was the driver of the truck Sameer Ahmed Dar, first cousin of Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who rammed his explosive laden Maruti Eeco car into a CRPF bus at Pulwama on February 14, 2019, killing all the 40 CRPF personnel on board.Investigations into November 19 Nagrota encounter have revealed similarities beyond communication devices and firmly established that the Pakistani deep state uses Jaish to infiltrate into India from terror camps at Shakargarh across the Samba border, intelligence officials said. What has shocked the Indian investigators is the engineering detail that went into construction of the tunnel used by the Nagrota attackers to reach the pick-up point at Jatwal, 12 km from the international border. The tunnel, obviously constructed with the help of Pakistani Rangers, is 200 metres long with enough space for terrorists to walk upright and cross the border. The tunnel is 40 metres long on the Pakistani side. “The Shakargarh Jaish camp is a place where Jaish jihadists trained as far away as Peshawar and Bhawalpur assemble to launch into India for terror attacks. The Shakargarh bulge is on the sensitive chicken neck area of India and vital to national security,” said a senior counter terrorism official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagrota-terrorists-gadgets-prove-pak-hand-in-earlier-infiltration-bid/story-HHSlbDZV4H20eluVojZooO.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccines: What they do, where they stand||There are over 200 coronavirus vaccines being developed around the world with dozens of companies, from biotech start-ups to Big Pharma, racing to develop a safe and effective inoculation that can stop the march of a pandemic that has engulfed the world in an unprecedented crisis.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThis month, four Covid-19 vaccine candidates have published positive results from late-stage trials, sending a wave of relief and optimism that has reflected in prices of fuel and stocks worldwide. The developers of these vaccines will now approach regulators in the countries where the trials were held for emegency-use authorisation, which will pave the way for the first shots to be given to be rolled out across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccines-what-they-do-where-they-stand/story-1czeHf2ekSPNwy0vG41Z9H.html
25-11-2020||India||His role in strengthening Congress will be remembered: PM Modi condoles Ahmed Patel’s death||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday shared his condolences upon hearing the news of veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel’s death. PM Modi in a tweet highlighted that the Congress Rajya Sabha MP’s role in strengthening the Congress party will be remembered for a long time. Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace.PM Modi tweeted, “Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace.”He also spoke to Faisal Patel, Ahmed Patel’s son, who in the early hours of Wednesday morning had announced the news of the veteran Congress leader’s death via Twitter. He wrote, “With profound grief and sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020 at 3:30am. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. I request all well-wishers to adhere to Covid-19 law and order regulations by avoiding any mass gatherings and to also maintain social distancing norms at all times.”@ahmedpatel pic.twitter.com/7bboZbQ2A6Ahmed Patel, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 1. He was hospitalized after health complications surfaced due to Covid-19 on November 15.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Congress MP from Wayanad Rahul Gandhi also shared their condolences upon hearing the news of Patel’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-role-in-strengthening-congress-will-be-remembered-pm-modi-condoles-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-JnKbEbx4kS4IzTTxORuyAL.html
25-11-2020||India||Haryana govt to seal borders with Punjab ahead of farmers’ stir||Ahead of the farmers’ protest march to the national Capital against the Centre’s farm laws, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on Tuesday that the borders with Punjab will remain sealed on November 26 and 27.Farmers in some states, especially Punjab, are protesting the farm laws, fearing that these could erode their bargaining power and create a monopoly for big firms in the long run. “Borders with Punjab will be sealed for the two days,” said Khattar, adding that the decision was taken to maintain law and order in the state. The national working group of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the move highlighted the “repression unleashed by the BJP government in Haryana”, and alleged that 31 farm leaders have been arrested, so far.Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said: “Legitimate demands of farmers cannot be suppressed. Arresting leaders from their homes at night cannot be justified and the government should release the arrested leaders at the earliest.”Meanwhile, the Centre has invited representatives of over 30 protesting farmers’ organisations from Punjab for talks on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-govt-to-seal-borders-with-punjab-ahead-of-farmers-stir/story-zxmavRlac2DDwFPbQ1EPaP.html
25-11-2020||India||MJ Akbar, Priya Ramani reject settlement||Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) Ravinder Dubey on Tuesday once more raised the issue of settlement with the lawyers of MJ Akbar and Priya Ramani with both parties stating that they were not keen to initiate any in the ongoing criminal defamation complaint filed by the former Union minister against the journalist.The final arguments of the case are being heard again by ACMM Dubey after his predecessor was transferred last week.In a routine transfer of judges of the district court last week, Pandey replaced Vishal Pahuja at the Rouse Avenue court, which is designated to hear cases against parliamentarians and legislators.Both Akbar’s and Ramani’s lawyers had completed their final arguments in the case and the order had yet to be reserved.Also Read | #MeToo: Court asks MJ Akbar, Ramani if there is scope of settlement in defamation caseThe criminal defamation suit filed by Akbar pertaining to a sexual harassment allegation made by Ramani in October 2018 was heard by judges Samar Vishal and later, Vishal Pahuja. However, the case did not have to be re-heard at any point.Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for Akbar, said that if Ramani were to apologise for her allegations, she would ask her client to consider closing the complaint. Ramani’s counsel, Bhavook Chauhan, on the other hand, said that the defendant stood by her statement and if Akbar wanted to withdraw the complaint, he may do so.Ramani’s allegations against Akbar were made in the wake of the #MeToo movement in 2018. She had said in the previous final arguments that were her truth and were made in good faith and for the public good.However, in her final arguments on Tuesday, Luthra said that Ramani’s tweets and articles were per se defamatory.ACMM Pandey, who started hearing afresh the final arguments in the case, had on Saturday asked both the parties whether there was a chance of settlement between them in the matter.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mj-akbar-priya-ramani-reject-settlement/story-Xt423LBTeXt8MjgdyLYqZN.html
25-11-2020||India||Decision on when to hold CBSE exams likely within a week||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) may arrive at a decision on the academic schedule in a week after which an announcement could be made, as it looks to keep the academic cycle, including the board examinations of classes 10 and 12, on track, an official aware of the development saidon Tuesday.However, the official cited above who did not to be named, asserted that “no final decision” has been taken yet by the CBSE which is continuing to hold consultations with stakeholders as well as within the body about moving the schedule further while it factors in the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, especially in the national capital.Conventionally, board exams for class 10 and 12 are held February-March.Also Read | Covid-19 effect: JEE (Main) could be postponed to February 2021A second government official said that even if a call is taken about the schedule now, it would have to be constantly reviewed keeping in mind the evolving pandemic situation and the status of the academic syllabus covered in schools.“Consultations are constantly happening, and it is natural that changes will be made as this is a pandemic-affected year. However, it is still too early to take a decision and stick to it. It will have to be reviewed again. In several parts of the country, Covid-19 cases have been rising,” said the second official.It is, however, not just the schedule that of class 10 and 12 board exams that may be affected.The examination for admission to engineering colleges, Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021, could be held in the month of February or be delayed further instead of January when it is conventionally held. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has conducted most of the competitive exams that it was scheduled to hold this year, including JEE 2020, and would work with the education ministry and other concerned bodies to chart out the schedule for next year, a third official said.“There are only one or two major tests that NTA is yet to conduct and they will be held soon. Therefore, it is likely that the new schedule, when it is drawn, will see some readjustments,” the official said.The JEE (Main) is held twice every year with the first traditionally scheduled in January itself. However, in a year that has seen academic activity getting disrupted, the second cycle of the JEE (Main) 2020 was postponed and conducted in September amidst a raging pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-when-to-hold-cbse-exams-likely-within-a-week/story-Pdc9Y9Y7kTWJLfCaRJF9dJ.html
25-11-2020||India||States share plan on Covid-19 vaccine distribution||States informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday that they are getting ready for the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine with a proper cold chain infrastructure while some of them said that they have started the process of the identification of front line health workers, who will get the shot first. Ensuring that the vaccine against the coronavirus disease reaches everyone in the country dominated the discussion during Modi’s review meeting with chief ministers on Tuesday. At the meeting, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told states that the Centre was looking at providing vaccination to front line health workers in the first stage, police personnel and sanitation workers in the second stage, those above 50 years of age in the third, and those with comorbidity in the fourth stage. He asked states to provide database of people in these four categories to create a vaccination road map. After the meeting, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai confirmed this and said that the Centre has asked each state to set up a committee under the chairmanship of the CM, which would prepare a road map to provide vaccines in every district and village. “Vaccine delivery will be linked to a digital id,” he said. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa told reporters at the Mysuru airport that the PM asked them to make preparations for vaccination. “He also said to be on the alert to ensure Covid doesn’t spread.” Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath informed the PM that his government was engaged in creating a robust cold chain maintenance infrastructure. He also said that considering the vast population of the state, the government will have Covid vaccinators, and that the state health department will train them. On Monday, he directed bureaucrats to put in place all arrangements for a cold chain infrastructure by December 15.Also Read | Kejriwal asks Modi to reserve 1,000 ICU beds in central hospitalsRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that his state was doing 100% testing by the gold standard RT-PCR, that testing has increased from 18,000 samples per day to over 30,000, and that hospital infrastructure has been strengthened with the increase in intensive care unit (ICU) beds. He informed that the state was ready with the database of health workers to be administered the Covid vaccine.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray informed the PM that a task force had been set up for vaccination. “We have been in touch with Adar Poonawala of Serum Institute, which is producing the shot for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. However, there needs to be clarity about the vaccination programme in terms of availability, quantum, side effects, cost and the distribution of the vaccine. Our task force will deliberate on all these aspects in the state,” he said. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami said that the state set up three committees to ensure smooth implementation of vaccination, and that a digital database of Covid front line workers was also being prepared. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that his government would submit a detailed plan to the Centre on cold chain management and vaccination schedule. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sought priority vaccination during the upcoming Haridwar Mahakhumbh.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that West Bengal was fully prepared for a Covid-19 vaccination programme and asserted that her state tackled the pandemic situation well, even as she urged the PM to release Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues immediately.She rued that the Union government was yet to release adequate funds required to fight the pandemic. “The dues on account of GST compensation stand at Rs 8500 crore. The state has spent around Rs 4000 crore for Covid-19 management. But till date the centre has released only Rs 193 crore,” she added. “West Bengal is fully prepared with trained man power and required infrastructure, including cold chains for the vaccination programme. We are ready to work with the Centre and other stake holders to ensure speedy vaccination drive for every one as soon as the vaccine is available,” Banerjee said, according to a statement released by the state government. (With input from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-share-plan-on-covid-19-vaccine-distribution/story-Vyy6exaZ6H185DG06W20bN.html
25-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: The Covid-19 pandemic and the shift in domestic politics||Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, a considerable commentary has ensued on its impact on geopolitics, on economics and the role of technology. But these impacts are intertwined with how nations and societies are coping with the pandemic. It will soon be a year since the pandemic erupted. The record of countries and different political systems in dealing with its aftermath is now reasonably clear. We can make certain broad assessments on how the pandemic is changing and will change politics in countries around the world, and the Indian case is of special interest.All across the world, the pandemic has significantly enhanced the power of the state vis-a-vis its citizens. Big government is back with a vengeance and this is unlikely to change even as the pandemic recedes. More state intervention will be required, for instance, in the distribution of vaccines. The phase of economic recovery, too, will demand greater state intervention and this is apparent already in economic stimulus packages unveiled in many states including India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pledge of “minimum government and maximum governance” has had a short shelf life. But while expanding government is a reality, governance is still far from “maximum”. The record in this respect remains patchy.The pandemic has altered the relationship between the Centre and states and other constituent units, greatly enhancing the authority of the Centre at the expense of the latter even in federal dispensations. In India, the pandemic enabled the central government to take several steps beyond its strictly constitutional limits. The crisis nature of the pandemic muted resistance even from states ruled by non-BJP parties. The huge impact on revenue streams available to states and the reluctance of the Centre to deliver on its commitments to make up for losses incurred in GST collections have altered the power balance between the Centre and the states, greatly increasing the latter’s dependence on the Centre for sustaining financial viability. The Union government has utilised its enhanced authority to push through some major reforms in agriculture, education and health, which are normally state subjects and encountered only limited and sporadic opposition. Post-pandemic India will likely remain a more unitary state in practice irrespective of constitutional proprieties. But this also sows the seeds of future Centre-state tensions and incipient “fissiparous tendencies”, a term that one used to hear in the early days of our republic.There has been a weakening of democratic polities across the world even before the pandemic, driven by rising inequalities, technological change and the spread of nationalist and populist sentiments. Globalisation led to a significant rise in wealth and incomes across the world, but in the absence of appropriate public policies to ensure equitable distribution created a small band of winners and a much larger number of those left behind. This undermined popular stake in democracy and left the door open for populist leaders to preach de-globalisation and populist policies. The success of authoritarian dispensations, in particular China, to deliver rapid growth and higher standards of living, posited another model for socio-economic development. The ability of China to stamp out the pandemic and ensure early economic recovery has further boosted the authoritarian brand. This weakening of democracy as we have known it, the preference for strong and decisive authoritarian leadership figures, despite their failings, is likely to linger. Liberal democracy has lost its brand value with Donald Trump in the US damaging it perhaps irrevocably. Joe Biden will have a tough time restoring its sheen. There is pessimism about democracy and more so in democratic countries. In India, too, there is impatience with the more measured and relatively gentle ways of a constitutional democracy and consensus politics. There is greater acceptance of coercive politics as a means of overcoming resistance to change. But I believe that India’s immense diversity and ingrained individuality of spirit will ultimately frustrate the politics of centralisation and enforced uniformity. This is a country which cannot be governed through a monochromatic frame.The peculiar nature of the pandemic which puts a premium on social distancing and remote work has greatly accelerated the adoption of digital technologies. This is impacting the way in which economies of the future will be structured and change the ways of living and working but in what manner and to what degree remains uncertain and unpredictable. This will change politics as well. It is clear that states are already adopting these new technologies for more intrusive surveillance of their citizens’ lives while resisting scrutiny of their own conduct. But theoretically, I see the same technologies giving citizens the tools for compelling transparency and accountability in state action, though this may happen with a time lag or perhaps never at all. The state will resist this and citation of national security has already become a convenient argument to stay opaque. In India, too, security trumps almost every attempt at scrutiny of state action and ensuring democratic accountability.Enhanced state authority can create a caring state, which is more responsive to the interests of its citizens. It can deploy its augmented powers to undertake long pending economic and social reforms, treating crisis as an opportunity. Perhaps, we will succeed in creating a more congenial setting for sustainable democracy eventually. One must remain hopeful. Shyam Saran is a former Foreign Secretary and a Senior Fellow CPR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-the-covid-19-pandemic-and-the-shift-in-domestic-politics/story-zr65elSbG28964MMznFbRP.html
25-11-2020||India||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel passes away due to Covid-19 complications||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who was in hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last month, passed away in early hours of Wednesday due to multiple organ failures, his son Faisal Patel announced in a tweet.“With profound grief and sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020 at 3:30am. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. I request all well-wishers to adhere to Covid-19 law and order regulations by avoiding any mass gatherings and to also maintain social distancing norms at all times,” Faisal Patel tweeted. @ahmedpatel pic.twitter.com/7bboZbQ2A6A Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat and a treasurer of the Congress, Patel was an eight-term parliamentarian and considered to be a close aide of interim party president Sonia Gandhi. On November 15, he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital for further treatment.Also Read | Covid-19 positive Ahmed Patel’s ‘heath stable now,’ says familyAnnouncing he had tested positive for coronavirus, Patel had on October 1 tweeted: “I have tested positive for Covid-19. I request all those who came in close contact with me recently, to self isolate.”Also Read | Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tests positive for Covid-19, goes into self-isolationPatel’s death comes just two days after the demise of another senior Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi. Incidentally, 84-year-old Gogoi, too, had tested positive for Covid-19, in August, and was rushed to hospital again, on November 2, after complaining of breathlessness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-passes-away-due-to-multiple-organ-failure-tweets-son-faisal/story-z0aVCMP8Bf0o8g73fAnGQI.html
25-11-2020||India||NCMC reviews preparedness for very severe cyclone Nivar; assures help to Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Puducherry||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Tuesday took stock of the status of the “very severe cyclonic storm” ‘Nivar’ that is expected to hit coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry on Wednesday, and assure the states of all possible help, including the early release of disaster relief fund.NCMC headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, also directed all concerned to continue work aiming at zero loss of life and early restoration of normalcy in the affected areas that include power and telecommunications networks, an official spokesperson said.The NCMC reviewed the status of impending cyclone Nivar at a meeting held through video conferencing with the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry.The chief secretaries of the three states, directors general of India Meteorological Department(IMD)and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) briefed the NCMC about their preparedness and mentioned that the authorities are fully prepared to meet any eventuality.The chief of the NDRF said so far 30 teams of the force have been deployed in the three states, while 20 more teams have been kept on standby for immediate deployment. A team of NDRF comprises of about 40 personnel.The NCMC was also informed that about 15 districts of the three states are expected to hit by the cyclone and several thousand people living along the coastline have been shifted to shelter houses, the spokesperson said. The cabinet secretary assured the chief secretaries all necessary assistance, and Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla conveyed that the required financial assistance from the National Disaster Relief Fund will be released on Wednesday. The cabinet secretary also asked everyone to circulate the Do’s and Don’ts to the people living along the coastal areas asking them to stay calm, ignore rumours, keep mobile phones charged, listen to radio, not to enter damaged buildings, leave home for safer places if current house is not secured and switch off the main power connection, among others. The meeting was informed about the coordination between the NDRF and other agencies to meet this challenge. The director general of the India Meteorological Department made a presentation on the present situation and mentioned that the status is being shared with the state governments concerned. It was stressed in the meeting that the advisories issued to the fishermen asking them not to go into the sea should be strictly implemented, the spokesperson said. The secretaries of various central government ministries and departments attended the meeting. Cyclone Nivar is expected to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on the late evening of November 25, the IMD said.Nivar is the second cyclone in the Bay of Bengal this year. In May, Cyclone Amphan had developed into a ‘super cyclonic storm’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncmc-reviews-preparedness-for-very-severe-cyclone-nivar-assures-help-to-tamil-nadu-andhra-puducherry/story-HRhqlMRpUgTzlt8d0I15NM.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid vaccine must meet all scientific criteria, says PM Narendra Modi||With three manufacturers claiming success in mass testing of their vaccine candidates, raising hope that the world is closer to finding protection against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that his government’s priority would be to ensure a vaccine reaches everyone after it meets scientific criteria. Modi told state chief ministers in an interaction by video link to be cautious of rumours about the vaccines and said he can’t help it if people do politics over it. Modi described the people’s reaction to the pandemic-- from absolute fear to a false notion of security -- and emphasized the need for more Reverse Transcriptase -Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, better monitoring of Covid-19 patients, especially those in home isolation, better-equipped health centres in rural areas and continuing awareness campaigns. Modi also asked chief ministers to set up cold storages and other infrastructure for a smooth roll-out of the vaccine when one becomes available, assuring them that the states would be taken on board in the vaccine delivery drive, just as the Centre and the states are fighting the pandemic together. The Prime Minister said the Centre was closely following the developments of vaccines and in contact with both domestic and foreign manufacturers.“The media might be abuzz with reports on vaccines. But we have to ensure that the vaccine for citizens meets all necessary scientific criteria. Just as the focus in the fight against COVID has been on saving each and every life, the priority will be to ensure that the vaccine reaches everyone,” Modi said.Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. and Oxford-AstraZeneca Plc.-- have declared the findings of their Phase 3 trials this month, claiming that their vaccine candidates had shown a high degree of efficacy. The VK Paul-led expert panel on vaccines is closely monitoring developments and awaiting regulatory clearance for emergency use of these vaccines.Talking to chief ministers, Modi said governments at all levels “will have to work together to ensure that the vaccination drive is smooth, systematic and sustained”, adding that the priority list of recipients was being decided in consultation with the states. At the same time, Modi also emphasized the need for ongoing measures such as social distancing and wearing of masks, expansion of the testing and treatment network, and the need to create more oxygen plants. He said the PM CARES Fund that had earlier funded procurement of ventilators would be used to make available more oxygen supplies.Even as the PM maintained that India was better-placed than most other countries, he stressed the importance of understanding public behaviour. “The first stage of people’s response to Covid was of fear, when people reacted in panic. The second stage saw cropping up of doubts about the virus, when several people tried to hide that they had been afflicted by it. The third stage was of acceptance, when people became more serious about the virus and displayed greater alertness. In the fourth stage, with an increasing recovery rate, people have developed a false notion of security from the virus, thus leading to rise in instances of negligence,” he said.Union home minister Amit Shah asked the states to ensure that the mortality rate goes below 1% and also control the surge of new cases. He told CMs that containment zones should be dynamic. Shah said the periphery of a containment zone must change from time to time depending on the prevalence of cases.  Modi said some people were doing politics on the coronavirus vaccine and nothing could stop them, according to a person present in the meeting who requested anonymity. “It was just a passing remark as the general mood of the meeting was cooperation and not confrontation,” the person added. The remarks were widely interpreted as an indirect reference to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tweet on Monday in which he posed a series of questions to the Prime Minister on the Covid-19 vaccine. Gandhi asked: “The PM must tell the nation: 1. Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI (Government of India) choose & why? 2. Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy? 3. Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination? 4. By when will all Indians be vaccinated?”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-must-meet-all-scientific-criteria-says-pm-narendra-modi/story-jxvO95EAg2Slco51vro8KK.html
25-11-2020||India||PM criticizes those ‘doing politics over the corona vaccine’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday during his interaction with chief ministers that some people were engaging in politics on the coronavirus vaccine, people familiar with the development said. A person present in the meeting quoted Modi as having said that some people were doing politics over the corona vaccine and nothing could stop them. “It was just a passing remark as the general mood of the meeting was cooperation and not confrontation,” the person added. But the remarks were widely interpreted as an indirect reference to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tweet on Monday in which he posed a series of questions to the Prime Minister on the preparedness of distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine as and when it becomes available in India. Gandhi asked: “The PM must tell the nation: 1. Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI (Government of India) choose & why? 2. Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy? 3. Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination? 4. By when will all Indians be vaccinated?” . Gandhi’s questions came ahead of the Prime Minister’s virtual meeting with chief ministers of states where the Covid-19 pandemic situation has deteriorated in the past several weeks. Among those who attended the review meeting were the chief ministers of Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal), Haryana (Manohar Lal Khattar) Rajasthan (Ashok Gehlot), West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and Gujarat (Vijay Rupani). Home minister Amit Shah and union health minister Harsh Vardhan were also present. The modalities of Covid-19 vaccine delivery, distribution and administration were also discussed during the meeting. The coronavirus vaccine became the talking point in the Bihar elections after the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in its manifesto promised free distribution of vaccine against the Covid-19 once approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The announcement triggered strong reactions from the Congress and other rival parties, which accused the BJP of playing politics over the Covid-19 pandemic and insisted that the vaccine belonged to all Indians and not to the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-criticizes-those-doing-politics-over-the-corona-vaccine/story-daZ8HxvG4ff0GSaWULEsCN.html
25-11-2020||India||India successfully test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile||India on Tuesday “successfully” test fired the surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile BrahMos as part of a series of planned trials of the weapon, known for its precision strike capabilities, official sources said.The range of the new land-attack version of the missile has been extended to 400 km from the original 290 km but its speed has been maintained at 2.8 Mach or almost three times the speed of sound, they said.“The land-attack version of the missile was test-fired in the Andaman and Nicobar at around 10 am and it was a successful trial”, an official source said.According to official sources, in the next few days, the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy are scheduled to carry out separate test-firing of the new version of the air-launched and naval versions of the supersonic cruise missile respectively.BrahMos Aerospace, an India-Russian joint venture, produces the lethal weapon that can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft, or from land platforms.India has already deployed a sizeable number of the original BrahMos missiles and other key assets in several strategic locations along the Line of Actual Control with China in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh.In the last two-and-half months, India has test fired a number of missiles including an anti-radiation missile named Rudram-1 which is planned to be inducted into service by 2022.On October 18, a naval version of the BrahMos missile was successfully test fired from an indigenously-built stealth destroyer of the Indian Navy in the Arabian sea.The Indian Air Force on October 30 test-fired the air launched version of the weapon from a Sukhoi fighter aircraft in the Bay of Bengal.The BrahMos missile provides the IAF a much-desired capability to strike from large stand-off ranges on any target at sea or on land with pinpoint accuracy by day or night and in all weather conditions.The IAF is also integrating the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile on over 40 Sukhoi fighter jets which is aimed at bolstering overall combat capability of the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-land-attack-version-of-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile/story-1GEEVGhNRI9QjJ3N8TUUuJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Abdullahs named in J&K land encroachment list||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday made public a voluminous list of beneficiaries of a two-decade-old law under which they allegedly gained proprietary rights to land they had illegally occupied, as well as encroachers on vast swathes of state land, naming former chief minister and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah among the latter.A total of 1787 beneficiaries including nine encroachers of state land from Jammu district alone have so far been put up on the government website http://divcomjammu.gov.in/# in line with a high court directive , showing Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah as having encroached on seven kanals and seven marlas of state land (once forest land), in Bahu tehsil, village Sunjwan, in Jammu city. The names of people, including other politicians, businessmen and civil servants figured on the lists. They included former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) minister Haseeb Drabu and family, prominent hotelier Mushtaq Chaya, former bureaucrat Mohammad Shafi Pandit and his wife Nighat Pandit, and former legislator Satpal Lakhotra. Abdullah, 83, hit back with allegations of political vendetta ahead of elections to district development councils in Jammu & Kashmir. In a clear reference to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre, the National Conference (NC) chief said: “Since elections are around the corner, I think they will dig the graves of others.” “Kamal hai in logon ka (The wonder of these people). They want us to give in, but why should we?. Don’t people in Sunjwan have a right to live . Isn’t the army brigade in Sunjwan on forest land?. It is nothing but purely political vendetta,” he said. Abdullah said he had not purchased either the land in Jammu or house in Srinagar under the Jammu & Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants), popularly known as the Roshni Act, which the high court has ruled was unconstitutional and unsustainable.He said: “It is only propaganda against us. I just can’t understand what they want to do? Sunjwan colony was not raised by me.. it was raised long back. Don’t we have the right to live?”Abdullah did concede that NC’s party headquarters in Raipur village in Jammu south, measuring three kanals and 16 marlas, had been regularised under the Roshni Act at a price of Rs 53,66,501. “We purchased the land under Roshni scheme and we didn’t get any concession like others announced after us. No favours were done to us,” he said.In New Delhi, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad lashed out at political leaders including Abdullah.“There was conscious land loot by powerful people of J&K who were getting benefits under the Roshni Act, which was declared unconstitutional by the J&K high court,” Prasad told reporters. “It is very unfortunate that key leaders of Jammu & Kashmir including Farooq Abdullah used their influence and power for land grabbing and appropriated government land.”The law, popularly referred to as Roshni Act, was passed in 2001 to provide ownership of state land to people who were occupying it after the law was introduced in the budget speech of the previous year by then finance minister Abdul Rahim Rather of the NC. The proceeds of the sales were meant to help in the electrification of the state. In 2005, the PDP government-led by Mufti Mohammed Syed relaxed the cut-off year for the occupants to have the land regularised to 2004. T he Congress government led by Ghulam Nabi Azad in 2007 relaxed the cut-off year to 2007. The original cut-off year had been 1990.A 2014 Comptroller and Auditor General report found that only ₹76 crore had been realised from the transfer of encroached lands between 2007 and 2013 against the ₹25,000 crore target. In November 2018, then governor Satya Pal Malik cancelled the Act, saying people in positions of power and those with financial resources including bureaucrats, government officials, ministers, legislators, police personnel and businesspersons have “influenced the completely illegal vesting of state land”.A senior official in the Jammu and Kashmir administration said on condition of anonymity:”The working of the Roshni Act was effected arbitrarily, dishonestly and illegally. There exist glaring instances of state lands being usurped.”The Central Bureau of Investigation registered cases after the high court last month ordered the federal agency to probe the allocation of land under the law it ruled was unconstitutional and unsustainable. The court also sought a list of beneficiaries. Revenue department officials have been cancelling mutation orders under the Act in line with a high court order. “Consequently, a list of 15,000 beneficiaries is being uploaded on the official and the National Informatics Centre website after due step-by-step vetting,” said an official in the Jammu and Kashmir administration. Drabu, a former finance minister, rubbished the allegation of wrongdoing, saying his grandfather had bought the land in question in 1956 in the name of his mother, who divided it among her children after extending its lease. “...the land was regularised purely as per the government’s Roshni Act. Where is the scam and what rubbish is this?” asked Drabu, adding that the government should at least make a distinction between a leaseholder and a land grabber. Former director general of police SP Vaid defended the government’s action, noting it was in line with the high court order. “Some irregularities must have been committed and that’s why LG’s {lieutenant-general’s) government is implementing the high court order. It is perfectly a legal process and it should be taken to its logical conclusion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullahs-named-in-j-k-land-encroachment-list/story-xaCjdUTZhaHqFfp0XKKMSJ.html
25-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality may hit severe zone again||The stubble burning season is almost over, and Diwali has come and gone, but Delhi’s air quality took a sharp turn for the worse on Tuesday, highlighting the role played by weather and local sources of pollution that ensure the Capital’s air remains unhealthy through large parts of the year, with farm fires, especially from Punjab, and fireworks during Diwali, causing temporary spikes. The city’s air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday settled at 379, in “very poor” zone, according to the 24-hour rolling average of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings at 4pm. On Monday, the AQI was in the same range but with a lower reading of 302. Government agencies forecast that the air quality could enter “severe” zone on Wednesday. While an AQI of 201-300 is considered “poor”, a reading of 301-400 is in “very poor” zone, and associated with respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. An AQI of 400-500 is considered “severe”, posing serious health risks. Government data on farm fires and experts indicated that the current deterioration in Delhi’s air was largely due to weather conditions adverse to the dispersal of pollutants, and local pollution sources (such as road dust and construction dust, vehicular emissions and local garbage burning), reaffirming the argument that the root of the city’s annual ordeal goes beyond firecracker bursting on Diwali and the burning of crop stubble in neighbouring states — two of the factors widely cited behind grim AQI readings in October-November. To be sure, the fires tip it over the edge into hazardous territory.CPCB data showed that Delhi’s AQI has been on a decline over the past week. It was 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday, and 211 on Wednesday. VK Soni, head of the environment monitoring research centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that the fresh drop in air quality was mainly due to low wind speed (not conducive for the dispersal of pollutants) and high moisture content (conducive for the accumulation of pollutants).“A western disturbance affecting the Western Himalayan region (from Monday) has had its impact on Delhi as well. Winds were easterly till (Tuesday) afternoon; they carried moisture. So increase in air pollution levels is due to local factors and a reduction in wind speed. The air quality may touch severe levels tomorrow (Wednesday). However, we expect an improvement from November 26, when the wind speed is likely to pick up after the passing of the western disturbance,” Soni said. Radha Goyal, deputy director of the Indian Pollution Control Association (a non-governmental organisation), said that while stubble burning is indeed a contributor to Delhi’s pollution level, the city’s local sources cannot be ignored and need proper attention. “The main local sources of air pollution in Delhi during winters are vehicular emissions, construction activities and waste burning. In this critical period, when weather is not favourable, we have to strictly enforce measures to control these local sources so that Delhi’s local sources are controlled,” Goyal said.From November 5 -10, the Capital saw a spell of “severe” air days for six consecutive days. But the dispersal of pollution after Diwali was the fastest this year, compared to the last five years. The AQI went from “severe” to moderate within two days because of high wind speeds and rain in many parts of the city.According to CPCB data, 189 farm fires were reported on Monday and they contributed to 5% of Delhi’s pollution. This share was around 32% during the six-day spell of “severe” air earlier this month. Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said that the burning of paddy stubble has ended in Punjab. “On most of the agriculture area in the state, wheat crop of the rabi season has been sown,” he said.Krunesh Garg, member-secretary of the Punjab pollution control board, said only a “negligible number” of farm fires were being reported nowadays.“ Total fire cases (in the state) touching 76,000 is a cause of concern for us because it’s substantially more than last season’s (57,000) number. I want to highlight that number of cases when verified on ground were much less against that reported by the satellite,” he said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) of think-tank Centre for Science and Environment, said that while Delhi, to some extent, has been successful in bending this season’s pollution curve, the levels are still around “60% higher” than the acceptable limits. “There is no doubt that Delhi cannot solve its pollution problem alone because it shares a common airshed with states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh etc., where pollution sources are unchecked compared to the Capital. But that being said, enforcement needs to improve a lot more. The enforcement agencies know exactly what they need to do when the air quality reaches a certain level; it is listed clearly under Grap (Graded Response Action Plan). All they need to do is ensure that the measures are enforced strictly,” Roychowdhury said.In a significant move, the Union environment ministry brought in the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas through an ordinance on October 29. Its objective is to implement a consolidated approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas. While doing so the Centre dissolved all ad-hoc committees and bodies created under court orders, including the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA), which had been tasked with overseeing air pollution control in NCR since 1998.M Kutty, chairperson of the new panel, and Arvind Nautiyal, joint secretary, environment ministry, and a full-time member of the commission, did not respond to answer HT’s calls on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adverse-weather-conditions-and-local-sources-of-pollution-push-delhi-further-into-very-poor-zone/story-tFI7SBbHq5GpyI7iB8cWCK.html
25-11-2020||India||In-laws burn Hyderabad techie over ‘black magic’ suspicion||A 38-year old software engineer who travelled from Hyderabad to Balwanthapur, around 180 km from the Telangana capital, to call on the widow of his wife’s recently deceased brother was tied to a chair and burnt to death — presumably on the suspicion that he had used black magic to kill the brother. The police believe that more than one person may have been responsible for the killing, and the needle of suspicion is on the brother’s family and relatives. The incident happened at a house within the premises of Manjunatha temple located on the outskirts of Balwanthapur village in Malyala block. The deceased was identified as Pagilla Pavan Kumar, a resident of Alwal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Kumar was employed with a software company based in Bengaluru but had been staying in his hometown Hyderabad for some time now.According to the police, Kumar, along with wife Krishnaveni, came to Balwanthapur to call on the family of his brother-in-law Jagan (38) who died of heart attack 12 days ago. The couple paid floral tributes to the portrait of Jagan and consoled his wife Sumalatha. “At around 7.30 pm, we received a call from the local people that a person was in flames in a room locked from outside and was screaming for help. We rushed to the spot and broke open the door of the room. We found Kumar tied to a chair and completely burnt. He died instantaneously,” Mallyal sub-inspector of police Nagaraju told Hindustan Times. Krishnaveni complained to the police that Sumalatha sent her to fetch a bottle of water. “By the time I returned, my husband was locked up inside the room and was screaming while being burnt alive.” Nagaraju said it was a clear case of murder, as Kumar was tied to a chair, doused with petrol and burnt to death. “Moreover, the room was locked from outside. So, we booked a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating.”  “We are questioning all the suspects and will crack the case soon,” he added. No arrests had been made till Tuesday evening. Krishnaveni told the police that there were some differences between her brother and husband and that Sumalatha suspected that Kumar might have performed black magic, resulting in Jagan’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-laws-burn-hyderabad-techie-over-black-magic-suspicion/story-TZCmlLgEp4KS0ckO3ed6PK.html
25-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There is now a growing consensus that India is seeing the emergence of a second wave of Covid-19, something that Dispatch 206 on November 18 first pointed out.The numbers pretty much speak for themselves. Seven of the 11 states that accounted for 76% of cases (on the basis of a trailing seven-day average as on November 23), have seen a resurgence of cases over the past month-and-half (since October 15). I have excluded Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from the analysis because of their continued insistence on using rapid antigen tests (RATs), which are unreliable.The three states that have actually seen a decline in this period are Maharashtra, which, with 1.78 million cases and 46,653 deaths to date, has been ravaged by the virus; Kerala; and Tamil Nadu. Among them, Kerala is now the second-highest contributor to the country’s daily total, after Delhi.The others have seen an increase either from lows seen over the past month-and-a-half, or even above levels seen on October 15. For instance, Delhi’s seven-day average of cases on October 15 was 2,885. The corresponding number on November 23 was 6,445. Other states that have seen an increase from their October 15 seven-day averages are: Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, and Rajasthan.Chhattisgarh’s daily case numbers dipped in early November but have risen again, although they are still lower than the October 15 average. So have Madhya Pradesh’s. And West Bengal’s seven-day average of cases has remained pretty much the same. It was 3,627 on October 15, rose to the 4,000s in late October, but is now back at 3,622.India’s overall seven-day average of daily cases has also inched up from the 39,000-levels seen last week, and was 43,379 on Monday. That’s still lower than the 66,396 it was on October 15. Still, with winter setting in north and north-west India, and threatening to be more severe this year than it has been in recent years, there’s growing concern about the rising numbers.Worryingly, the seven-day average of daily deaths has also increased — from a low of 491 on November 17 to 525 on Monday. Much of this, though, is propelled by a surge of deaths in Delhi — from a seven-day average of 39 on October 15 to 114 on November 23. Together, these 11 states accounted for 76.3% of daily deaths (seven-day average) on Monday.The really good news at the national level is that the overall positivity rate (seven-day average) is still below 5%. It was 3.95% on November 23, though this number is skewed by the low positivity rates of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh that conduct a lot of tests, all rapid antigen ones. Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, and Rajasthan ended November 23 with a higher average positivity rate than they had on October 15.Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have seen their average positivity rates rise from lows seen over the past month-and-a-half. West Bengal’s still remains high (and has stayed almost constant) at 8.22% (it was 8.59% on October 15). And Maharashtra’s is still over 5%, at 6.75%, although this is half the 13.80% seen on October 15. Kerala’s positivity rate, too, has fallen from the 15.9% it was on October 15, but at 9.92%, it is still high.Based only on their average positivity rates, it is clear that Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and West Bengal are not testing enough. Nor, despite the increase in testing in recent days, is Delhi. While four vaccines have now shown efficacy in protecting people from the viral infection, none has been approved yet. The most optimistic assessment of experts is that frontline health workers in India may be vaccinated in early 2021.To manage the second wave, then, states will have to test more (and use the right test), trace diligently, and isolate effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-9ORLxLpnTdpdLlZZO6OPwN.html
25-11-2020||India||PM Modi lays Covid-19 vaccine road map in meet with CMs||India will ensure every citizen gets a coronavirus vaccine but the candidates must first pass all scientific tests, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting with chief ministers of eight states, where he also confirmed a priority list for those who will get a shot first: frontline workers, people above the age of 50, and those with comorbidities.The meeting included the CMs of Delhi, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal, regions that have witnessed high number of cases or fatalities due to Covid-19. India is following the race for vaccines closely, the PM said, according to a government statement, adding: “If speed is important, than safety is equally important. What we develop will be scientifically validated.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe also said that for vaccine distribution, the Centre is working with states, which will “ultimately be in a better position to say what is required on ground” and assured them that a detailed plan will be shared soon. “PM made it clear that in the first stage, the vaccine will be given to the frontline health workers, in the second stage to the police personnel, sanitation workers etc; to those above 50 years of age in third stage; and to those with co-morbid conditions in the fourth stage,” Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani quoted the PM as saying, according to ANI. The statement was confirmed by Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope.The state minister, citing discussions during the meeting, also quoted the CM as saying that the key frontline and essential workers as part of the first phase could come up to about 300 million people. “He (PM) said the vaccine may come in the next 4-5 weeks. He also said to be on alert to ensure Covid doesn’t spread,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa told reporters at Mysuru airport following a second meeting that involved a larger group of chief ministers from across the country. Also Read | Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situationModi’s remarks, his first in detail on the vaccine distribution plan, comes a day after University of Oxford and British pharma firm AstraZeneca announced their vaccine candidate had shown up to 90% efficacy in late-stage trials. This inoculation is largely believed to be the first one that is likely to be approved and distributed in India, since Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is among manufacturing partners and has committed to reserving half of the doses it produces for the country. It is also cheaper than the main rivals that have shown efficacy and easier to store and transport.According to a government statement, Modi assured the CMs that the government’s focus will be to get the vaccine to everyone. “It’s a sort of national commitment from the government towards Indian citizens. Two indigenous vaccines are in advance stages of trials, and there also are others being tested in India that have been developed globally but the manufactures have tied with local partners,” he told the chief ministers.The PM also added a word of caution. “We have to also look into the possibility of dealing with side-effects related to the vaccine; as people tend to develop a reaction to even medicines that are in use for a very long time. Even after 20 years or so there are side-effects seen of certain medicines, which may be also possible with the Covid-19 vaccines,” he said. Modi asked chief ministers to prepare cold storage and other infrastructure for vaccine logistics, assuring them that states would be taken on board for the vaccine drive, “just as the Centre and the states are fighting Covid together,” according to an official who was aware of the discussions. The Centre has written to states to prepare to deal with any side-effects, in addition to asking them to prepare databases of those who will be on priority lists for the inoculation. Also Read | Covid-19 situation in Bengal under control, CM Mamata Banerjee tells PM Narendra ModiUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan earlier shared a rough draft of the priority list. “Almost 25-30 crore people will be given vaccine in the initial phase. This vaccine will have to be administered at least twice within the gap of two-three weeks to each person. Naturally we will have to prioritise. Corona warriors will be our natural priority, including health care and frontline workers, then 65 plus elderly population and those who are 50-65 years old, and then 50 years and less people with diseases. All this is being scientifically decided after going through the opinion of several experts…,” he had said at a conference last week.“The interim vaccine trial results are showing promise, as up to 90% efficacy is more than acceptable for respiratory illness vaccine. India is a large country and phasing the vaccine delivery on where and whom you choose to give the shot based on their risk of exposure, makes sense,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Modi also told the CMs that they should firm up efforts to curb infections, and focus on reducing the rate of test positivity and fatality. “We need to work towards bringing down the positive rate to nearly 5 per cent and the fatality rate to under 1 per cent and called for more RT-PCR tests,” he said.The meeting, in addition to Rupani and Yediyurappa, included Union home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot, West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray and Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel.“At the start of the outbreak the government had to take certain tough measures but that was to ready the country for dealing with the pandemic. Now that we are ready we need to keep the momentum going,” Modi said.Modi reiterated on the need to understand public behaviour, the official quoted above said. “The first stage of people’s response to Covid was of fear, when people reacted in panic. The second stage saw doubts about the virus, when several people tried to hide that they had been afflicted by it. The third stage was of acceptance, when people became more serious about the virus and displayed greater alertness. In the fourth stage, with increasing recovery rate, people have developed a false notion of security from the virus, thus leading to rise in instances of negligence,” this official quoted the PM as saying.(With inputs from HTC in Mumbai and Bengaluru)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-covid-19-vaccine-road-map-in-meet-with-cms/story-1ZEvDV6OSQoH24C782sD4N.html
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Cyclonic storm brings rain, leads to traffic congestion, inundation||Several roads and intersections witnessed traffic congestion and waterlogging here on Tuesday in view of the intermittent rains influenced by the cyclonic storm ‘Nivar.’ The government, meanwhile, said following better storage in city’s reservoirs, drinking water supply in the metropolis is set to be increased effective Wednesday. Anna Salai, GST Road and Kathipara junction were among the locations that witnessed traffic snarls and several places came under sheets of water and vehicles moved at a slow pace.While social media users shared videos of flooded roads like the Tiru-Vi-Ka Salai and Wall Tax Road, stagnant rain water at locations including the Kathipara point was pumped out by Chennai Corporation workers and they also removed 90 uprooted trees.Police teams patrolled the city roads and people who turned up at the popular city and suburban beaches like the Marina and Neelangarai were dispersed by police personnel. Meanwhile, Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani visited the Greater Chennai Corporation’s control room at the Rippon Building headquartes for a review meet and flagged off a ‘Mobile Command and Control Centre’ van as part of measures to tackle the situation. Speaking to reporters, Velumani said 15 IAS officials have been specially assigned to monitor all the 15 zones of the Chennai corporation and 176 relief centres would be operated.Water stagnation was witnessed in five locations alone and in view of coordinated action between departments and storm water drain infrastructure waterlogging receded quickly, he said.“There is no water stagnation in any of the subways. You can see this from our Command and Control Centre. There may be some waterlogging in low lying areas and this is being drained,” he told reporters.Till date, from October 28 when the Northeast monsoon set in, the city has received 38.7 cm rain. Overall, in the past about 24 hours, the city has received 5.9 cm rainfall, he said. In view of better storage in the city’s reservoirs, drinking water supply would be increased to 830 MLD from about 750 MLD effective Wednesday, he said.In Chembarambakkam reservoir, out of the current storage of about 80 per cent, a greater share of the inflow was from Krishna River, the Minister said, indicating that the increased storage was not due to the current spell of rain alone.The Command and Control Centre at the Corporation’s headquarters continuously monintored the situation on ground on a real time basis and other agencies like the Public Works Department were being alterted immediately on relevant matter including clearing waterlogging, he said.In as many as 109 locations, boats have been kept ready to help evacuate people and health units are ready as well including mobile vans, he added.Overall, the rainfall ranged between one cm to nine cm on Tuesday in the state, Regional Meteorological department said, adding Tambaram in Chengelpet district, which is also a city suburb received nine cm rainfall, the highest.Several other parts of the state, including Nagapattinam, Sriperumbudur (Kancheepuram), Sholinganallur (Chennai), Tiruporur (Chengelpet) received one cm rainfall each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-cyclonic-storm-brings-rain-leads-to-traffic-congestion-inundation/story-dacIZ07N9bNDD7Q1oAsvoO.html
25-11-2020||India||UP makes ‘love jihad’ a punishable offence||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet approved on Tuesday a draft ordinance outlawing religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement, and prescribed up to 10 years imprisonment for those found guilty, becoming the first state to propose a law for regulating interfaith relationships. The announcement came roughly a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, but one that the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise. The draft ordinance doesn’t mention the word “love jihad” anywhere, said UP law commission chairperson AN Mittal, who was involved in drafting the document. Also Read | ‘They are grown-ups’: Allahabad HC cancels case against Muslim man by wife’s parentsThe draft ordinance, formally called Uttar Pradesh Vidhi Viruddh Dharm Samparivartan Pratishedh Adhyadesh 2020 (UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance-2020), includes a provision to void a marriage if it is solemnised primarily to convert a woman’s faith. The burden of proof in such cases will be on the person who converted their faith, and those who performed the conversion, the document added. It imposed a penalty of between five and 10 years for such a union.“The way in which religious conversions are done using deceit, lies, force and dishonesty is heart wrenching, and it was necessary to have a law in this regard… The ordinance was necessary to maintain law and order and justice for women,” cabinet minister and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said.Adityanath’s promise last month was based on a judgment by a single-judge bench of the Allahabad high court in October objecting to religious conversion only for marriage. But on Monday, a two-judge division bench said the previous verdict didn’t lay down good law. The division bench also said the right to marry a partner irrespective of faith was a part of a person’s constitutional right that could not be infringed. The state government, through the ordinance, appeared to have sidestepped the legal debate, and based the proposed law on a 2019 submission by the state law commission, which called for a law to check forcible religious conversions in the state. Unlike several other states, Uttar Pradesh didn’t have an anti-conversion law on its books. “The ordinance came following a law commission report and after studying all possible aspects. The UP government will stop all illegal conversions. Love jihad is a term in circulation, people use it. Everything in the ordinance is within the purview of the Constitution and people’s rights,” said deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The draft ordinance – which now needs the assent of governor Anandiben Patel — made religious conversions using force, coercion, enticement, deceit, and fraud non-bailable and cognisable offences, which means a police officer can arrest a suspect without warrant and can start an investigation without the permission of a court.The ordinance provided for imprisonment of a minimum of one year to a maximum of five years and a penalty of not less than ₹15,000. In cases where a minor girl or a woman from the scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities is involved, the imprisonment ranged from three years to 10 years and penalty of at least ₹25,000. In cases of collective or mass illegal conversion, the punishment is between three and 10 years with a penalty of at least ₹50,000. In such offences, the registration of the organisation holding the mass conversion event could be cancelled. The draft law also empowered district magistrates to award compensation not exceeding ₹5 lakh to victims of forced conversion. If a person wants to change their faith, they will have to apply in a prescribed format two months before the planned conversion. This is double the period stipulated in the 1954 Special Marriage Act that regulates interfaith unions. Violation of this clause in the draft ordinance would make a person liable for imprisonment between six months to three years and penalty of at least ₹10,000, said a state government statement. Uttar Pradesh’s draft ordinance comes at a time several other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) –ruled states – such as Karnataka, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh – have declared their intention to outlaw “love jihad”, in which Hindu right-wing activists claim gullible Hindu women are being coerced into conversion on the false pretext of marriage. Many experts reject these allegations and say that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion. In February, the central government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.Last week, Madhya Pradesh announced that it will bring in the next session of the assembly a bill to check incidents of “love jihad”. The new proposed law mentioned that conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation would be punishable by a maximum jail term of five years. If such forced conversion is proved, then the marriage concerned shall be declared null and void and anyone who assisted or was a part of the conversion exercise shall be treated at par with the main accused, the proposed bill added.Samajwadi Party spokesperson and former UP minister Rajendra Chaudhary said: “This government has a track record in wasting time and energy and diverting public attention from real issues by doing such things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-makes-love-jihad-a-punishable-offence/story-3z1DLoEU3bWI1dOz8hTqAI.html
25-11-2020||India||Tamil Nadu, Puducherry brace as cyclone Nivar nears||With cyclone Nivar expected to make a landfall on eastern coast of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, heavy rains lashed several parts of the state including Chennai on Tuesday. As a precautionary measure, the state government has declared a public holiday on Wednesday.The cyclone is expected to make a landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on November 25 late evening with a wind speed of up to 145 kmph, according to Indian Meteorological Department. The cyclonic storm over southwest Bay of Bengal moved westwards with a speed of 07 kmph on Tuesday afternoon over southwest Bay of Bengal about 370 km eastsoutheast of Puducherry and 420 km south-southeast of Chennai. It is likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during subsequent 12 hours according to IMD’s Tuesday bulletin. IMD scientists however said that it was not possible to confirm the exact time and location of landfall until Wednesday morning when models will have a clearer picture. “We can say it could cross the coast anytime between 6 to 8 pm,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD. A red category warning for extremely heavy rain has been sounded in coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 25 and for Rayalseema on November 26. “The cyclone has gradually intensified and wind speed has increased so the warnings have changed,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. With 43,409 first responders, several rescue teams and personnel including the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the coast guard have been deployed. “We have made our moves to prepare for the cyclone. We have to leave it to nature now and respond,” said Phanindra Reddy, principal secretary and commissioner, state’s disaster management and mitigation department. Also Read | Cyclone Nivar: Assure all possible support to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry from Centre, tweets PM ModiThough Tamil Nadu has learnt lessons from its previous cyclones- Gaja in 2018 and Vardah in 2016 to prepare for the heavy rains and wind, this year the state faces an additional challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic. This time, the cyclone relief centers have been doubled to 8,813 to accommodate 2.5 lakh people so as to ensure social distancing. “We didn’t want the relief camps to end up becoming super spreaders,” Reddy said, adding that people will be screened for Covid symptoms at the camps. Till Tuesday evening, less than 1,000 people had moved there but authorities are expected a bigger crowd on Wednesday when the cyclone approaches the coast. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a public holiday on Wednesday urging people to remain indoors. Essential services will continue to operate. “We have taken all precautions so that people aren’t affected due to the cyclone. There is no need to panic,” he said, after inspecting an emergency control room in Chennai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Palaniswami and Puducherry chief minister V Narayanaswamy on Tuesday and assured them of assistance from the Centre. In Chennai, the officials asked people not to panic as water levels rose in the Chembarambakkam reservoir. The government has issued orders to release surplus water from Chembarambakkam if it exceeds its storage capacity. Overflow from Chembarambakkam had caused the 2015 devastating Chennai floods. “The situation is under control,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, G Prakash. The city has opened 80 relief camps with another 80 on stand-by. Civic workers in Chennai were pressed into clearing water-logged roads as the city received heavy rains from Monday night. However, authorities were more concerned of the impact of winds which could uproot trees and blow away tin sheets and roof which could be fatal if people stay outdoors. District administrations are running control rooms with emergency numbers for the public to call. The coast guard has stationed 15 disaster management teams while two helicopters are on standby. Four off-shore patrol vehicles will be available to assist fishermen and in Chennai there are five flood relief teams and one diving team. Southern railways have cancelled 24 trains including trains connecting Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Suburban train services have also been suspended from Wednesday until further orders. Meanwhile, section 144 has been imposed in Puducherry. The administration has also opened a 24x7 control room coordinating with various teams and has set up 96 relief camps. “When there is a need they will be moved, we don’t want to unnecessarily create a hotspot,” said Puducherry collector T Arun, who was confident with their mitigation efforts. “Our only concern is people venturing out which is why we have prohibited movement and we have asked families to stock up,” said Arun. With inputs from Jayshree Nandi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-puducherry-braceas-cyclone-nivar-nears/story-H1ZFx6kEF9Y2vUtIaCugzK.html
25-11-2020||India||Bihar to ramp up Covid-19 testing, intensify checking for masks, penalize defaulters||Bihar will intensify checking for masks and penalize defaulters in an effort to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a spike in cases in many states, including Delhi. Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday asked the district magistrates and the superintendents of police to ramp up testing of samples and undertake special drives in their respective districts to check for masks at public places. The daily testing of samples had gone down from the month’s high of 1,43,642 on November 3 to a low of 85,174 on November 21 during the Chhath festival. “We will step up testing and intensify checking at public places, including commercial establishments and vehicles. Penalty will be slapped on those not wearing masks. We will even seal commercial establishments, like shopping malls and shops or seize vehicles, which do not follow guidelines,” said Sanjay Agarwal, Patna’s divisional commissioner. The government’s emphasis was also to keep stringent checks and continue with the curbs in containment zones. “Besides keeping special vigil on containment zones, we have also asked officials to do intensive contact tracing of Covid-19 patients to check for people they came in contact with so that they do not become super-spreaders,” added Agarwal. Patna district magistrate had constituted teams for checking. “We have asked our officers to intensify checking for masks at public places and ensure that people wear them. We have also asked them to penalize the defaulters,” said Patna’s district magistrate Kumar Ravi. “Vending zones will be closed for three days if people and shopkeepers are found not to follow guidelines on wearing masks and maintaining social distance,” he added. Occupants in private and commercial vehicles will be checked for masks and penalized for defaulting. They will also be subjected to random rapid antigen Covid-19 tests, said officials. Officials had been instructed to penalize vehicle occupants not wearing masks for other violations as well under the Motor Vehicle Act so that they felt the financial pinch. Civil surgeons have been asked to hold testing camps in crowded areas like vegetable markets, commercial areas and bus stand. Airport and railway station authorities have been asked to ensure compliance and also create public awareness against the pandemic through loudspeaker. The Patna district magistrate has also asked magistrates to do videography of crowded public areas to check for violations. Bihar had 5,016 active cases against 2,31,697 total cases and 1,233 deaths reported so far, according to the health department’s bulletin on Tuesday. As many as 2,25,447 people had recovered from the disease, with a recovery rate of 97.30%. Bihar had conducted 1,37,43,532 tests till Monday with 1,07,624 tests per million so far. Most of these tests were through rapid antigen kits. On Monday, for instance, Bihar conducted 1,06,055 tests of which 11,992 were through real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), 3,112 TrueNat and the remaining 90,951 through rapid antigen testing kits. The number of new infections has been down since 865 cases were reported on November 9, two days after culmination of the Bihar assembly elections. Bihar has been on alert since September 25 when elections to the state assembly were announced. A Central team had specifically asked the state to be vigilant during elections and the festive season of Diwali and Chhath when many people from outside the state return. Bihar taking full precautions to curb Covid-19, says CMBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said the state was taking full precautions to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. He said the state government was preparing a structured plan to ensure the dissemination of Covid-19 vaccine to the masses once it was available. Kumar on Tuesday participated in a meeting, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out through video-conference on the Covid-19 vaccine and safety precautions to be taken against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-intensify-checking-for-masks-penalize-defaulters/story-lQEDMK2CkCgbLgi2fXZ5EO.html
25-11-2020||India||Schedule for elections to Congress chief post, CWC may be declared in Dec||The schedule for the elections to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and the party president’s post is likely to be announced next month, and all formalities to hold organisational polls will be completed by the end of the year, according to functionaries familiar the developments.The Congress party’s constitution calls for 12 of the 25 CWC members to be elected by All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates, and the rest to be appointed by the party president. The CWC, however, has not witnessed any election in over two decades now -- one of the key issues raised by several leaders who have called for urgent organisational and functional changes to check the party’s electoral decline in recent years.The last time an election was held for the party's highest decision-making body during the Kolkata plenary in 1997. “Hopefully, we will issue a detailed schedule of the organisational elections by December-end after the CWC clears our proposal,” said a member of the party’s central election authority (CEA) who asked not to be named.The member added that there was no decision yet on holding a virtual AICC session, though some leaders expressed reservations over the physical presence of over 1,500-1,600 delegates at one venue in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In any case, he said, an AICC session is unlikely to be held before next February. While carrying out a major organisational reshuffle on September 11, Congress president Sonia Gandhi formed a five-member CEA to hold internal polls. It is headed by Madhusudan Mistry, and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani, and Arvinder Singh Lovely.Lovely one of the 23 signatories to a letter to Sonia Gandhi in August seeking a complete overhaul of the party functioning, internal polls, and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the 135-year-old organisation.CEA met on Tuesday to review the progress on its previous communication asking all state units to send an updated list of AICC delegates who form the electoral-college for the organisational polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schedule-for-elections-to-cong-chief-post-cwc-may-be-declared-in-dec/story-b1Kqe2ipOYppMw1yIKd75J.html
25-11-2020||India||Tiger strays out of corridor between 2 national parks in Assam; injures two||A tiger strayed out of the corridor between two national parks in Assam on Tuesday and injured two people. According to forest officials, the Royal Bengal tiger moved out of the corridor connecting the Kaziranga and Nameri national parks into the Napam area close to the Tezpur University. “The tiger moved towards the Jia Bharali area close to the 9th addition to the Kaziranga national park. Two people were injured in the attack by the animal and have been admitted in hospital. The situation is under control,” P Siva Kumar, Director, Kaziranga National Park said. “Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in the area in order to ensure crowd control and an operation launched to drive out the animal towards Kaziranga in the evening,” he added. A video of the animal chasing a group of people has been circulating on social media. In the video, the tiger is seen injuring a man who falls into a ditch. The animal moves away from the spot immediately. “We are monitoring the situation closely. Hopefully, the animal will move back towards Nameri or go to the Burha Chapori area without causing more worry,” said Sivakumar. In July this year, an adult male tiger had moved out of Kaziranga during peak monsoon to escape flooding inside the park and taken shelter in a goat shed in a nearby village. It later moved back inside the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-strays-out-of-corridor-between-2-national-parks-in-assam-injures-two/story-LHaLnmG2yrFdcTGSv5WtjI.html
25-11-2020||India||Delhi schools unlikely to reopen until vaccine against Covid-19 available: Manish Sisodia||Schools in the national capital which are closed due to the coronavirus pandemic are unlikely to reopen until a vaccine is available, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday.Universities and schools across the country were closed on March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.“Until we get some vaccine, schools (in Delhi) are not likely to open,” Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s Education Minister, told reporters.He had announced on October 30 that schools will remain closed until further orders, saying parents were not in favour of sending their ward to schools yet. “We keep getting feedback from parents that they are really concerned about whether it is safe to reopen schools. It is not. Wherever schools have reopened, COVID-19 cases among children have risen. So we have decided that as of now schools in the national capital will not reopen. They will continue to be closed till further orders,” Sisodia had said then.A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25.While several restrictions have been eased in different ‘unlock’ phases, educational institutions continue to remain closed. According to ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines, states can take a call on reopening schools in phases. Several states also began the process of reopening schools. While some of them announced closure again due to rise in coronavirus cases.Earlier, schools were allowed to call students from Class 9 to 12 to school on voluntary basis from September 21. However, the Delhi government decided against it.Delhi recorded 4,454 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday and a positivity rate of 11.94 per cent while 121 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,512, authorities said.These relatively low number of fresh cases came out of the 37,307 tests conducted on Sunday, including 18,046 RT-PCR tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. On last Friday, authorities had said that 23,507 RT-PCR tests, the highest till date, were conducted a day before.The highest single-day spike till date here -- 8,593 cases -- was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were recorded.As many as 121 fatalities were recorded on Monday, same as the previous day.This is the sixth time in the last 12 days that the daily number of deaths has crossed the 100-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-unlikely-to-reopen-until-vaccine-against-covid-19-available-manish-sisodia/story-DhkFQIQTZT0upcQ9gsCp9K.html
25-11-2020||India||Heavy rains lash Chennai as Tamil Nadu braces for Cyclone Nivar tomorrow||A day before Cyclone Nivar is expected to make landfall on the eastern coast of Tamil Nadu, heavy rains lashed several parts of the state, including Chennai, accompanied with strong winds and high tides on Tuesday even as the state government announced a public holiday on Wednesday. The cyclone is expected to make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on November 25 late evening with a wind speed of upto 120 kmph, according to the Indian Meteorological Department. Extremely high rainfall has been forecast in coastal regions including Chennai, Cuddlaore, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam, and Villupuram. With 43,409 first responders, a dozen rescue teams and rescue personnel including the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the coast guard have been deployed. “We have made our moves to prepare for the cyclone. We have to leave it to nature now and respond,” said Phanindra Reddy, principal secretary and commissioner, state’s disaster management and mitigation department. ALSO READ | Cyclone Nivar: Assure all possible support to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry from Centre, tweets PM ModiThough Tamil Nadu has learnt lessons from its previous cyclones--- Gaja in 2018 and Vardah in 2016 to prepare for the heavy rain and wind, this year the state faces an additional challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic. This time, the cyclone relief centers have been doubled to 8,813 to accommodate the same number of people 2.5 lakh to ensure social distancing. “We didn’t want the relief camps to end up becoming super spreaders,” Reddy said, adding that people will be screened for Covid-19 symptoms at the camps. Till Tuesday evening, less than 1,000 people had moved there but authorities are expecting a bigger crowd tomorrow when the cyclone approaches the coast. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a public holiday on Wednesday urging people to remain indoors. Essential services will continue to operate. “We have taken all precautions so that people aren’t affected due to Cyclone Nivar. There is no need to panic,” he said, after inspecting an emergency control room in Chennai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Palaniswami and V Narayanaswamy, CM of Puducherry, on Tuesday assuring them of assistance from the Centre. ALSO READ | Cyclone Nivar: Puducherry imposes prohibitory orders, allows shops selling essential goods to openIn Chennai, the officials asked people not to panic as water levels rose in the Chembarambakkam reservoir and additional water was released into the Adyar River. Overflow from Chembarambakkam had caused the 2015 devastating Chennai floods. “The situation is under control,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, G Prakash. The city has opened 80 relief camps with another 80 on stand-by. Civic workers in Chennai were pressed into clearing water-logged roads as the city received heavy rain from Monday night. However, authorities were more concerned of the impact of winds which would uproot trees and blow away tin sheets and roofs which could be fatal for people if they stay outdoors. District administrations are running control rooms with emergency numbers for the public to call. The coast guard has stationed 15 disaster management teams and two helicopters are on standby. Four off-shore patrol vehicles will be available to assist fishermen and in Chennai there are five flood relief teams and one diving team. Southern railways cancelled 24 trains, including trains connecting Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Suburban train services have also been suspended from Wednesday until further orders. The Puducherry administration has opened a 24x7 control room coordinating with various teams and has set up 96 relief camps. “When there is a need they will be moved, we don’t want to unnecessarily create a hotspot,” said Puducherry collector T Arun, who was confident with their mitigation efforts. “Last week we received 72 mm rainfall and it didn’t cause any havoc,” said Arun. “Our only concern is people venturing out which is why we have prohibited movement and we have asked families to stock up on essentials. Puducherry also has a lot of trees which we have been pruning for the past two weeks so they are not uprooted. Authorities have also removed precarious banners and hoardings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-lash-chennai-as-tamil-nadu-braces-for-cyclone-nivar-tomorrow/story-1S7gsGIn1p4iPwwPWjAtJM.html
25-11-2020||India||States must start working on cold storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine, says PM Modi at meeting with chief ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of all the states and Union Territories on Tuesday to review Covid-19 situation where he asked them to start working on cold storage facilities for coronavirus vaccine.The prime minister also assured all the states and UTs that the vaccine against Covid-19 which Indian will get for its citizens, will be safe on “all scientific standards”. “Safety is as important as speed for us, whichever vaccine India will give to its citizens will be safe on all scientific standards. Vaccine distribution strategy will be chalked out in collective coordination with states. States must also start working cold storage facilities,” PM Modi said at the meeting.PM Modi’s meeting with the chief ministers comes at a time when India’s Covid-19 caseload has soared past 9.17 million. Though the country has been recording good recovery rate,it still continues to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases across India. Urging the importance of spreading awareness about the coronavirus, PM Modi said, “Seeing good recovery rates, many think virus is weak & they’ll recover soon, this has led to rampant carelessness... Those working on vaccine are doing it but we need to focus on ensuring that people are alert & transmission is curbed. We’ve to bring positivity rate under 5%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-must-start-working-on-cold-storage-facilities-for-covid-19-vaccine-says-pm-modi-at-meeting-with-chief-ministers/story-jfV2aeLWgGXIKRSGSfVEMK.html
25-11-2020||India||TRP fraud probe: Mumbai Police files charge sheet against 12 accused||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday submitted a charge sheet at the metropolitan magistrate court, running into 1,400 pages, against the 12 accused in connection with television rating point (TRP) fraud case. The charge sheet includes the statements of 140 witnesses along with relevant documents. Mumbai Police have listed the names of the owners and directors of the two news channels as wanted accused in the charge sheet. The police said that their probe would continue and they would submit supplementary charge sheet at a later stage with more evidence. The accused are facing charges under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 204 (destruction of documentary evidence, 212 (harbouring offender) and 34 (act done with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case was registered with Kandivli police on October 6 after the arrest of Vishal Bhandari, 21, former employee of Hansa Research Private Limited. Also read | The purpose of TV media measurementApart from Bhandari, the police have also arrested Bompalli Rao Mistry,44; Shirish Pattanshetty, 44; Narayan Sharma, 47; Vinay Tripathi, 29; Umesh Mishra, 32; Ramji Sharma, 41; Dineshkumar Vishwakarma, 37; Harish Patil, 45; Abhishekh Kolwade, 35; Ashish Chaudhary, 50; and Ghanshyam Singh. 44. Singh, who is Republic TV’s distribution head, was the last to be arrested. He was arrested on November 10 from his Thane home. “Pattanshetty, Sharma and Mishra are out on bail. We have arrested republic TV representative and distribution head Ghanshyam Singh in the case and the other accused are connected to him. Mishra and Chaudhary have turned approvers in the case. The investigation in the TRP case will continue,” assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who is part of the probe and also heading the CIU of the crime branch, said. The police began the probe after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The police then discovered that some channels were allegedly paying bribes to boost their TRP fraudulently to increase their advertising revenue. Bhandari allegedly told the police that it was an old modus operandi to pay households where barometers for recording TRP were installed to keep tuned to certain channels, to help enhance rating of the channels fraudulently. Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-fraud-case-mumbai-police-file-charge-sheet/story-RUSRCPWtuQB8dz9YegHVHK.html
25-11-2020||India||UP child abuse case: CBI hints main accuse was not working alone||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing a child abuse racket allegedly run by an irrigation department junior engineer in Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh, has found that the porn videos he sold on the dark web were of high quality, indicating the involvement of a professional. Also Read | UP child molester gifted mobile phones to kids he abused:CBIOfficials aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that the CBI, which arrested Ram Bhavan Singh from Chitrakoot on November 16, is now searching for the location where the videos were made. The agency has in its possession about 100 videos found on pen drives and a laptop it received from an anonymous whistle-blower. It also recovered spy cameras and video making equipment during the searches it carried out as part of its investigation. An examination of these videos has revealed that they were made by a professional, a sign that Bhavan was possibly not working alone, the officials said. “Seeing the videos, one can easily make out that the locations were arranged and shots were taken professionally, as the way the camera pans and closes in on the subjects is apparently beyond the ability of this man (Bhavan), who is not that tech-savvy,” said one of the officials cited above. To build a strong case against the suspect, the agency is focusing on tracing the maximum number of children Bhavan trapped and abused. The CBI has managed to trace 35 of Bhavan’s victims -- 15 of them from Banda district alone. His victims were only boys, aged between six and 15 years, the officials said. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Banda will decide on the CBI’s plea for custodial remand of Bhavan on Tuesday. The court had deferred an order on November 20 after Bhavan’s counsel Anurag Singh Chandel alleged that the CBI arrested him on false charges. CBI’s standing counsel Ashok Kumar Singh would file a rejoinder in the court on Tuesday. The five-day custodial remand the CBI has sought from court is to identify Bhavan’s remaining victims and find the locations where the videos were made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-child-abuse-case-cbi-hints-main-accuse-was-not-working-alone/story-NoxRv0wXQk2et295HWq9IL.html
