26-11-2020||India||BJP MP’s son’s wedding had more than 1000 guests, alleges Congress; seeks action for flouting norms||Two days after the Indore district administration capped the number of guests in marriage gatherings to 250, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Member of Parliament from Jhabua, Guman Singh Damor allegedly flouted Covid-19 norms by inviting more than 1,000 guests for a marriage reception of his son in Indore on Wednesday night, a Congress leader has alleged. According to the health department’s daily Covid-19 bulletin, Indore is one of the worst affected districts, where the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases is more than 11%, the highest for any district in Madhya Pradesh. Indore has more than 3,644 active cases and only 10% beds are available in private hospitals, according to a district health officer.“A large number of politicians and high profile people attended the marriage reception of MP Guman Singh Damor’s son but no one objected to the violation of guidelines. Hardly any person wore a mask and maintained social distancing in the function. They flouted the night curfew norm too as the function ended late on Wednesday night,” said Rakesh Yadav, a general secretary of MP Congress Committee, who lodged a complaint with the district administration with pictures of the crowd present at the wedding venue and tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet. Yadav also circulated the pictures and videos of the reception on social media on Thursday morning in which hardly any guest seemed to wear a mask. HT could not verify the authenticity of the pictures and videos that went viral on social media.Health activists have also demanded action against Damor.“Even after 12 hours, no action was initiated by the district administration against Damor. The district administration should taken tough action against Damor to set an example for common people,” said Amulya Nidhi, a health activist. Member of Parliament from Indore and a member of the disaster management committee of Indore, Shankar Lalwani said, “When I reached the venue, there were less than 200 people. The venue had a huge space and people maintained social distancing. Congress leaders are unnecessarily making an issue.” MP Guman Singh Damor also refuted the allegations and said, “I invited only 250 people. The photos, which are being circulated in social media, don’t belong to the reception of my son.”Despite repeated attempts, Indore district collector Manish Singh and divisional commissioner Pawan Kumar Sharma couldn’t be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-s-son-s-wedding-had-more-than-1000-guests-alleges-congress-seeks-action-for-flouting-norms/story-XpN0S8JgRQQ5DKctpVDymO.html
26-11-2020||India||Puri goes under Section 144 to prevent crowds during Nagarjuna Besha held after 26 years||A day ahead of the famous Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath that is happening after 26 years, the Puri district administration on Thursday night imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in several parts of the city to stop possible congregation of crowds in front of the temple.Puri sub-collector Bhabataran Sahu said as there is a possibility of a congregation of lakhs of devotees around the shrine during the Nagarjuna Besha; it was decided to hold all the rituals by the servitors only. Sahu said restrictions will be clamped on the stretch from Marichikot square in the city till the Singhadwar of the temple and around the temple.“Extensive security arrangements have been made for the special occasion with deployment of 25 platoons of police force. To monitor the arrangements, 2 additional SPs, 7 Deputy SPs, 19 sub-inspectors and 77 assistant SIs have also been positioned in Puri. They will guard the Nagabesha (Naga Attire) which will be brought from Harachandi Sahi to the main temple on late Thursday night.Nagarjuna Besha is observed during the month of Krtika when Panchuka (last five days of Kartika month) is observed as six days instead of five. The besha is celebrated in commemoration of the killing of Kartyavera Arjuna, one of the main kings slain by Parsuram. The besha was last observed in 1994, when six devotees were killed in the ensuing stampede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-goes-under-section-144-to-prevent-crowds-during-nagarjuna-besha-held-after-26-years/story-pihELUE7bK2mssMH6S9VwM.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers protest: Air India offers free rescheduling of flights for affected passengers||Air India has said passengers affected due to traffic disruption on Thursday amid closure of the borders of the national capital region (NCR) will be allowed to reschedule their flights for free.People coming to the national capital from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh faced traffic snarls at several border crossings as the Delhi Police intensified vehicle checking in view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march by farmers from Punjab against the Centre’s farm laws.“In view of traffic disruption in NCR region due to closure of Delhi borders, we are allowing no-show waiver & one free reschedule to passengers who couldn’t report for their flights,” Air India said on Twitter.“Waiver will be valid for flights scheduled out of Delhi airport only for 26th Nov ‘20,” it added.Senior police officials said heavy deployment was made on the Faridabad, Singhu and Gurgaon border crossings with Haryana and vehicle checking was intensified as a precautionary measure in view of the protest march. Farmers from Punjab were scheduled to reach Delhi through five highways connecting the city as part of their march.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-air-india-offers-free-rescheduling-of-flights-for-affected-passengers/story-pkO2JO9MdwbymQZnLrHQAL.html
26-11-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s son seeks blessings to fulfil his father’s last wish||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi’s son, Gaurav, a sitting Lok Sabha MP, has sought blessings from people of the state to fulfill his father’s last wishes. Speaking to journalists after performing the late leader’s last rites in Guwahati on Thursday at the Nabagraha crematorium, Gaurav thanked everyone for showering love, respect and prayers for the departed soul. The 84-year-old, three time chief-minister, passed away on Monday at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) after battling Covid-19 and complications related to the disease for nearly three months. “I have suffered a big loss, but I am not sad. I am at peace to see the love and respect and prayers of the people of Assam for him. According to doctors at GMCH, his last wish was to visit Titabar (the constituency Gogoi represented in Assam assembly),” Gaurav told journalists. Gogoi was reportedly unhappy that he had not been able to visit Titabar due to his illness. He also wanted to visit all parts of Assam and convey his last wishes and dreams for Assam to the public through the media. “The family has decided that we will take his ashes to Titabar and across Assam as per his wishes. Though he is not with us, his thoughts, teachings and ideas are with us,” said Gaurav. “As his son, I will try to fulfill his last wishes and seek the blessings of the people of Assam for that. I thank them for the immense outpouring of love and respect for my father,” he added. Gogoi’s last rites were conducted with full state honours including a 21-gun salute. Gogoi’s wife Dolly, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, several senior ministers, senior bureaucrats, police officers and Congress in-charge for Assam Jitendra Singh were present on the occasion. Earlier, on Thursday morning Gogoi’s body was taken from Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, where it had been kept for the public to pay respects, to his official residence for some rituals associated with the last rites. From there it was taken in a procession to a church, a ‘naam-ghar’ (prayer house), a mosque and two temples before the cortege proceeded to the Nabagraha crematorium for the last rites. Gogoi’s mortal remains were placed in a flower-decked vehicle where his son Gaurav, few family members and senior leaders of Congress including state unit president Ripun Bora were present. Hundreds of people lined the streets along which the procession passed to bid their final adieu to Gogoi-a scene not seen earlier in Guwahati for any political leader. Nine years ago, thousands had thronged the streets to pay their respects to one of Assam’s foremost cultural icons, Bharat Ratna Bhupen Hazarika. The Assam government had declared a half-day state holiday on Thursday as a mark of respect to Gogoi. A three-day state mourning had been declared on the day of his demise. Gogoi, who served as chief minister for three terms from 2001 to 2016 (Assam’s longest serving chief minister) is credited with ushering peace and stability to the state after two decades of insurgency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-son-seeks-blessings-to-fulfil-his-father-s-last-wish/story-vrQanqJAZAP4cLFX3cKlAK.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Was at forefront of excellence in tech industry’: PM Modi condoles death of F C Kohli||Expressing grief over the death of TCS founder Faqir Chand Kohli, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that he will be remembered for his pioneering contributions to the world of information technology. Kohli, who sowed the seeds of India’s USD 190-billion IT industry, has died at the age of 96.The prime minister tweeted, “Shri FC Kohli Ji will be remembered for his pioneering contributions to the world of IT. He was at the forefront of institutionalising a culture of innovation and excellence in the tech industry. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and many admirers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-at-forefront-of-excellence-in-tech-industry-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-f-c-kohli/story-PfopGI82hhQy8URCKNNLGN.html
26-11-2020||India||Rajasthan CM asks Centre to hold talks with farmers, calls farm laws ‘anti-people’||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday called the three farm laws passed by Parliament “black laws” and pushed the Centre to immediately hold talks with farmers to resolve their issues.The Congress leader slammed the government for being “up in arms against its own people”.“NDA government’s anti-people policies have led to various sections of society coming out to oppose. Farmers are protesting too against black farm laws. Instead of resolving their woes, the government is up in arms against its own people,” the Rajasthan chief minister said on Twitter.Gehlot’s remarks come as tension between farmers and the Haryana Police continued on Thursday with the cops using water cannons and tear gas to stop thousands of protesters heading towards the national capital for ‘Delhi Chalo’ march to protest against the farm laws passed in September.“As all the farmer organizations in the country have come together for this movement, so understanding the sensitivity of this, the government of India should initiate a dialogue with them without any delay,” Gehlot further said.Earlier on Thursday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar invited the farmers for talks on December 3 to resolves differences and issues regarding the new farm laws. He also appealed the farmers to not protest. “I want to appeal to our farmer brothers to not agitate. We are ready to talk about issues and resolve differences. I am sure that our dialogue will have a positive result,” Narendra Singh Tomar said, according to ANI. Tomar informed that the officials have already had a talk at the secretary level in Punjab. “The new farm laws were the need of the hour. In the coming time, it’s going to bring revolutionary changes. We have spoken at the secretary level in Punjab to dispel wrong notions of our farmer brothers there. We will talk on December 3,” he added.*Meanwhile, Defence minister Rajnath Singh, speaking on Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS), urged the farmers to end their protest. “I appeal to farmers to end their protest. We are not against them, and are open for talks. They should understand that the newly-passed farm bills will benefit small farmers,” he said.Singh also said that he himself comes from agriculture background and understands the importance of these laws for them.*||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-asks-centre-to-hold-talks-with-farmers-calls-farm-laws-anti-people/story-DJU3HuuFrmEXYoJaoKIIuK.html
26-11-2020||India||Supreme Court did not close even for a day during lockdown: CJI Bobde||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Thursday said that the Supreme Court did not shut down even for a single day during the lockdown period, underscoring the resilience shown by the judiciary in preserving the vibrancy of the Constitution through the pandemic.“During the lockdown, the Supreme Court did not lock down even for a day as a huge percentage of matters involved fundamental rights of citizens, particularly old persons and victims of domestic violence,” CJI Bobde said on the occasion of the 71st Constitution Day.Speaking at two different occasions commemorating the event – one organised by the Supreme Court of India and the other by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), the CJI recalled the alarming situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic as the courts for the first time encountered a “sudden shock and interruption” that threatened access to justice.President Ram Nath Kovind presided over the event organised by the Supreme Court while the SCBA event was presided by CJI Bobde.Speaking at SCBA event, the CJI said, “The biggest and the highest challenge the courts faced was delivery of unhampered justice in the midst of lockdown as it gives a sense of security and well-being to citizens…Closing physical hearing in courts was the first step, as otherwise the disease would have spread like wildfire.”The CJI said the top court took suo moto note of the concerns of migrant workers, woefully inadequate treatment given to dying Covid patients, unaffordable cost of treatment in hospitals, and dead bodies not being cremated due to fear of the virus. “Our judiciary fared better than judiciaries of other countries,” remarked CJI Bobde, adding that during lockdown, the top court disposed of 14,849 cases, high courts about 1.5 lakh cases, and district courts close to 4.5 lakh cases. However, the pandemic gave rise to a new kind of inequality, as access to justice became dependable on access to technology. Lawyers and litigants in subordinate courts could not access justice on this count, CJI pointed out as he urged government’s help to remedy this technological gap even though it involved a huge cost.President Kovind said, “Justice can be secured to the extent it can be accessed. Access to justice has two major hurdles – cost of litigation and language.” He reiterated his passion for rendering pro bono services to poor litigants while as a lawyer and complemented the Supreme Court for arranging judgments in regional languages that kept citizens in the loop about the law proclaimed by the courts.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad complemented the judiciary for administering justice despite all odds and said that the biggest asset about our judiciary is the public trust that has resolved conflicts of culture, religion, region, over the years to be resolved through judicial pronouncements. The law minister flagged the growing criticism against the judiciary. He observed an increasing trend of social media campaigns aimed at securing decisions in a particular way. “Justice delivery system should not play to the gallery. Judges must be left free to decide cases as per law,” Prasad said while taking exception to a recent article which referred to certain judicial decisions as acts of “judicial barbarism”. The Minister said, “Unleashing criticism that transgresses the boundary of propriety must be reflected upon….we need to be proud of our judiciary.”Attorney General KK Venugopal borrowed a saying by Roscoe Pound that courts ought to be swift and certain agents of justice. “If you have to wait for 20 to 30 years for justice, it’s a case where justice has failed to the poor and middle class citizens.” He believed that in the coming years, all subordinate courts and high courts will have the facility for live streaming and an intermediate Court of Appeal (between High Court and Supreme Court) can finally decide appeals arising from high courts leaving the Supreme Court to deal with issues of national and constitutional questions. This issue is already pending with a Constitution Bench of the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-did-not-close-even-for-a-day-during-lockdown-cji-bobde/story-z9YEUwyfHzEuj7EoIlHmQN.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Delhi Chalo’ march: Farmers 100 km away, police beef up security at border||The farmers from Haryana and Punjab, who have planned a ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against three farm laws passed by Centre, were involved in violent clashes with the police at the border as they tried to enter the national capital.The protesting farmers faced water cannons and broke police barricades at some places in Haryana. A large group of them reached the toll plaza in Panipat, about 100 km from Delhi, late on Thursday evening. The farmer bodies, which are spearheading the protests, said the protesters planned to spend the night there and will resume the march the next morning.Haryana Police chief Manoj Yadava said his force acted with “great restraint”.“In this entire episode, not only a number of police personnel were injured, but police and private vehicles were also damaged,” he said in a statement on Thursday. The DGP also said that the protesters hurled stones at many places.The reports of face-offs between the protesters and police came from Haryana’s Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind districts.Police had placed cement and steel barricades and parked trucks on the road to stop the farmers’ tractor-trolleys, some of them laden with food for the planned two-day protest, which many felt could extend further. Police used water cannons also against protesters trying to enter Kaithal district, and at Khanauri border.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal were among the opposition leaders who slammed the Haryana Police action.Punjab chief minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Manohar Lal Khattar, traded barbs over Twitter.The Congress veteran asked Khattar why his government was stopping farmers, and the BJP leader told him to stop “inciting” them.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal too criticised attempts to thwart the protest. “Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest,” he tweeted.Ahead of the protest, Haryana had announced sealing its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state on their way to Delhi.The Delhi Police have denied permission to the farmer organisations planning to protest in the national capital. They have beefed up in border areas by deploying additional personnel and stationing sand-laden trucks and water cannons. A fence of barbed wire has also been set up at Singhu Border to prevent the protesters from entering Delhi.The police deployment has also been made at NH-24, DND, Chilla Border, Tigri border, Bahadurgarh border, Fridabad border and Kalindi Kunj border.There were traffic snarls during the day at Delhi’s border with police checking vehicles coming in from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Metro services between Delhi and NCR areas were restricted.The farmers’ bodies have, meanwhile, said that the protesters will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital.These farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they say should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP). The Centre has, however, allayed all concerns over MSP and has even invited these farmers for talks.Speaking on Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) on Thursday, defence minister Rajnath Singh appealed the farmers to end their protest.“I appeal to farmers to end their protest. We are not against them, and are open for talks. They should understand that the newly-passed farm bills will benefit small farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-chalo-march-farmers-100-km-away-police-beef-up-security-at-border/story-r798IYBy7GpMj1UyCCfU0K.html
26-11-2020||India||India, Nepal discuss boundary issue as foreign secretary meets top leadership in Kathmandu||India and Nepal on Thursday discussed ways to handle the boundary issue, which had recently hit bilateral ties, through existing mechanisms as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met the country’s top leadership to bolster cooperation in key areas such as connectivity and infrastructure.Shringla met Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and foreign secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal on the first day of his two-day visit aimed at putting the relationship on an even keel and enhancing joint efforts aimed at post-Covid-19 recovery.Ties took a hit when Nepal issued a new political map in May that laid claim to the Kalapani region, which is controlled by India, after New Delhi opened a new road to the strategic Lipulekh region. India rejected the map but said it was open to discussing the matter through appropriate mechanisms.A person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Shringla’s discussions with Oli included a “candid review of the state of the bilateral relationship”. The importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities was noted and both sides stressed on the positives in the special relationship, the person said.Also read: Pakistan tries to brush off IOC snub on not discussing KashmirDuring the various meetings, the two sides “shared their perspectives on boundary matters and discussed ways to take it forward under the appropriate bilateral mechanisms,” the person added.A statement issued by Nepal’s foreign ministry said Shringla and Paudyal “discussed the boundary matters and exchanged views on completing the boundary work in the remaining segments”.Almost 98 per cent of the 1,770-kilometre-long India-Nepal border is demarcated and the two sides only have differences in the Kalapani and Susta regions. Much of Shringla’s discussions focused on bilateral development projects, including key connectivity schemes and post-earthquake reconstruction work, and ways to expedite their implementation. At the meeting with Oli, discussions were held on specific steps that could help finalise important projects at the earliest, including the Pancheshwar multipurpose project and the launch of new economic initiatives. Specific meetings to maintain high-level engagement and address issues of mutual interest were also discussed. The need to resume people-to-people contacts, including the launch of an air bubble between India and Nepal, also figured in the talks.Also read: India must engage with Taiwan, and not just because of ChinaAt the meeting with foreign minister Gyawali, Shringla handed over 2,000 vials of Remdesivir injections as part of India’s support for efforts to combat Covid-19. Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said India will use its vaccine manufacturing capabilities for the world, Shringla said, “We will make this vaccine accessible and affordable and, it goes without saying that, the priority will be for our closest neighbours, our friends like Nepal.”Shringla, who spoke to the media in Nepali, described India and Nepal as “close friends” and said his meetings were aimed at seeing how the two sides can take the relationship forward. Shringla also called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and met delegations of Nepali Congress and Madhesh leaders.On Friday, Shringla will deliver a virtual talk hosted by the Asian Institute of Diplomacy and International Affairs. He will visit Gorkha district to inaugurate three schools rebuilt with Indian assistance and remotely inaugurate an India-funded project to renovate the Tashop Gompa monastery in Manang district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-discuss-boundary-issue-as-foreign-secretary-shringla-meets-top-leadership-in-kathmandu/story-XdrMNuEIw6gDcTmAJ4FW8O.html
26-11-2020||India||Two-thirds majority cannot be ruled out for BJP in Bengal next year: Rajnath Singh at HTLS 2020||After a spectacular victory in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls, in which the BJP managed to secure 74 seats in the 243 member house, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that people in various states often voted on the basis of the local governance of the incumbent government as far as state polls were concerned. He also did not rule out the possibility of the BJP coming to power in West Bengal in 2021 with a two-thirds majority.Responding to a question on whether it would be a Mamata Banerjee versus Modi fight in the Bengal assembly polls scheduled early next year, Singh said, “The possibility cannot be ruled out that the Bharatiya Janata Party may be in a position to form the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority.” The Bengal assembly polls are one of the most crucial elections coming up both for the BJP as well as the country. The BJP has pulled out all stops to prevent Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress from coming to power for a third straight term.In the Lok Sabha elections held in May 2019, the BJP had stunned political analysts and the Trinamool Congress alike by winning nearly half of the total number of seats that the state has in the Lok Sabha. The BJP won 18 of the 42 seats while the TMC won 22. The BJP had promised back then that it would wipe out CM Mamata Banerjee’s party in her home state in the next assembly elections. ALSO READ | India no longer a soft target, paradigm shift in response to terror, says Rajnath Singh at HTLS 2020Referring to the recent win in Bihar, Singh emphasized that it was obvious that the populace had accepted the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership unanimously, despite a few setbacks in state polls in Maharashtra, Jharkhand and more recently in Delhi in February 2020.The defence minister was speaking at a virtual session on the third day of the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020, in conversation with Prashant Jha, editor-views, Hindustan Times. State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara, a veteran banker and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel were some of the other speakers attending Thursday’s session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020.The theme of Rajnath Singh’s session at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 was Defining a New Era in National Security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-thirds-majority-cannot-be-ruled-out-for-bjp-in-bengal-next-year-rajnath-singh-at-htls-2020/story-lGufyK5iBOaXjaxY2BzVKL.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers standing resolutely in face of Modi govt’s ‘cruelty’, says Rahul Gandhi||Farmers are standing resolutely in the face of “cruelty”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday as he hit out at the Modi government after Haryana Police used water cannons and teargas to disperse hundreds of farmers from Punjab marching towards Delhi to protest the Centre’s farm laws.Haryana has completely sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state. Multi-level barricading has been put in many places.Tension spiralled at the Shambhu interstate border in Haryana on Thursday as police used water cannons and teargas to disperse hundreds of farmers from Punjab who broke barricades, throwing some into the river, determined to enter the state as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march. Sharing a video of the incident, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The country’s farmers are standing resolutely in the face of Modi government’s cruelty against them.” He also shared a verse in Hindi lauding the courage of the farmers protesting the farm laws.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Twitter, “Instead of listening to the voice of farmers protesting against the laws that snatch the minimum support price from them, the BJP government attacks them with water in this cold.” “Everything is being taken away from farmers and banks, loan waivers, airports, railway stations are being distributed to the capitalists,” she alleged in her tweet in Hindi.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the central and Haryana governments, asking what message does Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister M L Khattar want to give by pitting soldiers in front of farmers.“They are conspiring to push the country into civil war and that too on the occasion of Constitution Day,” Surjewala alleged in a tweet in Hindi.As farmers and police in Haryana faced off at a bridge with the Ghaggar river flowing below, tractors and trucks were lined up and people could be seen waving black flags and shouting slogans.The BJP government in Haryana had earlier said it will seal its borders with Punjab on November 26-27 in view of the farmers’ march to Delhi.Delhi Police on Wednesday said it had rejected requests from various farmer organisations to protest in the national capital on November 26 and 27. A day earlier, it had said that legal action would be taken against the protesting farmers if they come to the city for any gathering amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws,, which they should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-standing-resolutely-in-face-of-modi-govt-s-cruelty-says-rahul-gandhi/story-ROpM2TprASOvNwnFJn7nyK.html
26-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Serum Institute on Saturday to take stock of Covid-19 vaccine production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Serum Institute of India in Pune on Saturday to see Covid-19 vaccine production and proposed distribution plan, a senior official confirmed on Thursday.“We have got an official confirmation about Prime Minister’s visit to Pune on November 28. The PM will visit Serum Institute which is into production of Covid vaccine,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao.The administration has already held multiple meetings to prepare for PM Modi’s visit to Pune. The Prime Minister, according to officials, will visit various facilities at SII’s Hadapsar campus where the Pune firm has begun the production of Covishield vaccine.Rao said, the Prime Minister will be at Serum Institute for an hour. “He will arrive at Lohegaon Airport at 12.30 on Saturday. After that, instead of going by road, the Prime Minister will travel by helicopter to the Serum Institute,” said Rao. The PM will also be travelling to Hyderabad the same day. Also read: Pakistan tries to brush off IOC snub on not discussing KashmirPune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. Both, the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, on Monday said that their coronavirus vaccine was up to 90 per cent effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for the arrival of shots in India by the end of the year.HT sent an email to SII seeking details about PM’s visit to its campus but did not get any response.“The PM’s visit would be aimed at reviewing the status of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus infection and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanisms,” said another official from the district administration.The PM’s visit precedes the arrival of ambassadors and high commissioners of various countries at Serum Institute of India in Pune on December 4 to oversee the production of the Covid-19 vaccine and the company’s distribution plan, once it gets a nod from the regulators for use.According to the itinerary released by the Ministry of External Affairs, the “familiarization” visit of foreign ambassadors and high commissioners based in Delhi will be for one day and in two groups.The ambassadors will visit SII in the morning and spend around three hours visiting facilities at the company’s Hadapsar campus. By afternoon, they will arrive at Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, which is also into production of another a covid vaccine, at its Hinjewadi campus before heading back to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-serum-institute-on-saturday-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-vaccine-production/story-VqkP64AZvbces6Voufc5sL.html
26-11-2020||India||Maoist killed in Odisha encounter, AK-47 rifle and explosives recovered||A senior Maoist carrying an AK-47 was shot dead during an exchange of fire with security forces in the Swabhiman Anchal area of Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Thursday.Malkangiri SP Khilari Rishikesh Dnandeo said, a police team, acting on a tip-off, launched a raid in the Jantri under Swabhiman Anchal of the district. As the security personnel approached their hideout, the Maoists opened fire leading to a gun battle.In the encounter, a Maoist, said to be a commander of a platoon, was killed. The Malkangiri SP said the Maoist’s identity would be revealed on Friday after the identification by family members or some surrendered rebels. Another Maoist has been injured in the operation.A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 rifle and explosives, were seized from the area.Earlier this month, a joint team of BSF, SOG and DVF of Malkangiri recovered ammunition, hand grenades, landmines and other incriminating materials of Maoists following an operation in Arapadar-Andrapalli of Swabhiman Anchal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-killed-in-odisha-encounter-ak-47-rifle-and-explosives-recovered/story-rd4P4HXPFxS1fEnXM0D3PP.html
26-11-2020||India||Curbs back in Bihar as Covid case positivity rate goes up||Bihar re-introduced curbs, limiting guests at marriage functions to 100 and those at “shradh” (death) ceremony to 25, while allowing offices to function at only 50% of their manpower strength in six districts, including Patna, as its worst fears of a spike in coronavirus cases post festival season seemed to be coming true, with the case positivity rate going up during the past one week. The curbs, which came into effect with immediate effect Thursday, will be effective till December 3. The government will review the situation and decide on a possible extension of its order after that, said Amir Subhani, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, home, while addressing a presser Thursday evening. The government limited attendance in offices — both government and private —to half their manpower strength in Patna, Begusarai, Jamui, Vaishali, West Champaran and Saran. These districts, particularly Patna, had shown a “more than normal increase in the case positivity rate”. Those under essential services were, however, kept out of the purview of the order, said Subhani. He said staff at offices had been regulated in keeping with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for cities having a case positivity rate of over 10. “Patna has a case positivity rate of around 18%, but the other five districts have it less than 5. However, they have shown a more than normal increase in the case positivity rate over the last 3-4 days, prompting us to take preemptive steps,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary health and disaster management department. The officers, however, did not share the district-wise positivity rate break-up. Subhani also advised devotees to avoid going to river banks for a holy dip on the occasion of the upcoming Kartik Purnima festival (November 30) as there was possibility of infection spreading through air and water. The state, he said, had also issued advisory urging people above 60 years of age and children under 10 years of age, pregnant women, those suffering from fever and other critical diseases from venturing out during the ensuing festival. People were also advised to avoid crowded buses and public transport. The number of guests for marriages had been restricted to 100, including waiters for serving food, said Subhani. Similarly, guests for “shradh” ceremony had been restricted to 25. The guests would have to wear face masks. Those hosting such functions will have to ensure thermal scanning of guests and make arrangements for sanitisers. Door handles, knobs, furniture and other surfaces, which were exposed, would have to be cleaned regularly and sanitised as far as possible. Guests having symptoms of Covid-19 will not be allowed to attend such functions. The government also banned any marriage procession and DJ on roads. These were, however, permitted at the marriage venue, keeping the cap on guests at 100. The number of passengers in public transport plying within Patna and those for inter-district travel from Patna had been limited to half their capacity. These steps, said officials, had been taken to contain the spread of the infection in the state. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation and taking every effort to contain the spread of infection,” Amrit signed off. Prabhat Kumar Jha, director, information and public relations department, was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-back-in-bihar-as-covid-case-positivity-rate-goes-up/story-dWGqU6vnCon9YEKWqFJNSP.html
26-11-2020||India||Trend Alert #NeverForgetNeverForgive, #FarmersProtest, #SaraAliKhan, Jadeja, #SCOTUS and all the top trends||Here are the top trends of the day which capture the buzz on the social media. Know all about the trending topics and related news updates from Hindustan Times.#NeverForgetNeverForgiveThe 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks was observed on Thursday as the nation remembered the martyrs. Social media users called out the Pakistan-based terror outfit responsible for the brutal strikes that claimed 170 lives. #PakTerrorState also trended amid reports of Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) planning special prayers for the 10 terrorists who carried out the terror attacks. Read more#FarmersProtestOpposition leaders and activists tweeted in solidarity with farmers as they marched to Delhi to protest against agricultural reforms. Police used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse protesting farmers headed to Delhi as they tried to break through barricades at Sadopur border in Ambala. Thousands of vehicles remained stranded on National Highway-44 as the police blocked a stretch of 15km near Karnal. Read more#SaraAliKhanActor Sara Ali Khan trended on Twitter after a new poster for her upcoming movie Coolie No. 1 was unveiled. It features Varun in multiple, colourful disguises, carrying Sara Ali Khan on his back. The film’s trailer will be released on Saturday, November 28. The shooting finished in February but the producers were biding their time, hoping for the situation to get better and aim for a theatrical release. Read moreThanksgivingSocial media users from around the world shared what they are thankful for as they celebrated Thanksgiving. It is a day reserved primarily for offering thanks and acknowledging the sacrifices and blessings of the past year. Most families who live away from each other make it a point to get together and celebrate all the blessings of the past years and eat a grand meal together. Read moreJadejaAhead of the One Day International match between India and Australia on November 27, cricket fans shared their dream teams. Indian cricket commentator and former cricketer Sanjay Manjrekar picked Kuldeep Yadav but remarked that Virat Kohli would pick Ravindra Jadeja. Social media users quickly latched on the issue and argued that Jadeja deserves the place in the ODI team.   Here you go Vaibhav..Based on the principle of playing specialists - 1- Shikhar2- Mayank3- Virat4- Shreyas5- Rahul6- Manish7- Shami8- Kuldeep( Virat will pick Jadeja )9- Chahal10- Bumrah11- Shardul/ Saini https://t.co/vFgwF6XliF#OneNationOneElectionDuring a virtual address to legislative presiding officers from all across India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched his One Nation, One Election plan. He stressed that the plan is not just a matter of debate, but a requirement for India. One Nation, One Election has been a key electoral reform pushed by the NDA government but has met with stiff opposition from rival parties. Read more#SCOTUSUS Supreme Court blocked New York Governor Andrew Cuomo from enforcing Covid-19 restrictions which limited the number of people attending religious services. On the night before Thanksgiving, newly-inducted Justice Amy Coney Barrett sided with her conservative colleagues to block the restriction amid a surge in coronavirus across the country. Barrett recently replaced justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a liberal judge, in a lifetime seat on the top court. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trend-alert-neverforgetneverforgive-farmersprotest-saraalikhan-jadeja-scotus-and-all-the-top-trends/story-zxUJrqdhPLNBl65mPhWhUN.html
26-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 5,475 fresh cases push Delhi’s Covid tally to over 551,000 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s daily Covid toll continues to remain below 100; 5,475 new cases loggedDelhi on Thursday registered 5,475 new coronavirus (Covid-19) infections and 91 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state’s health department bulletin. The total 551,262 cases include 38,734 active cases, over 500,000 recoveries and 8,811 deaths, it added. Read moreOver 2.42 lakh FYJC seats up for grabs in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 2nd merit list on Dec 5More than 2.42 lakh first year junior college (FYJC) remain vacant after the first round of online admissions. As per the revised admission schedule, these seats will be up for grabs in the second round of admissions, and the second merit list will be released on December 5. Read moreFarmer’s agitation: Delhi Metro services from neighbouring cities to remain suspended on FridayOfficials on Thursday said that the Delhi Metro services from neighbouring cities to the state would remain suspended on Friday due to the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march organised by farmers against the central government’s farm laws, according to news agency PTI. Read moreAir strikes kill 19 Iran-backed fighters in Syria: MonitorAir strikes likely carried out by Israel killed at least 19 pro-Iran militia fighters in war-torn eastern Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Thursday. The early morning strikes hit positions of Iran-backed militias outside the town of Albu Kamal in Deir Ezzor province, killing mostly foreign fighters, the Observatory said. Read more‘Further questions need to be asked’: Virat Kohli unhappy with change in WTC points systemAfter leading the World Test Championship for the majority of the campaign, Team India slipped to the second position after ICC suddenly decided to change the points system. ICC announced that they will rank teams “in order of percentage of points earned” from the contested matches. Read moreShilpa Shetty poses with daughter Samisha, the little one is baffled by all the attention. See cute picsThis is one mother-daughter duo that we can’t seem to get enough of. On Thursday afternoon, actor Shilpa Shetty was seen with daughter Samisha and as the two came across a horde of paparazzi, photos were inevitable. While Shilpa gamely posed for photos, the little one seemed to be puzzled by all the attention. Read moreHow tap water caught fire in China. Watch intriguing and scary videoThe Internet is home to several videos that may seem unreal, but are very real and often capture something unbelievable. Just like this video from China which shows a person ‘setting’ fire to tap water flowing in their house. The video shows an individual holding a lighter next to water flowing from a tap. Read moreReliance Jio launches 27-day long Clash Royale tournamentReliance Jio today announced that it is partnering with Clash Royale to host a 27-day long Clash Royale tournament. The 27-day long tournament will begin on November 28 and go on until December 25. The gaming tournament will begin on November 28. Read moreWatch: Rajnath Singh on 26/11, Pakistan terror, China & ‘atmanirbharta’ #HTLS2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-5-475-fresh-cases-push-delhi-s-covid-tally-to-over-551-000-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9OWgUYLBtt7ozZGPEBF1OP.html
26-11-2020||India||Ghaziabad administration deploys drone cameras to track elusive leopard||The Ghaziabad administration has deployed some drone camera in a bid to trace a leopard which disappeared in the sprawling forested area of Ingraham Institute of the city three days ago.The leopard, which vanished in the forested area after injuring a gardener working in the adjacent campus of the Ghaziabad Development Authority vice chairperson’s office, however, continues to elude the search teams deployed to catch it.With the big cat staying untraceable, the Ghaziabad administration has cautioned people living in the neighbouring areas of Raj Nagar, Raj Kunj, Shastri Nagar and Kavi Nagar against venturing out in the open alone.District Magistrate Ajy Shankar Pandey on Thursday appealed to the residents to keep their children and elderly family members inside their houses till the animal is caught.Meanwhile, intensifying its efforts to catch the leopard, the Forest Department has installed 360-degree CCTV cameras in the Ingraham Institute’s sprawling 65-acre campus and monitoring it round the clock in hope of catching a glimpse of the animal.The Forest Department teams have also deployed four drones in Rajendra Nagar and adjoining areas to track the leopard and have also kept three cages at various strategic location to trap it, said officials.DM Pandey said well-trained Forest Department guards have been deputed for night watch in the area.One tranquillisation gun too has been brought from Saharanpur district and given to them so that in case of an encounter with the big cat, guards may use the gun to tranquilise the animal and catch it.The leopard was first spotted in Raj Nagar area around 11 am on Tuesday in a CCTV footage.The big cat first entered the generator house of the GDA VC office and after injuring a gardener there, jumped into the adjoining Ingraham Institute campus and vanished.The districts key officials like DM and SSP have their official residences in this area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-administration-deploys-drone-cameras-to-track-elusive-leopard/story-RavgmI2BHWNdsYPgwLmV3M.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders witness traffic congestion due to security checks||Due to the security checks in view of farmers’ Delhi Chalo protest march, heavy traffic congestion was witnessed at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), Delhi-Gurugram and Kalindi Kunj near Delhi-Noida border on Thursday.Heavy security was also deployed at Singhu border Delhi-Haryana border) where drones were being used for surveillance.Gaurav Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North), Delhi, told ANI that no farmer groups are moving in the direction of Delhi now.“Our staff is on high alert. We are checking all the vehicles that are coming here to make sure no farmer enters the capital. Senior officials are also patrolling the area. The same information was shared by my counterparts also,” he said.Traffic was also heavy at Kalindi Kunj near Delhi-Noida border due to checking of vehicles.Delhi-Gurugram (Haryana) border also witnessed traffic congestion due to checking of vehicles.In view of farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march, heavy security has been deployed at Rohtak-Jhajjar border, Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Jammu highway near Karna Lake in Karnal.Earlier today, security personnel had to use tear gas to disperse the protesting farmers at Shambhu border between Punjab and Haryana.The protestors were marching towards Delhi against new farm laws which they believe will reduce their earnings, making large retailers more powerful.Prior to that, police had used water cannon to disperse the crowd of angry farmers who pelted stones at security forces deployed to control the crowd at the Shambhu border.Farmers have given a call for “Delhi Chalo” protest march, to coincide with the Constitution Day celebrations, against new farm laws. While the government says the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets, protestors fear that this could lead to the government not buying produce at guaranteed prices, thereby disrupting their timely payments.Farmers also gathered in Haryana’s Karnal to protest against farm laws near the Karna Lake area.Earlier in the day, Delhi-Jammu Highway also saw heavy traffic jam due to a strike called by farmers.Forces from at least two police stations, besides three Central Reserve Police Force battalions, have been deployed at the Delhi-Faridabad border.Barricading has been done at four to five places on the Delhi-Faridabad border and drone cameras are also being used for security surveillance.The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the Upper House in September through voice vote despite objection from opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-delhi-borders-witness-traffic-congestion-due-to-security-checks/story-T9gu71uYYsn0Y61UgoPcvN.html
26-11-2020||India||Regulations, tighter corporate governance will lead to better performance as we close the year: SBI’s Dinesh Kumar Khara at HTLS 2020||State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara on Thursday said that he expected a significantly lower contraction between 8 and 9 per cent as against the Reserve Bank’s earlier forecast of 9 and a half per cent for the economy as the country moves towards the end of 2020. The contraction in Q1, earlier this year had been nearly 24 per cent.Indicating that the systematic unlocking of activities across India in a post-Covid-19 scenario had led to a revival of private investment, the veteran banker linked the slightly better performance of companies in the second quarter (Q2) to the Centre’s move to ‘Unlock’ after the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19. “Regulations and tighter corporate governance will take care of corporates in the banking sector. Post-Unlock, economic activity revival has given hope to many across sectors. The second quarter has seen an improvement in the activity level. Demand revival itself has kick-started the economy. I expect if the current trend of revival continues the year-end performance of corporates will look significantly better,” the SBI veteran who barely a month ago took charge of India’s largest bank said.ALSO READ | HTLS 2020: ‘Significant improvement in Q2,’ says SBI chairman, links it to ‘unlock situation’“In the post-Covid-19 world, a lot of things have changed. How companies perform does not always depend on their ownership structures. Much of ownership issues and their solutions depend on corporate governance. The ownership structure does not matter if corporate governance is tight and contemporary,” Khara said.There has been a significant demand for affordable housing and that in turn offers promise going forward. Maybe for deluxe real estate, the demand may not be as robust but in the affordable housing segment there is good demand, the SBI chairman said. “We at SBI think that there is a lot of capacity in the real estate sector year-on-year, and going forward we expect decent growth in the housing sector,” Khara elaborated.WATCH | How will the Indian economy fare? SBI chairman’s GDP prediction #HTLS2020Dinesh Kumar Khara’s rise to the top office of India’s largest bank is an inspiring journey of a probationary officer, who joined the banking profession in 1984. Before being appointed as chairman of SBI for a period of three years in October, earlier this year, he was already serving as managing director of the bank. But like he pointed out, although he had been part of the top management earlier as well at SBI, “currently the buck stops at me,” Khara said.One of the banker’s most recent accomplishments was the successful merger of SBI with its five associates and the Bharatiya Mahila Bank that put the country’s largest bank at par with top 50 banks globally.The SBI chairman was speaking at a virtual session held on the third day of the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020, in conversation with Shereen Bhan, managing editor, CNBC TV18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regulations-tighter-corporate-governance-will-lead-to-better-performance-as-we-close-the-year-sbi-s-dinesh-kumar-khara-at-htls-2020/story-jz3qdjetZNIDutXXiwKdmL.html
26-11-2020||India||India no longer a soft target, paradigm shift in response to terror, says Rajnath Singh at HTLS 2020||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India’s response to terrorism has undergone a paradigm shift and the country’s defence mechanism now includes not only investigation of terror activities internally but also externally. Singh reiterated that India is no longer a soft target for terrorists and a few of our neighbours may have to pay a heavy price for making terrorism a state policy.“There has been a sea-change in the way we deal with terror attacks on our soil. Not only are we investigating within the country but we have also penetrated deep into neighbouring territory to wipe out terror camps in 2019 after the Pulwama attack,” Singh said. He reminded the nation that today’s date November 26 is of paramount importance in the history of national security. It was on this day 12 years ago that a group of heavily armed terrorists sneaked into the country via the sea route and systematically attacked the financial capital of the country—Mumbai. ALSO READ | HTLS 2020: India making all effort to resolve border issue with China, says Rajnath Singh“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has repeatedly brought up the subject of terror-funding at various global forums. It is due to the country’s efforts that neighbours like Pakistan have been forced to explain their stance to global terror watchdogs like the Financial Action Task Force,” Singh said.In a direct reference to Pakistan and stressing how terrorism was almost a state policy in that country, Singh said that blacklisting by the FATF would eventually prove to be the final nail in the coffin of state-sponsored terror.WATCH | Rajnath Singh on 26/11, Pakistan terror, China & ‘Atma Nirbharta’ #HTLS2020 The defence minister was speaking at the third day of the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020, in conversation with Prashant Jha, editor-views, Hindustan Times. The session comes at a time when the country is locked in a border standoff with China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May, this year.State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel were some of the other speakers attending Thursday’s session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020.The theme of Rajnath Singh’s session at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 was Defining a New Era in National Security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-india-no-longer-a-soft-target-response-to-terror-has-taken-360-degree-turn-says-rajnath-singh/story-xkgqUVPWVD36BiCv8tnRrN.html
26-11-2020||India||India’s renewable power capacity is 4th largest in the world, says PM Modi at RE-Invest 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his speech at RE-Invest 2020 on Thursday said that India in last 6 years has increased its installed renewable energy capacity by two and half times and that the country’s renewable power capacity is 4th largest in the world. “You would be happy to know that our annual renewable energy capacity addition has been exceeding that of coal based thermal power since 2017. In the last 6 years, we increased our installed renewable energy capacity by two and half times,” the prime minister said.“Today, India’s renewable power capacity is the 4th largest in the world. It is growing at the fastest speed among all major countries.The renewable energy capacity in India is currently 136 Giga Watts, which is about 36% of our total capacity,” PM Modi added.Watch | ‘India 4th largest in renewable power capacity’: PM Modi at RE-Invest 2020 The prime minister was virtually speaking at the third Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo (RE-Invest 2020), a 3-day summit organised by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.‘Huge plans for next decade’Further in his speech, PM Modi said that for next 10 years, India has huge renewable energy deployment plans which will likely generate business opportunities of 20 billion dollars per year.“There are huge renewable energy deployment plans for the next decade,” PM Modi declared at the conference. “These are likely to generate business prospects of the order of around 20 billion dollars per year. I invite investors, developers and businesses to join India’s renewable energy journey,” the prime minister said.PM Modi further said that India is a perfect example of sound environmental policies also proving to be sound economics. “Even when it was not affordable, we invested in renewable energy. Now our investment and scale is bringing costs down. We are showing to the world that sound environmental policies can also be sound economics,” he said.This year’s theme for RE-Invest 2020 summit is ‘Innovations for Sustainable Energy Transition’ and it is being attended by over 75 international ministerial delegations, over 1,000 global industry leaders and 50,000 delegates. The summit will discuss renewables and future energy choices, and an exhibition of manufacturers, developers, investors and innovators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-renewable-power-capacity-is-4th-largest-in-the-world-says-pm-modi-at-re-invest-2020/story-FySchDXxgIn4qLJKGWKRGK.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Another 26/11 is nearly impossible’: Rajnath Singh at HT Leadership Summit||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh opened the third day of Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday on a note that the country’s national security policy is designed in a way that another 26/11 attack is nearly impossible. “Centre has designed the nation’s security policy in such a manner that another 26/11 is nearly impossible,” he said on Thursday which also marked the anniversary of the ghastly 26/11 Mumbai terror attack in 2008. Singh lauded the country’s defence forces and said that there has been a “paradigm shift in India’s naval security”. Also read: HTLS 2020 - India’s response action against terror is 360 degrees, says Rajnath Singh#HTLS2020 | Centre has designed the nation's security policy in such a manner that another 26/11 is nearly impossible, says Defence minister @rajnathsingh (in conversation with @prashantktm)  Watch LIVE - https://t.co/5fr9xhD6uT #MumbaiAttacks pic.twitter.com/EWEl15BNmO “Our naval and air forces are much better prepared now. The perpetrators of the 26/11 terror attack used the sea as a route to carry out their designs. After that there has been a paradigm shift in India’s naval security,” Singh said.The defence minister said there exists a three-tier naval security system prepared by the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard to monitor suspicious activities and avert untoward incidents. Besides Singh, the third day of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 will see State Bank of India Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in participation in the subsequent sessions. The defence minister was in conversation with Hindustan Times, Editor, Views, Prashant Jha. In a first, HTLS is being held virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The virtual Summit brings together global leaders to draw a blueprint for what lies ahead for India and the world. This year, the live discussions are spread over four weeks starting November 19, 2020; every Thursday and Friday.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Brown University School of Public Health dean Dr Ashish K Jha and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla talked about the ongoing pandemic and Covid-19 vaccine on Day 1 of the summit last Thursday.The esteemed guests on the second day of the HTLS 2020 saw veteran cricketer Kapil Dev and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-rajnath-singh-says-another-26-11-is-nearly-impossible/story-pwihTk8przbUcl7FQiiUZN.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers don’t want to begin campaign under any political flag: SAD chief||As thousands of farmers continue their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march to protest the farm bills recently passed by Parliament, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said the protesters don’t want to begin their campaign under any political flag.Badal added that they stand united on this issue.The SAD chief went on to target Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh by saying that he played the most bungling role on this issue and should have put pressure by going to the national capital and holding a meeting with the central government.“A CM’s pressure on the Centre matters a lot. If CM wants, he can resolve a lot of things. Captain Amarinder Singh should have put pressure by going to Delhi & holding a meeting with Centre. Also, I want to appeal farmers of Haryana that they should support Punjab farmer,” the SAD chief said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read: Farmers on Delhi Chalo march face water cannons, push through Haryana barricadesBadal earlier in a tweet condemned the Haryana government and the Centre for choosing to repress peaceful farmer movement and further said that today is “Punjab’s 26/11”.“Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing end of right to democratic protest. Akali Dal condemns Haryana govt & Centre for choosing to repress peaceful farmer movement. Battle for Punjab farmers’ rights can’t be throttled by using water cannons against them,” he tweeted.Also Read| ‘Should have talked to them’: Amarinder Singh’s latest jab at Khattar over farmers’ agitationThe SAD broke ties with its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in protest against these farm laws which were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament in September.SAD leader and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Modi cabinet in September and said that she was proud to stand with the farmers as their daughter and sister. Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest. @Akali_Dal_ condemns the Haryana govt & Centre for choosing to repress the peaceful farmer movement.Meanwhile, farmers from the states of Haryana and Punjab embarked on a two-day protest march called ‘Dilli Chalo’ with the peaceful marches taking a violent turn as police used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse the protesting farmers heading to the national capital. Heavy security was seen at the Rohtak Jhajjar border, Delhi-Haryana border, Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Jammu highway.Though the Centre has maintained that the newly brought in farm reforms will eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, protesters fear the new laws will allow big corporations to enter the agricultural sector and further end the system of minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-don-t-want-to-begin-campaign-under-any-political-flag-sad-chief/story-7jHzs2NGdFxJAh4tFp9GwL.html
26-11-2020||India||Pak opens heavy fire in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch, India hits back||Pakistan on Thursday violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Qasba and Kirni sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district at about 1:30 pm. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly. “At about 13:30 hours (1.30 pm) Pakistani troops initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Qasba and Kirni sectors in Poonch (J&K). Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” said a defence spokesman.Also read: Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home - IntelIt may be stated here that ahead of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan has intensified ceasefire violations along the 744 kilometre-long LoC and 198 kilometre-long International Border.Apart from this, Pakistan has been using drones and trans-border tunnels to fuel terrorism in the Union territory.Close on the heels of November 19 encounter of four Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota, the Border Security Force on November 22 had detected a 160 meters long trans-border tunnel that was used by the terrorists to infiltrate into Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-opens-heavy-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-india-hits-back/story-FKsl0Q3HcCxw9rjbMMTm5O.html
26-11-2020||India||PNB fraud: Nirav Modi’s Mumbai penthouse won’t be auctioned before December 14, ED tells HC||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday assured the Bombay high court that a plush triplex penthouse at Samudra Mahal in Worli, Mumbai, owned by fugitive diamond trader Nirav Modi -- a prime accused in the Rs13,500 crore fraud at the Punjab National Bank (PNB), will not be auctioned before December 14.The assurance came in response to a petition filed by Nirav Modi’s son Rohin, challenging confiscation of the property, claiming that it belonged to a Trust settled in his name. On June 8, 2020, a special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court in Mumbai has ordered confiscation of Nirav Modi’s movable and immovable properties worth Rs1,396 crore.The order has come on an application filed by ED under provisions of the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act, 2018, and the properties to be confiscated include Modi’s bank balances in India and England, as also his immovable properties in India, UAE and England.Rohin’s counsel, advocate Amit Sibal, submitted that the Samudra Mahal property did not belong to any individual, but to Rohin Trust. He added that provisions of the FEO Act require notices to be issued to every interested person before ordering confiscation of any property.But, no notice was issued to Robin, although he is the beneficiary of the Rohin Trust and the order was passed without granting him an opportunity of hearing.Sibal submitted that the Samudra Mahal property could not be labelled as “proceeds of crime” as it was bought in 2006 whereas the alleged crime -- the massive fraud at PNB -- was committed 2011 onwards.ED’s counsel, advocate Hiten Venegaonkar, said that Rohin is only 10℅ beneficiary of the Trust and its major beneficiaries were his parents, and one of them -- Nirav Modi -- was declared a fugitive offender by the special court in December 2019.Also, Venegaonkar said, the petitioner was minor at the relevant time and his father and natural guardian was represented before the special court, so Rohin cannot claim that he was not represented or heard before passing of the confiscation order.The ED’s lawyer then requested the court to defer the hearing till December 14. Venegaonkar then assured the court that “nothing will happen” as regards the property till December 14.On January 31, 2018, the Central Bureau of Investigation has registered an offence under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code against Modi and several others, including two officers of the PNB.According to the complaint lodged by PNB, between February and May 2017, Nirav Modi and his partnership firms got fraudulently issued 150 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) from Brady House branch of PNB and duped the public sector bank to the tune of USD1,015.35 million, equivalent to Rs6,498.20 crore.A similar offence is registered against Mehul Choksi for duping PNB of crores of rupees by using the same modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-fraud-nirav-modi-s-mumbai-penthouse-won-t-be-auctioned-before-december-14-ed-tells-hc/story-p21DvtYqazrYSJjwsZFTBN.html
26-11-2020||India||Top BJP leaders including Nadda, Amit Shah and Yogi to campaign for GHMC polls||Leaving no stone unturned to capture power in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections scheduled to be held on December 1, the Bharatiya Janata Party of Telangana is roping in all its top leaders from different parts of the country for the election campaign. BJP national president J P Nadda will be taking part in a couple of road shows in the municipal divisions falling under Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency on Friday, apart from addressing youth and intellectuals in Hotel Mariotte, state BJP official spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao told Hindustan Times. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will address a series of rallies in Rajendranagar and GHMC divisions falling under the Chevella parliamentary constituency. The biggest rally would be that of former BJP national president and Union home minister Amit Shah in Secunderabad on Sunday, the last day of the campaign for the GHMC elections. “We are yet to finalise his programme – whether it would be a public meeting or road shows in two or three divisions,” the BJP spokesperson said. Though there was a proposal initially to bring even Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address a rally in Hyderabad on Sunday, it might not happen due to paucity of time, Rao said. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was in Hyderabad on Thursday to release the party’s election manifesto for the GHMC. Among other things promised by the party for the people of Hyderabad are: free tabs to all children belonging to poor families with free Wi-Fi facility for online education, waiver of property tax in all SC colonies and slum areas, free travel facility for women in metro trains and city buses, free drinking water supply to all households and free power supply to those consuming less than 100 units of power. In the last two days, Union ministers Prakash Javdekar and Smriti Irani have also been to Hyderabad to take part in the BJP campaign. Javdekar also released a charge-sheet against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government. TRS working president K T Rama Rao wondered why so many national leaders of the BJP were coming to campaign for the party in “gully elections.” He, however, said it would have been better had these leaders come to Hyderabad when the city was facing heavy rains and floods. “Instead of coming with empty hands, I request them to bring along the Rs 1,350 crore financial assistance for taking up relief measures in rain-affected colonies, as requested by our chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” KTR commented. The TRS, which has already been undertaking a high-decibel campaign in every nook and corner of the city, is also not taking any chances in its bid to retain power. The party is making arrangements for a mega public meeting at Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium in the heart of Hyderabad, to be addressed by the chief minister. “We are confident that KCR’s speech would be the last nail the opposition’s coffin in the GHMC elections,” a senior TRS leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-bjp-leaders-including-nadda-amit-shah-and-yogi-to-campaign-for-ghmc-polls/story-zR8NeOErzLjOrwii4WqFmJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Arrested activist Stan Swamy, 83, files fresh plea requesting straw again||The lawyer for father Stan Swamy on Thursday filed a fresh application seeking direction to the prison authorities to allow winter wear clothes and a straw and sipper for him in prison.Eighty-three-year-old Swamy, a Jesuit priest, was arrested on October 8 from his home in Ranchi for his alleged role in inciting mob violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018.He was remanded in judicial custody and has been lodged in Taloja jail since then.In early November, Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh had filed an application for giving direction to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to supply a straw and a sipper which were taken from him at the time of his arrest.The NIA special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty on Thursday told the court that they don’t have any of Swamy’s things with them.Following this, the defense lawyers moved an application seeking direction to the prison authorities to provide Swamy with the same at a cost. The defense has pleaded that he has been suffering from Parkinson’s disease and needs a straw as well as slippers for daily use. On the receipt of the fresh application, the court has now asked the prison authority to file a report by December.Swamy is known for fighting for tribals rights in the state of Jharkhand and was part of the Jharkhand Organisation against Uranium Radiation (JOAR), a campaign run against Uranium Corporation India Limited in 1996. He has been working for welfare and rights of displaced people of Bokaro, Santhal Parganas and Koderma.In a statement released just before he was arrested, Swamy said, “The nature of the present NIA investigation of me has nothing to do about Bhima-Koregaon case in which I have been booked as a ‘suspected-accused ’ and consequently raided twice (28 August 2018 and 12 June 2019). But it had everything to do to somehow establish (i) that I am personally linked to extremist leftist forces, (ii) that through me, Bagaicha is also related to some Maoists. I denied both these allegations in the strongest terms.”Bagaicha is a Jesuit-run social centre, where Swamy lived in a room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-activist-stan-swamy-83-files-fresh-plea-requesting-straw-again/story-rmDiZlNccvNgkCMHthSRuJ.html
26-11-2020||India||India sees highest drop in work, social, household travels due to Covid-19 pandemic: Survey||Amid the global wave of Covid-19 in the past nine months, India saw the highest drop in work, social and household travels among nine countries, including China and the US, reflecting the disruptive changes brought about by the pandemic in the patterns of mobility across the world, according to survey consultancy firm EY. The changing mobility pattern has further raised pertinent questions about the nature and shape of cities and transport networks. “Amid this health crisis, the consumer is heavily conflicted over mobility; not having to commute to work has given many a new sense of autonomy as well as a few hours of their time back every day,” EY said in a statement. As far as India is concerned, the survey found that the country “witnessed the highest drop in work travel of nearly 69 per cent, followed almost parallelly by social travel that declined by 59 per cent and household travel that fell by 58 per cent”. “The drops are substantial, as India which is the world’s biggest democracy with a population of 138 crore, parallels the levels of work-related decline of 70 per cent in a small country of Sweden with a population of only a crore,” it added. EY said the decline can be attributed to the strict lockdown measures in India to control the pandemic, resulting in steep declines across travel segments. “The survey results also indicate an overall reduction in average weekly travel time by 40 per cent from 6 hours to 3.7 hours per person,” it added. EY India Partner and Automotive Sector Leader Vinay Raghunath said, “The change in mobility industry dynamics and consumer behavior will push sector stakeholders to think through new operating models that leverage digital platforms and help ride the next wave of mobility growth.” EY had conducted a survey, as part of the Mobility Consumer Index, this month with 3,300 consumers across nine countries, including India, China, the US and the UK, to explore the impact of Covid-19 on consumer attitudes and behavior towards mobility. Five hundred respondents from India participated in the survey. Of the nine countries surveyed, EY said India and Singapore have witnessed the maximum decline in average weekly commute time. “India felt the steepest decline of more than 5 hours, from 81 per cent to just 27 per cent, while in Singapore, it fell from 61 per cent to 19 per cent,” it said. EY added that a long-term decline in commuting time could mean a lower peak demand and less strain on public transport systems and road networks. It also said, “This profuse reduction in use of public transport and road networks brings forth a challenging situation for the trains, buses and subway operators that find it difficult to generate enough revenue to meet their operational costs.” EY said one of the few positive impacts of the early days of the pandemic due to the lockdown was the sudden drop in air pollution in large cities. “Emissions fell drastically, skies cleared and the residents of New York, London, Shanghai, Mumbai and other major metro cities that are usually traffic-clogged global cities enjoyed clean air for the first time in decades,” it said. EY’s analysis indicates that monthly per-capita emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) fell globally across all three travel segments, broadly tracking the decline in journey numbers already noted. Emissions fell substantially, by 56 per cent for work travel, 58 per cent for social and household travel and 62 per cent for leisure and entertainment, the statement said. EY India Partner (Automotive Sector) Som Kapoor said the changed scenario with regard to reduced emissions points towards the need for newer non-polluting mobility avenues like electric vehicles. “Rightly directed efforts will certainly catapult the growth of this much-awaited mobility model,” Kapoor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-highest-drop-in-work-social-household-travels-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-survey/story-HDO2VRoAi3ubCsBG456cVM.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Should have talked to them’: Amarinder Singh’s latest jab at Khattar over farmers’ agitation||As thousands of farmers from Punjab marched to Delhi to protest the Centre’s farm laws on Thursday, the state’s chief minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar waged a war of words over the issue throughout the day. The latest jab was by Singh, who questioned Khattar over his charges as farmers are on the “Delhi Chalo” protest march against the new farm laws.The Centre has said the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets but protesters fear that this could lead to the government not buying produce at guaranteed prices, thereby disrupting their timely payments. They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.“Shocked at your response ML Khattar Ji. It is the farmers who have to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should have tried to talk to them before their Dilli Chalo. And if you think I am inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?” Amarinder Singh asked, according to news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Singh had hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Haryana government for stopping farmers on their way to Delhi, prompting Khattar to tell him to stop “inciting innocent farmers”. Singh questioned the need to stop them from proceeding, according to an official release by his office, and urged the Khattar government to allow the farmers to pass through the national highway.The Punjab chief minister also said that the constitutional right of farmers to protest was being suppressed. Singh also condemned the use of “brute” force by Haryana police, which had used water cannons and tear gas in a bid to stop the farmers from Punjab from marching through the state and had not allowed farmers from Haryana to move out of their villages in many places.On his part, Khattar asked Singh to desist from misleading farmers, pointing out to him that he has already pledged to quit politics if the minimum support price mechanism is ever dismantled. Khattar also accused the Punjab CM of “only tweeting and running away from talks” with him for the last three days on the issue. “@Capt Amarinder Ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP -- therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” Khattar tweeted.“I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but, sadly, you have decided to stay unreachable -- is this how serious you are for farmers’ issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, why?” Khattar said in another tweet.The protesting farmers had also blocked the movement of trains in Punjab for the last two months, before yielding to public and government pressure and lifting the blockade.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-have-talked-to-them-amarinder-singh-s-latest-jab-at-khattar-over-farmers-agitation/story-BYArKn9gqzxHm6h4mAzUzH.html
26-11-2020||India||India needs ‘One Nation, One Election’, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched hard for his plan for One Nation, One Election and told a conference here on Thursday that it is not just a matter of debate, but a requirement for India. He also spoke for a common voter list for all elections to prevent waste of resources. Virtually addressing legislative presiding officers from all across India here on Thursday, PM Modi maintained that simultaneous elections at every level —Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabhas or local panchayats—should be held together using a common voter list. “Every few months, we see an election in some part of the country. You all know what the impact of these polls is on the development works. There is a need for a deeper study and discussion on the issue and I suggest presiding officers may lead such discussions,” Modi said. One Nation, One Election has been a key electoral reform pushed by the NDA government but has met stiff opposition from rival parties. Last year, the Congress skipped a meeting called by the PM on the issue and the Left parties dubbed the move as “backdoor way of replacing our parliamentary democracy”. Also read | India tackling terror with new policy and process: PM Narendra ModiDescribing the presiding officers as the bridge between public and the Constitution, Modi hit out indirectly at the Congress for imposing the Emergency. The PM said an attempt was made to dilute the separation of power of the three wings of the state in the 1970s but the Constitution provided the solution. “After the Emergency, the system of checks and balances kept getting stronger as legislature, executive and judiciary moved ahead, learning from the episode,” he said. Celebrating the Constitution Day, the PM said the Constitution also helped India face the challenged of Covid-19 as several laws could be enacted to help people. He praised Parliamentarians too for taking a pay cut and working more to increase the output of Parliament. The Prime Minister cautioned against the tendency of keeping projects pending. He gave the example of Sardar Sarovar Project which was stuck for years and kept the people of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan from the massive benefits which were accrued when the dam was finally constructed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-one-nation-one-election-says-pm-modi/story-NkjlwfOTDYwqjXJ3zdINOK.html
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: 1 electrocuted, another washed away as heavy rain batters south coastal Andhra||One person died of electrocution and another farmer was washed away in a rivulet, while hundreds of others were rendered homeless as heavy rains battered south-coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts on Thursday following the impact of Cyclone Nivar that made landfall near Puducherry late on Wednesday night. Officials of the revenue and disaster management departments, who had a meeting with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in the afternoon, explained that Erpedu, Srikalahasti, Satyavedu areas of Chittoor district and the whole of Nellore district witnessed heavy rainfall, while parts of Kadapa and Anantapur districts received moderate to heavy rainfall. The authorities declared holidays for all educational institutions in Nellore, Chittoor, Kadapa and Anantapur districts till Monday. Nellore district collector K V N Chakradhar Babu said one unidentified person died after he stepped on a live wire that had snapped due to an uprooted electric pole after heavy rains. The chief minister ordered the officials to support the family of the deceased. The district received an average rainfall of 7 cms in the last 12 hours. The officials told the chief minister that three farmers were stranded in a rivulet in Mallemadugu near Reningunta in Chittoor district. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) managed to rescue two of them, while another farmer was washed away and could not be traced.Nellore district, which is closer to Tamil Nadu, bore the maximum brunt of Cyclone Nivar. As many as 923 families had been shifted to 53 shelter homes in the district. Similarly, as many as 340 families in Satyavedu mandal of Chittoor district were shifted to relief centres. In Nellore town, heavy gales accompanied by rain uprooted trees and electric poles blocking traffic at several places, resulting in disruption of power supply. Several towns like Sullurpeta, Atmakur, Venkatagiri, and Kavali revenue divisions of the district received heavy rains with strong winds since last night. A bridge collapsed at Lingasamudram village between Venkatagiri and Rapuru towns. Traffic has been diverted in the area. The temple town of Tirumala also received heavy rainfall since Wednesday night. There were landslides and uprooting of trees on the Tirupati-Tirumala ghat road, leading to disruption of traffic. The wall of a community hall also collapsed, damaging two bikes. Flights to Tirupati are behind schedule. The airlines communicated information about the delayed flights to passengers through messages. Officials told the chief minister that because of heavy rains, there has been damage to crops at some places and damage assessment programs will be carried out as soon as the rains subside. CM Jagan ordered the authorities to prepare a report on the enumeration of crop damage after the rains stop and to be ready to provide immediate relief. In Nandyal in Kurnool district, the Kundu River was overflowing. District collector Veerapandian has instructed local officials to arrange for shifting people from vulnerable areas to safer camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-1-electrocuted-another-washed-away-as-heavy-rain-batters-south-coastal-andhra/story-JU4flf3B9Vwq8Dss0yADOK.html
26-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India tackling terror with new policy and process, says PM Narendra Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India tackling terror with new policy and process: PM Narendra ModiIndia is tackling terror attacks with new policy and process, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on Thursday—the anniversary of the Mumbai terror attack in 2008 that left 174 people dead—in an oblique reference to the 2016 surgical strike and the 2019 air strikes in Pakistan that demonstrated India’s hardened military stance to the world. Read morePak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: IntelHafiz Saeed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba founder sanctioned by the UN Security Council, is not serving time in jail but at his Johar Town house in Lahore from where he runs the terror group, according to people familiar with the matter. Read more3 more PDP leaders quit party, say it has become NC’s B TeamA month after three leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) resigned citing Mehbooba Mufti’s “actions and undesirable utterances”, three more have quit the party. Daman Bhasin, Fallail Singh and Pritam Kotwal resigned from the party, which they said has become the “second fiddle” to the National Conference. Read moreHow Donald Trump compares to other US presidents on pardons and commutationsTrump is expected to use his clemency power to pardon or commute the sentences of his allies before leaving the office, however, the outgoing commander-in-chief has used the power less frequently than any other president in modern history. Read more‘Wounds may have healed, but scars remain’: Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli pay tribute to security personnel killed in 26/11 attacksOne of the most heinous terrorist attacks in India took place on November 26th, 2008. Several terrorists launched attacks in Mumbai which led to the death of 166 people while injuring over 300. The reign of terror lasted for four days as security personnel fought hard to save the lives of people. Read moreAnushka Sharma shows the custom made jewellery gifted to her by Sabyasachi and it has a Virat Kohli connect. See picsActor Anushka Sharma got the prettiest gift from fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee. The happy mommy-to-be took to Instagram Stories to share it with her fans. Read moreCook turkey and cornbread like Kamala Harris this ThanksgivingUS Vice President-elect Kamala Harris came through to save us some trouble and time with very handy tips for this festive season. The US attorney took to her Instagram and Twitter to share multiple posts to give a step-by-step guide for her family’s cornbread dressing recipe. Read moreWatch | ‘We demand justice’: Indian-Americans protest against Pak on 26/11 anniversary||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-tackling-terror-with-new-policy-and-process-says-pm-narendra-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-l8HeiUkGABW0dh85h3fuSL.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Govt should ensure MSP, says Sangh body||The union government should take proactive steps to end the ongoing farmers’ protest by finding a way to ensure that farm produce is purchased at minimum support price (MSP) whether it is sold in the open market, the agricultural mandis or procured by the government, said Dinesh Kulkarni, the all India organisational secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh on Thursday. The BKS, which is an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), is not part of the ongoing protests, but has been critical of the new laws—the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020—that were passed in Parliament amid strong protest from the opposition. While the BKS blames the opposition for politicising the issue, it wants the government to end the stalemate by agreeing to their demand of ensuring sale at MSP. Also Read: Haryana farmers on Delhi Chalo march cross Karnal hurdle“The new laws make no mention of MSP and we have been demanding that the government should find a way—either bring a new law or amend the existing one— to ensure that farmers get the MSP for their produce. As on date, farmers in various parts of the country including Punjab, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh are being forced to make distress sales,” Kulkarni said. On Thursday, hundreds of farmers on who are on their way to Delhi were stopped by the Haryana Police using water cannons and tear-gas shells, evoking strong reactions from the opposition. The Congress party, which has been opposed to the farm regulation, criticised the police action against the protesting farmers. “For nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway? @mlkhattar,” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. For nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don't the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway? @mlkhattar pic.twitter.com/NWyFwqOXEuThe BKS functionary said the central government needs to be proactive in reaching out to the farmers to initiate dialogue and also meet their demands. “There are three things we have demanded, first is ensuring that all produce that is sold fetches the MSP. Second, in the open markets there has to be a mechanism to register all the traders who will buy produce. And the third is that there should be dedicated court to take up agri-related disputes,” Kulkarni said. On the protests that have been going on for months, the BKS functionary said the farmers’ concerns are being hijacked for political gains. “The government has agreed to talk and there is a meeting on December 3; but these protests are politically engineered, which is why we are not part of them. The farmers should realise that the laws that were passed in Punjab and Rajasthan are also an eye-wash,” he said. States such as Punjab and Rajasthan had drafted their own laws to negate the central laws. “In Punjab, they have said purchase of wheat and paddy will not be allowed if the price is lower than the MSP. Do farmers grow only these crops in Punjab, what about the other crops? Similarly, in Rajasthan they have ensure MSP for contractual farming; do contractual farmers grow paddy and wheat? Non- contract farming is usually for high-value produce, so who is the government helping?” Kulkarni said. He also criticised the police action against farmers and said in a democracy, people have a right to voice their concerns. “It is fair that the government is worried about the rising cases of Covid-19; but what is happening is not good,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-govt-should-ensure-msp-says-sangh-body/story-7nXWXCDGrrzPKzMsc8LI5H.html
26-11-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee made Shah Rukh Khan brand ambassador as he’s a Khan: Bengal BJP chief||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee made Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan the state’s brand ambassador because he is a Khan, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dilip Ghosh said at a rally in Krishnagar in Nadia district on Thursday afternoon. The BJP won the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat in Nadia district in 2019. Taking forward the tussle with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) that has accused the BJP of being a party of “outsiders” that depends on Hindi-speaking leaders from Delhi and other states for the crucial assembly polls due in about five months, Ghosh singled out Banerjee in his speech. “The BJP is called outsiders here but if you (Banerjee) wanted a superstar as brand ambassador for West Bengal then you could have chosen Dev, a popular hero and Lok Sabha member. Alternatively, you could have made legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee the brand ambassador. But you selected Shah Rukh Khan. Don’t we understand why? You need a Khan. Others will not do. We all know that you need a Khan for electoral politics,” said Ghosh. Actor Deepak Adhikari, popularly known as Dev, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Ghatal in West Midnapore. Soumitra Chatterjee, an icon in Bengal, died recently in Kolkata at the age of 85. Muslims comprise around 30 % of Bengal’s population.This is not the first time the BJP has accused Banerjee of turning to minorities to secure her vote bank. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats last year and had campaigned against the CM along these lines. TMC’s senior Lok Sabha MP and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “Dilip Ghosh, who always wears his communal glasses, cannot see the reality or understand that the chief minister made Khan the brand ambassador of Bengal not because of his surname but because of the fact that he is extremely popular not just in India but beyond the borders.” “Ghosh is talking about [Soumitra] Chatterjee but neither he nor any of the state BJP leaders took part in his funeral procession and the last rites where the chief minister was present for hours. It was a state funeral. The actor was earlier honoured by her with the Banga Bibhushan award. Dev, because of his popularity, is a two-time MP and serves the people,” said Roy. In February 2012, Khan formally accepted Banerjee’s proposal to become the state’s brand ambassador. The acceptance came in the form of a letter to the chief minister. She had requested the movie icon during a chat after the inauguration of the 17th Kolkata film Festival in November 2011, months after ousting the 34-year-old Left Front government. Khan had initially verbally agreed to the chief minister’s appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-made-shah-rukh-khan-brand-ambassador-as-he-s-a-khan-bengal-bjp-chief/story-7PthkynE7uMLhZMBaf5ErK.html
26-11-2020||India||Ahead of paddy procurement in Bihar, agencies threaten to stop work if dues not cleared||Paddy procurement in Bihar scheduled to begin from next week could run into trouble with the primary agriculture credit societies (PACS) and Vayapar Mandals in Kaimur and Rohtas districts threatening to stop work if the state food corporation (SFC) and cooperative banks did clear a backlog of payment.The SFC procures paddy and other food grains through PACS and Vyapar Mandals in the state.The procurement agencies had not been paid the transportation cost, managerial grant and cost of gunny-bags for the last three procurement seasons and are facing financial crisis, Dadan Dwivedi, chairman, Kaimur PACS association said.A representation of PACS, led by Dwivedi, met the district magistrate on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum demanding payment of a pending amount of Rs 21 crore. They warned that if the dues are not cleared, they would boycott paddy procurement in the district.The memorandum said that the SFC has to pay Rs 12.41 crore for transportation cost of milled rice in addition to Rs 3.24 crore as managerial subsidy and over Rs 5.37 crore as cost of gunny bags. The SFC had to pay a total amount of over Rs 21 crore to 151 Kaimur PACS and five Vyapar Mandals for procurement years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.The SFC owes Rs 23 cr to 243 PACS and 18 Vyapar Mandals in Rohtas district for the three consecutive procurement seasons. The situation is similar in almost all paddy growing districts in the state, Sanjay Singh, chairman, Rohtas PACS association said.The state government gives the procurement agencies the cost of transporting milled rice to SFC collection centres as well as Rs 10 per quintal managerial grant after milling one quintal of paddy and depositing the rice at collections centers. The government gives Rs 25 per quintal cost for gunny bags to the agency which is paid to farmers who brought paddy in gunny bags.“The cooperative banks give the agency cash credit for payment of paddy, gunny bags and transportation to farmers and transporters. The agencies return the money to cooperative banks after the amount is paid to them by SFC.“As the SFC did not pay our dues, the PACS and Vyapar Mandals have been declared defaulter by the banks. The interest on the credit is also increasing and PACS are running in loss”, Dwivedi said.Santosh Kumar, SFC district manager, Kaimur, said that he had informed state headquarters about the dues and problem of procurement agencies. The matter would be resolved and procurement would be started in time, he said.“in previous years, the government paddy procurement exercise used to start on November 15. But it was yet to begin for procurement season 2020-21. Is it not a gross negligence on the part of the government who did not solve the issues in time and left it for peak season”, Ravi Shankar Agrawal, a leading farmer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-paddy-procurement-in-bihar-agencies-threaten-to-stop-work-if-dues-not-cleared/story-JoEWsT0UiQXJsRMiGHfUbJ.html
26-11-2020||India||India tackling terror with new policy and process: PM Narendra Modi||India is tackling terror attacks with new policy and process, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on Thursday—the anniversary of the Mumbai terror attack in 2008 that left 174 people dead—in an oblique reference to the 2016 surgical strike and the 2019 air strikes in Pakistan that demonstrated India’s hardened military stance to the world.The Prime Minister called Pakistan the perpetrator of the Mumbai terror attack and emphasised that the attack will never be forgotten.Addressing the conference of presiding officers virtually on Constitution Day, the Prime Minister said, “This date is also associated with the biggest terror attack in our country. In 2008, terrorists sent by Pakistan launched an attack on Mumbai that left many Indians and foreigners dead. I pay my tribute to all of them.”“Today’s India is fighting terror attacks with new policies and processes,” said Modi.Watch l ‘India can’t forget 26/11 wounds, fighting terrorism with new policy’: PM Modi Also Read: ‘Polls held every few months, impact on development works known to all’: PM Modi pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’India’s hardened stand towards tackling terror has been a key feature of the Modi government’s security policy and the leadership of the current dispensation has often tried to play up the difference between the United Progressive Alliance era and the National Democratic Alliance regime’s approach towards terror.In 2016, the Modi government sent forces across the border for a surgical strike on Pakistani soil after the terror attack on Uri. While the Congress and several military experts claimed that such strikes were conducted earlier as well, the surgical strike of September 2016 was different because the political leadership took ownership of the action and announced India’s muscular military response to the world. The operation was in retaliation against an attack on an Indian Army camp in Uri, Kashmir, the same month that claimed the lives of 19 soldiers. The suicide attackers had come from Pakistan.Three years later, the decision to carry out air strikes was taken within 24 hours of the Pulwama attack, with the government giving the Indian Air Force two weeks to select terror targets and launch air strikes against them.The new security policy of the government has also been a talking point for the BJP in the polls.The Prime Minister also paid homage to the police personnel who died in the Mumbai terror attack and to all the security forces who have died fighting terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tackling-terror-with-new-policy-and-process-pm-narendra-modi/story-1u6ptO3rNxrCrtz2J5atBN.html
26-11-2020||India||Need strong police force to prevent terror attacks: Maha CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday paid tributes to the martyrs of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack on its 12th anniversary, and said the police force needs to be so strong that terrorists do not dare to attack the state or its capital city.Speaking at the Maharashtra Police headquarters here after paying floral tributes to the martyrs, Thackeray said though the state is facing a financial crisis, his government will take every step to strengthen the police force.Earlier, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray also paid respects to the martyrs, who died fighting terrorists during the attack on November 26, 2008, at the newly-built memorial at the police headquarters in south Mumbai.Wives of some of the personnel killed in the 26/11 attack inaugurated the martyrs’ gallery at the state police headquarters here.On the occasion, Thackeray released of coffee table book, titled ‘True Grit’ on the Maharashtra Police’s work during Covid-19 pandemic.“We should make our force so strong that the idea of attack on Maharashtra and Mumbai does not come into the mind of terrorists, they should not dare to attack the state and Mumbai. If any terrorist comes forward, he should be killed on the spot,” he said.“We woke up about strengthening the police force after the 26/11 terror attack. As we made necessary arrangements for health facilities after Covid-19 outbreak, we can also work to strengthen our police force,” he said.Thackeray remembered the day of the attack in 2008 when he was on a tour of Dhule and Nashik for poll rallies.“After getting information about the attack, I had called police inspector Vijay Salaskar and he said he had just reached home and was again rushing to the spot,” he recalled.“I then made two-three calls to him. When he picked up the call, Salaskar said he was in front of the Taj Mahal Hotel and that the police force will enter it after a survey,” the chief minister said.Salaskar was later killed while fighting with the terrorists.“Later, I made various calls to Salakar, and till this day, he hasn’t picked up the call,” the CM said on an emotional note.“When I reached Nashik, I got the shocking news, which I could not have imagined,” he said, adding that the scars of the deadly attack are “irreparable”.People should be aware of what conditions police personnel are working in, what is the meaning of police, what is their life, he said, adding the concept of martyrs gallery should also be extended to other major cities of the state.On the occasion, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the 26/11 terror attack was a “national crisis”.“The black face of the neighboring country (Pakistan) came to light after the police caught one of the terrorists (Ajmal Kasab) alive,” he added.At least 797 Maharashtra Police personnel have died in various operations, including Naxal attacks, terror attacks, communal riots, and other official duties from 1965 to 2020, according to the state police.The 12th anniversary of the deadly terror attack was attended by a limited number of people in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Family members of some of the martyred police personnel also paid tributes at the memorial.During the ceremony, the governor, chief minister and the home minister met family members of some martyrs.“Their sacrifice will never be erased from the memory of time and history. Today, we pay tribute to our saviours #2611Attack #2611Martyrs,” Mumbai Police tweeted.Remembering their personnel killed in the attack, the Maharashtra Police in a tweet said, “A tribute to the ones who sacrificed their lives to safeguard the rest!” “Saluting the bravehearts whose sacrifice still ignites the spirits of millions #2611Attack #2611Martyrs #SalutingMartyrs,” Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh tweeted.NCP chief Sharad Pawar also paid tributes to the policemen and other security personnel who laid their lives during the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, and called for a resolve to intensify the fight against terrorism.“Tributes to martyrs from the police and other security forces who laid their lives in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. As we condole with the families who lost their near ones in the attack, we should (also) resolve to intensify our fight against terrorism,” the former Union minister tweeted.On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force.Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-strong-police-force-to-prevent-terror-attacks-maha-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-tOiIqq9EOTwFdpbqn7zhAM.html
26-11-2020||India||Goa tourism stakeholders fume at Maharashtra’s Covid-19 SOPs||The Maharashtra government’s decision to include Goa among the places from which travellers entering the state will have to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate is a deliberate ploy to ruin Goa’s tourism, stakeholders have said.“Goa tourism is going to be doomed with the Maharashtra government asking all travelling from Goa to Mumbai to have a negative certificate. It takes 48 hours for the report to come so tourists who come to Goa and are travelling back to Mumbai will have to obtain one. Tourists will try to keep away from Goa. I think it’s a ploy to destroy Goa tourism,” John Lobo a shack owner from North Goa said. His view was echoed by the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Nilesh Shah who said that there was no ‘scientific reasoning’ to include Goa among the list of regions from which arrivals will be tested. “It appears that it is more of a political ploy rather than anything done with scientific reasoning. Goa is one of the safest places with regard to Covid-19 cases. No doubt safety is important and it would be OK if they had decided to test people coming in from Delhi or other hotspot places. Maybe they wish to promote their own tourist hotspots at the cost of Goa,” Shah said. “Besides these can easily be bypassed by those travelling from Goa to Maharashtra who can simply drive back via Belgaum in Karnataka or take a flight via Bangalore. These SOPs do not appear to be practical,” Shah said. Tourists from large cities like Mumbai, Bangalore and Delhi have been visiting Goa with the airport now handling 48 flights and around 13,000 passengers per day. The number of flights is a little over half the number of flights being handled before the pandemic began.However, if the mandatory testing protocol continues, stakeholders, who have been hardest hit by the lockdown and travel restrictions believe the added inconvenience will further deter those willing to step out. Goa’s tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that the SOPs adopted by Maharashtra were “against MHA instructions”. Earlier Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant as well as health minister Vishwajit Rane had railed against the Maharashtra government after Goa was included in the list. “The Maharashtra SOPs say that even if the person is symptomatic, the person will be subjected to an antigen test. How can that work? If a person is symptomatic, the person will have to undergo an RT-PCR test. Only then can a person be successfully segregated or else it will be of no use,” Sawant told reporters.For his part, Rane has said that state government’s free Covid-19 testing services will not be extended to those people wishing to take the certificate for the purpose to travel to Maharashtra. “Goa Medical College and Directorate of Health Services has been directed not to carry out Covid test pertaining for travel purpose. The Health department is here to keep the people of Goa safe. People wishing to avail a Covid test for travel purposes should visit either the North Goa or South Goa District Hospitals. The RTPCR test will be conducted on a chargeable basis,” Rane said. “All tests pertaining to the safety of the citizens of Goa, which are recommended by the doctors of PHCs, CHCs and Flu OPDs will continue as before,” he added.Goa is recording between 100-200 cases daily while the number of deaths ranges between 0-5 over the past few weeks. However an increase in tourist numbers accompanied by social distancing norms being thrown to the winds in casinos, nightclubs and party hotspots has led to fears that the numbers could spike up once again over Christmas and the New Year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-tourism-stakeholders-fume-at-maharashtra-s-covid-19-sops/story-bDjJUpDLEW0I2sNrOxk69L.html
26-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand slashes rates of RT-PCR, antigen tests||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday reduced the price for both RT-PCR and antigen tests for Covid-19. An order issued by state health secretary Amit Singh Negi said the decision had been taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 epidemic in the state, and was to be implemented with immediate effect. “After talks with officials from the health and family welfare department in the state, the price of Rs679 is being decided for antigen testing for NABH/NABL accredited private laboratories,” mentions the order. It further mentions that if samples for RT-PCR are collected by government or private hospitals and sent to private labs for testing then the test would cost Rs850 (inclusive of GST) and if private labs collect samples on their own for testing then it would cost Rs900. Also read | 6 states and UTs contributed over 60% towards fresh Covid cases: CentreThe state government had earlier set a price of Rs719 by private labs for antigen testing and Rs1,680 (maximum cost) for RT-PCR testing. For RT-PCR testing, private labs will have to give reports mentioning the CT value and send samples to concerned authorities when asked for quality audits.  On Wednesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “Due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state has increased testing facilities at the border check posts and railway station. It is to curb the virus spread and take the required steps for people testing positive at these places while entering the state.” Uttarakhand has so far reported over 72,000 cases with over 66,000 patients recovering successfully. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 20,583 cases followed by Haridwar (11,914), US Nagar (10,182) and Nainital (8,372).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-slashes-rates-of-rt-pcr-antigen-tests/story-ZIYY62nWJft9XtWHHhoaYN.html
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar uproots trees, floods streets in southern India||Parts of India’s southern coast were flooded Thursday after a cyclone slammed into its shores, triggering heavy rains, uprooting trees and cutting power lines.Cyclone Nivar made landfall in Puducherry, a federal territory near the southern state of Tamil Nadu, with winds of up to 130 kilometers (81 miles) per hour, according to the India Meteorological Department. It said the storm was weakening as it moved north toward Karnataka state.There were no immediate official reports of injuries.In Chennai, a coastal city of about 10 million in Tamil Nadu, heavy rains flooded streets, knocked down trees and cut power for several hours. Many residential areas were flooded and people remained indoors.India’s National Disaster Response Force said its teams were working to clear the roads after uprooted trees disrupted traffic in some areas.City officials said the full extent of the damage was not yet known but its impact was mitigated by steps taken by the government.On Wednesday, tens of thousands of people fled their homes in low-lying areas of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and moved to evacuation shelters provided by the government to escape the cyclone.“It’s a solace that nothing untoward happened and the weakening of the cyclone is good news,” state minister R.B. Udhayakumar told reporters in Chennai.Indian Home Minister Amit Shah said authorities were working to get all possible assistance to victims of the storm.India’s vast coastal regions are often battered by cyclones.In May, nearly 100 people died after Cyclone Amphan, the most powerful storm to hit eastern India in more than a decade, ravaged the region and left millions without power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-uproots-trees-floods-streets-in-southern-india/story-p6vz0LbhJeZ4Tjis3FWq8N.html
26-11-2020||India||6 states and UTs contributed over 60% towards fresh Covid cases: Centre||The Union health ministry said on Thursday 60.72 per cent of the 44,489 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the last 24 hours were contributed by six states and Union territories (UTs) with Kerala being the highest contributor. Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh followed the southern state, according to central data. Kerala added nearly 6,500 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, while Maharashtra and Delhi added 6,159 and 5,246 new cases respectively, the ministry added.Delhi led the tally in terms of cases per million population as it logged 29,169 infections, followed by Kerala at 16,201, Maharashtra at 14,584 and Haryana at 7,959. The figures from these four states were higher than the national average of 6,715.Out of the 524 deaths logged in the last 24 hours, 60.50 per cent of these came from Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, the ministry said. Delhi reported the maximum deaths at 99, followed by Maharashtra with 65 and West Bengal 51 fatalities.Also Read: Delhi ‘actively considering’ night curfew. ‘As active as Covid-19 cases,’ asks high courtThe national capital on Wednesday saw its daily toll falling below the 100-mark for the first time after five days. Since the past 13 days, deaths due to the infection remained above 100 at least seven times in Delhi. The total deaths are now over 8,700, the state’s health department bulletin showed.The case fatality rates in Punjab, Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra were also greater than the national average of 1.46 per cent, the health ministry said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMeanwhile, recoveries from Covid-19 have climbed to 8,679,138 with 36,367 people recovering in the last 24 hours, the ministry highlighted adding that 15 states and UTs have a recovery rate more than the national average of 93.66 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-and-uts-contributed-over-60-towards-fresh-covid-cases-centre/story-hK3awb92hzGM4JYwd0FTGM.html
26-11-2020||India||French ambassador visits Gorakhnath temple in UP, joins prayers, feeds cows||The French ambassador in India, Emmanuel Lenain, visited the Gorakhnath temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur on Thursday.He participated in religious rituals and prayers organised on the temple premises. During his hour-long stay, he learned about the temple, visited the cow shelter on the premises and fed jaggery to the cows.A spokesperson for the Gorakhnath temple trust said the beauty of the temple virtually mesmerised Lenain. He visited the other shrines located in the premises. Dr Pradeep Rao, principal of Maharana Pratap PG College, informed him about the specialties of this world-famous temple. Lenain also got himself photographed at Bhim Sarovar and other spots.The ambassador was informed about the various welfare schemes and development projects run by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is also the mahant (head priest) of the temple. He was also made aware of the cow protection campaign organised by the temple trust.Gorakhnath temple priest Yogi Kamal Nath, secretary Dwarka Tiwari, Guru Gorakshanath Hospital director Brigadier KPB Singh and media in-charge Vinay Gautam welcomed Lenain at the Gorakhnath temple.Lenain was presented religious and cultural books of the Geeta Press and the Gorakhnath Temple, published in English and French, by the Gorakhnath temple management.Earlier, Lenain, who is on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh, was welcomed by Gorakhpur district magistrate Vijayendra Pandian. On Wednesday, Lenain met chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow and held a discussion regarding the strengthening of ties between France and India.“France desires to promote new partnerships, welcome more students from UP, and have more French companies to invest in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-ambassador-visits-gorakhnath-temple-in-up-joins-prayers-feeds-cows/story-V2mX8cIIwDaOBlgIRRRKoN.html
26-11-2020||India||2 soldiers killed in terrorist attack on army patrol near Srinagar||Two security force personnel were killed in a terrorist attack on a quick reaction team (QRT) on the outskirts of Srinagar on Thursday, police said.“Terrorists fired indiscriminately at a Quick Reaction Team of the Indian Army in Srinagar’s Aban Shah Chowk, HMT, Khushipora today afternoon. Since it was a crowded area, troops exercised restraint to avoid any civilian casualties and collateral damage. Two soldiers were critically injured and were evacuated to the nearest medical facility. However, they have succumbed to their injuries,” the army said in a statement.“Jaish has active movement here, by evening we’ll identify the group. Terrorists fled in a car and were armed. Two are probably Pakistani and one local,” Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar told news agency ANI.Security forces have cordoned off the area and launched a search operation to track down the assailants.More details are awaited||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nov-26-jk/story-pxBuxz1KvUYNSKPMzIDepK.html
26-11-2020||India||UP Cabinet clears proposal for Rs 36K cr Ganga Expressway||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval to the state government’s proposal for implementation of the Rs 36,402 crore Ganga Expressway project. The district-wise alignment of the 595-km long expressway was also approved. The construction of the expressway will provide smooth and fast traffic movement from Haridwar in Uttarakahand to Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, almost parallel to the Ganga. In addition, the traffic coming through the waterway being developed from Haldia to Varanasi will be able to travel easily to Delhi and other states via Prayagraj.The other proposals cleared were: providing free land owned by the gram sabha, purchase/acquisition of land, annual budget, loan taken from the Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO), the process for monetisation of Agra-Lucknow Expressway for raising additional financial resources, selecting a technical advisor for adopting toll, besides operation and transfer method for monetisation of Agra-Lucknow Expressway.The cabinet took these decisions at a meeting chaired by chief minister Adityanath.In a statement, the government said for the implementation of the project, funds will be withdrawn from the treasury after money raised from monetization of the Agra-Lucknow Expressway had been deposited.A high-powered committee for procedural and operational decisions regarding monetisation of Agra-Lucknow Expressway will be set up. The cabinet also authorised the chief minister to take policy decisions on the recommendation of the committee.The process and draft format for inviting expression of interest (EOI) from the investors on public private partnership (PPP) model for seeking possibilities for funding the construction of the project was also approved. It was also decided that if there was difficulty in executing the work under PPP mode, other options presented by the administrative department would be considered.The Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has been instructed to perform preparatory operations in time. Approval has also been given to take action on the option of foreign direct investment (FDI). In addition, SBI Capital Market Limited has been nominated as the financial advisor of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cabinet-clears-proposal-for-rs-36k-cr-ganga-expressway/story-fpPYUMSxQtIHDc4TeBfwVI.html
26-11-2020||India||Ready to resolve differences: Union farm minister Tomar invites protesting farmers for talks on Dec 3||As farmers from Punjab marched to Delhi to protest the Centre’s new farm laws, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday invited them for talks on December 3 to resolves differences. Appealing the farmers to not agitate, the Union agriculture minister assured that the talk will have a positive outcome.“I want to appeal to our farmer brothers to not agitate. We are ready to talk about issues and resolve differences. I am sure that our dialogue will have a positive result,” Narendra Singh Tomar said, according to news agency ANI. “The new farm laws were the need of the hour. In the coming time, it’s going to bring revolutionary changes. We have spoken at the secretary level in Punjab to dispel wrong notions of our farmer brothers there. We will talk on December 3,” he added.Also read | Amarinder slams Khattar for using brute force against farmers marching towards DelhiThe farmers are protesting the three farm laws that took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent. The situation at Haryana-Delhi border remains tense as thousands of farmers marched during the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Earlier this morning, Haryana police used water cannon and tear gas near Ambala to stop the farmers from reaching the national capital, an action that is being widely criticised as the force had resorted to the same measure on Wednesday evening during freezing cold weather.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday morning criticised the move and said that “peaceful protest is farmers’ constitutional right”. “The farmers are protesting against all three laws by the centre. Instead of taking this bill back, the farmers are being stopped from protesting peacefully. Water cannons are being used on them. Such kind of injustice on farmers is not fair. Peaceful protest is their constitutional right,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Haryana has completely sealed off its border with Punjab and the security at Delhi-Haryana border was also tightened on Thursday morning to stop the protesting farmers from entering the national capital. Delhi Police on Wednesday had said that it has denied permission to several farmer organisations to protest in the city against the farm laws on November 26 and 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-resolve-differences-union-farm-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-invites-protesting-farmers-for-talks-on-december-3/story-NctQtvY7LhQcc7mEmBKe5L.html
26-11-2020||India||History, significance of Constitution Day 2020: Everything you need to know||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday led the country by reading the Preamble of the Constitution as part of Constitution Day 2020 celebrations. India observes Constitution Day every year on November 26 since 2015, when it was first announced by the ministry of social justice and empowerment.What is Constitution Day?Also known as the ‘Samvidhan Divas,’ Constitution Day is observed every year to mark the adoption of the Constitution by the Constituent Assembly on November 26, 1949. The day is also celebrated in memory of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, who was the first chairman of the drafting committee that drafted the Constitution of India.HistoryOn November 26, 1949, the Constitution of India was legally adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India. The document later came into effect on January 26, 1950, becoming one of the longest written constitutions of the world. Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar was the first law minister and also the first chairman of the constituent drafting committee that was entrusted with the responsibility of drafting the constitution.In 2015, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre decided to declare November 26 as the Constitution Day. This decision was notified by the ministry of social justice and empowerment in its Annual Report for 2015-2016, wherein it announced multiple celebrations to mark the occasion.Notably, 2015 also marked the 125th birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar, for which the ministry announced various commemorative events.Also read: PM Modi pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’Wishes by Indian leadersMultiple national leaders have wished the citizens of India on Constitution day. President Kovind led the celebrations by reading the Preamble of the Indian Constitution. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the day “as a day to express gratitude to the makers of our Constitution and to reiterate our commitment to building the India of their dreams” in a tweet. We began to observe 26th November as Constitution Day in 2015. Since then, people across India have been marking it with great fervour. This is a day to express gratitude to the makers of our Constitution and to reiterate our commitment to building the India of their dreams. pic.twitter.com/GaMMGN6kVwWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee remembered the spirit of the Indian Constitution. “On #ConstitutionDay, homage to Dr BR Ambedkar & the Constituent Assembly who gave shape to the democratic framework of India. Let us keep the spirit of our Constitution alive - Sovereignty, Socialism, Secularist, Democratic, Republic, Justice, Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality,” she tweeted.Barun Mitra, the secretary of the Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance (UMANG) mobile app for government services, launched the Nyaya Bandhu application to mark the occasion. The app from the department of justice is intended to provide a free of cost service to connect with advocates and get legal advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-significance-of-constitution-day-2020-everything-you-need-to-know/story-v3aaUjOKwQbhjqNPSeFP9N.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Will leave politics if there’s trouble on MSP’: Haryana CM Khattar asks Punjab’s Amarinder Singh to ‘stop inciting farmers’||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday urged his counterpart in Punjab to not “play with the lives of the people” and “avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic” as thousands of farmers marched to Delhi to protest against recent agricultural reforms.Police used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse protesting farmers headed to Delhi as they tried to break through barricades in Ambala. The farmers were seen resisting the police, trying to break and drag the barricades at the Sadopur border following which police had to use water cannons and tear gas shells to control the crowd.“Time for your Lies, Deception and Propaganda is over - let the people see your real face. Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the Corona pandemic. I urge you to not play with the lives of the people - atleast avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic,” Khattar said in a series of tweets.Also Read: Amarinder slams Khattar for using brute force against farmers marching towards Delhi“I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable - is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, Why?” he asked. “@capt_amarinder ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP - therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” he added.Before this, Amarinder Singh had condemned the Haryana government’s “forcible” attempts to stop farmers from marching to Delhi. Singh questioned the need to stop them from proceeding, according to an official release by his office, and urged the Khattar government to allow the farmers to pass through the national highway. He also said that the constitutional right of farmers to protest was being suppressed.Watch: Police use water cannon, tear gas on agitating farmers near Delhi-Haryana border Singh also condemned the use of “brute” force by Haryana police, which had used water cannons and tear gas in a bid to stop the farmers from Punjab from marching through the state and had not allowed farmers from Haryana to move out of their villages in many places.“Why is ML Khattar government in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional,” he said, asserting that “the hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside.” “For nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is the Haryana government provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?” he asked.Singh urged the BJP central leadership to direct their state governments not to indulge in such “strong-arm” tactics against the farmers. “Let the farmers be heard by the central government, let their concerns be addressed,” he said, calling for peaceful resolution of the farmers’ concerns in the national interest.Also Read: Delhi Metro resumes services on Delhi to NCR routes, reverse route yet to reopenFarmers have given a call for “Delhi Chalo” protest march, to coincide with Constitution Day, against new farm laws. While the government says the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets, protestors fear that this could lead to the government not buying produce at guaranteed prices, thereby disrupting their timely payments. They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Heavy security has been deployed at Rohtak-Jhajjar border, Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Jammu highway near Karna Lake in Karnal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-leave-politics-if-there-s-trouble-on-msp-haryana-cm-khattar-asks-punjab-s-amarinder-singh-to-stop-inciting-farmers/story-baPzUKALc9g3nc4LSKtxfM.html
26-11-2020||India||Akhada Parishad opposes recognition to all-female ‘Akhada Pari’ during Mahakumbh 2021||The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has sternly opposed the demand of the all-female Akhada, which calls itself the Akhada Pari, to get recognition like other Akhadas, allocation of land for setting up of camps and right to Shahi Snaan (royal bath) during Mahakumbh 2021 in Haridwar. Sadhvi Trikal Bhavanta, 50, a self-proclaimed female Shankaracharya of Akhada Pari, which was founded in 2014, on Thursday demanded from Kumbh mela administration facilities at par with those offered to all the thirteen major Akhadas falling under the umbrella of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad - the apex body of all the major recognised Akhadas. Citing some facilities offered during the previous year during the Prayagraj and Ujjain Kumbh, Sadhvi Trikal Bhavanta, in a memorandum to Haridwar Kumbh mela administration, has sought facilities and allocation of a time slot for Shahi Snaan as provided to all thirteen Akhadas. “I have been meditating for the past two decades. I am the head of the Gayatri Triveni Prayag Peeth. We had been given some facilities during the Ujjain Kumbh in 2016. We demand similar facilities from the mela administration during Haridwar Mahakumbh. We are raising voice for women seers and half of the population of the country,” said Sadhvi Bhavanta after meeting assistant Kumbh mela officer Harbeer Singh. Also read: Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home - IntelTerming Sadhvi Trikal Bhavanta as fake, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri Maharaj questioned the pontiff’s status of Shankaracharya as claimed by the female seer. “There are only four revered peeths (seats) of Shankaracharya in Sanatan Dharma, everyone knows it and there is no female Shankaracharya seat so far. Just wearing saffron clothes and claiming to be a pontiff of a so-called Akhada doesn’t mean she can claim to be a recognised seer and get facilities for Mahakumbh,” he said. Mahant Narendra Giri alleged that misleading common people, mela administration and media won’t help her get any benefits or recognition from the Akhadas and the administration. Cautioning Kumbh mela administration against any such proposal and claims from such self-proclaimed head of all-female Akhada, general secretary Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said that Trikal Bhavanta was not allocated any land by respective mela administration during Prayagraj-Nashik Kumbh fairs as Pari Akhada is in no way associated with Akhada Parishad. He further added that recognised female Sadhvis like Sadhvi Ritambhara, Uma Bharati, Lalita Jyoti and others are given due respect and even allowed to attend Peshwayis (Kumbh royal procession) and take sacred Ganga dip as well. Kumbh mela additional district magistrate Harbeer Singh said Sadhvi Trikal Bhavanta have submitted a memorandum listing facility they want during Kumbh at par with other Akhadas. “Any decision will be taken on this issue only after considering various aspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akhada-parishad-opposes-recognition-to-all-female-akhada-during-mahakumbh-2021/story-bR00Vgh7vb4ZWpUgJx07EJ.html
26-11-2020||India||J&K: Another jolt for PDP as 3 more senior leaders quit party||Barely days ahead of district development council (DDC) election in Jammu and Kashmir and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) suffered another jolt as three senior leaders quit the party on Thursday.In a letter issued to media houses, leaders Dhaman Bhasin, Fallail Singh and Pritam Kotwal alleged that the PDP has become “B team” of National Conference (NC). It must be noted that Bhasin and Singh were among the founding members of the PDP.They also said the PDP has abandoned Mufti Mohammed Sayeed’s vision and that “unscrupulous, communal elements with mysterious character” have taken over. “Putting our political career at stake, we joined PDP -- from the very first day of its formation -- with an aim to provide a secular alternative to corrupt and dynast NC as late Mufti Mohammed Sayeed had a vision to frustrate evil designs of communal and parochial elements but the party leadership has, unfortunately, abandoned Mufti Sahib’s agenda to become B team of NC,” the letter, signed the three, read. Also read | PDP youth wing leader Waheed Parra arrested by NIA in connection with terror case“The party leadership has recently given some highly provocative and controversial statements against the basic principles of the founder of the party. Keeping in view the prevailing situation, being disciples of late Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, it is difficult for us to work in the party which has become second fiddle to the NC,” it added.When contacted, Singh refused to identify said communal and parochial elements but maintained that the party has deviated from the vision of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. When asked if they will also join Congress, like TS Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa, Singh said they haven’t decided yet.In October, former MP Bajwa, former MLC and general secretary Mahajan and Hussain A Wafa had submitted their resignation letters, saying that Mehbooba Mufti’s remarks had “hurt patriotic sentiments”. Lashing out at the Centre, Mufti, a former J&K chief minister, had said that she won’t raise any other flag till the flag of the erstwhile state was restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-another-jolt-for-pdp-as-3-more-senior-leaders-quit-party/story-B8SJKtvMSjRo2nEw9augaJ.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Polls held every few months, impact on development works known to all’: PM Modi pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday pitched for ‘One Nation, One Election’, saying it is the need of India as polls taking place every few months impact development works.Addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference via video conference, PM Modi also paid homage to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and asserted that India is fighting terrorism now with new policy and new process.“Elections are held at different places every few months, the impact it has on development works is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on ‘One Nation, One Election’,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also suggested a single voters’ list for Lok Sabha, assembly and panchayat polls, saying separate lists are a waste of resources.“We must remember that when politics take over people and nation-first policies, the nation has to pay adversely in such situations,” he said.In his address to the nation this Independence Day, PM Modi had focused on the government’s push for holding simultaneous elections for Lok Sabha and assembly polls.Speaking from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the Prime Minister had said, “GST [Goods and Services Tax] achieved the dream of ‘one nation, one tax’. We successfully attained ‘one nation, one grid’ in the power sector. We also developed ‘one nation, one mobility card’ system, and today there is a discussion in the country for ‘one nation, one poll’ and it should happen in a democratic manner.”The Prime Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been speaking of “one nation, one poll” as a measure that will same resources and allow time for governance instead of forever being in election mode. The Opposition, however, has been vehemently opposed to the plan, describing it as a threat to India’s federal structure.PM Modi had pitched the idea of “one nation, one poll” during his first term too; a parliamentary standing committee, the Niti Aayog, and the Law Commission subsequently deliberated on the issue and submitted reports.The Law Commission recommended holding simultaneous elections to the Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money; and the NITI Aayog suggested synchronised polling in phases for Lok Sabha and assembly polls from 2024.The Election Commission of India, for its part, has said the proposal can be taken up only after political parties reach a consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-held-every-few-months-its-impact-on-development-known-to-all-pm-modi-pitches-for-one-nation-one-election/story-dw349lNQMbNykjsVd7dzQN.html
26-11-2020||India||Bharat Bandh supporters block trains, roads; clash with the police across West Bengal||Trains services were disrupted and roads were blocked even as bandh supporters clashed with the police in multiple places in West Bengal during the 24-hour Bharat Bandh called by the central trade unions on Thursday. At some places, bandh supporters didn’t allow buses to ply and asked passengers to get off the public transport. Shops were damaged in central Kolkata when bandh supporters allegedly hurled bricks and used sticks to break windshields of buses in Cooch Behar. At Taratala in Kolkata, a scuffle broke out between the police and BJP workers as the latter took out a rally against the bandh. Later, police had to resort to lathi charge and a few people were arrested. Senior BJP leaders were supposed to attend the rally. In central Kolkata, passengers were asked to get off buses even as bandh supporters claimed no one was forced. Such incidents were also reported from districts like Barasat in North 24 Parganas. At Lenin Sarani in Kolkata, bandh supporters could be seen damaging shops. Protests were also stationed outside Metro stations. Many shops in Kolkata and other areas across the districts remained closed. “Some groups were protesting outside Dum Dum, Chandni Chowk and Central Metro stations. There were attempts to enter the Metro station but those failed. There was no disruption in Metro services,” said Kolkata Metro spokesperson. Protesters dumped objects such as banana leaves and tree branches on overhead wires and sat on railway tracks to block trains. Such incidents were reported from multiple places, including Canning and Jhargram. The Mamata Banerjee-administration in West Bengal has made it mandatory for government officials to attend office on Thursday to foil the Bharat Bandh called by trade unions. Passengers had a harrowing time in reaching their destinations. “I had to go to Kolkata but had to abandon the idea as train services were disrupted and bandh supporters were clashing with the police at many places,” said Arindam Das, a resident of Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. Bandh supporters also clashed with police in many places such as Barasat, Kamarhati and Durgapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-supporters-block-trains-roads-clash-with-the-police-across-west-bengal/story-TZ0NGPjR6DZ8whqjMGEvJP.html
26-11-2020||India||3 more PDP leaders quit party, say it has become NC’s B Team||A month after three leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) resigned citing Mehbooba Mufti’s “actions and undesirable utterances”, three more have quit the party. Daman Bhasin, Fallail Singh and Pritam Kotwal resigned from the party, which they said has become the “second fiddle” to the National Conference.“Putting our political career at the stake, we joined PDP from the very first day of its formation with an aim to provide a secular alternative to corrupt and dynast NC as late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed had vision to frustrate evil designs of communal and parochial elements but the party leadership has, unfortunately, abandoned Mufti Sahib agenda to become B team of NC,” they said in a letter, which was posted by news agency ANI on Twitter.“Apart from becoming the B team of NC, party leadership has recently given some highly provocative and controversial statements against the basic principles of the founder of the party. Keeping in view the prevailing situation, being disciples of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed it is difficult for us to work in the party which has become second fiddle to the NC. We are forced to take this difficult decision with heavy heart to leave the party which we were formed as disciples of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed,” they added.In October, TS Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Hussain A Waffa had quit the PDP, saying they are “feeling quite uncomfortable over some of her actions and undesirable utterances, especially which hurt patriotic sentiments” referring to party chief Mehbooba Mufti. “Instead of overcoming the challenges from within and outside by a process of broader consultations and trust, some elements within the party pulling the party and leadership in a particular direction, thus deviating from the basic principles, agenda and philosophy, making it difficult to face the saner voices in the society,” they had said.The resignations of Bajwa, Mahajan and Waffa had come after Mufti had said that her party’s members would not raise the tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu and Kashmir, the right to which had been conferred on the erstwhile state by the now-defunct Article 370 of the Constitution.They had also come after Mehbooba Mufti joined the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of seven political parties in Jammu and Kashmir. National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah has been chosen as its chairperson and Mufti his deputy, giving shape to an alliance that they have formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status. The Centre had revoked the erstwhile state’s special status last year in August and bifurcated it into Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-pdp-leaders-quit-party-say-it-has-become-nc-s-b-team/story-1iGi9a5AcBDGbhJl38SAyM.html
26-11-2020||India||Man climbs cliff in search of mobile network, falls into gorge, dies||A 51-year-old man fell into a gorge from a cliff in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district while searching for a mobile network, said police. “We were informed by the villagers that a man’s body has been recovered from a gorge on Wednesday. He had climbed the cliff in search of a mobile network. Though it seems he fell by accident, we are investigating the case,” said Kailash Singh Bisht, in-charge, police station, Kapkot in Bageshwar.Bisht said Rajendra Ram, a resident of Shama Kanoli village under Kapkot police station used to work in Delhi. He had come into the village during lockdown due to fear of the Covid-19 outbreak. He was planning to return to Delhi in 2-3 days. He wanted to talk to someone so he climbed a cliff to catch a mobile network.When he didn’t return, his son Yogesh went to search him with other villagers and recovered his father’s body 100 metres down in the gorge. He informed the village head who alerted the police.Yogesh said, “My father had to return to Delhi in 2-3 days but this accident took place. Mobiles in our village hardly catch the network so my father climbed a cliff.”Kedar Singh Koshiyari, village head Shama, said, “People of our village face network problems so they have to climb on Malla Nokadi cliff to catch signals for their mobile phones which is 2 km from our village. We have requested administration for providing a network facility but our request is still pending.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-climbs-cliff-in-search-of-mobile-network-falls-into-gorge-dies/story-RIExSrmByR9PnkxIY5hFhL.html
26-11-2020||India||French ambassador meets Adityanath, says keen on partnership with UP||France is keen to collaborate with the Uttar Pradesh government in its ambitious plans to develop sustainable cities, defence industry and aerospace, French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain has said.Ambassador Lenain’s comments came after he paid a courtesy visit to chief minister Adityanath on Wednesday.In a tweet, the chief minister said, “We had a fruitful discussion regarding further strengthening the ties between France and India and forging the partnership for leveraging huge potential of Uttar Pradesh.”For his part, the ambassador tweeted, “Excellent meeting with UP CM Yogi Adityanath. Very impressed by UP dynamism.”Adityanath reciprocated, saying, “Had a wonderful meeting with Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador of France to India.”Describing his first visit to Lucknow as splendid, the ambassador said he was in the city to promote new partnerships between France and Uttar Pradesh. “UP is young, dynamic, talented. We want to welcome more students from UP in France and have more French companies invest in UP,” he said in another tweet. The ambassador heaped praise on Alliance Francaise de Lucknow (AFL) and said the centre was very important to the French government.“The Alliance Française of Lucknow is the youngest in India but already very active thanks to its dynamic team and president Zohra Chatterji! Learning French opens doors to exciting study and job opportunities,” the ambassador said.Speaking at a reception held in his honour in Lucknow on Wednesday, the ambassador said he was impressed with the dynamism and the huge potential in the state of UP and the embassy will extend full support for its activities.He added that learning and teaching the French language was very important and helpful to enter into a business collaboration with France.On the occasion, memorandums of understanding (MoUs) were signed between Alliance Francaise de Lucknow and partnering organisations, for the promotion of the French language and culture, said director of AFL, Prof Meeta Ghosh.An MoU between AFL and FICCI was signed by Amit Gupta, who is the head of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commercial Industry, UP State Council. Through this MOU, AFL will extend its support to Indian business houses by honing their linguistic skills for better collaboration with French companies and also appreciating francophone culture.The second MoU was signed between AFL and Mohammed Abdullah, the managing director, Hotel Lebua, which supports AFL through various collaborative programmes. It is the only heritage hotel in Lucknow that spreads awareness about the French culture and cuisine by offering visitors the luxury of living life French style.The third MoU was signed between AFL and Prof Kum Kum Ray, the head of the Amity School of Languages and founding director of Amity University, a leading institution in the city, with an international presence.“Under the MoU, AFL will support the teaching and upgrading of French language skills of French teachers and students,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-ambassador-meets-adityuanath-says-keen-on-partnership-with-up/story-1sHCq4Blpoujs91cttSpjJ.html
26-11-2020||India||India’s bribery rate highest in Asia: Report||India has the highest bribery rate in Asia and the most number of people who use personal connections to access public services, according to a new report by corruption watchdog Transparency International.The Global Corruption Barometer (GCB) – Asia, found that nearly 50 per cent of those who paid bribes were asked to, while 32 per cent of those who used personal connections said they would not receive the service otherwise.The report is based upon the survey which was conducted between June 17 and July 17 this year in India with a sample size of 2,000.“With the highest bribery rate (39 per cent) in the region, India also has the highest rate of people using personal connections to access public services (46 per cent),” the report said.Also Read | AAP alleges corruption in hospital, BJP hits back Bribery in public services continues to plague India. Slow and complicated bureaucratic process, unnecessary red tape and unclear regulatory frameworks force citizens to seek out alternate solutions to access basic services through networks of familiarity and petty corruption, the report said.“Both national and state governments need to streamline administrative processes for public services, implement preventative measures to combat bribery and nepotism, and invest in user-friendly online platforms to deliver essential public services quickly and effectively,” the report said.Although reporting cases of corruption is critical to curbing the spread, a majority of citizens in India (63 per cent) think that if they report corruption, they will suffer retaliation, it said.In several countries including India, Malaysia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, sexual extortion rates are also high and more must be done to prevent sextortion and address specific gendered forms of corruption, the report said.Sextortion is extorting money or sexual favours from someone by threatening to reveal evidence of their sexual activity through means like morphed images. In India, 89 per cent think government corruption is a big problem, 18 per cent offered bribes in exchange for votes and 11 per cent experienced sextortion or know someone who has.About 63 per cent of surveyed people think the government is doing well in tackling corruption while 73 per cent said their anti-corruption agency is doing well in the fight against corruption, it said.Based on fieldwork conducted in 17 countries, the GCB surveyed nearly 20,000 citizens in total.The report said the results showed that nearly three out of four people think corruption is a big problem in their country and the survey also found that nearly one in five people who accessed public services, such as health care and education, paid a bribe in the preceding year.This equates to approximately 836 million citizens in the 17 countries surveyed, it said. After India, Cambodia has the second highest bribery rate at 37 per cent, followed by Indonesia (30 per cent) while the Maldives and Japan maintain the lowest overall bribery rate (2 per cent), followed by South Korea (10 per cent) and Nepal (12 per cent). “However, even in these countries, governments could do more to stop bribes for public services,” the report said. The report concluded by noting that daily experience with corruption and bribery remains alarmingly high, with nearly one in five citizens paying a bribe to access key government services, such as health care or education, and one in seven being offered a bribe to vote one way or another at elections.Also Read | Amaravati land scam: SC makes FIR open for media to report“In several countries, including India, Malaysia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, sexual extortion rates are also high and more must be done to prevent sextortion and address specific gendered forms of corruption,” it said.The report further said that to provide victims of corruption with channels for redress, governments must ensure that bribery is criminalised and actively investigated and prosecuted.“Citizens must have access to safe and confidential reporting mechanisms and governments must do more to ease citizens’ fear of retaliation in reporting corruption. Despite these challenges, citizens are largely optimistic about the future and believe that ordinary people can make a difference in the fight against corruption,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-highest-bribery-rate-in-asia-report/story-rTdEjIcMi0DLJeatOsTr3O.html
26-11-2020||India||UP’s new export policy focuses on doubling farmers’ income, boosting agricultural exports||The Adityanath government has decided to promulgate the Uttar Pradesh Export Policy 2020-25 that focuses on doubling farmers’ income, boosting agriculture exports, Make in UP and Make in India. A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting of the state cabinet headed by chief minister Adityanath on Tuesday and the details were issued in a press statement on Wednesday. “This is for the first time that such an elaborate export policy is being rolled out in Uttar Pradesh,” said the statement. The policy aims to promote development and competitiveness in the field of exports, provide necessary export-related assistance and services to export subsidiaries and establish and develop technical and physical infrastructures to increase exports from the state industries. Key focus areas of the Export Policy Uttar Pradesh 2020-25 include handicrafts, agriculture and processed food products, engineering goods, handloom and textile, leather products, carpets and rugs, glass and ceramic products, wood products, sports goods, defence products, services sector, education, tourism, IT and ITES, medical value travels and logistics. A pivotal aim of the policy is doubling the income of farmers and also increasing exports from the agricultural sector. It will adopt all those components which are not covered by the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Promotion Policy for doubling farmers’ income. The policy envisages e-Haat portal for the sale and purchase of animals. The work related to the implementation of the export policy Uttar Pradesh 2020-25 will be executed by the UP Export Promotion Bureau. This policy envisages simplification of the export process, early disposal of export-related forms of various departments of the state through a single-window system and troubleshooting exporters’ problem by the Export Promotion Bureau, development and promotion of Make in UP and Make in India brands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-new-export-policy-focuses-on-doubling-farmers-income-boosting-agricultural-exports/story-b7jRwLd6GYwSgbHGnPWv4L.html
26-11-2020||India||Thousands of vehicles stranded as Haryana blocks NH 44 to stop farmers’ march||Thousands of vehicles, including trucks and buses remain stranded on National Highway 44 after the Haryana police put up barricades blocking a 15-km stretch in Karnal to stop a march to Delhi by farmers protesting farm laws.The police have parked trucks laden with construction material on a bridge near Karna lake on the highway which connects Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir with the national capital of Delhi.The police have blocked a stretch of NH44 from Karna lake to Taraori town. However, the traffic has been diverted to link roads from Ramba-Indri -Karnal road.“We are stuck for the past 15 hours and don’t know how long it will take”, said a truck driver Satpal Singh, who has to go to Ludhiana.Fortunately for truck drivers and others stuck in the blockade, they are being served food by the farmers and local gurudwaras.Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia has said that the blockade will continue until the farmers return and they will not be allowed to move forward.He said that the traffic has been diverted and policemen have been deputed on the link roads to ensure smooth movement of vehicles.To block the farmers entry from Punjab region, the Ambala administration has sealed both the borders on Haryana-Punjab -- Shambhu and Sadopur on Thursday.The traffic on the Shambhu border, from where the Punjab farmers were expected to arrive in large numbers, was stopped early morning.Ambala police on Wednesday banned the entry of vehicles from Punjab to Ambala and from Ambala towards Delhi till further orders.However, there was a little traffic movement on the NH-44 in Ambala. Commuters have to face problems as many vehicles, especially heavy trucks including the army convoys, were stuck on the highway near Ambala Cantonment. These vehicles were stuck for several kilometers during late evening.Ambala’s SP Rajesh Kalia said that diversion of heavy vehicles could have led to traffic jams in towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-of-vehicles-stranded-as-haryana-blocks-nh-44-to-stop-farmers-march/story-F819zbyHuJtW5Vi4eoJWCN.html
26-11-2020||India||Delhi ‘actively considering’ night curfew. ‘As active as Covid-19 cases,’ asks high court||The AAP government has informed the Delhi High Court that it is actively considering whether to impose night curfew or weekend restrictions to contain the Covid-19 situation of the Capital as a bench comprising Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked the government whether it will be take any specific measure like other states. The court was hearing a plea seeking to ramp up Covid-19 testing facilities in Delhi.Though the Capital is grappling with a resurgence of Covid-19 cases since the last week of October, the AAP government has not imposed movement restrictions. It has curtailed the number of guests allowed at wedding events from 200 to 50 and increased the penalty for not wearing masks from Rs 500 to Rs 5,000.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has reiterated that lockdown is not a solution; as it only delays the spread of the infection. However, during Thursday’s hearing, the government told the court that it was actively considering imposing night curfew. “As active as Covid-19 cases?” the bench asked. Also Watch l Covid: Why CM Kejriwal doesn’t want another lockdown in Delhi #HTLS2020 According the Delhi health department’s bulletin, Delhi on Wednesday had 38,287 active Covid-19 cases. Active cases refer to the number of people who are infected at present as the total tally includes the number of recovered cases as well.On being asked how it is spreading awareness about Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, the government said it held group meeting with resident welfare associations (RWA). “Some viral videos suggest that thousands of people turned up for such meetings, please look at them and respond. These meetings can become Covid-19 spreaders. Also, you need to tell us how many market associations and RWAs you’ve reached out to and what’s the plan of engaging them in your Covid management strategy,” the court said.“How are you ensuring that people are flouting the order on wedding functions? How do you get to know about these violations? What’s your protocol? The wedding season is upon us, you need to have a protocol to conduct random checks and other acts to ensure that there’s checking mechanism in place ,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nigh-curfew-under-active-consideration-aap-government-tells-high-court/story-z6zAuviQ0HAGDdT5hTyqjN.html
26-11-2020||India||Maoist killed in gunfight in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar||Security forces gunned down a Maoist in a gunfight in Bijapur district of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh on Thursday. Santosh Podiam carried a reward of Rs1 lakh on his head, and was allegedly involved in killing of policemen in Bijapur district. Podiam was jan militia commander of CPI ( Maoist) and was allegedly involved in abduction and murder of assistant sub-inspector Nagaiyya Korsa in August and killing of forest ranger Rathram Patel in September, in Kutru and Jangla police station areas respectively, police said. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P told HT that the gunfight took place at around 5am in the Darbha forest area which falls under Kutru police station. “A joint team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and district force was out on an anti-Maoist operation after a tip-off about their gathering in the jungle. At around 5am, when the team was cordoning off the jungles, Maoists opened fire on them. The exchange of fire lasted about 20 minutes and Podiam’s body was recovered,” said the IG . Police have also recovered a rifle from the spot. Also read | Chhattisgarh government fixes tribal Devgudis to counter Maoists in Bastar regionOn Monday, three Maoists, including a woman cadre, carrying a collective reward of Rs18 lakh on their heads were gunned down by the security forces in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar division. Three weapons, including an automatic rifle, were found at the spot. The deceased were identified as members of company no 5 of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-killed-in-gunfight-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar/story-75oIeGPqQXDByme7pQgxAI.html
26-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Serum Institute of India in Pune on November 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday to see the Covid-19 vaccine production and proposed distribution plan, a senior official confirmed on Thursday.“We have received official confirmation about the Prime Minister’s visit to Pune on November 28. The PM will visit Serum Institute which is working on the production of Covid-19 vaccine,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao.However, there was no independent confirmation from the Prime Minister’s office on his visit as yet.Meanwhile, the administration has already held multiple meetings to prepare for Modi’s visit to Pune. The Prime Minister, according to officials, will visit various facilities at SII’s Hadapsar campus where the Pune firm has began the production of Covishield vaccine.Also Read: Fears of booming black market rises amidst Covid-19 vaccine rush in ChinaSII, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. Both University of Oxford and AstraZeneca on Monday said that their vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for its arrival in India by the end of the year.Rao said the minute to minute programme of Modi would be ready by afternoon. “The PM’s visit will be aimed at reviewing the status of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus infection and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanisms,” said another official from the district administration.Modi’s visit will precede the arrival of ambassadors and high commissioners of various countries at Serum Institute of India in Pune on December 4 to oversee the production of the Covid-19 vaccine and the company’s distribution plan, once it gets a nod from the regulators for use.According to the itinerary released by the Ministry of External Affairs, the “familiarisation” visit of foreign ambassadors and high commissioners based in Delhi will be for one day and in two groups. The ambassadors will visit SII in the morning and spend around three hours visiting facilities at the company’s Hadapsar campus. By afternoon, they will arrive at Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, which is also working on the production of another Covid-19 vaccine, at its Hinjewadi campus, before heading back to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-likely-to-visit-serum-institute-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-vaccine-production/story-xOn7BpiJBGqluxdlh17GRK.html
26-11-2020||India||Prayers for Covid-19 vaccine: Ajit Pawar visits Pandharpur temple, says God will end pandemic||As the country grapples with rising cases of the coronavirus disease and related deaths and all hopes are pinned on a vaccine against Covid-19, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday prayed for early availability of a shot and a world free of the disease.Ajit Pawar performed the customary ‘maha pooja’ at Lord Vitthal’s temple at Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of Kartiki Ekadashi, according to news agency ANI. The National Congress Party (NCP) leader and his wife Sunetra Pawar performed the pooja of Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini at the temple early in the morning. Dattatray Bharane, the district’s guardian minister, was also present on the occasion, a statement from Ajit Pawar’s office said.Also read | Over 500 fatalities, 44,489 more Covid-19 cases reported in last 24 hours in India“The entire world is facing the challenge of Covid-19. We are facing the challenge ably... Let the Covid-19 vaccine be available soon and the world is free of the disease,” the deputy chief minister said in the statement.Pawar said that it seemed in the recent past that the Covid-19 situation was under control in the state, but the number of patients has been going up since the past few days. God will end the Covid-19 crisis, but people need to take precautions like wearing face masks, washing hands regularly and avoiding gatherings, he said. “All need to observe all restrictions,” he added.Also read | 120 passengers tested for Covid-19 at Mumbai Airport on Wednesday, all negative: OfficialMaharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, nearly the double of the next worst-hit state of Karnataka. Maharashtra logged a total of 6,159 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took its tally of cases due to the disease to 1,795,959, a government health bulletin said. The tally in the state capital of Mumbai, one of the worst-hit cities, meanwhile, reached 278,590 with 1,144 new cases on Wednesday.Ajit Pawar, who is also the state’s finance minister, prayed to God to enable the government to provide relief to farmers affected by heavy rainfall earlier this year. The NCP leader also paid respects to the 2008 Mumbai terror attack martyrs. “Maharashtra will always remember the sacrifices of brave martyrs and inspire the youth to fight for the country,” he said.The deputy chief minister also extended wishes to the people on the occasion of the Constitution Day on Thursday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayers-for-covid-19-vaccine-ajit-pawar-visits-pandharpur-temple-says-god-will-end-pandemic/story-x8Uw4IZy72PfrUChxcRA3N.html
26-11-2020||India||India will never forget the wounds inflicted during 2008 Mumbai terror attacks: PM Modi||On the 12th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India will never forget the wounds inflicted during the 2008 attacks and added the country is now combating terrorism with new policies. Modi also paid tribute to the policemen and all the citizens who lost their lives in the attacks. “Today is associated with the biggest terrorist attack on the country. In 2008, terrorists from Pakistan attacked Mumbai Many Indians died in this attack. People from many more countries were killed. I pay my respects to all those killed in the Mumbai attack,” he said.The Prime Minister also paid obeisance to the security forces who he said are trying to defend India and are thwarting conspiracies like Mumbai attacks.On November 26, 2008, terrorists of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) had carried out 12 coordinated shooting and bombing attacks lasting four days across Mumbai. At least 166 people, including six Americans and nine terrorists, were killed and more than 300 others were injured in the attacks. The Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi hotel, the Leopold Cafe, the Nariman (Chabad) House and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus train station were some of the locations targeted.The Prime Minister was addressing a conference of presiding officers of legislative bodies marking the celebrations of Constitution Day in Gujarat’s Kevadia. The Lok Sabha has organised the two-day conference at the banks of the Narmada River to celebrate the Constitution Day. The theme of the event is “Harmonious Coordination Between Legislature, Executive and Judiciary - Key to a Vibrant Democracy.”The Prime Minister said that right from the role of the judiciary, executive and legislature, rules about their decorum is defined in India’s Constitution. “In the 70s, we saw how there was an attempt to dissolve the dignity of separation of power, but the country got the answer only from the Constitution,” he said.“After that period of emergency, the system of checks and balances became stronger and stronger. The legislature, executive and judiciary all three learned a lot from that period and moved forward,” he added.Modi also spoke about the strength of the Constitution, which he said made it possible to conduct assembly elections in Bihar even during the coronavirus pandemic. “The world has also seen the strengthening of our electoral system at the same time in Covid-19. It is not so easy to have elections on such a large scale, results on time, the formation of a new government smoothly. The strength we have got from our constitution makes it easy for all such difficult tasks,” he said.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani were among those who addressed the programme on Wednesday.Expressing happiness over the theme, the President said on Wednesday that all the three organs of state - the executive, the legislature and the judiciary - have been working in harmony and the tradition has taken strong roots here in India. He exuded confidence that India’s democratic system will be further strengthened by adopting the conclusions drawn from the deliberations during the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-never-forget-the-wounds-inflicted-during-2008-mumbai-terror-attacks-says-pm-modi/story-JrU7k14uBf11Kem4aCqYqO.html
26-11-2020||India||Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: Intel||Hafiz Saeed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba founder sanctioned by the UN Security Council, is not serving time in jail but at his Johar Town house in Lahore from where he runs the terror group, according to people familiar with the matter.Saeed was formally placed under arrest in July 2019, months before he was sentenced to 10 years and six months in jail in a terror financing case in February this year that was described by the United States as an “important step forward”. Last week, Saeed was handed down another set of jail terms in two more cases of terror financing.Hafiz Saeed’s arrest and his subsequent conviction have been seen as an effort by the Imran Khan government to stay off the Financial Action Task Force ‘black list’ that could potentially entail extensive economic sanctions and as Prime Minister Imran Khan once put it, destroy Pakistan’s economy.But an Indian intelligence input accessed by Hindustan Times indicates that Hafiz Saeed is not in Lahore’s high-security Kot Lakhpat jail as had been widely publicised. “He is mostly at home… ostensibly in protective custody that even lets him receive guests,” an intelligence official said.Also Read: Pak rubs it in, lets Lashkar front sked prayer meeting for 10 terroristsLast month, according to the intelligence input, Saeed’s visitor at home was Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the chief operational commander and the head of the LeT’s jihad wing. The meeting is learnt to have centered around some steps that they needed to take to collect funds for jihad.Also Watch l ‘India can’t forget 26/11 wounds, fighting terrorism with new policy’: PM Modi Like Saeed, Lakhvi is also a UNSC designated terrorist and is the lead plotter of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. He has been arrested more than once by Pakistani security forces for terror in face of international pressure but like his boss Hafiz Saeed, has always been let off due to lack of evidence. Indian officials said it was Lakhvi who persuaded, guided and handled Pakistan-born US citizen David Headley for reconnaissance missions in India prior to the 26/11 attacks.Pakistan watchers in New Delhi said intelligence inputs that Hafiz Saeed was not being held in prison were in line with a pattern about Islamabad’s track record in dealing with terrorists. One of them conceded that they were initially surprised when Hafiz Saeed was convicted for the first time for 10 years and six months and had tentatively interpreted it to indicate that Saeed had outlived his utility for the Pakistani deep state. Saeed had been arrested several times since the 9/11 attacks but was always set free after the pressure eased.Indian officials said they were still not clear how Pakistan had dealt with the paperwork around Hafiz Saeed’s judicial custody.“Our understanding on the basis of the available information is that this may be an informal arrangement. We are not aware if there is a formal order notifying Hafiz Saeed’s house as a prison,” the intelligence official cited above said.Also Read: ‘We spent millions on JuD,’ Pak minister admits funding banned terror organisationIn the 12 years after 10 heavily-armed terrorists reached Mumbai from Pakistan and opened fire at multiple locations on 26 November, Islamabad, despite its many promises, has not investigated or taken any real action against the Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists who plotted the attacks along with serving military officers at Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence.In all, 170 people - apart from the 4 sailors of a trawler ‘MV Kuber’ hijacked by the terrorists - were killed and 304 injured in the simultaneous attacks by the terrorists at Mumbai’s Taj Mahal Hotel, Oberoi Trident Hotel, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Cama Hospital, Chabad House, Albless Hospital, near Metro Cinema area and Leopold Cafe.Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist to be caught alive, faced trial and was sentenced to death in May 2010. He was finally executed at Pune’s Yerwada Jail on 21 November 2012.Also Read: For global terrorist Hafiz Saeed’s ‘living expenses’, Pak goes to UNSC with a requestBut the terrorists such as Hafiz Saeed and Lakhvi who plotted and coordinated the attacks along with Pakistan military officers have gone unpunished.It was this confidence in the Pakistan deep state, Pakistan watchers said, that Saeed had mocked the United States when it first announced the $ 10 million bounty for his whereabouts in 2012. “I am ready to send information about my location on a daily basis,” a brazen Hafiz Saeed told a news conference soon after, asking the United States to send him the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lashkar-boss-hafiz-saeed-is-serving-time-at-home-imran-khan-govt-calls-it-a-jail/story-7EQLfCNVd7kt677zSB17yI.html
26-11-2020||India||Will keep spotlight on epicentre of global terrorism: Jaishankar on 26/11 anniversary||India will keep the world community’s focus on Pakistan’s role in cross-border terrorism, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on the 12th anniversary of the Mumbai attacks even as the US reaffirmed its commitment to hold responsible the perpetrators of the carnage in India’s financial hub. A 10-member group of terrorists from the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) had launched attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008. A total of 166 people, including six American nationals, were killed as the terrorists rampaged through parts of the city for almost three days. “Will keep the global spotlight firmly on the menace of cross-border terrorism against India. And on the epicentre of global terrorism,” Jaishankar, currently on a three-nation tour of Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, said in a tweet without naming Pakistan. The US state department’s bureau of South and Central Asian affairs tweeted, “On the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attack, the US reaffirms its commitment to holding the perpetrators accountable and ensuring justice for the victims, including six Americans.” The tweet added, “Standing alongside our Indian partners, we remain resolute in the fight against terrorism.” Indian officials often use the term “epicentre of terrorism” to refer to Pakistan, which arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, weeks after the attacks in Mumbai. Though the men were put on trial and dozens of prosecution witnesses testified about their involvement in planning, funding and supporting the attacks, little headway has been made in their prosecution. Lakhvi was freed on bail more than five years ago and his current whereabouts are unknown. Reports from Pakistan have suggested that he has resumed an active role in the operations of the UN-designated LeT at a time when several of the group’s top leadership, including founder Hafiz Saeed, are in jail after being convicted of terror financing. State department spokesperson Cale Brown, in a separate tweet, referred to the reward of up to $5 million offered through the US Rewards for Justice programme for information about individuals responsible for these attacks, and said Washington seeks to “ensure that all those responsible for this heinous attack face justice”. According to the Rewards for Justice website, key members of the plot behind the Mumbai attacks “remain at large, and this investigation remains active and ongoing”. Indian and US officials believe the seven men arrested by Pakistani authorities were mostly minor players and key conspirators, including intelligence operatives and Pakistan Army officials, are still at large. Jaishankar also paid homage to victims of the terror attacks and lauded the security forces “who continue to defend our nation so resolutely”. US ambassador Kenneth Juster also said in a tweet, “On the 12th anniversary of 26/11, our thoughts are with the people of India as we continue to stand together in the fight against terrorism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-keep-spotlight-on-epicentre-of-global-terrorism-says-jaishankar-on-anniversary-of-mumbai-terror-attacks/story-Ld4JcjbbNfUmwYlsepWeoL.html
26-11-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses Skoda Volkswagen’s plea to quash FIR for alleged use of cheat device in car||The Supreme Court Thursday dismissed a plea by German car maker Skoda Auto Volkswagen India challenging an FIR registered in Uttar Pradesh by a customer over the alleged use of “cheat device” in its diesel car. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian pronounced the verdict and dismissed the plea by the automobile maker. On November 4, the top court had reserved the verdict on the plea saying as to why should not the investigation go on in the case. During the hearing the automobile maker argued that in December, 2015 the complaint was made in the National Green Tribunal and in March, 2019 a penalty was imposed on it which was stayed by the apex court. The FIR was also lodged in UP and the company moved the high court seeking its quashing, it said. The apex court passed the order on the appeal filed by Skoda against the Allahabad High Court order refusing to quash the FIR and dismissing its plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-skoda-volkswagen-s-plea-to-quash-fir-for-alleged-use-of-cheat-device-in-car/story-91yGEpf6kkshZ0iKsG0HcP.html
26-11-2020||India||Bimal Gurung to address supporters in Siliguri but Darjeeling visit uncertain||Even as uncertainty looms large over the return of Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung to the Darjeeling hills, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha or GJM (Bimal Gurung faction) which he heads on Wednesday announced that he would soon address a rally in the plains in Siliguri.Gurung suddenly appeared in Kolkata on October 21 after remaining underground for almost three and half years and announced his support to the Trinamool Congress in the 2021 assembly elections. He also announced to severe his alliance with the BJP on the pretext that the saffron party despite winning three consecutive Lok Sabha polls from Darjeeling did not fulfil its promises to find a permanent political solution and granting of schedule tribe status to the 11 Gorkha sub-communities that have left out of the classification. Though his supporters have been claiming that Gurung would soon return to his home in Darjeeling hills, it is unlikely that he would do so unless he gets legal remedy or the state government withdraws the cases against him. Among hundreds of charges he faces are those under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Bishal Chhetri, vice president of the party’s central committee on Wednesday said, “Gurung would soon return from Kolkata and would address a rally in Siliguri. Bagajatin Park in Siliguri will witness the presence of thousands of people from Darjeeling hills, Terai and Dooars to welcome Gurung.” Chhetri did not say the date of Gurung’s return. Though Chettri said that Gurung would certainly return to the hills, opposition parties claim that it is easier said than done. There is also speculations that Gurung may not immediately return to the hills where his bête noire Binoy Tamang and Anit Thapa are calling the shots. Tamang who heads the GJM (Binoy Tamang faction) and Thapa who is the chairman of the board of administrators in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration had come to the help of the state chief minister Mamata Banerjee when she was in serious crisis in 2017 during the 104-day-long general strike in the hills demanding separate state of Gorkhaland. It was largely due to Tamang and Thapa that the Gorkhaland movement derailed as Banerjee heaved a sigh of relief while Gurung and his supporters facing multiple charges had to flee the hills for years. “Though Tamang and Thapa failed to deliver results in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and 2019 assembly bye poll in Darjeeling despite all the backing of the state government, the Chief Minister would not disown them immediately,” said a leader of the GJM (Tamang faction) who did not wish to be named. “Though Gurung still has a strong support base in the hills, his entry in the hills is all set to invite unrest and Banerjee would obviously not want this to happen,” the leader said. Talking to Hindustan Times, Anit Thapa said, “Gurung is going to become another Subash Ghisingh and his political career is soon coming to an end.” Ghisingh the Gorkha National Liberation Front president and former chairman of Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council was hounded out of Darjeeling by the GJM on July 26 2008. Since then Ghisingh was living in Jalpaiguri and Siliguri in the plains with his occasional entry to the hills. Ghisingh the man who first started the Gorkhaland movement in the eighties and ruled the hills absolutely for almost 20 years unsuccessfully tried for his political comeback in the hills till he died in Delhi in January 2010. Thapa said, “Gurung had political value till the time he seemed uncompromising with the issue of Gorkhaland. Minus Gorkhaland, he is nothing.” However Gurung’s party is rapidly expanding its local units all across the hills and his supporters are hopeful that he would soon return to the hills and call the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimal-gurung-to-address-supporters-in-siliguri-but-darjeeling-visit-uncertain/story-rbXrxcmjlq55tWcmnxXz4N.html
26-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Rajnath Singh to open day 3 of Hindustan Times Leadership Summit||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will open the third day of Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday as he would be conversing with Prashant Jha, editor-views, Hindustan Times. The session will be followed by one in which State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara will be talking to Shereen Bhan, managing editor of CNBC TV-18. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will participate in the third and the last session of the day to be moderated by Sunetra Choudhury, national political editor, Hindustan Times. Also Read: We decided to bet so that lives could be saved, says Adar PoonawallaThe theme of this year’s summit — being held virtually for the first time ever owing to the Covid-19 pandemic — is Defining a New Era. On day one, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Brown University School of Public Health dean Dr Ashish K Jha and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla talked about the ongoing pandemic, the ‘light at the end of the tunnel’ and Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read: Urge states to let this be the last year of severe air, says KejriwalVeteran cricketer Kapil Dev and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal were the guests on day two. While Kapil Dev talked about post-Covid cricket scenario among many other things, Kejriwal spoke about Delhi’s Covid-19 situation.The Hindustan Times Leadership Summit was launched in 2003 to enhance the level of discourse on critical issues, encourage interaction among leaders in important areas and present international quality thought- platforms aimed at solutions. The last seventeen Summits have been outstanding successes with attendance by leaders from India and across the world. The audience comprised of senior politicians, bureaucrats, diplomats, business executives, thinkers, commentators and analysts. Over the years, the Summit has become one of India’s most prestigious and eagerly awaited fora.Two successful editions of the Summit have also been hosted in Singapore where top leaders of the region gathered together to discuss the unstoppable rise of Asia & the East, amid the political and economic surge and the changing paradigm of the world order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-rajnah-singh-to-open-day-3-of-hindustan-times-leadership-summit/story-ttuOJ7eNE3mVSUQad8xwIL.html
26-11-2020||India||UP CM Adityanath warns against harassment in name of Covid-19 protocols||Harassment in the name of Covid-19 protocols will not be tolerated, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath told officials on Thursday as he asked them to create awareness and encourage people to follow the guidelines.The chief minister warned of stern action if complaints were received, an official spokesperson said here.Adityanath also clarified that there is no requirement for police or administrative permission for organising wedding functions, the official said.Wedding functions can be held by complying with necessary Covid-19 protocols and guidelines, the spokesman said, adding that workers and band group members are exempted from the restrictions on such events.The chief minister has warned of strict action against officials and policemen stopping use of DJs and bands in weddings, he added.On Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government issued fresh guidelines restricting the number of people attending an indoor event (outside containment zones) to 100. Similarly, in the case of outdoor programmes, less than 40 per cent of the area of the venue will be allowed to be occupied by people.In both the scenarios, use of face masks, sanitisers, thermal scanning and maintaining social distancing are mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-adityanath-warns-against-harassment-in-name-of-covid-19-protocols/story-pQCxRx0EnwKH2nN5iX8daI.html
26-11-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Railway tracks blocked in West Bengal, buses off roads in Kerala||A nationwide Bharat Bandh strike is currently underway against various policies of the central government. The bandh has been jointly called by 10 central unions including the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS). However, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) is not participating in the protest.Also Read | Bharat Bandh today: Transport, banking services likely to be affectedEarlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had extended the Essential Service Maintenance Act (ESMA), banning all departments and corporations under it for going on strike for another six months.Here are the latest updates on the Bharat Bandh:1. In West Bengal, members of the Left trade union blocked railway track at North 24 Parganas’ Belgharia railway station and also staged a demonstration in Kolkata. Meanwhile, railway track was blocked by members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) , CPI(M) and Congress in Jadavpur.2. In Odisha’s capital Bhubaneswar, members of Odisha Nirmana Sramik Federation, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) and All Orissa Petrol and Diesel Pump Workers protested against the labour laws brought in by the Centre.3. In Kerala, where the ruling Left govt has backed the bandh, bus services were affected and markets closed in the city of Kochi. Supporting the strike, state health minister KK Shailaja tweeted, “These along with the whole sale privatisation of the public sector sound the death knell to our self reliant economy and our toiling people. All these are meant to serve the corporate cronies, domestic and foreign.#MazdoorKisanStrike.” These along with the whole sale privatisation of the public sector sound the death knell to our self reliant economy and our toiling people. All these are meant to serve the corporate cronies, domestic and foreign.#MazdoorKisanStrike4. Around 25 crore workers are reportedly participating in Thursday’s demonstrations. The various demands of the protesting unions include, among others, cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month tor all non-income tax paying families, 10 kilograms free ration per person per month to all needy people, expansion of MGNREGA, withdrawal of all “anti-farmer laws and anti-worker labour codes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-railway-tracks-blocked-in-west-bengal-buses-off-roads-in-kerala/story-tmwxra7xN9QRb0HJ78kPNM.html
26-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kejriwal says wrong to prevent farmers from holding peaceful demonstrations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wrong to prevent farmers from holding peaceful demonstrations: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday showed his support to the farmers who are protesting against the three farm laws passed in the Parliament in September, and said that they should be allowed to stage a peaceful protest. Read more No schools will reopen till we’re assured Covid-19 is under control, says Delhi health ministerDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said until the government is completely assured that the national capital’s Covid-19 situation is under control, “no schools will reopen.” Read more Thanksgiving 2020: All you need to know about the history, significance and celebrations of this feast-filled holidayMarked on the fourth Thursday of November in the United States, Brazil and many countries across the world, Thanksgiving is celebrated with various traditions and rituals. It is a day reserved primarily for offering thanks and acknowledging the sacrifices and blessings of the past year. Read more BMW X5 M Competition launched at Rs 1.94 cr, targets Urus and Audi RSQ8With an eye out for performance SUVs like Audi RSQ8 and Lamborghini Urus, the BMW X5 M Competition will hope to make a mark in a super-exclusive and extremely niche car segment here. Read moreDrunk driver smashes car into house, keeps on driving with door on roofA picture involving a car and a house door, shared by West Yorkshire Police, UK on Twitter, may make you wonder ‘How is that even possible.’ The post describes how an Audi crashed into someone’s home. The picture shows the smashed car with a house door jammed into the windshield. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan is unrecognisable as he transforms into Bob Biswas for film shoot in KolkataActor Abhishek Bachchan has transformed into your killer next door, Bob Biswas. He was spotted in Kolkata this week, shooting for the upcoming film with co-star Chitrangada Singh. Photos from the sets showed Abhishek looking much different from his usual stylish self. He was seen in a blue shirt and dark pants, wearing a ‘Bob Biwas wig’ and large glasses. Read more 1986: The year of Diego MaradonaThe 1986 World Cup in Mexico must be the only World Cup in the history of the tournament to be won by a single player. Not a team - in this game that defines teamwork - but one man. The 1986 World Cup begins and ends with Maradona. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘He’s probably the best one-day player of all time,’ Australia captain Aaron Finch’s remarkable praise for India batsmanIndia’s long-awaited tour of Australia is finally set to kick off with the first ODI at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday. Australia will be keen to exact revenge for their series defeat to India the last time around. Read moreWatch: India successfully test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missileIndia successfully test fired a land attack version of BrahMos supersonic missile. The supersonic cruise missile was test-fired on November 24 at Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It hit its target, which was on a different island with ‘pinpoint accuracy’. The strike range of BrahMos missile has now been enhanced to over 400 km. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kejriwal-says-wrong-to-prevent-farmers-from-holding-peaceful-demonstrations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Tfh8ooptwdfiKNchLCzpoK.html
26-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Evolve containment strategies for districts with high infection rate, Yogi tells officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to evolve strategies on the basis of case mapping in districts with high Covid-19 infection rate. Speaking at a review meeting on Wednesday, the CM said the state had attained the capacity of conducting over 178,000 tests per day and added, “utilise this capability and do testing at full capacity. Testing has a major role to play in breaking the infection chain.” Yogi also said that the RT-PCR technique be used for focused testing in high incidence rate districts. “Medical facilities should be strengthened to improve recovery rate in Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, and Ghaziabad,” he said. Also read | Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai tests positive for Covid-19The chief minister reiterated the importance of following safety protocols, including wearing masks, social distancing, and asked officers to carry out awareness drives for the same. “Act against people who don’t wear masks,” he said. Yogi asked officials to maintain smooth supply of medicines and equipment to Covid-19 hospitals. While reviewing medical oxygen stock and supply, he asked officers to ensure that Covid-19 hospitals had 48-hour oxygen back-up. Officers were also asked to analyse requirements of extra ICU beds and make arrangements accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-evolve-containment-strategies-for-districts-with-high-infection-rate-yogi-tells-officials/story-VGavr78ZLEDrtdPekDfD4N.html
26-11-2020||India||Rajasthan man allegedly rapes neighbour’s 4-year-old daughter||A 26-year-old has been arrested in Rajasthan’s Pali district for allegedly raping his neighbour’s four-year-old daughter, police said Thursday.The accused is married and has three children. He lives a few houses away from the minor’s house.“On Tuesday night around 10 pm, the victim’s family lodged a complaint saying that they and the accused’s family had gone to attend a wedding where the 26-year-old lured away the girl by offering her a packet of chips and took her to isolated place. A family member of the girl saw the accused taking the minor with him,” Station House Officer (SHO) of Sadar police station Bala Ram saidWhen the family members called the accused, he did not answer the phone. After they started searching for the girl, they found her a few meters away from her house while the accused had fled his home. “The minor was taken to a hospital for treatment and a police team was rushed to nab the accused. A day later on Wednesday, the accused was traced and was arrested and is in police remand till Thursday,” Ram said.The accused has been booked on charges of raping the minor under relevant sections of the POCSO Act. The police claimed that he confessed that he abducted the minor when she was playing with his three children. Deputy superintendent of police, women atrocities and investigation cell Parasram Choudhary is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-allegedly-rapes-neighbour-s-4-year-old-daughter/story-vXOUZDvUYZT23HBtjtAXLI.html
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: 3 killed in Tamil Nadu as storm weakens into severe cyclonic storm||At least three people were killed and three others injured in Tamil Nadu as Cyclone Nivar slammed into the southern state and Puducherry early on Thursday, uprooting trees and power lines, officials said, according to news agency ANI. Cyclone Nivar crossed the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast around the Union territory as a severe cyclonic storm between 11.30pm on Wednesday and 2.30am on Thursday with a wind speed of 120-130kmph, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“There have been three deaths and three people have been injured. One hundred and one huts damaged and 380 fallen trees have been removed. There is a complete restoration of essential services,” Atulya Mishra, Tamil Nadu’s additional chief secretary, was quoted as saying by ANI.IMD said the very severe cyclonic storm Nivar over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 9kmph during past six hours and crossed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts near Puducherry from 11:30pm on Wednesday night to 2:30am on Thursday as a very severe cyclonic storm with estimated wind speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145 kmph.“It weakened into a Severe Cyclonic Storm with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph and lay centred at 2:30 am on November 26 over coastal Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, near Puducherry. The Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘NIVAR’ would continue to move northwestwards and weaken further into a cyclonic storm during the next six hours,” it added.Also read | Cyclone Nivar: Once bitten twice shy, Chennai residents park cars on flyoverUnion home minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured them of all possible help from the Centre. Shah said the central government is closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry after the landfall of the cyclone and that National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel are on the ground to help the needy.“We are closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Have spoken to CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and CM Shri @VNarayanasami and assured all possible help from the centre. NDRF teams already on ground to help people in need,” Shah tweeted.Flooded streetsThe cyclone uprooted trees in several areas of Chennai even as incidents of wall collapse were reported from some parts of the state. In Puducherry, heavy downpour and wind uprooted trees, damaged electric poles and several areas were inundated. So far no casualties have been reported so far from any part of the Union territory.Heavy rains triggered by the storm caused flooding in some streets of Chennai and people were seen walking in knee-deep water in some streets in the south of the Tamil Nadu capital, which has many low-lying areas. Civic body officials said on Twitter that local administration workers have been working to remove fallen trees and power lines.Some residents in south Chennai had parked cars on a bridge over fears of flooding. Tens of thousands of people were evacuated from low-lying areas of Tamil Nadu ahead of the storm’s landfall.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy visited different areas of the Union territory to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Nivar. Narayanasamy said that no loss of life has been reported in Puducherry in the wake of the cyclone. NDRF personnel cleared the uprooted trees in the Kamaraj Nagar area to make way for the public. “Heavy rainfall of 23 centimetres in 24 hours was observed. No report of loss of life. We have never seen such torrential rains here. Electricity in the city will be restored within 12 hours,” Narayanasamy said, according to ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-uproots-trees-power-lines-no-casualties-reported-so-far/story-LokIguZKsUR8QWJ4wd6FvN.html
26-11-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Kisan Rally: Instead of listening to farmers’ voice, BJP using water cannon to disperse them||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying, instead of listening to the voices of the farmers the BJP government is using water cannons to disperse them in cold weather. “Instead of listening to the voice of the farmers who are protesting against the laws, that snatched the support price from them, the BJP government uses water cannon to disperse them in cold weather. Everything is being taken away from the farmers while the capitalists are being given banks, airport, railway stations and loan waiver,” the Congress leader tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi). Earlier today, police used water cannon to disperse the farmers gathered at Shambhu border, near Ambala (Haryana), to proceed to Delhi to stage a demonstration against the farm laws.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Police use water cannon, tear gas on protesters near Delhi-Haryana borderMeanwhile, farmers gathered in Karnal to protest against farm laws, on their way to Delhi. On the other hand, farmers’ protest continues at Shambhu border, near Ambala (Haryana) as police stop them from proceeding to Delhi.In view of ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march, security has been deployed at Rohtak-Jhajjar border. Similarly, heavy security has been deployment at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).Meanwhile, the national capital’s lifeline, Delhi Metro, will also remain cut off from the National Capital Region (NCR) on Thursday till 2 pm. Trains towards Delhi will be stopped two-three stations before the state borders due to the kisan rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-on-kisan-rally-instead-of-listening-to-farmers-voice-bjp-using-water-cannon-to-disperse-them/story-xk8KivI1B42hfBj7rMiiVP.html
26-11-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray inaugurates Martyrs’ Gallery on 12th anniversary of Mumbai terror attack||On the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack on Thursday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the Martyrs’ Gallery which showcases the 797 police personnel killed in the line of duty including those policemen who died in the 2008 attack by Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists.Thackeray and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also paid floral tributes to the martyrs at the 26/11 memorial site at the Mumbai Police Gymkhana in south Mumbai. The chief minister also unveiled a coffee table book on the police department at an event in Mumbai.The ceremony was attended by the family members of the fallen police and security personnel. In view of the pandemic, only a limited number of people attended the event. Thackeray while speaking at the launch of the coffee table book ‘Unmatched Valour’ recalled the night of the Mumbai terror attack. “I was in Dhule-Nashik for elections and I heard that there was some problem in Mumbai. There was shoot-out going on. I called Vijay Salaskar who told me that he had just returned home and was leaving again. I spoke to him twice later, but then upon trying later he did not answer,” Thackeray said. Salaskar was one of the police officers who was killed by the terrorists.Thackeray also told home minister Anil Deshmukh that the Martyrs’ Gallery that was inaugurated in the city should be replicated in other parts of the state as well.Deshmukh said that the coffee table was brought out to document the work that the police carry out. He added that the department is planning a change of guard ceremony at Maharashtra police headquarters. “Like the Buckingham Palace change of guard is a tourist attraction, we want to make guard mounting in Mumbai a similar attraction for tourists,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-inaugurates-martyrs-gallery-on-12th-anniversary-of-mumbai-terror-attack/story-XBPr9yqgJ7woMBTxj6df5L.html
26-11-2020||India||Tigress missing from Rajaji reserve: NTCA seeks report from Uttarakhand government||Days after a tigress was reported missing from Rajaji Tiger Reserve, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Wednesday sought a factual report from the Uttarakhand forest department in this regard. In a letter to chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department and field director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Vaibhav C Mathur, assistant inspector general of forests, NTCA, has sought “factual status in the matter at the earliest”. On Tuesday, Delhi-based NGO, Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation (CWEL) Foundation, had written to the NTCA about the missing tigress. Bhanu Bansal, founder of CWEL Foundation said, “Not being able to keep track of the national animal in such a manner clearly shows the red tape attitude of Rajaji administration. It is the duty of the officials to protect and conserve the wildlife in their jurisdiction. We have sought urgent intervention by NTCA in this regard and hope that the forest department will be able to find the missing tigress.” On Monday, Uttarakhand forest department started a search operation to find the tigress and deployed four teams on elephants to search for her. The tigress, between 18 and 20 years of age, went missing from the western part of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve and has not been sighted or camera-trapped in almost two months. Officials from Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Wednesday said they had found signs of the tigress in one of the ranges and were working to confirm if it was the same animal. Rajaji Tiger Reserve director DK Singh said, “We found a long trail of pug marks in the Kansaro range of the reserve on Wednesday. The size of the pug marks matches with the dimensions of the tigress’ paws from earlier records. To confirm her presence, we are installing camera traps in the whole area and we should be able to get an image within a few days.” Rajaji Tiger Reserve has only two tigresses in the western part and five tigers from Corbett are to be translocated to increase the population soon. The area from where the tigress has gone missing is important because of the translocation process, raising questions on security aspects. State-based wildlife activist AG Ansari said, “We have been hearing for years about the translocation process, but first, the resident tigers need to be protected in Rajaji. When the first translocation process happened in Sariska Tiger Reserve, the tigers were poached; we do not want a similar situation to be repeated here.” During the last tiger estimation, it was found that the reserve had 34 resident tigers, including 32 in its eastern part, which is spread across a 150 sq km area and two in the western part, which covers 570 sq km. The eastern and the western part of the reserve are divided by a busy traffic corridor, making it difficult for the tigers to migrate between the two parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-missing-from-rajaji-reserve-ntca-seeks-report-from-uttarakhand-government/story-5SrlTAc8y8QFR2YVUoS5GP.html
26-11-2020||India||India restricts international flights till Dec 31, allows select flights||International flights to and from India have been suspended till December 31 this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic and planes will fly only on select routes on a case-to-case basis, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular on Thursday. The restrictions, however, are not applicable to international all-cargo operations and flights specially approved by the DGCA, it added. The extended suspension comes at a time when the country’s Covid-19 tally has soared past 9.26 million while 135,223 people have died of the disease.“In partial modification of circular dated 26-06-2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs 1ST of 31St December, 2020,” DGCA said in a notification ‘Travel and Visa restrictions related to Covid-19’.The aviation regulator had earlier extended the suspension of international flight operations till November 30 and similarity allowed planes to fly on select routes. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral ‘air bubble’ arrangements with selected countries since July.Also Watch l How long to control Covid-19 pandemic? Top doctors respond on #HTLS2020 India has formed air bubble pacts with around 18 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.Scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the pandemic situation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dgca-cancels-all-international-flights-till-december-31-only-selected-flights-and-international-cargo-planes-to-fly/story-zCpRWFCZEuKL6lsMJFwVvI.html
26-11-2020||India||Haryana cops use water cannons, tear gas to disperse farmers at Shambhu border||The Haryana Police on Thursday used water cannons and tear gas to disperse a group of farmers from Punjab who allegedly tried to jump police barricades to enter Haryana as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Centre’s new farm laws. The Haryana Police officials at the Shambhu inter-state border with Punjab used loud speakers, asking farmers who had assembled on the Punjab side to disperse when some of them tried to cross and remove the barricades. The situation remained tense at the Shambu inter-state border on the national highway as protesting farmers threw police barricades into the Ghaggar river. Some of the protestors were also seen waving black flags. Multi-level barricading has been put by Haryana Police to prevent the farmers from moving towards the national capital. A farmer from Punjab present at the site told reporters, “It is condemnable that Haryana Police is using such measures to suppress an assembly of peaceful protesters. We are protesting in a peaceful manner, but they want to prevent us from using our democratic right to protest”. #WATCH Farmers' protest continues at Shambhu border, near Ambala (Haryana) as police stop them from proceeding to Delhi pic.twitter.com/UtssadGKpUEarlier on Wednesday, a large group of Haryana farmers near Mohra village in Ambala jumped over the barricades following which the police resorted to the use of water cannon against them.A splinter group had, however, managed to proceed to Tiyora-Tiyori village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border, where police again used water cannons to stop their march to Delhi.This group of Haryana farmers, which was being led by state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, had reached Karnal as part of their march to Delhi.Haryana on Thursday completely sealed its borders with Punjab as farmers from the adjoining state started assembling in big numbers as part of the Delhi Chalo march. The BJP government in Haryana had earlier said it will seal its borders with Punjab on November 26-27 in view of the farmers’ march to Delhi.The Delhi Police on Wednesday asserted that it had rejected requests received from various farmer organisations to protest in the national capital against the Centre’s new farm laws on November 26 and 27. A day earlier, it had said that legal action would be taken against the protesting farmers if they come to the city for any gathering amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-police-uses-water-cannons-tear-gas-to-disperse-punjab-farmers-at-shambhu-border/story-vs9c2yOKsJhV7bMT5IrebK.html
26-11-2020||India||26/11: US says it stands with India and remains resolute in fight against terrorism||Asserting that it stands with India and remains resolute in the fight against terrorism, the US said it is committed to hold the perpetrators of the heinous 26/11 terror attacks accountable to ensure justice for the victims.November 26 marks the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai. “Through the Rewards for Justice programme, we seek to ensure that all those responsible for this heinous attack face justice,” US State Department deputy spokesman Cale Brown said on Wednesday.“On the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attack, the US reaffirms its commitment to holding the perpetrators accountable and ensuring justice for the victims, including six Americans. Standing alongside our Indian partners, we remain resolute in the fight against terrorism,” Brown said.Ten terrorists of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) carried out 12 coordinated shooting and bombing attacks lasting four days across Mumbai. At least 166 people, including six Americans and nine terrorists, were killed and over 300 others were injured in the attacks which began on November 26, 2008.Also Read | 12 years since 26/11: Indian Coast Guard set to become 200-vessel strong forceThe Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi hotel, the Leopold Cafe, the Nariman (Chabad) House and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus train station were some of the locations targeted. The Rewards for Justice programme is offering a reward of up to USD 5 million for information about the individuals responsible for these attacks. Key members of this heinous plot remain at large and the investigation remains active and ongoing. This reward offer extends to any individual who bears responsibility for this act of terror, the State Department said.The six US citizens killed during the 26/11 attacks were Ben Zion Chroman, Gavriel Holtzberg, Sandeep Jeswani, Aryeh Leibish Teitelbaum, Alan Scherr and his daughter Naomi Scherr. David Coleman Headley, a Pakistani-American, and Tahawwur Rana, a former Pakistan Army doctor and currently a Canadian citizen, were indicted in a US court for their support to the LeT terrorist operation.Meanwhile, Indian Americans on Wednesday held a memorial gathering in front of the US Capitol to pay respects to the victims of the Mumbai terror attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-11-us-says-it-stands-with-india-and-remains-resolute-in-fight-against-terrorism/story-vHkVIkwZE8MFyXbIEvGSZO.html
26-11-2020||India||After days of rain, snowfall, Kashmir to experience dry weather, says IMD||After three days of rain and snowfall in different parts of Kashmir, IMD has predicted dry weather the next week.For the past three days, while the plains observed rainfall, upper reaches of Kashmir, especially Gulmarg, a popular tourist destination experienced good snowfall. This was the third snowfall of the month in Gulmarg and authorities are hoping this would attract tourists and skiers. The upper reaches of other tourist spots, Sonmarg and Pahalgam, also experienced good snowfall.“As of today, weather most likely will remain dry till December 2. Light rain or snow at isolated places can’t be ruled out during the next 24 hours. No significant weather [change] for a week,” said IMD in a morning updateWhile Jammu recorded the maximum temperature of 16.5 degrees Celcius, Srinagar recorded 5.6 degrees Celsius, Kargil recorded 4.5 degrees Celsius, Leh was at 1 degree Celsius and Drass at -1 degree Celsius. Meanwhile, Mughal Road was closed after a heavy snowfall in the region. Traffic is plying on Srinagar-Jammu national highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-days-of-rain-snowfall-kashmir-to-experience-dry-weather-says-imd/story-BS57mMGLAe8uFv8URAyrUP.html
26-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi reaches Bharuch to attend Ahmed Patel’s last rites||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reached Bharuch in Gujarat on Thursday to attend the last rites of senior party leader Ahmed Patel. The mortal remains of Patel, who died following Covid-19 complications at the age of 71, was on Wednesday night brought to his native place in Bharuch where his last rites would be performed.The Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, who was undergoing treatment at a Gurugram hospital after testing positive for the Covid-19, breathed his last in the wee hours of Wednesday, after fighting the related complications for over a month.Patel started his political journey in the Congress Youth Wing and became a highlighted leader during the Janta Party period after Emergency.He was elected as a councillor of Bharuch Municipality of Gujarat at the age of 25 and went on to become the political secretary of Sonia Gandhi. He remained a bridge during the UPA-I tenure between the party and the government.He represented Gujarat eight times in the Parliament, including three times in the lower house between 1977-1989. He represented Congress five times in the Upper House since 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-reaches-bharuch-to-attend-ahmed-patel-s-last-rites/story-rpsO6KrSeJdbW6zIIw6MKJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Bihar villager believed dead found in Bangladeshi jail after 3 years||A 60-year-old man from Bihar’s West Champaran district, who was believed to have died about three years back, has been found in a jail in Bangladesh. The revelation came on Tuesday evening after a branch of the Red Cross Society in Bettiah approached the family members of Ramdev Mahato, incarcerated in Champai Nawabganj jail in Bangladesh, with his message forwarded by Bangladesh Red Crescent Society.“Hope all you be alright. I am lodged in a jail at Bangladesh and needed certain documents for my release from here,” reads the message form, RFL/9013/27/RCM/Jail, dated October 28, 2020, a copy of which is with HT. Back in his native village, emotions ran high among family members as news came about Ramdev’s whereabouts. “We were just hoping against hope and were under immense pressure from the local villagers to perform his last rites. But we chose to avoid it in the hope of a miracle,” said Sunil Mahato (30), Ramdev Mahato’s son. Ramdev Mahato left his Gudara village in Majhauliya panchayat for Deoghar on July 30, 2017 to offer holy water to Lord Shiva during the Hindu month of Shravan. “He was traceless since then. But I believed that he would return sooner or later,” said Ghogha Devi, Ramdev’s wife, adding it was this belief that she had not stopped applying vermillion. Dr Jagmohan Kumar, secretary of Red Cross Society, said Ramdev, lodged in jail in Bangladesh from November 30, 2018, was found out by Red Cross Family news service, a network that works across international borders with an aim to restore and re-establish contacts between separated family members and reuniting them. “It requires some documents such ration card, Aadhar card, voter card, Ramdev’s single and family photograph to initiate the process for his release,” said Dr. Jagmohan, adding the family members are likely to submit the same by Thursday. It is not yet known why and how he crossed the border and ended up in a Bangladeshi jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-villager-believed-dead-found-in-bangladeshi-jail-after-3-years/story-HpdoEnddWjILAducHcnvuK.html
26-11-2020||India||BJP’s Nizamabad MP warns Owaisi brothers, says will ‘muzzle’ them once party comes to power in Telangana||BJP’s Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind threatened the AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and his brother Akbaruddin with severe consequences once his party comes to power in Telangana.“Sun Akbaruddin, ek baar BJP ka government Telangana me aane de tereko, tere bhai, AIMIM party ko mere joote ke niche lagata hoon. Ek baar BJP ka government aane de tera zindagi mere joote ke niche guzeraga (Let BJP government come to power in Telangana, I will muzzle you [Akbaruddin], your brother [Asaduddin Oawisi] and AIMIM party and keep you under my toes. And you will serve me for your entire life,” he said here while campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. The GHMC elections will be held on December 1 and results will be declared on December 4.Also Read | Owaisi trying to divert attention from ‘love-jihad’, says Telangana BJP leader NV SubhashAhead of Hyderabad civic polls campaigning has heated up in the city with several BJP leaders, including Union Minister Smriti Irani and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha chief Tejasvi Surya, alleging that AIMIM and TRS are working in tandem to give illegal immigrants a place in the state’s voters list. While rejecting the BJP’s charge, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has challenged BJP to show names of 1,000 Rohingyas in the electoral list and alleged that the ruling party at the Centre claims that there are at least 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas on the electoral rolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-nizamabad-mp-warns-owaisi-brothers-says-will-muzzle-them-once-party-comes-to-power-in-telangana/story-J21nz3NYe3EHbfDpDAlfeO.html
26-11-2020||India||Constitution Day: PM Modi to address 80th conference of presiding officers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address presiding officers of Indian legislative bodies during the celebrations of Constitution Day, officials said. Modi’s address at the 80th conference of presiding officers assumes significance as the theme of the event is harmonious relationship between the three wings of the state—legislature, judiciary and executive.The prime minister is expected to talk about upholding constitutional rights and values and also speak on how elected representatives should conduct themselves. Also Read: Ban on firecrackers an example of judicial overreach, says NaiduWith political parties and activists increasingly knocking the court’s doors to challenge public policies and legislation, the relationship between the legislature and the judiciary has taken a new turn. While elected representatives often grudge the judiciary’s overreach, the courts have in the past pulled up administrators or governments for not doing their bit. On Wednesday, at the inauguration, vice-president Venkaiah Naidu said the recent ban on firecrackers and the vehicle cess levied in Delhi had sparked a debate over judicial overreach and how “occasionally, concerns have been raised as to whether they (judiciary) were entering the domains of the legislative and the executive wings” . This is the first time that the presiding officer of either House of Parliament has commented on this issue. Naidu is the presiding officer of the Rajya Sabha.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said “differences in institutions have emerged in the journey of democracy” and underlined that all three organs have “sufficient powers” to work. He emphasised “coordination” between the three wings and said all of them have a job to protect the public interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-pm-narendra-modi-to-address-80th-conference-of-presiding-officers-today/story-bD5ABSR5IdOR9rcDB5AKaP.html
26-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Police use water cannon, tear gas on protesters near Delhi-Haryana border||Situation at Delhi-Haryana border near Ambala remained tense on Thursday morning as Haryana Police sprayed water cannon, tear gas to stop the protesting farmers from reaching Delhi. The protesters, on the other hand, threw stones at barricades, lifted police barricades and dropped them into the river. The clash went on as security around Delhi was stepped up while farmers devised new plans to splinter into groups and reach the national capital.The widespread criticism against using water cannons on protesting farmers on Wednesday night in freezing cold did not deter the police to resort to the same on Thursday morning. As farmers protesting the contentious farm bills marched towards Delhi, Police on Thursday morning again used water cannons, tear gas near Ambala to stop them from coming to Delhi.Also Read: Punjab farmers modify plan, to march to Delhi via alternative routes besides Haryana highways Police use water cannon to disperse farmers who have gathered at Shambhu border, near Ambala (Haryana), to proceed to Delhi to stage a demonstration against the farm laws passed by the Centre pic.twitter.com/IaPPS9b3o4“The farmers are protesting against all three laws by the centre. Instead of taking this bill back, the farmers are being stopped from protesting peacefully. Water cannons are being used on them. Such kind of injustice on farmers is not fair. Peaceful protest is their constitutional right,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Thursday morning. केंद्र सरकार के तीनों खेती बिल किसान विरोधी हैं। ये बिल वापिस लेने की बजाय किसानों को शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन करने से रोका जा रहा है, उन पर वॉटर कैनन चलाई जा रही हैं। किसानों पर ये जुर्म बिलकुल ग़लत है। शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन उनका संवैधानिक अधिकार है।Security at Delhi-Haryana border was heightened on Thursday morning to stop the protesting farmers from coming to Delhi. Haryana completely sealed its border with Punjab as farmers from the adjoining state started assembling in big numbers as part of the Delhi Chalo march. The Delhi Police on Wednesday said that it had rejected requests received from various farmer organisations to protest in the national Capital against the Centre’s new farm laws on November 26 and 27.Punjab farmers modify planPunjab’s farmer unions have changed their strategy of taking only the highways to the national capital. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union, BKU Kadian and Rajewal factions plan to assemble at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur and head for Shambhu border.Trucks filled with sand to stop farmersAt the Singhu border, the Delhi Police stationed trucks filled with sand to stop movement of tractors driven by farmers.This is the first time that the city police has stationed trucks filled with sand at border points. Police said the border has not been sealed but they are checking all vehicles entering the national capital.The three laws -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- that the farmers are protesting took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-police-use-water-cannon-tear-gas-on-farmers-near-ambala-border/story-RBJdS5SjZSOgC3pxWFj6BN.html
26-11-2020||India||Tributes pour in as Lucknow bids farewell to Maulana Kalbe Sadiq||People transcending caste, community, religion and sect barriers trooped out on the road to bid adieu to their ‘dear maulana sahib’, cleric Kalbe Sadiq during his last journey in Lucknow on Wednesday. The maulana, a prominent Islamic scholar, reformer, educationist and vice-president of All India Muslim Personal Law Board died Tuesday night at the age of 83 at the Era Medical College.Soon after his death, tributes began pouring in from all over the world. Many political personalities took to Twitter handle to condole his death, calling it a loss to the entire mankind. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, ‘The passing away of Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, who was deputy chairman of All India Muslim Personal Law Board. is very saddening. He made remarkable efforts for social harmony and brotherhood. My condolences to his family and loved ones.’ Defence minister Rajnath Singh said in a tweet, ‘The passing away of Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, a prominent Shia religious leader, is very sad. He was the vice president of All India Muslim Personal Law Board and always stressed on strengthening brotherhood in society. He was a noble and great personality. I express my condolences to his family and loved ones.’ Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and others also expressed grief over the cleric’s demise, calling him ‘the most secular person’. AIMPLB said Sadiq’s loss was a big tragedy. “With his demise, the country has lost a great personality and the board has lost one of its main and true servants. His educational and social services will always be remembered,” the board said in a statement on Wednesday. Maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s last journey began at around 11:30 am from Unity College in Hussainabad (Old City), where a massive crowd joined the funeral procession. “Maulana Sadiq was one person who was never associated with any religion or sect. In fact, he used to be among the common invitees, be it in a Muslim or non Muslim gathering,” said Dinesh Mishra, a trader from Nazirabad who came to pay floral tributes to the maulana. Special prayers were offered by Shia clerics for the departed soul after which the maulana’s mortal remains were taken to Imam Bara Janab Ghufranmaab, Chowk, where his last rites were carried out at 2 pm. “Such was the personality of Maulana Sahib that Sunni Muslims too offered special prayers (Namaaz-e-Janaza) for him which is a rare sight,” said S Mohammed Haider, mutwalli, Sibtainabad Imambada. “My father remained very punctual throughout his life. Hence we made sure that the burial took place on time. I am thankful to all for their love and respect. Remember us in prayers,” said Kalbe Sibtain, son of Maulana Kalbe Sadiq. “I see him as the most secular person of the city of nawabs. Not only was he an embodiment of composite culture but also a messiah of the destitute,” said Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah, a descendant of the royal family of Awadh. Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary, All India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB) called the cleric’s demise a loss not only to the Shia community and Muslims but to the entire mankind. “We haven’t seen any personality like him. He was a harbinger of change and he changed the life of many by facilitating their education through his trust. He will be missed.” Kalbe Sadiq was born in Lucknow and was known for his lectures, mostly during Muharram.His father Kalbe Hussain was an Islamic scholar and orator and his brother Kalbe Abid was also an Islamic scholar. He was the uncle of Shia scholar Kalbe Jawad. He received his early education from Sultan ul Madaris and then moved to Aligarh Muslim University from where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree. He later went on to pursue his master’s degree in Arabic literature from the same university. He got his doctoral degree from the Lucknow University. Sadiq was an international Muslim scholar, reformer, educationist and preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-as-lucknow-bids-farewell-to-maulana-kalbe-sadiq/story-7pg0WJ48xLGIIBHkdXZiNP.html
26-11-2020||India||ICAR stubble burning solution shows promising results at trials in Delhi, Punjab||A proprietary microbial solution developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) could be a breakthrough in the hunt for a solution to crop-residue burning, a major cause of winter pollution in north India, results from trials in Delhi and Punjab show. “The ICAR’s invention, named Pusa, decomposes crop residue, including paddy straw, and turns it into manure in about 25 days, thus eliminating the need to burn paddy stubble. It could be a breakthrough if adopted with an integrated approach,” YV Singh, principal scientist of microbiology at Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), an affiliate institution of the ICAR which developed the solution, told HT. Singh said the technology had an efficacy range of 70%-80%, citing results from its use in 24 villages in Delhi this October. This means it can successfully decompose up to 80% of the straw in a given area. The Delhi government adopted the technology from IARI to prevent burning of paddy stubble in about 700 hectares of rice fields, a project that cost Rs20 lakh. The institute has applied for a patent for the technology and is in the process of signing contracts with private firms to commercially market the product, Singh said. Also read | Delhi govt asks Centre to use bio decomposer in Punjab, HaryanaAssuming farmers in Punjab burn paddy straw in at least two million hectares, it will cost the state Rs571 crore to fund the use of Pusa decomposer to eliminate stubble burning, HT’s calculation based on the Delhi government’s costs show. Farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh typically harvest paddy in October and then set their fields on fire to clear rice stalks for the next crop. It is the fastest and cheapest way to clear the fields of unwanted stalks. The burning of more than seven million hectares of crop residues has emerged as one of the biggest sources of winter pollution, resulting in weeks-long smog in New Delhi every October and November. Burning paddy straw has emerged as a big problem in the past two to three decades as farmers have shifted to mechanised combine harvesters, which cut the grainy part of a rice plant, leaving the stalk intact. While the straw from basmati rice, which is mostly exported, is soft enough to be used as fodder, the residue of other rice varieties, which account for most paddy acreage, is too stiff to be of any use. Farmers say they have few effective, affordable alternatives to burning. Pusa decomposer comes in the form of capsules that contain an activated package of eight strains of fungi, Singh said. To prepare a solution of 25 litres, farmers need to add four capsules of the decomposer, along with jaggery and checkpea flour, to water. Within a week, a good layer of fungi admixture is formed. To decompose paddy stubble in one hectare, farmers need to spray 25 litres of this solution. According to A. Amarender Reddy, the principal scientist at the Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, microbial agents in the solution act on the straw to make it soft, break down its components and release nutrients into the soil. The IARI is trying to popularise its solution in Punjab and Haryana, where farmers have used it in about 12000 hectares, which is just a fraction of the total rice acreage. “Some form of subsidy may be needed to popularise its use,” said Singh said. The farm ministry already runs a programme called “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the State of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh & NCT of Delhi” with funds worth Rs1,151 crore from 2018-19 to 2019-20 to subsidise machinery needed for management of crop residue. According to data from the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, the state witnessed 40,000 incidents of farm fires on November 5. Five years ago, the National Green Tribunal, an environmental court, banned stubble burning. Punjab authorities fine farmers if they defy the ban but such coercive methods have proved to be of little help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icar-stubble-burning-solution-shows-promising-results-at-trials-in-delhi-punjab/story-z7x93mr1MJilU7CYChL1FJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Shouldn’t be any politics: Kejriwal’s message on AAP’s 8th anniversary||At a time Delhi is grappling with the third wave of Covid-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged his partymen to extend their helping hand to the needy, on the occasion of the 8th anniversary of the Aam Aadmi Party. There should be no politics at this times, the AAP chief said. “Congratulations to all of you on the 8th foundation day of the Aam Aadmi Party today. The country and humanity are at a very difficult phase at this time. I appeal to every worker to help people. Distribute masks, transport the sick to the hospital, give bread to the hungry. There shouldn’t be any politics at this time. Serve the people by taking everyone along,” tweeted the Delhi CM. The Aam Aadmi Party was officially launched on November 26 in 2012 and had made its debut in the politics with the 2013 Delhi Legislative Assembly Polls.  आज आम आदमी पार्टी के 8वें स्थापना दिवस पर आप सभी को बधाई। देश और मानवता इस वक़्त बेहद कठिन दौर में हैं। मेरी हर कार्यकर्ता से अपील है कि, लोगों की खूब मदद करें। मास्क बाँटें, बीमार को अस्पताल पहुँचाएं, भूखे को रोटी दें। इस वक़्त कोई राजनीति नहीं। सबको साथ लेकर लोगों की सेवा करें।Delhi has recorded an unprecedented number of new cases during the third wave which began from the last week of October due to multiple factors, including festivals, covid fatigue, air pollution and winter season. To fight the uncontrollable surge, the Delhi government has quadrupled the fine on not wearing masks, not following social distancing or spitting in public places to Rs 2,000 from the initial Rs 500.Also Read |  Delhi: 0.24% of 5.73 million screened during survey had Covid-19 symptomsAmid the rise in Covid-19 cases, Gurugram, Noida, Faridabad have started Covid-19 random testing on the Delhi border to avoid its spillover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldn-t-be-any-politics-kejriwal-s-message-on-aap-s-8th-anniversary/story-P7KBV8OD9cdd4i7RYQS42I.html
26-11-2020||India||Trade union strike cripples normal life in Kerala||The 24-hour nationwide strike called by various trade unions in protest against the Union government’s labour policies crippled normal life in Kerala on Thursday. Other than the BJP-supported Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) all trade unions are supporting the strike.Since the Kerala government also supported the strike it turned a forced shutdown in many parts of the state. All government offices remain closed, government vehicles were off the road and business establishments remained shut.Many industry and trade bodies like Confederation of Indian Industry Kerala chapter and tour organisations had requested the trade unions to avoid forced shutdown but it fell on deaf ears. Many shop owners and others openly expressed their resentment saying work disruption and closure was uncalled for the wake of the dire economic condition brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic.The seven-point demand of 10 trade union and their feeder organisations include direct income support to workers, free ration, guaranteed employment days, scrapping of latest farm and labour laws. Except for stray incidents of stone-throwing the strike remained peaceful in the state till 10 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-union-strike-cripples-normal-life-in-kerala/story-TNuBY5u3zjMBvZ6uFKaV9J.html
26-11-2020||India||Darjeeling Himalayan Railway awaits state government’s nod to resume services||The iconic Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), popularly known as the Darjeeling Toy Train,is all set to resume services after lockdown. Trial runs started this Monday and the DHR is just waiting for West Bengal government’s nod. “We are ready to resume the services. We are waiting for the state government’s permission. Initially, joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom and back (total distance of 16 km) would be resumed. We have already written to the state government,” said DHR director AK Mishra. The DHR is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a major tourist attraction in Darjeeling which is a popular hill destination in north Bengal and is often referred to as the Queen of the Hills. The train has appeared in various Bollywood films, including Rajesh Khanna and Sharmila Tagore-starrer Aradhana, Shah Rukh Khan’s Main Hoon Na, and Parineeta. More than 1.5 million tourists come to Darjeeling in north Bengal and Sikkim, a tiny Himalayan state, every year. The Toy Train, comprising three compartments, gets around 60,000 passengers every year. Around 15% of the population in Darjeeling hills is dependent on tourism for their livelihood. “We have 13 steam engines and five diesel locomotives. The steam engines are the real attractions and are regularly chartered by foreign tourists. The DHR also runs other services between Siliguri and Darjeeling, Siliguri and Tindharia, and Kurseong and Siliguri and those would be resumed later,” said an official. While long distance train services to New Jalpaiguri station, the nearest railway station to Darjeeling, have already resumed and tourists are flocking to the hill destination, locals said that the resumption of DHR would add to the attraction. “The DHR has a special role to promote tourism in Darjeeling and is the safest and convenient mode of transportation, especially in the Covid-period. The tourist industry would get required impetus both in Sikkim and Darjeeling once the DHR services resume,” said Sandipan Ghosh, secretary of Eastern Himalaya Travel and Tour Operators Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-himalayan-railway-awaits-state-government-s-nod-to-resume-services/story-jPXlX5wWs3tdAYgpODMGOI.html
26-11-2020||India||Haryana ‘love jihad’ panel will study what other states did, says Anil Vij||The Haryana government has set up a three-member drafting committee which will frame laws on ‘love jihad’, home minister Anil Vij said on Thursday. The committee will also study the laws brought in by other states.The committee comprises home secretary T L Satyaprakash (IAS), ADGP Navdeep Singh Virk (IPS) and Deepak Manchanda Additional Advocate General, Haryana.  A three member Drafting Committee formed to frame law on Love Jihad in Haryana comprising T L Satyaprakash IAS Secretary Home, Navdeep Sing Virk IPS ADGP and Deepak Manchanda Additional Advocate General Haryana Committee will study the Love Jihad law formed in other states also.Vij had on November 6 told the state assembly that the state government was deliberating on enacting a law to check forced religious conversions. Earlier in June, Chief Minister, ML Khattar had said that the state government has decided that a Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will be passed to stop forced conversions. During an interview with HT in July, the chief minister had said that there were complaints regarding forced conversions and marriages from many districts. “People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversions is a matter of concern. Such incidents vitiate the atmosphere of society. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and will accordingly take a call,’’ Khattar had said. On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh cabinet approved a draft ordinance which prescribes up to 10 years of imprisonment for those who are found guilty of religious conversion by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. Those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate, according to the draft ordinance which would become law after its promulgation by the state Governor.The term ‘love jihad’ has not been mentioned. Last week, Madhya Pradesh announced that it will bring in the next session of the assembly a bill to check incidents of “love jihad”.The new proposed law mentioned that conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation would be punishable by a maximum jail term of five years. If such forced conversion is proved, then the marriage concerned shall be declared null and void and anyone who assisted or was a part of the conversion exercise shall be treated at par with the main accused, the proposed bill added.Karnataka and Bihar are also mulling similar laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-love-jihad-panel-will-study-what-other-states-did-says-anil-vij/story-NleApiLormjdKk1K4PlzoJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Three headless bodies found buried near forest in Jharkhand’s Khunti district||Headless bodies of three youths, who went missing on October 14 and were allegedly killed by the in-laws of one of the victims, were found buried near Podka forest under Arki police station in Jharkhand’s Khunti district, around 55 km from the capital Ranchi, on Wednesday, police said. Police searched the forest but failed to find the heads till the evening. They are suspecting that all three heads might have taken away by animals as killers had separated heads from bodies before burying. The three youths were identified as Mahendra Horo, Durga Munda and Mudka Munda. All three were in their twenties. Durga was doing his graduation staying in Ranchi, while Mudka was an intermediate student at a government high school in Khunti. They wee allegedly killed by Mahendra’s in-laws.Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Ashish Mahli said all three youths went missing on October 14 but their family members lodged an FIR on October 23. “The family members had said Mahendra along with Durga and Mudka left for his in-law’s house in Kuriya on a bike on October 14. But, they did not return. The family members informed Arki police after they failed to find any of them,” he said. Khunti superintendent of police Ashutosh Shekhar then set up a special investigation team (SIT) led by SDPO Ashsih Mahli to trace the missing men. The investigation put Mahendra’s in-laws under suspicion and six of them were detained on Tuesday.“We took six people including father in-law, a brother in-laws and a sister in-law of Mahendra into custody. During the interrogation, they admitted that they had killed three people. After their confession, we went to the Podka forest on Wednesday and recovered the bodies,”Mahli said.The SDPO said Mahendra’s elder brother had allegedly killed Mahendra’s wife and daughter in a forest in July and his in-laws suspected him as well. They killed him and his two friends in revenge, police said. Mahli said Mahendra’s father in-law, brother in-law and sister in-law sent to jail on Wednesday. The officer said around seven to eight people were in the crime and the rest would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-headless-bodies-found-buried-near-forest-in-jharkhand-s-khunti-district/story-NADo9HuwYBGcohwVdQVqCO.html
26-11-2020||India||Over 500 fatalities, 44,489 more Covid-19 cases reported in last 24 hours in India||India recorded a jump of 44,489 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while 524 people died of the virus in the last 24 hours, according to latest figures released by the ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning. Though the country’s infection tally has reached 9,266,705, the steady rise in the number of people recovering from the disease continues to bind hope. As many as 8,679,138 have recovered pushing the recovery rate to 93.66%. However, the virus has so far claimed 135,223 lives. Follow live updates on coronavirus hereAs the cases continue to soar, the Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday introduced a fresh set of Covid-19 guidelines and empowered states to put in place stricter measures in order to contain the spread of the viral disease. States and Union territories (UTs) may impose local restrictions such as night curfews but need to consult the central government before imposing a lockdown outside containment zones, the MHA said in a statement. The guidelines focussed on “Surveillance, Containment and Caution”, were aimed at consolidating “the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19”.In cities where the weekly case positivity rate — proportion of samples found positive for the Covid-19 — is more than 10%, the Centre advised states and UTs to consider staggering office timings and implementing other suitable measures to reduce the number of employees in the premises at the same time. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage Meanwhile, the states have been asked to start preparing with vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery among masses. The health ministry told states, “…steps need to be taken to strengthen Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) surveillance following Covid-19 vaccinations to maintain confidence in safety of vaccines. MoHF has identified initiatives which are essential to further strengthen the existing AEFI Surveillance System of India so that timely and complete AEFI reporting for Covid-19 vaccination is possible…”The Centre has directed states to strengthen their vaccine steering committees and other sub-committees to spearhead vaccine delivery till the last mile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-500-fatalities-44-489-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-last-24-hours-in-india/story-vqC7Eu66IWBMvftXYzofsM.html
26-11-2020||India||What is Mission Covid Suraksha? All you need to know||The government on Wednesday launched ‘Mission COVID Suraksha’, which will help the development process of approximately five to six Covid-19 vaccine candidates. Starting from the research and development part of the vaccines, the mission will help them in getting licence and will finally introduce them in the market. As several vaccines are in the final phase of trials, this mission will ensure that there is supply of enough doses of these vaccine shots, once they get approval. 1. Mission Covid Suraksha entails a grant of Rs 900 crore. 2. The department of biotechnology will get this grant.3. The mission aims at providing end-to-end passage to vaccines — from preclinical stage to manufacturing.4. The Centre had announced this package during the third stimulus.5. The department is supporting the development of 10 vaccines. Five vaccine candidates are in human trials, including the Russian Vaccine Sputnik-V.6. The aim of the project is to also establish clinical trial sites and strengthen the existing immunoassay laboratories, central laboratories and suitable facilities for animal studies, production facilities and other test facilities to support Covid-19 vaccine development, the DBT said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has recently met state chief ministers via video conferencing and asked the states to be prepared.“It is not yet decided whether there will be one, two or three doses of vaccine. Their prices are also not decided. We don’t have answers to such questions right now as there are different people in the world making it. The corporate world is involved, there is competition among them, countries have their diplomatic interests, have to wait for WHO also,” Modi said.Five vaccines are under different phases of clinical trial in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed Bharat Biotech and ICMR vaccine has already started the phase III clinical trial. Indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed phase-2 clinical trial in the country. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will soon start combined phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India.Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-mission-covid-suraksha-all-you-need-to-know/story-1zNjCe6onbNGIuSBgnPJhN.html
26-11-2020||India||‘A maestro of football’: PM Modi condoles death of legendary Argentine footballer Maradona||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the death of Argentine football legend Diego Maradona. In a tweet, PM Modi wrote, “Diego Maradona was a maestro of football, who enjoyed global popularity. Throughout his career, he gave us some of the best sporting moments on the football field. His untimely demise has saddened us all. May his soul rest in peace.”Several politicians have shared condolence messages upon hearing the news of demise of the man who in 1986 took the Argentinian team to new heights by winning the World Cup final in Mexico. It was also the same World Cup tournament where he scored a 51st minute goal against England in the quarter finals which later came to be known as the ‘Hand of God’ goal. He also scored the second goal in the match which ended England’s 1986 World Cup campaign. The second goal, where he beat six English defenders, was later named it the “Goal of the Century” by FIFA.Diego Maradona was a maestro of football, who enjoyed global popularity. Throughout his career, he gave us some of the best sporting moments on the football field. His untimely demise has saddened us all. May his soul rest in peace.Maradona after the match had famously said, “(I scored) a little with the head of Maradona and a little with the hand of God.”Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday also took to Twitter to express his grief upon hearing the news of Diego Armando Maradona’s death. He wrote, “There will be no another Maradona born again. He is the first Football Superstar we saw live on television. I couldn’t see the live game of great Pele and mesmerizing Garrincha playing but I’m extremely lucky to see the live magic of MARADONA! RIP “God of Football”.Goa minister Michael Lobo said that he will install a statue of Diego Maradona in the coastal belt of North district to inspire young footballers and students. Lobo told ANI, “I, not the Goa government, will install the statue of Diego Maradona in the coastal belt of North district to inspire Goan youth.”Maradona died due to a cardiac arrest in his residence at Buenos Aires. He was 60 year old at the time of his passing. Despite being a prolific football player, he struggled with drug abuse and obesity issues. Maradona fame reached its zenith for his World Cup performances but football fans in Italy and across the world also remember him for his performances while playing for Italian first division side Napoli, where he transformed the club and led them to two Serie A titles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-maestro-of-football-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-legendary-argentine-footballer-maradona/story-nTobFno92B8OeYrbJ5KbyN.html
26-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh govt invokes ESMA, bans strikes||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), banning strikes in all state government departments, corporations and authorities for a period of six months. Additional chief secretary, appointment and personnel, Mukul Singhal issued the notification stating that in exercise of the powers under sub section (1) of the section-3 of the Uttar Pradesh Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1966 (UP Act No 30 of 1966), the state government prohibited strike for a period of six months from the date of the notification. The decision came on the eve of Thursday’s nationwide strike called by central trade unions and which has been supported by certain state government employees’ organizations. Around 25 crore workers are expected to participate in the strike. A statement issued by the joint forum comprising 10 central trade unions said the Independent Sectoral Federations and Associations in the central and state government employees and in the public sector enterprises had served the strike notice in most of the places. Similarly, the industrial units in the private sector, big and small, have also submitted notices to this effect in most parts of the country. A state government spokesperson said the Act mandated imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or fine which may extend to Rs 1,000 or both, to any person who instigated a strike which was illegal under the Act. The Act also gave the police the right to arrest without a warrant anybody violating the Act’s provisions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-invokes-esma-bans-strikes/story-Hba8l3d9B6khdx1JSgCIqN.html
26-11-2020||India||120 passengers tested for Covid-19 at Mumbai Airport on Wednesday, all negative: Official||A Mumbai Airport official has said that a total of 120 domestic arrival passengers at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport underwent RT-PCR testing on November 25, adding that none of the passengers was found positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Total 120 domestic arrival passengers underwent RT-PCR test at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport Mumbai on 25th November. No passengers were tested positive,” news agency ANI quoted airport’s Public Relations Officer (PRO) as saying. Total 120 domestic arrival passengers underwent RT-PCR test at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport Mumbai on 25th November. No passengers were tested positive: Airport PROOn Monday, the Maharashtra government had made mandatory a negative RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test report for passengers arriving in the state from Delhi, Gujarat, Goa and Rajasthan amid a rapid surge of Covid-19 cases there, from November 25 onwards. As per the order, passengers arriving by flights should have tested negative 72 hours before scheduled landing in Maharashtra while for those arriving by trains, the corresponding duration was 96 hours.Also Read | Maharashtra makes Covid-19 tests mandatory for air passengers travelling from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and GoaThose who fail to carry their test reports would undergo RT-PCR testing on arriving at airports or railway stations, the order had further stated. It further said that passengers testing negative would be allowed to leave the airport/railway station while those found positive would be sent to the Covid Care Centres (CCC) but will have to bear the cost themselves.Also Read | Starting today, outstation travellers to be screened by Mumbai civic body“The Airports Authority of India is requested to check the report before allowing passengers to board the flight,” the Maharashtra government’s order had stated.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, nearly the double of the next worst-hit state, Karnataka. The state logged a total of 6,159 new cases on Wednesday, which took its tally of cases due to the disease to 1,795,959, a government health bulletin said. The tally in the state capital of Mumbai, one of the worst-hit cities, meanwhile, reached 278,590 with 1,144 new cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120-passengers-tested-for-covid-19-at-mumbai-airport-on-wednesday-all-negative-official/story-POKWmqSqkIyg1tvdUpkKfJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel, Congress’ crisis manager: Five instances of how he was a problem solver||Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel, who died of Covid-19 on Wednesday morning, has often been described as Congress’ crisis manager. Here are five instances of how Patel solved problems for his partyCurbing the rebellion of the G-23, 2020This was perhaps the most recent instance of Patel’s crisis management. When several of his Rajya Sabha colleagues Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, and Kapil Sibal wrote a scathing letter asking for internal elections in the party and for introspection, it was Patel who carefully dissipated the tension and rebellion within the party. Patel’s USP from the time he became parliamentary secretary to Rajiv Gandhi has been unflinching loyalty to the family. The letter was seen as a clear attack on the family and on Team Rahul Gandhi for the way the 2019 election campaign was carried out and for Rahul Gandhi’s refusal to take charge of the party. Patel’s strategy was clear—he set into motion a strategy of reaching out to individuals while alienating the hardline dissenters. Patel personally went and met Sibal and spoke to Azad. He also convinced the party’s chief ministers Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel to give public statements in support of the Gandhi family. Within a day or two, some letter writers like Jitin Prasada and Akhilesh Prasad gave public statements saying all their concerns had been addressed. Also, Patel and his colleagues carefully orchestrated a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on August 24, just two days after the dissent letter became public. In what was seen as a well-choreographed move, leader after leader praised Sonia Gandhi’s leadership and requested her to stay on as Congress president till a new person was elected within six months. Azad was attacked by most other members of the CWC and with announcements about a timeline for elections, the immediate crisis was averted. The ones who weren’t placated—Azad, Sibal and Manish Tiwari—have started discussions once against post the Bihar election embarrassment.Also Read: Ahmed Patel: A low-profile troubleshooter and a high-power strategistThe Sachin Pilot rebellion, 2020This was the month-long rebellion that preceded the G-23. On July 12, the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and member of Rahul Gandhi’s inner team, Sachin Pilot, took 18 MLAs and went AWOL from Jaipur. He refused to come back before he was made chief minister instead of Ashok Gehlot. While Pilot spoke to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the person the family trusted to iron things out and the one who worked out the compromise formula was Patel. While Patel was part of the old guard, many of the younger leaders found him accessible and willing to hear them out. Pilot’s aides also say that when Patel (who was known to be close to Gehlot) set up the committee and promised to have his grievances sorted, they knew that his word would be adhered to. A month later, not only was Pilot back in the Jaipur assembly, but without upsetting chief minister Gehlot, a tough balancing act.Impossible alliances: Maharashtra, 2019In 2019, when the Maharashtra government formation was uncertain, Patel spent 10 days in Mumbai. According to his aides, he had handled many big elections but never before had he operated from somewhere other than his Wellington Crescent bungalow in the capital. While Sonia Gandhi was reportedly reluctant to join hands with a party that had a Hindutva ideology, Patel heard out their newly elected legislators and understood that the mood in Mumbai was to strike against a BJP government. That’s why party leaders credit Patel as one of the key architects of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition. There were several hiccups like getting all the letters of support, but Patel refused to move from Mumbai till Uddhav Thackeray and the MVA government was sworn in.Also Read: The centrality of Ahmed Patel in Indian politicsManmohan Singh trust vote, 2008The Indo-US nuclear deal was a key moment for Dr Manmohan Singh who was determined to go ahead with it even if his government was threatened. The threat posed by his Left allies, led by Prakash Karat with 59 members of Parliament, was real. It left the United Progressive Alliance short of numbers and that’s when Patel’s relationships with other parties came in. Patel reached out to Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh. The party had 39 MPs and would make up for the vacuum created by the left. The two roped in several key leaders—most importantly, former President APJ Abdul Kalam who convinced Mulayam Singh Yadav (with a lesson in the benefits of nuclear power) to vote with the Manmohan Singh government. The result was that the SP’s vote ensured a comfortable 275 vote for the UPA government. Patel told HT that it was one of the key moments that he worked closely with Pranab Mukherjee to deliver the trust win.Delivering for Sonia GandhiBut perhaps more than batting for the Congress party, Ahmed Patel will be known for his loyalty to Sonia Gandhi. It was his appointment as her political secretary that made him really come into his own. She trusted his self-effacing, away from the limelight manner, and he ensured that her aura remained spotless. One of the key instances is the way he rallied support for Sonia Gandhi soon after she became party president in 1998. It wasn’t just the Bharatiya Janata Party that led the attack on a foreign-origin leader but that was when Sharad Pawar also left with Tariq Anwar and Purno Sangma, raising the slogan against her foreign origin. At that time, it was Patel who used his good relationship with key alliance partner Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Yadav to issue a statement in her favour. In the midst of all the attacks, Yadav called her “Bharat ki bahu” (India’s daughter-in-law) which went a long way in showing a vote of confidence for the new and inexperienced Congress president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-congress-crisis-manager-five-instances-of-how-he-was-a-problem-solver/story-Pp5BboXOiFZxuhwokhUSKM.html
26-11-2020||India||Bihar to form block-level task force for Covid-19 vaccination drive||Bihar will form block-level task force and use its routine immunisation channel for administering the Covid-19 vaccine, once available, with the Centre committing to increase the state’s vaccine storage capacity by one crore vials, the government said. It will also engage doctors, dentists, medicos, paramedics, nurses and nursing students as alternate vaccinators for the purpose, said officials. “We have planned to make robust arrangements, akin to conducting elections, as the vaccine has to be administered to the people in the shortest possible period,” said Bihar’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar, who chaired the first meeting of the state’s steering committee on Covid vaccination Wednesday evening. This would mean the authorities would set up booths at block level for administering the vaccine, said officials privy to the meeting. At present, Bihar has a state-level task force and district-level units for undertaking health programmes under the National Health Mission. Doctors and healthcare workers will be vaccinated on a priority basis. The state is currently in the process of preparing a database of health personnel, both in government and private sector. “We will submit within a week to the Centre name of doctors and healthcare workers in the state, as they are the first in the eligible category for vaccination, as decided by the Centre,” said Kumar. The Centre will closely monitor the condition of every healthcare worker vaccinated through a mobile application, the chief secretary added. “Currently, we do not know when and which vaccine we will get, but we should not be found wanting in logistics for its distribution once the Centre makes them available to us,” Kumar said. Bihar is also increasing its vaccine storage capacity to account for the Covid-19 vaccine. “We will add around 1 crore vials to our existing vaccine storage capacity of 1.37 crore vials to account for the Covid vaccine. The Centre has committed to give us 900 ice-lined refrigerators and deep freezers, eight walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers, which will begin to arrive from December 4,” said executive director of the State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, who is also the state nodal officer for Covid vaccination. Eight walk-in coolers will be distributed among the regional vaccine stores while the two walk-in freezers will be commissioned at Nalanda and Bhagalpur districts, he added. “We will also engage doctors, dentists, medicos, besides nurses, nursing students and paramedics to create a pool of alternate vaccinators so that the government’s routine immunisation and other health-related programme are not affected during the Covid-19 vaccination drive,” said the executive director. The health department generally engages auxiliary nursing midwives for its routine immunisation programme against 12 preventable diseases. Bihar has 674 cold chain points, 10 regional vaccine stores and one state vaccine store at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in Patna for storing vaccines. The regional vaccine stores are in Patna, Bhagalpur, Purnia, Saharsa, Aurangabad, Nalanda, Muzaffarpur, Saran, Darbhanga and East Champaran districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-form-block-level-task-force-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-Tzv8mVP1PAM8nGx9OlY2lK.html
26-11-2020||India||Goa minister says he will install Maradona’s statue to inspire youth||Aiming at inspiring the Goan youth who love football, Science and Technology minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday said that he will install a life-size statue of football legend Diego Maradona in his personal capacity in the coastal belt of North district. The 60-year-old World Cup-winning footballer died of a heart attack on Wednesday.“I, not the Goa government, will install the statue of Diego Maradona in the coastal belt of North district to inspire Goan youth,” Lobo, who represents Calangute constituency, told ANI over the phone.Meanwhile, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant expressed condolence over the demise of football legend Maradona.“With a heavy heart, I sympathize with the football community. Diego Maradona, the football icon will be remembered forever. #Maradona has inspired many football lovers of Goa and has encouraged football culture in the state,” Sawant tweeted on Wednesday.Maradona was hospitalised at the start of November, days after celebrating his 60th birthday, Goal.com reported.Maradona was hospitalised as he complained of being fatigued regularly. His tests at the La Plata clinic revealed a blood clot in the brain, which doctors later revealed was operated on successfully.As per a report in Goal.com, Maradona was also released from the hospital, but in the early hours of Wednesday, Maradona suffered cardiac arrest, and paramedics at the scene failed to revive him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-says-he-will-install-maradona-s-statue-to-inspire-youth/story-T1mHcsb4Vw9YkqaZ6KbZaK.html
26-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 vaccine delivery preparations to include management of side-effects and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccine delivery preparations to include management of side-effectsStates have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery among masses. Read moreTension in air as farmer march to Capital haltedDelhi Police have bolstered security at the city’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in order to stonewall a massive protest by farmers. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘At least they’ve got a very good replacement captain,’ Ian Chappell calls India’s stand-in skipper ‘positive, aggressive’Without Virat Kohli, the Indian team is believed to be left with a big void in the second, third and fourth Tests against Australia, but former captain and renowned commentator and columnist Ian Chappell reckons India’s stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane possesses the leadership skills required to lead the team in Kohli’s absence. Read more Hyundai to launch its ‘affordable’ SUV in 2021, names it Bayon. Spy shots hereHyundai Motor is all set to come up with a brand new SUV model next year. The Korean carmaker has revealed the name of the new compact SUV - Hyundai Bayon - a name inspired by city of Bayonne in France, which will enter the European market in the first half of 2021. Read more Thank God, Ranveer and I didn’t get locked down without each other: Deepika PadukoneThirteen years back, she made a dream debut with Om Shanti Om, co-starring Shah Rukh Khan. Since then, Deepika Padukone has had nothing less than a smashing journey in Bollywood. The actor though, on her part, is filled with gratitude for whatever she has achieved till date. Read more Astronaut shares his first video of Earth taken from the space. Watch viral videoVictor Glover, an astronaut, recently shared his first video of the Earth taken from space on Twitter. The mesmerising video has won people over. Chances are, it’ll leave you amazed too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-preparations-to-include-management-of-side-effects-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5WZfd4MLrEQ8DVB1gP8Z8J.html
26-11-2020||India||UP adopts fresh strategy to check possible second wave of Covid-19||To check a possible second Covid-19 wave, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to carry out fresh demarcation of containment zones, mapping of the area in which Covid cases are being reported and increasing the RT-PCR tests. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said after Covid-19 cases started declining in mid-September, the state government had reduced the size of the containment zones. In an effort to check the possible second wave with the increase in cases, the government had now decided to increase the size of the containment zones, he said. Now 50 metres of an area in which a single Covdi-19 case has been detected would be declared as containment zone whereas in the area in which more than one or cluster of Covid cases were reported, a radius of 100 m would be marked as containment zone, he said. A state government officer said in view of the increase in Covid cases after the onset of winter, the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued fresh guidelines to check the second wave of infection. Along with demarcating the containment zones, the state government had been directed to allow essential activities in containment zones. The district magistrates (DMs) would notify the containment zones on the websites and there would be no movement of people in or out of the zones except for medical emergencies. The supply of essential commodities would be maintained, intensive house-to-house surveillance would be carried out and testing and contact tracing would be done according to the protocol prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, he said. The government has decided to launch intensive surveillance and sample testing drive in 15 districts in which maximum Covid cases are being reported since November 1. The 15 districts include Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bareilly, Moradabad, Aligarh, Jhansi, Agra, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar.Intensive surveillance, sample testing and contact tracing drive will be launched in the area in which large positive cases are being reported. The DM and CMOs have been directed to carry out maximum RT-PCR tests in the localities in which large number of Covid cases are being reported. In the second phase, the mapping of the red zones would be launched in the remaining 60 districts, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officers to increase the RT-PCR sample tests across the state, Prasad said. In view of the CM’s order, the health department has decided to carry out 60% Rapid Antigen and 40% RT-PCR tests. A health department officer said the state government was constantly strengthening the network of the laboratories in the districts. Recently the CM inaugurated eight new laboratories, increasing the strength to 42. With the increase in the laboratories, the state government could enhance the RT-PCR test, he said. On Wednesday a record 1.78 lakh samples were tested in the state. While 72,808 samples were tested with RT-PCR, 1.03 lakh sample were tested with rapid antigen and 2,308 samples were tested with TrueNat machines. A total of 1.84 crore samples have been tested in the state since the start of the Covid pandemic in March. The increase of the Covid cases among the old people has caused concern among the health department officers. Prasad said the infection rate among the old people had increased from 8% to 10.19%. Covid infection among old people lead to complications and they should be encouraged to stay at home, he said. On Wednesday, UP reported 2,318 fresh Covid-19 cases. There were 24,876 active cases in the state while 11,718 people were in home isolation, 2,378 were admitted in the private hospitals and remaining patients were admitted to government hospitals. With the death of 29 people in various districts on Wednesday, the Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 7,644.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-adopts-fresh-strategy-to-check-possible-second-wave-of-covid-19/story-5I2nYa1SVwFFVLrYdPhtrO.html
26-11-2020||India||Cows in shelter homes in Prayagraj to get jute coats to ward off winter||The veterinary department in Prayagraj district of Uttar Pradesh will provide for coats for cattle in state-run cow shelters to ward off the winter. The cow shelters will also be covered with thick polythene curtains to save the animals from biting winds, officials said.The officials concerned have started making arrangements for coats that will be made of old jute bags to keep the cows warm.Cow shelters have been made in rural areas to keep stray cattle where they are being taken care of and are being given fodder and water. The arrangements at cow shelters are under supervision of village panchayats and caretakers are deputed for the task. At present, there are 113 cow shelters functional in Prayagraj district, among which, 110 are temporary while three are permanent. The veterinary department keeps a close watch on the health of the cows and carries out regular medical examinations and treatment of over 13,000 cows in these shelters, officials said.With the onset of winter, the government had issued instructions to save the cows from biting cold which may be harmful for their health. Officials began the drive to cover cow shelters with thick polythene curtains or canvas to stop cold wind. Jute bags will also be sewed together to make thick curtains and covers. The jute bags will be provided by the district supply department.Chief veterinary officer RP Rai said that the district supply department will take jute bags from fair price shops and provide them for making covers and coats. Gram panchayats will make the coats and will cover the cow shelters with polythene and other materials. The expenses will be met from the MNREGS budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cows-in-shelter-homes-in-prayagraj-to-get-jute-coats-to-ward-off-winter/story-hcQGzPsM9Yfww9Lj3FEkeP.html
26-11-2020||India||Allahabad HC asks UP govt about the steps taken to check air pollution||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday asked the state government and UP Pollution Control Board to apprise it of the steps being taken to prevent air pollution in Uttar Pradesh. A Lucknow bench of the high court directed the two to file counter-affidavits within six weeks to indicate the proposed measures to improve the atmosphere. A bench of justices Pankaj Mithal and Saurabh Lavania gave the directions on a public interest lawsuit filed by a Lucknow resident, Radhika Singh.Also Read | Delhi NCR in a chokehold of its own emissionsAppearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Prashant Chandra expressed concern over the increasing air pollution and sought preventive measures to check the smog. The petitioners wanted a complete ban on firecrackers besides seeking other effective measures to improve the air quality in Lucknow and elsewhere in the state.After issuing notices to the respondents, the bench tagged the petition along with another one on the same issue pending in the court since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-asks-up-govt-about-the-steps-taken-to-check-air-pollution/story-7FieYILi5SJJkbQzYmPqTP.html
26-11-2020||India||Rae Bareli rail coach factory was underutilised before 2014: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said earlier governments did not make the most of India’s potential and cited the rail coach factory in Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s Rae Bareli Lok Sabha constituency as an example.Asserting that “positive mindset and approach are needed to change things,” he laid stress on realising “our full potential to ensure development of the nation”.The Prime Minister was speaking at the centennial foundation day of Lucknow University via video link on Wednesday.“For long, it has been a problem that we have not utilised our potential to the full. In the past, it was also true for the governance of our country. We have tried to change this after coming to power,” he said.“The rail coach factory in Rae Bareli is an example of how we can change things by changing our outlook. The factory was set up many years ago and had all the machinery to make train coaches, yet only denting-painting (maintenance) was done there. Tall promises were made for the factory, but nothing changed. When we came to power in 2014, we looked into the affairs and, within six months, the factory started making rail coaches. It is now one of the biggest coach manufacturers in the country,” he said.The PM also cited urea production in the country to underline his point.“I was surprised to know that despite having sufficient urea plants, the country was importing urea only because our plants were not working to their full potential. The previous governments had not done much to change this. When we came to power, we made changes, and now the country has become self-reliant in urea,” he said.Will power and good intentions were equally important as capabilities, he said.He also spoke about his experience of popularising khadi with the help of students in Gujarat through a fashion show at Porbandar on Gandhi Jayanti in 2002.This made khadi “fashionable”, he said, adding that the quantity of khadi sold in the last six years was more than that sold in 20 years before 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rae-bareli-rail-coach-factory-was-underutilised-before-2014-pm-modi/story-Hvm3uB9WydCFde90Wgkv6H.html
26-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: COVAXIN trials in Gujarat, AstraZeneca admits ‘error’||The global caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has topped 60 million-mark, as per a tally by worldometers, even as worldwide search continues for a vaccine which will help treat the disease. With the virus claiming more than 1.4 million lives worldwide, as per the worldometers tally, the need for a vaccine is only being felt increasingly.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEven as countries like India, as well as the United States, prepare a vaccine distribution plan, for once a candidate is finally approved by health regulators, here are the latest updates on the coronavirus vaccine front:1. Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine candidate has reached Gujarat for phase 3 trials. Ahmedabad’s Sola civil hospital is among 130 centres across the country selected for COVAXIN phase three trials, HG Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed COVAXIN in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), last week announced the commencement of the third phase trials, the first candidate in India to reach this stage. 2. UK-headquartered AstraZeneca, which is working on a vaccine candidate with Oxford University, in a statement on Wednesday acknowledged an “error” that is bound to raise questions on the preliminary results of its candidate. In a late-phase analysis, participants received a full dose of the candidate, AZD1222; the efficacy was found to be 62%. This is against the earlier 90% efficacy found for the group which received a half-dose shot.Also Watch l Covid, vaccine race & what we don’t know yet | Dr Guleria & Dr Jha #HTLS2020 3. A leading Chinese vaccine maker, China National Biotec Group Company, has applied to Chinese health regulators to bring its candidate to the market, state media Xinhua Finance reported on Wednesday. The application likely includes data from the company’s Phase three human testing being conducted in the Middle East and South America.4. America’s Pfizer Inc has started the process to register its Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil, submitting to the country’s health regulators results of the tests of its vaccine candidate. “This is an important step so that the vaccine can be available in Brazil,” a statement from the company said in Portuguese. Pfizer is developing BNT162b2 with Germany’s BioNTech SE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-covaxin-trials-in-gujarat-astrazeneca-admits-error/story-jcKHHWs4JWinoqBymRqgJM.html
26-11-2020||India||BMC tests over 9000 rail passengers from other states; 10 found Covid positive||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday tested 9,779 passengers coming from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Goa, who reached Mumbai without a Covid negative report and found 10 of them to be positive for coronavirus.“A total of 9,779 passengers were tested, of which 10 passengers were found to be Corona positive,” said BMC.As per BMC, out of the 10 positive cases, five cases were found on Bandra Terminus, three on Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, and one each on Borivali and Dadar.“As many as 3400 tests were conducted at Mumbai Central where no positive case was reported,” the Municipal Corporation added.The Maharashtra government on November 23 had announced new travel rules for the state, under which passengers coming from Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa will need to carry RT-PCR test reports for Covid-19. The rules come into effect from November 25.They will have to bring the test report from a sample collected 96 hours before the scheduled arrival in the state. “Passengers not having the RT-PCR test reports will have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR tests at concerned airports at their own costs. The airport shall arrange the testing centres and charge the passengers directly for testing,” a government notification read.As per the circular issued by the BMC, the corporation had appointed nodal officers to coordinate and arrange for the screening of outstation passengers arriving at the various railway stations in the city Mumbai reported 1,144 new Covid-19 cases, 701 recoveries/discharges, and 17 deaths on Wednesday. The total cases in metropolis has reached 2,78,590 including 2,53,604 recoveries/discharges and 10,723 deaths. Active cases in Mumbai stand at 11,101.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/bmc-tests-over-9000-rail-passengers-from-other-states-10-found-covid-positive/story-XGom7NKYweSSV9Xkr3OAJM.html
26-11-2020||India||12th anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks on Thursday||The twelfth anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks will be observed on Thursday, with the city police organising an event to pay homage to the martyred security personnel, to be attended by only a limited number of people in view of the pandemic, an official said.The ceremony will be held at the newly-built memorial at the police headquarters in South Mumbai. It will be attended by the family members of the martyred police and security personnel, the official said on Wednesday.Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and other senior officers will pay their respects to the martyrs, he said.The martyrs’ memorial has been relocated from the site at Police Gymkhana in Marine Drive to the police headquarters at Crawford Market because of the ongoing work on the Coastal Road project, the official said.On November 26, 2008, ten Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege.Also Read | Israelis pay respects to victims of 26/11 Mumbai attacks, condemn ‘Pakistan-sponsored terrorism’Nine terrorists were killed by the security forces including the National Security Guard (NSG), the elite commando force of the nation.The then ATS chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s additional police commissioner Ashok Kamte and senior police inspector Vijay Salaskar were among those killed in the attack.Ajmal Amir Kasab, the only terrorist to be captured alive, was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12th-anniversary-of-mumbai-terror-attacks-on-thursday/story-7m5B2hsGAmo3M0DE1F3MPP.html
26-11-2020||India||Bharat Bandh today: Transport, banking services partially affected||With crores of workers supporting the nationwide strike jointly called by 10 central unions protesting against various policies of the government, several services across the country were hit on Thursday. In West Bengal, Left parties and Congress blocked railway tracks in Jadavpur. Markets were closed and bus services were disrupted in Kochi. The Uttar Pradesh government, meanwhile, has extended the Essential Services Maintenance Act, banning strikes in all departments and corporations under it for a period of another six months. Here’s all you need to know:Who are participating in the strike?The ten central unions include Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC).Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will not participate in the strike.What are the demands?Cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month tor all non-income tax paying families and 10 kilograms free ration per person per month to all needy people.Expansion of MGNREGA, the rural employment guarantee scheme, to provide 200 days’ work in a year in rural areas at enhanced wages and also extension of the employment guarantee to urban areas.Withdrawal of all “anti-farmer laws and anti-worker labour codes. The demands also include stopping privatisation of public sector.Pension to all, scrapping National Pension System and the restoration of the earlier pension system are also some of the demands.Which services will be affected?A number of services, including industries, banking, transport, are likely to be affected as the trade unions taking part in one-day strike encompasses a large number of sectors. Farmers, Scheme workers, domestic workers, construction workers, beedi workers, hawkers, vendors, agricultural workers, self-employed in rural and urban areas, auto and taxi drivers, railway, defence employees are also supposed to participate.Will bank services be hit?Yes as All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI) are participating in the strike. Many lenders, including IDBI Bank and Bank of Maharashtra, in regulatory filings on Wednesday said their normal working could be affected at the branches and offices.The “Lok Sabha in its recently held session has passed three new labour enactments by dismantling existing 27 enactments in the name of ‘Ease of Business’, which are purely in the interest of corporates. In the process, 75 per cent of workers are being pushed out of the orbits of labour laws since they will have no legal protection under the new enactment,” the AIBEA said in a release.The association represents the majority of the banks, except State Bank of India (SBI) and Indian Overseas Bank. It has four lakh bank employees from various public and old private sectors and a few foreign banks as its members.“If strike materialises, the normal functioning of the bank branches and offices is likely to be affected. The bank is taking all necessary steps to minimise the impact of strike so as to provide the normal banking services to its customers,” the Bank of Maharashtra said in a filing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-today-transport-banking-services-likely-to-be-affected/story-JfyTLFBHA24CJizugrC16I.html
26-11-2020||India||Israelis pay respects to victims of 26/11 Mumbai attacks, condemn ‘Pakistan-sponsored terrorism’||Israelis are holding ceremonies to pay respects to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, demanding that the perpetrators of the carnage be brought to justice and condemning “Pakistan-sponsored terrorism”.Israelis, and Indian students and caregivers paid respects to the victims in Jerusalem, Rehovot and Tel Aviv on Wednesday and ceremonies are planned in Beersheva and Eilat on Thursday.A virtual ceremony on Zoom is also planned for Thursday at 8 PM Israel time (11:30 PM IST). Hundreds have registered to take part in the event.“Israel opposes every country that provides financial and logistical support to terrorists. Peaceful countries should come together to boycott diplomatically and financially those countries that support terrorism. This will help deter acts of terror,” Isaac Solomon from the southern Israeli coastal city of Eilat told PTI.“It is a matter of pride for us Israelis to have a peaceful country like India as our friend. We pray that our friendship continues to grow strong,” the octogenarian said.Ten terrorists of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) carried out 12 coordinated shooting and bombing attacks lasting four days across Mumbai. At least 166 people, including six Jews at the Chabad House and nine terrorists, were killed and over 300 others were injured in the attacks which began on November 26, 2008.Israelis in Eilat have requested that a memorial square be built for the victims of the Mumbai attacks.“We have spoken to the Mayor of Eilat, Meir Itzhak Ha Levi, to set up a Memorial for the victims of Mumbai attacks. The Mayor said that he is on the committee which decides about street and square issues. He will be very happy to help,” representatives of the Sitar Organisation for Immigrant Jews in Eilat told PTI.“In addition, he suggested to even set up an India-Israel friendship square or Mahatma Gandhi Square where a memorial stone for the victims of Mumbai attacks could also be placed,” they said.The Chabad Movement’s Synagogue in the city will put up a plaque on Thursday in the memory of six Jewish victims.The Telangana Association of Israel organised an interfaith ceremony to pay respects to the victims of 26/11. A Jewish Rabbi, a Hindu priest, a Christian pastor and a Sikh priest recited prayers in the memory of those who were killed in the attacks and for peace.“We believe in peace but shouldn’t bow down to terror. Our policy of zero tolerance under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a welcome change,” association president Ravi Soma told PTI.Some 20 people from Telangana working in Israel gathered in Ramat Gan, next to Tel Aviv, as per permission granted to them in view of the coronavirus pandemic.They carried posters and lit candles to pay respects to the victims of “the most heinous act of terror on Indian soil”.Students at the prestigious Weizmann Institute in Rehovot also lit candles and held a silent protest to condemn “Pakistan-sponsored terror”.“We have to learn from the Israelis and pre-empt attempts by Pakistan-sponsored terror outfits. We have to take the fight to their soil,” said an agitated doctoral fellow, Vivek Singh.Students at Ben-Gurion University in Beer Sheva and local Israelis will be organising ceremonies on Thursday evening to mark the 12th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks.Naor Gudker of Beersheva said, “26/11 for me is the ‘day of terror’ like 9/11. It’s sponsor was Pakistan which targeted both India and Israel. It is not about religion but we would like the world to recognise the true face of Pakistan.” “Time has come for real peace in the world and the international community should come down heavily on such countries and organisations,” Beersheva said.People participating in such gatherings held posters of victims, pictures of mayhem in Mumbai and flags of India and Israel.“Terrorists from Pakistan, who perpetrated these horrific attacks hoped that by striking the places where our countries and people come together, they would succeed in driving us apart.“But they failed miserably in their attempts as this actually brought the people and governments of India and Israel closer than ever before,” said Anitha Nandhini, deputy chief of mission at the Indian embassy.“India and Israel are now strategic partners cooperating in several spheres, including against terrorism. Both countries are in agreement that there can be no justification for acts of terror on any grounds whatsoever.“We thank Israel for standing with India in our endeavour of defeating this scourge,” she said.The Indian Heritage Jewish Centre headed by Avner Isaac will organise a Zoom meeting at 8 PM on Thursday. Indian Ambassador in Israel Sanjeev Singla and Israeli Ambassador in India Dr. Ron Malka will take part in the virtual event.The 12th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks, as per the Jewish calendar, fell on Tuesday last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israelis-pay-respects-to-victims-of-26-11-mumbai-attacks-condemn-pakistan-sponsored-terrorism/story-ljnWMohapaJJsXMyr4MzwN.html
26-11-2020||India||Amaravati land scam: SC makes FIR open for media to report||Two months after the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Jagan Mohan Reddy alleged corruption in the allotment of land in Amaravati, and accused the state’s former Advocate General of facilitating the purchase of land at throwaway prices by his relatives and acquaintances, including relatives of senior Supreme Court judge NV Ramana, the Supreme Court on Wednesday lifted a media gag on reporting the FIR. The gag order was passed by the Andhra Pradesh high court on September 15, hours after the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) registered a first information report against former Advocate General (AG) Dammalapati Srinivas and 12 others. By the same order, the HC also stayed further investigation into the scam and ordered that no coercive action be taken against Srinivas.Although an appeal against this order was filed in Supreme Court by the state on September 21, the matter was heard for the first time on Wednesday by a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah.The court issued notice to Srinivas and sought his response in three weeks. While posting the matter for hearing in the last week of January 2021, the bench said, “In the meantime, directions issued in the impugned order dated September 15, 2020 to the extent of following -- news in regard to registration of FIR or in the context of the said FIR shall not be made public in any electronic, print or social media – shall remain stayed.” The apex court did not remove the stay on the investigation and coercive action.This isn’t the only controversy involving Reddy and justice Ramana. In a letter to CJI SA Bobde on October 6, Reddy alleged that many judges of the Andhra Pradesh high court were biased against the state government and that justice Ramana was influencing the HC roster and getting cases against the state government listed before such judges.On October 10, Jagan’s principal advisor, Ajeya Kallam, disclosed the contents of the letter to the media at a press conference. Two petitions in the Supreme Court against Reddy were filed after that press conference for targeting justice Ramana. The Supreme Court , on November 16, adjourned a hearing on the two petitions. On Wednesday, the bench allowed the high court to continue hearing the pending petition filed by Srinivas in which the interim order of September 15 was passed but said: “The High Court is requested not to finally decide the writ petition.”According to the FIR, details of which can be reported now, between June and December 2014, speculation was rife about Amravati being the prospective new capital of the new state. Srinivas was Additional Advocate General from June 2014 to May 2016 and Advocate General from May 2016 to May 2019. The state’s claim is that Srinivas was privy to information about the exact location of future capital, and with an intention to make pecuniary gain, his brother-in-law acquired around 16 plots near Amaravati. Some of these plots were sold to Srinivas, his wife, and father-in-law at the same rates at which it was purchased from land owners. Certain plots were similarly sold to other individuals named in the FIR, including close relatives of Justice Ramana, the second senior-most judge in the Supreme Court.HT contacted the office of justice Ramana but he was not available for comment.On Wednesday, the state represented by senior advocate Rajiv Dhavan pointed out that in a writ petition, the HC passed orders staying arrest and further investigation as if it were dealing with an anticipatory bail plea. “Is there something extraordinary in this petition that the High Court passed such an order? ” Dhavan asked.Dhavan pointed out that the action in this case was not a “knee-jerk reaction” as it began on March 23, 2020 when the state wrote to Union government seeking probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into alleged irregularities in allotment of land at Amaravati. This was based on findings of a Cabinet subcommittee in December 2019. A special investigation team was constituted in February 2020 which too got stayed by the high court. On September 5, a fresh complaint raising the same allegation was filed that was marked to ACB. A preliminary enquiry led to lodging of FIR on September 15.Srinivas, who had filed a caveat, was represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi who alleged political malafide against the state. Salve pointed out that the former Advocate General was only “a part in an entire piece” as there are others too named in this FIR. Salve suggested that the matter be sent back to the high court as the state violated the HC order by going public with the allegations of the FIR despite a gag order. “The state has no faith in the high court,” Salve said.Rohatgi mentioned that the chief minister faces dozens of criminal cases, and Srinivas was targeted as he appeared against him in several cases as the state’s law officer. Rohatgi claimed that it was “absurd to say that a law officer had prior knowledge of the exact location of capital” and told the court that he was forced to approach the high court as secret investigation was started against him by digging out information from the income tax department and registration of FIR in order to “defame and scandalise” his reputation.Dhavan said that being a law officer offers no immunity from prosecution and if an offence is made out, state should be allowed to investigate and unveil the truth. The bench said, “We are satisfied that the matter requires consideration.”Attorney General KK Venugopal on November 2 refused to grant consent for initiating contempt against Reddy and his adviser over the issue of their allegations against justice Ramana, partly because the matter was already before CJI Bobde (in the form of the CM’s letter). However, he held that the conduct of the two to be “contumacious” and called the timing of the letter “suspect”.Reddy’s allegations against justice Ramana in the letter came within a month of an order passed by the latter on September 16 in a public interest litigation dealing with fast-tracking of criminal trials against sitting and former legislators. There are several such cases against Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-land-scam-sc-makes-fir-open-for-media-to-report/story-LdmOhlJAkx2QPqMNqkDelO.html
26-11-2020||India||10 years jail for inter-faith marriage in MP, priests to be penalized, says new draft||Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday doubled the punishment for forced conversions for marriage and bolstered other provisions in its draft bill to regulate interfaith relationships, a day after Uttar Pradesh approved an ordinance outlawing religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement.State home minister Narottam Mishra said, “We have finalized the draft of Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (MP Freedom of Religion Act) on Wednesday. Now the conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation will be punishable by a maximum jail term of 10 years. Now, the accused will not get bail within 45 days of their arrest. This offence shall be cognizable and non-bailable.” The maximum punishment in the earlier version of the bill, which is due to be tabled in assembly in the upcoming winter session beginning on December 28, was five years. The decision to hike the punishment was taken at a meeting of home and law departments. The maximum punishment in the UP ordinance is also 10 years. “In the draft, the state government has also added a provision of five years jail term for religious gurus of different religions, who will perform the conversion ceremony. The state government will also cancel the registration of organisation, which will promote the forced mass conversion in the pretext of marriage,” said Mishra. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also said the BJP-led state government will not allow “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, but one that courts and the Union government refuse to recognise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-years-jail-for-inter-faith-marriage-in-mp-priests-to-be-penalized-says-new-draft/story-7aRCr6hpOA2J3wiwCv2V5L.html
26-11-2020||India||Pak rubs it in, lets Lashkar front sked prayer meeting for 10 terrorists||Twelve years after the 26/11 attacks, Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the political front of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) responsible for the brutal strikes, has planned an event in Sahiwal city in Punjab on Thursday to commemorate the Mumbai massacre by asking its cadres to organise special prayers for the 10 terrorists who carried out the terror attacks.According to intelligence reports, a special prayer meeting will be held in all LeT/JuD mosques to remember those who carried out the 2008 strikes targeting multiple locations in Mumbai that killed 170 people, according to security officials aware of the development. Nine LeT gunmen were killed by Indian security forces while one, Ajmal Kasab, was hanged to death after due process of law on November 21, 2012.Also Read | 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed awarded 10-year prison termTo add fuel to the fire, the JuD, at the behest of Pakistani deep state, has also floated the JK United Youth Movement (JKYM), a political forum to provide support to separatist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, as Islamabad’s gambit to rally the international community against India has come to naught. According to intelligence inputs, Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the chief operational commander and the head of the LeT’s jihad wing, visited Hafiz Saeed, the co-founder of the LeT and the JuD, at his residence at Lahore’s Johar Town in the last week of October. The meeting, officials said, was in connection with the collection of funds for jihad. Saeed, sanctioned by the UN Security Council with a $10 million bounty on his head, is held responsible by India for masterminding the Mumbai attacks. The officials added that another meeting of JuD functionaries and about 70 businessmen was held at Markaz Aqsa at Gujranwala city on November 13. At that meeting, the group asked for donations from the businessmen to carry on with its terrorist activities in Kashmir. Intelligence inputs suggested that similar meetings were also scheduled at other places in the Punjab province. The intelligence inputs suggested that there is a concerted effort by JuD/LeT to collect funds from the Pakistani soil to foment trouble in Kashmir, even though Islamabad denies harbouring terrorists. The officials said that a meeting of JuD cadres took place at Jamia Masjid Toheed in Lahore on February 26. The venue was adjacent to Saeed’s heavily guarded residence, and he attended the meeting along with other JuD functionaries. Saeed told those in attendance that they need not worry about the court cases against JuD leaders and the situation in Kashmir (in view of the nullification of Article 370) as these are “temporary issues”. On November 19, a Pakistani court gave Saeed and two close aides prison sentences totalling ten-and-a-half years in two cases of terror financing — a decision likely influenced by the pressure brought to bear on Islamabad by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). These cases are not even remotely connected to the Mumbai attack case, according to the officials cited above. Since Saeed is already in jail serving two sentences of five-and-a-half-years given to him earlier this year, he will not serve any extra jail time. According to people familiar with developments, the sentencing of Saeed was largely due to pressure on Pakistan from western powers and the FATF to crack down on terror groups and terror financing, including prosecution of those funnelling funds to terrorists. The officials said though some LeT leaders have been declared as “arrested”, it is clear that they have only been taken in “protective-custody” and accommodated at their residences with complete freedom to operate and run the activities of the outfit, including fund raising. The officials added that the Pakistani government has refused to act on “irrefutable evidence” provided by India against the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and has maintained that there was not enough evidence against Saeed and others involved. According to Indian security officials, the perpetrators of the attack are: Saeed (Lahore), Lakhvi (Islamabad), Yusuf Muzammil (Islamabad), David Coleman Headley (under detention in the US), Tahawwur Hussain Rana (under detention in the US), Sajjid Majid (Lahore), Abdur Rehman Syed (Lahore), Major Iqbal (Lahore), Major Sameer Ali (Lahore), Illyas Kashmiri (deceased), Abu Qahafa, and Mazhar Iqbal (charge-sheeted by Pakistan in connection with the Mumbai attacks). The Pakistani government and its deep state have time and again displayed their unwillingness and inability to take on the LeT as well as other India-centric terrorist outfits operating from its soil, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lashkar-front-plans-prayer-meeting-in-pak-for-10-terrorists-who-carried-out-26-11/story-xNJGWUNbazvTla2BVTUw7M.html
26-11-2020||India||NDA’s Sinha defeats RJD’s Choudhary in tight race for Bihar speaker||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Vijay Kumar Sinha was on Wednesday elected speaker of the 17th Bihar assembly through a majority vote amid a furore caused by a viral audio tape in which Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad is purportedly trying to influence a BJP member to abstain from the vote. Sinha, the candidate of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), polled 126 votes and RJDs Awadh Bihari Chaudhary, who was fielded by the opposition Mahagathbandhan, or Grand Alliance, won 114 votes in the House of 243 members.Pro-tem speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi then urged chief minister Nitish Kumar and leader of the opposition Tejaswhi Prasd Yadav to escort Sinha to the speaker’s seat.The election was overshadowed by the furore over an audio tape of a telephone conversation in which Lalu Prasad, in a prison in Ranchi in connection with the embezzlement of funds meant for the purchase of cattle fodder, is purportedly trying to persuade a BJP legislator to abstain from the vote. Former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi shared the one-and-a-half-minute-long clip on his official Twitter handle.“We will take good care of you. Just help us tomorrow in defeating the NDA’s candidate for the speaker’s post,” the voice purported to be Prasad’s can be heard saying in the audio.tape of the conversation with Lalan Kumar, who said he had accepted the call from the RJD chief when he was in a meeting with Sushil Modi and handed over the audio tape to him later.Bihar minister Mukesh Sahni, founder of the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), who broke his alliance with the RJD just ahead of the October-November elections and joined the NDA, said on the floor of the House: “Those who make calls to MLAs with the intent to topple a government have no right to speak of democratic norms.”RJD’s debutant MLA Mukesh Raushan said: “You will see a big shakeup in March. This government will fall and Tejashwi Yadav will become the chief minister. Legislators from all parties are in touch with us. Just wait and watch.”The speaker’s election didn’t lack drama either. As soon as the House assembled and the pro-term speaker initiated the election process, the opposition raised a ruckus, demanding a secret ballot that Manjhi rejected on grounds that there was no provision for a secret ballot on constitutional matters. Manjhi called for a voice vote on the motion for the speaker’s election and announced his verdict in favour of the NDA candidate, but with both the ruling dispensation, comprising mainly the BJP and the Janata Dal (United), and the opposition (RJD, Congress and the Left), closely matched, the difference couldn’t be made out clearly. When the opposition objected, Manjhi called for a division of votes. Opposition parties created another ruckus, questioning the presence of chief minister Kumar in the House; Kumar is a member of the Bihar legislative council, the upper house of the bicameral legislature. Opposition members trooped into the well of the House in protest.Manjhi said only the members of the House would participate in the vote, but the presence of the chief minister was in his capacity of leader of the legislature and there was nothing wrong with him being in the House . “I have been a member of the House for the last 40 years and there is nothing wrong with it,” he said.The opposition was unrelenting, Tejashvi Yadav said: “They stole the mandate in 2015 and have again done it. Now, it is happening before the chair. It is a mockery of democracy.” Opposition members sat in the well of the House in protest. Manjhi again read out the motion for election of Sinha as the speaker once again and asked those in favour to stand up to be counted. “If you have the numbers, go back to your seats and be counted. If you have the numbers, that will show,” he told the opposition, adjourning the House for five minutes after the count refused to satisfy the opposition. When the House reassembled, the pro-tem speaker again ordered those in favour of Sinha’s election to stand up and be counted. Constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said that there was nothing wrong in the presence of the CM in the House and the ruling of the speaker was paramount. “Such things have happened in the past also, but this is the first time such a demand has been raised. The leader of the House can remain present in the House. It appears clearly a political move,” Kashyap said. (PTI contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-s-sinha-defeats-rjd-s-choudhary-in-tight-race-for-bihar-speaker/story-72DSWykyEbySMEduuP3ZWJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel: A low-profile troubleshooter and a high-power strategist||New Delhi Ahmed Patel, the go-to person for Congress leaders in times of crisis and known as the party’s Chanakya for his political acumen, died early on Wednesday at the age of 71 of post-Covid-19 complications. His death, announced in a tweet by his son Faisal, was mourned by parties cutting across ideological lines in a testament to the wide regard he commanded as a political tactician.“With profound grief and sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020 at 3:30am. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failure,” Faisal Patel tweeted. The veteran Congress politician, a five-time member of the Rajya Sabha and two-time Lok Sabha member, had been admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) at Gurugram-based Medanta Hospital on November 15. Patel had, on October 1, announced on Twitter that he had contracted the coronavirus disease and requested people who had recently come into contact with him to to self-isolate.The passing of Patel,who leaves behind his wife, son and a daughter, is a blow to the Congress and its president Sonia Gandhi, whom he served as political secretary for nearly 17 years. On Monday, former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, another Congress veteran who rose from the grassroots and steered the state towards peace after decades of insurgency, died, also of Covid-19 complications.Popularly known as Babu bhai, Ahmed bhai and AP in political circles, Patel had for decades been the chief crisis manager, the key trouble shooter and political strategist of the Congress, whose leaders were effusive in grieving his death.“I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support,” Sonia Gandhi said.Rahul Gandhi said Patel “lived and breathed Congress” and stood with the party through its most difficult times. “It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset,” he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra described Patel as not only a wise and experienced colleague to whom she constantly turned for advice and counsel but also a friend “who stood by us all, steadfast, loyal, and dependable to the end”. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said: “Ahmed Patel ji was one of the most trusted leaders of the Congress Party and a great friend of mine. His passing away is an irreparable loss to the Congress Party.”As a mark of respect to the departed leader, the Congress flag will fly at half-mast for the next three days.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined Congress leaders and politicians from other parties in mourning the death of Patel in a rare display of unity that cut across party and ideological lines. “An astute Parliamentarian, Shri Patel combined the skills of a strategist and the charm of a mass leader. His amiability won him friends across party lines. My condolences to his family and friends,” the President tweeted. Naidu called Patel an able parliamentarian who had always maintained cordial relations across the political spectrum. Modi tweeted: “Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai’s soul rest in peace.”In a tweet, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda wrote: “Deeply anguished to hear about the demise of veteran Congress leader Shri Ahmed Patel Ji. I pray for strength to the family members and his supporters at this hour of grief. Om Shanti.” Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Prakash Javadekar and Smriti Irani were joined by several state chief ministers, both those ruled by the Congress and other parties, and allies and rivals in paying tribute to Patel and offering their condolences to his family. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Patel played a prominent role in the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress, a year ago “The Congress party has lost its Chanakya in Patel’s demise, while the MVA government has lost a guiding light. I got help from his experience and guidance when the MVA government was formed,” Thackeray said.It wasn’t only In forging an unlikely coalition government in Maharashtra that Patel’s negotiating skills were evident. The veteran also played a role in defusing a crisis caused by a letter written in August by 23 senior Congress leaders including his Rajya Sabha colleagues Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal calling for internal elections in the party and introspection. The letter was seen as an attack on the Gandhi family and team Rahul Gandhi for his refusal to take charge of the party. Patel helped thwart a potential rebellion, personally meeting Sibal and speaking to Azad. Patel and his colleagues carefully orchestrated a meeting of the Congress Working Committee on August 24, just two days after the letter became public, At the meeting, leader after leader praised Sonia Gandhi’s leadership and requested her to stay on as Congress chief until a new president is elected within six months. Azad was attacked by most other members of the CWC and with the announcement of a timeline for internal elections, an immediate crisis was averted.The July crisis in Rajasthan caused by a clash between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot blew over after Patel helped work out a compromise by setting up a committee to have the latter’s grievances against the CM addressed. Pilot, who had gone AWOL with 18 MLAs, was back in the assembly a week later.Patel also played a pivotal role in the Manmohan Singh government winning the 2008 trust vote over the Indo-US nuclear deal, enlisting the support of the Samajwadi Party to counter the threat posed by the loss of support of the Left parties, which bitterly opposed the deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-a-low-profile-troubleshooter-and-a-high-power-strategist/story-N7tAoh0jnXgOWu7vebnR8H.html
26-11-2020||India||Jharkhand orders probe into Lalu Prasad Yadav’s phone call||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday ordered a probe into the phone call by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad purportedly trying persuade a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA of the ruling-NDA government in Bihar, asking him to abstain from voting during Speaker election. Jharkhand inspector general (IG), prison, Birendra Bhushan on Wednesday set up an inquiry into the matter.“Ranchi deputy commissioner, senior superintendent of police and Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) superintendent were asked to ascertain the veracity of the allegations and submit a report,” Bhushan said.Earlier on Wednesday, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) cornered the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)-led Jharkhand government, demanding criminal action against the jailed RJD chief for allegedly talking to some NDA legislators of Bihar over phone while under custody in Ranchi.Bihar former deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Modi had alleged on Tuesday that the call was made to seek the legislators’ support to topple the ruling NDA government..RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary had said the allegations levelled by Sushil Modi were all baseless. “All these allegations of luring NDA MLAs are baseless and concocted,” he said.The RJD chief is at present lodged at the bungalow of the Superintendent of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, post conviction in fodder scam cases.The RJD has defended Lalu and called the allegations against him baseless .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-orders-probe-into-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-phone-call/story-pTA9dFkheV2w05fxYC8UcI.html
26-11-2020||India||CVC warns officials over property returns||Taking a dim view of central government officials not filing their property details on time, the Central Vigilance Commission issued a warning to all departments that it will take disciplinary action if they don’t complete the exercise by November 30, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “Timely filing of property return by officials of ministries/departments/organisations is one of the mandatory requirement under Conduct Rules. Property returns are also a good tool for CVOs (chief vigilance officers) to detect the source of funding of the assets of the officials and to find out whether these have been acquired through legal means,” CVC said in a note to all central government departments, chairman and managing directors of public sector banks and insurance companies. HT reviewed a copy of the note issued on Monday.“Non-filing of property returns constitutes good and sufficient reasons for instituting disciplinary action against the delinquent officials,” CVC added. Every year, CVC requires Group A, B and C officers across government departments to file details of their properties. The deadline for this is the last day of January (for details related to the previous year). This year, CVC found, while examining reports submitted by some of the CVOs, that in most organisations, many officials are yet to file their annual immovable or movable property details for the previous year i.e., 2019. The last date for filing this in mostorganisations is January 31. “Almost nine months have since lapsed and the organisations are yet to secure 100% compliance in this regard,” CVC said. The government has taken action against some officers who fail to file their property return, by holding their promotions or vigilance clearance as there’s no official data available on the number of defaulters. The ministry of home affairs has also sent a similar letter to all IPS officers across the country to file their immovable property return for 2020 by January 31 next year. In case the IPS officers failed to submit the details by then, concerned officer’s vigilance clearance will be denied, MHA said. That could affect their next posting||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-warns-officials-over-property-returns/story-Xiesy6rJQEV7SngaGHCwtO.html
26-11-2020||India||Nivar weakens into severe cyclonic storm, crosses coast near Puducherry||The very severe cyclonic storm, Nivar, has weakened into a severe cyclonic storm and has crossed the coast near Puducherry, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) early on Thursday.“Very severe cyclonic Storm #Nivar weakens into a severe cyclonic storm. Centre of #NivarCyclone lies over land. Crossed coast near Puducherry during 11:30 pm of 25th November to 2:30 am of 26th November,” IMD said in a tweet.Also Read | Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, rain hits Tamil NaduEarlier on Wednesday, Mahabalipuram in Tamil Nadu braved strong winds as landfall process of Cyclone Nivar continued. Puducherry also received strong winds and heavy rainfall. According to officials, over one lakh people have been evacuated across Tamil Nadu and more than 1,000 people shifted to safer places in Puducherry.The Indian Navy on Wednesday put ships, aircraft, helicopters, diving, and disaster relief teams on standby. An Indian Coast Guard vessel has also been deployed off Chennai coast with disaster relief items.The Indian Army has also deployed eight rescue teams by “Dakhshin Bharat Area”, following requisition by Puducherry civil authorities to undertake rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nivar-weakens-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-crosses-coast-near-puducherry/story-hTgIdYTWKaKofU7LDk7l6I.html
26-11-2020||India||BJP will suffer a political blow in 2021 says Mamata Banerjee||Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party for “defeating other parties through manipulation”, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the party will suffer a political blow in 2021. Banerjee, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief, launched her party’s campaign for the state assembly elections, due early next year, from Bankura district on Wednesday.Addressing a rally at Sanukpahari in the district, she said, “The BJP is a curse for the country. It has to be stopped. It did not win the Bihar assembly elections. It defeated others through manipulation.”The BJP emerged as the second largest party with 74 seats in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls.“I will take complete responsibility from now on. I was too involved in administrative duties and could not give so much time (to the party). That’s why I am starting with Bankura,” Banerjee said. “I promise you (BJP) will not win a single assembly seat in Bankura next year. Some people think that if by chance you come to power they may make a fortune. Let me clarify that you stand no chance in the Bengal polls,” she said. Addressing an election meeting in Birbhum district, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “The TMC cannot win the polls through manipulation and intimidation. Central forces will be deployed near polling booths and local policemen will be posted far away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-suffer-a-political-blow-in-2021-says-mamata-banerjee/story-vjCvLQ6n7lDIwsN8rPZWMK.html
26-11-2020||India||NIA arrests president of PDP’s youth wing||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested the president of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth wing in connection with the case against a senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer who was arrested in January while ferrying two suspected terrorists in a car, said agency officials familiar with the matter.Waheed ur Rehman Parra’s arrest came after two days of interrogation at the New Delhi headquarters of the NIA, which summoned him because, it said, his name had surfaced during its probe of the case against deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh. In Srinagar, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti termed the arrest blackmail and said Parra had been falsely implicated in the case against Singh, who was arrested in January 11 while travelling on the national highway to Jammu in his car along with three men, two of whom were described as Hizbul Mujahideen militants PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti termed the arrest as black mail and said he had been falsely implicated.”Waheed has no connection whatsoever with this man & is being falsely charged. All just to blackmail & intimidate PDP & other mainstream political parties in J&K,” she said, criticising the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre “BJP milks illegal scrapping of Article 370 in every nook & corner of the country. But when it comes to Kashmiris questioning its abrogation they are locked up & punished. Everyone knows at whose behest Davinder Singh worked for. Ironic that they have the gall to blame others,” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister wrote in a tweet.Parra is contesting the District Development Council election from South Kashmir’s Pulwama. Besides being chief of the PDP’s youth wing, he is considered to be close to Mufti and has a strong base among the young in south Kashmir, where he played a pivotal role in organising the party’s public programmes.Parra is the first politician to be arrested in the case against Davinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-president-of-pdp-s-youth-wing/story-vI1p8Sraspggr52f3m8SHM.html
26-11-2020||India||PDP’s office sits on encroached land: J&K administration||A day after two former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, were listed among encroachers on state land, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday made public a list of seven other illegal occupants of land in Jammu district, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).The PDP office stands on three kanals (roughly 1,500 square metres) of illegally occupied state land in Sunjwan village of Jammu, according to the administration, an allegation denied by party president Mehbooba Muft, who said the premises had been rented.“Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP office sits on an encroached three kanals of state land in Sunjwan. The land is suspected to have been encroached upon when Mufti Mohammad Sayeed was the chief minister,” said an official who requested anonymity.Mehbooba Mufti reacted acerbically. “Godi Gang’s desperation to please their masters without checking facts is evident,” she wrote in a post on Twitter, using a mocking term for supporters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Otherwise they’d know that PDP office both in Srinagar & Jammu is rented accommodation & NOT owned by the party. Shame on this Godi Gang for misleading people.”Repeated calls made and messages sent to the PDP chief went unanswered.PDP leader Talib Choudhary is also among the alleged encroachers with two kanals of land in Channi Rama under his occupation. The names of former senior superintendent of police Mirza Rasheed, businessman Haji Sultan Ali, former Congress minister Aijaz Khan’s relative Zehan Din and former inspector general of police Nisar Ali figured in the list.Also Read | Abdullahs named in J&K land encroachment listThe Jammu and Kashmir administration is making public the names of alleged beneficiaries of a two-decade-old, now-repealed law called the Roshni Act that allowed people to acquire proprietary rights to land they had illegally occupied by paying for it. It is also naming those who are still in illegal possession of state land. “We are uploading the list of beneficiaries and encroachers. It will take some time” , Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma said. When asked whether the alleged encroachers would be evicted from state land, he said: “Whatever is required will be done in accordance with the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-s-office-sits-on-encroached-land-j-k-administration/story-nJvlQqNEYFl1sIAYJ2c9WM.html
26-11-2020||India||At IT panel meet, BJP, Congress spar over J&K internet shutdown||A war of words broke out between MPs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on Thursday over whether a Standing Committee on Information and Technology could discuss the issue of internet shut downs in Jammu and Kashmir since the issue pertains to national security, people familiar with the matter said. The BJP MPs, the people cited above said, pointed out that it was a law-and-order issue and the local administration was answerable for measures taken to prevent any tension on the ground. “Officials of the MHA and telecom ministry who were present for the committee hearing told the panel that they were not sure whether the recently amended guideline of a 15-day outer period for Internet shutdowns is still applicable,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Earlier this month, the Union government issued a gazette notification, inserting Rule 2A into the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017 that states “the suspension order issued by the competent authority under sub-rule (1) shall not be in operation for more than fifteen days.” A second member said that the panel will soon present a draft report on Internet suspension. Meanwhile, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, who is also a member of the IT panel, has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla complaining that the panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor has been using the platform of Parliamentary committee for “parochial political purposes.” In his letter, Dubey said that Tharoor had suo motu selected a subject of suspension of telecom services/ internet and its impact for detailed examination notwithstanding the fact that other members of the committee had strongly objected to this. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Dubey said that Tharoor issued summons to the Union home secretary, to appear before the panel for an oral evidence on November 25. “The fact of the matter is that the union home Ministry has already stated the legal position before the committee in its earlier sitting held on October 16, 2020. But calling the union secretary on the already settled issue indicates that either Dr Shashi Tharoor is suffering from acute amnesia, or he still ‘tossing a coin’ for getting some cheap publicity by discussing an issue of national importance – having wider security implications/ramifications,” the letter says. Tharoor was not immediately available for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-it-panel-meet-bjp-congress-spar-over-j-k-internet-shutdown/story-f2QP9DGyzK6vmA9Rk6GB1O.html
26-11-2020||India||Ban on firecrackers an example of judicial overreach, says Naidu||Vice president M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said the recent ban on firecrackers and the vehicle cess levied in Delhi had sparked a debate over judicial overreach and how “occasionally, concerns have been raised as to whether they (judiciary) were entering the domains of the legislative and the executive wings” . The vice president was speaking at the 80th presiding officers conference of Indian legislative bodies. This is the first time that the presiding officer of either House of Parliament has commented on this issue. Naidu is the presiding officer of the Rajya Sabha. Naidu’s comments, seeking clear boundaries for the three wings of the state—legislature, judiciary and executive—reflected the theme of the conference: “Harmonious coordination between legislature, executive and judiciary”. President of India Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the conference— his first public event after more than eight months—here in Gujarat. Under the chairmanship of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, the event will see a series of working sessions before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the presiding officers on Thursday. “There have been debates as to whether some issues should have been more legitimately left to the other organs of the government. For example, (the ban on) Deepavali fireworks; cess on registration and movement of vehicles from the National Capital Region through Delhi; banning use of vehicles after 10 or 15 years; monitoring police investigations; denying the executive any role in the appointment of judges by instituting a collegium which is said to be an extra-constitutional body; invalidating the National Judicial Appointments Commission Act seeking to ensure transparency and accountability (in judicial appointments) are being cited as instances of judicial overreach,” he said, emphasizing that no wing has supremacy over the other under the Indian ConstitutionIn 2014, the government decided to set up the National Judicial Appointments Commission, comprising the chief justice of India, two senior judges of the apex court, the Union law minister and two “eminent persons” to decide on the appointment and transfer of judges. The Supreme Court struck down the law enabling this in 2015. Senior judicial appointments continue to be made by the judges themselves, though the collegium, and while the government, through the law ministry, can ask the collegium to reconsider its choice, or delay signing off on it, it does not have veto power. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said “differences in institutions have emerged in the journey of democracy” and underlined that all three organs have “sufficient powers” to work. He emphasized “coordination” between the three wings and said all of them has a job to protect the public interest. Naidu acknowledged that the higher judiciary has delivered several “far-reaching verdicts in furtherance of socio-economic objectives” and correctional interventions. He also cited instances of legislative and executive excess such as rules under subordinate legislation violating provisions of original legislation or violations of rights and liberties by the executive that are “too visible for comfort.” He also mentioned 39th amendment to the Constitution placing the election of the president, vice president and prime minister beyond the scope of judicial scrutiny as legislative over-activism. A harmonious relationship between three wings of the Indian state “warrants a spirit of mutual respect, responsibility and restraint. Unfortunately, there have been several instances of crossing the boundaries,” Naidu concluded.Senior advocate Raj Panjwani said the legislature has the space “to correct all wrongs or actions which are detrimental to society.”“The role of the judiciary is limited to testing the legality and competence of legislative and executive actions. The problem lies when the legislature fails to correct the wrongs that is a threat to the society at large and also to an individual’s fundamental rights. It is in this scenario, due to failure of the legislature as well as executive to take prompt and appropriate actions, in particular with issues concerning the environment, the Constitution empowers the judiciary to step in and fill up the vacuum caused by this inaction,” Panjwani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-firecrackers-an-example-of-judicial-overreach-says-naidu/story-rOr2GqliAUjgZ7Z7kgpYUM.html
26-11-2020||India||The centrality of Ahmed Patel in Indian politics||In a parliamentary democracy, power is diffused. The legislature is where the sovereignty of citizens is expressed through representatives; the executive is where real authority is exercised, shaping lives of citizens and steering the nation through everyday crises. The political coalition or party which enjoys a majority drives the political outlook and vision governing decisions; the bureaucracy influences both policy formulation and acts as a policy executor; the judiciary keeps an eye on whether the exercise of this authority is being done within the framework of the Constitution; big business has its priorities, and through political funding, often wields an invisible influence on policy; the media plays the role of a watchdog; and civil society represents, often, the views of organised citizens with specific interests which need to be heard and accommodated for deeper legitimacy.If there was one Congress leader who had an almost instinctive understanding of how to manage these various sources and sites of power, it was Ahmed Patel. And that is why his loss is the most significant setback to India’s Grand Old Party in recent times. The setback is even deeper because the Congress—after losing two consecutive Lok Sabha elections and multiple state elections, being perceived as directionless, in the midst of uncertainty over leadership and a cold war between diverse interest groups—is now left bereft of perhaps the one man who had the ability to bridge stakeholders within the power apparatus of the party, and between the party and its possible constituents of support outside.Ahmed Patel entered Parliament when the Congress was in Opposition for the first time in Indian history—after the Emergency. Like many others who cut their teeth in those difficult times when the Congress was being attacked by those in government and facing an internal churn, Patel made his choice early on. He would stay loyal to Indira Gandhi and the family.But it was during Rajiv Gandhi’s time that Patel began understanding the dynamics of power—forming a part of the troika of parliamentary secretaries the PM appointed. It was here that Patel understood the power and constraints within which the prime minister, even one with 400-plus seats, operated; he saw the power of the Parliament, even where the Opposition was at its weakest; he saw the importance of keeping the party organisation together, in the midst of emerging mutinies against the young PM; he saw how handling contradictions that emerge from religion and caste was central to managing politics (an area of familiarity since his home state, Gujarat, too, was often the site of both communal and caste clashes). It was here that he began forming lifelong networks within the party, and his loyalty to the Nehru-Gandhi family deepened.But if he cut his teeth with Rajiv Gandhi, it was with Sonia Gandhi that Patel truly came into his own. Once again, like at the beginning of his political career, the Congress was in crisis in the late 1990s and early 2000s—Sonia Gandhi had just entered formal politics and had not yet attained the respect of all within her own party; Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power and being rated as the most popular prime minister of recent times; Patel’s home state of Gujarat was now firmly in the grip of the Bharatiya Janata Party, with an unprecedented degree of Hindu-Muslim polarisation and with Patel himself being made acutely conscious of his Muslim identity. Few thought the Congress could return to power.But it did, pulling off a surprise in the 2004 polls. And that is when Patel began harnessing all the skills that he had developed in the preceding two-and-a-half decades. India had the most unusual experiment of the party president (Sonia Gandhi) constituting one element of the power matrix and the prime minister (Manmohan Singh) constituting another. There may be diverse views on whether this experiment was healthy or even appropriate for democracy—but if it lasted for a decade, the man who played a central role in navigating the relationship, determining the messages that went from the party to the government, and playing the messenger at the highest levels of power was Ahmed Patel.Between 2004 and 2014, it would not be an exaggeration to suggest that no major political or policy decision happened without either Ahmed Patel’s consent or his knowledge. The man who developed a legendary reputation for operating largely at night became the key gatekeeper to Sonia Gandhi—in terms of who she would meet, what she would prioritise, and which way she would veer—and the most formidable, but largely invisible, power centre in India in recent decades.If a Congress leader had a grievance, he went to Patel. If a state was headed for elections, it was left to Patel to determine the candidates and tone of the campaign. If a Cabinet reshuffle had to take place, it was Patel who deliberated on the names with Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. If an ally had to be managed, it was Patel who worked his phones. If resources had to be mobilised, it was Patel who tapped his corporate network, often leveraging his Gujarati roots with the country’s biggest business houses. If a top bureaucratic appointment was in the offing, officials lined up, quietly—and yes, again in the middle of the night—to make their case to Patel. If the Opposition had to be countered—either by political management or using the instruments of the State (including in violation of the spirit of democratic norms)—it was Patel who gave the green signal. If the media strategy was to be decided, Patel gave the talking points to the party’s spokespersons or briefed journalists, almost always off the record. If a party unit in a state was in the grip of a factional divide, it was left to Patel to read the riot act and reconcile interests. This, indeed, was the hard mechanics of politics that Patel thrived in—away from the public glare on the more orchestrated elements of political theatre.In the last six years, Patel had to deal with two distinct transitions. One was the change in the national political climate, with a dominant BJP, led by his old acquaintance, and some suggest, friend, from his Gujarat days — Narendra Modi—changing the vocabulary and rules of Indian politics. But it was not as much Modi, with whom Patel did share cordial ties, but Amit Shah, who saw Patel as among those responsible for the cases against him in Gujarat, who decided to challenge Patel’s power—including in the thriller of a contest for his Rajya Sabha seat from Gujarat in 2017. Patel won that battle, and this was testament to how, even at his weakest, he had the instruments to secure his interests.The second was the more immediate internal generational transition within his own party, with Sonia Gandhi stepping back and Rahul Gandhi emerging as the next leader. Rahul Gandhi was understood to have deep scepticism of the party’s “Old Guard”, which he blamed for the weaknesses of the United Progressive Alliance government and for the larger political culture within the Congress. Rahul Gandhi appeared to think that the presence of well-entrenched political leaders around his father and mother had led them to make political mistakes. Never confirmed by either side, and often the subject of Delhi’s political grapevine, Patel—in this viewpoint—represented the Old.But over the past few years, even Rahul Gandhi appeared to recognise the indispensability of Ahmed Patel. He played a key, but behind-the-scenes role, along with his old friend who too had cut his teeth in the late 1970s and early ’80s, Ashok Gehlot, in helping Rahul Gandhi mount an aggressive campaign in the Gujarat elections of 2017; he played his part in managing the Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh elections in 2018, with success; as treasurer, he ensured that the Congress—despite being out of power—had the resources to put up a fight in 2019; with Sonia Gandhi‘s return as the party chief, he helped rehabilitate Bhupinder Hooda in Haryana, posing a challenge to the BJP in state polls; and he was a behind-the-scenes architect of the Maharashtra alliance with another of his older, former colleagues, Sharad Pawar.For a man who entered the national political theatre when the Congress was in Opposition 43 years ago, and has left the theatre of life when the Congress is in Opposition now, Ahmed Patel’s life was marked by his relationship with power, even though he wore that power very lightly, with a smile, often understating his own authority and being tentative about any evolving political situation. Or perhaps it was because he had seen power so up close that there was also this tentativeness about Patel; certitudes, he knew, did not work in democratic politics.There can be a strong critique of his importance—for should a man who largely operated invisibly have exercised such power without the commensurate public accountability? Was he so immersed in just navigating the corridors of power in central Delhi that he failed to read the political currents on the ground and prepare his party leadership accordingly? But irrespective of one’s views on Patel, there is little doubt that he remained a true, loyal, indispensable pillar of the Congress—and, by extension, of Indian politics. The party will feel his loss deeply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-centrality-of-ahmed-patel-in-indian-politics/story-NgvulUwkxMTX4KFbtwy26K.html
26-11-2020||India||States can put curbs, but discussion must for lockdowns: MHA||States and Union territories (UTs) may impose local restrictions such as night curfews in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but they will have to consult the central government before imposing a lockdown outside containment zones, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in new guidelines released on Wednesday.The standard operations procedures (SOPs), applicable for December, did not bring about any major changes or impose any significant restrictions. Instead, they focused on “Surveillance, Containment and Caution”, and aimed at consolidating “the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19”. The guidelines said that states and UTs “shall consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures” in order to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time in cities where the weekly case positivity rate — proportion of samples found positive for the Covid-19 — is more than 10%. The MHA document also laid stress on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, asking states and UTs to consider actions, including levying fines on those not wearing masks in public and work spaces.The guidelines asked authorities to ensure strict enforcement of wearing face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. It said that to ensure social distancing in crowded places, especially in markets, weekly bazaars and public transport, the health and family welfare ministry will issue an SOP, which has to be strictly followed.“...keeping in view the recent spike in new cases in few States/ UTs, ongoing festival season and onset of winter, it is emphasised that to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines/ SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MOHFW).“Local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed Containment measures are strictly followed. States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said the home ministry’s guidelines.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThey added that state authorities shall not impose any lockdown outside containment zones without consulting the Union government. To be sure, the previous guidelines, applicable in November, contained the same clause.The guidelines came in the backdrop of a surge in Covid-19 infections in several parts of the country after Diwali. Alarmed, the Centre has rushed special teams to eight states — Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab — over the past two weeks, while authorities in Delhi and at the Centre have held multiple meetings to devise strategies to contain what is viewed as the third wave to have hit the national capital.As of Wednesday, total cases in the country stood at 9,222,216 and fatalities at 134,699. Over the past seven days (November 17-24), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 43,476 (7.96%) every day across the country. States such as Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have recently released night curfews in select areas to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.The MHA guidelines asked local authorities to ensure a careful demarcation of containment at the micro level. It said that the list of containment zones will be notified on the websites by district collectors and will be shared with the MOHFW.Listing down the SOPs concerning containment zones — the epicentre of an infection, the guidelines said that only essential activities will be allowed in these areas and that there shall be strict perimeter control, door-to-door surveillance and quick isolation of Covid-19 patients in treatment facilities or at home on case-by-case basis.“Listing of contacts shall be carried out in respect of all persons found positive, along with their tracking, identification, quarantine and follow up of contacts for 14 days (80% of contacts to be traced in 72 hours),” the guidelines said. They added that the surveillance for “ILI/ SARI cases” (influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infections) will be carried out in health facilities or outreach mobile units or through fever clinics in buffer zones.The MHA document stressed that all activities are allowed outside containment zones, though some are permitted with restrictions. These are: international air travel of passengers (as permitted by the government); cinema halls and theatres with up to 50% capacity; swimming pools (only for training of sportspersons); exhibition halls (only for business to business purposes); social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious gatherings with up to a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity and a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces. However, authorities are allowed to reduce the ceiling to 100 persons or less, in closed spaces.The guidelines asked district, police and municipal authorities to ensure that the containment measures are strictly followed, and also instructed local officials to follow prescribed SOPs for activities permitted with restrictions.The guidelines also said that there shall be no restriction on inter- and intra-state movement, “including those for cross land-border trade under Treaties with neighbouring countries”. No separate permission or e-permit will be required for such movements, they said.The guidelines said that those above 65 and with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years are advised to stay at home, and encouraged the use of the government’s contact-tracing mobile application, Aarogya Setu.“Disease spread can be controlled even without implementing a lockdown, and by strictly following the fundamental principles for control of any communicable diseases, including observing respiratory etiquettes. All spikes that have been seen in this pandemic are because people dropped their guard and stopped following Covid-19 appropriate behavior such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and hygiene. Lockdown was meant to buy time to prepare country’s health infrastructure to handle patient load. That purpose has been solved,” said Jugal Kishore, head, department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-put-curbs-but-discussion-must-for-lockdowns-mha/story-X6ADCs9ECmfHJsoaoEc8jM.html
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, rain hits Tamil Nadu||The landfall of Cyclone Nivar began around 10:30 pm, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) latest weather bulletin on Wednesday night. The wind speed is expected to be between 120 and 130 kmph, gusting upto 145 kmph when the cyclone will make landfall, the IMD said in its bulletin at 9:30 pm. It further said that the very severe cyclonic storm lay 50 km east-northeast of Cuddalore, 40 km east-southeast of Puducherry and 120 km south of Chennai.Earlier in the day, thousands of families were evacuated across Chennai and coastal districts of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday even as torrential rains, strong winds and high tides continued to batter the state. “As many as 1,21,152 people have been evacuated across the state including Cuddalore, Villupuram, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Perambalur,” said Phanindra Reddy, principal secretary and commissioner, state’s disaster management and mitigation department. Life came to a standstill as electricity supply was interrupted in several parts of Chennai and other districts as hundreds of trees and electricity poles were uprooted. Buses and cars were seen stranded on roads and subways, forcing commuters to wade through knee-deep water. Several homes in low lying areas were also flooded with water. “People have been advised to not come out until district authorities announce that it is safe,” said Reddy. The landfall is expected between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during midnight and early hours of November 26 with a wind speed of 12-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph. “Even after landfall, the system is likely to maintain its cyclone intensity for about six-hours and weaken gradually,” the weather office said.Airport operations (domestic and international flights) at the Chennai airport were suspended from 7pm on November 25 to 7am on November 26. As of 8pm, 2,707 people including 525 children in relief camps in Chennai. All major arterial roads in Chennai have been closed until further. Around 465 government ambulances have been stationed in seven coastal districts across the state. Also Read | Cyclone Nivar: Once bitten twice shy, Chennai residents park cars on flyoverOn Tuesday, IMD said that Nivar would make landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm in the evening hours but on Wednesday morning IMD’s bulletin said landfall was expected in the evening. “A delay is seen in timing of the landfall owing to rather slow movement of the cyclone. But there is no change from the expected intensity of very severe cyclone, during the time of landfall. The slow movement realised has been due lighter steering winds in which the Cyclone is embedded as well as due to change in direction of movement, as had been predicted,” added Devi.  The cyclone warning issued by IMD on Wednesday evening was upgraded to “Red” category from “Orange” category owing to the damage and extremely heavy rainfall expected in the region associated with landfall. “A red warning in case of Cyclone represents the 4th stage of warning, which includes the post landfall outlook as well. In the post landfall outlook, we will include the likely movement and adverse weather likely in those districts, which might fall along the expected track of the system after landfall. This is usually issued nearly 12 hours prior to the expected landfall,” Devi explained.Even after landfall, the system is likely to maintain its cyclone intensity for about 6 hours and then weaken gradually. Under its influence rainfall at most/many places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places with extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) likely to occur over Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur, Vellore districts of Tamil Nadu and Chittoor, Kurnool, Prakasam; Cuddappa districts of Andhra Pradesh and adjoining southeast Telangana on November 26.After 6pm, 5,000 cusecs of surplus water was released from Chembaramakkam reservoir into the Adyar river which is an increase from 1,000 cusecs released on Wednesday noon. “It will keep going up as the inflow goes up,” said Reddy. “We will release water in a controlled manner,” said chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami after he inspected the Chembarambakkam reservoir which is about 30km from Chennai in the adjoining Kancheepuram district. “Adyar river has the capacity to carry 60,000 cusecs. Government is taking all precautions.”Braving the rains, civic workers, police personnel, NDRF and SDRF cleared water-logging, fallen trees and poles and evacuated families to safer locations. Armed forces are on standy-by with helicopters and ships ready for rescue operations. The previous cyclone to hit Tamil Nadu was Gaja (classified as a very severe cyclonic storm) in November 2018. It claimed 46 lives and left a trail of destruction leaving lakhs of people homeless. “This cyclone may not cause that amount of damage but it will bring a lot of rainfall,” said former IMD director Y E A Raj.AIADMK and DMK leaders and workers also took part in relief work. Stalin wearing rain gear provided aid to families living in inundated areas such as Kolathur, Choolai and Villivakkam. BJP cancelled its Vetrivel Yatra (victorious spear march) due to the cyclone and joined in the relief work. Chief Minister Palaniswami announced a public holiday on Thursday across 16 districts in Tamil Nadu. In Puducherry, where section 144 is imposed, 2,200 people have been shifted to 285 relief centres. “The next few hours are crucial. We hope there is no major casualty or damage to property,” said the union territory’s collector, T Arun.Independent scientists said warming of oceans due to climate change was leading to more intense cyclones and dangerous storm surges. “Now we have a La Nina in the Pacific, that is cool conditions in the Pacific that makes the local environmental conditions favorable for cyclogenesis in the Bay of Bengal. During the last 40 years, six cyclones - of the severe cyclone category- hit the Tamil Nadu coast in November. Out of these six, five of them coincided with La Nina like conditions in the Pacific. So that means to some extent we were expecting a cyclone season in the Bay of Bengal during this time - and it is not a surprise,” Roxy Mathew Koll, Scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and co-author on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Oceans and Cryosphere report said in a statement on Wednesday.“The case of Cyclone Nivar is similar to that of Cyclone Ockhi in several ways. In November 2017, Cyclone Ockhi intensified rapidly from a moderate cyclone to a very-severe-cyclone in 24 hours, resulting in death of 844 in India and Sri Lanka. We found that unusually warm ocean temperatures favoured its evolution from a depression to cyclone in 9 hours and then to a very-severe-cyclone in 24 hours. The Bay of Bengal is part of the warm pool region, where the temperatures are generally about 28-29°C in November and occasionally exceeding 30°C. These high temperatures are generally conducive for cyclogenesis. On top of that the global warming element is there - this time the temperature anomalies are about 0.5-1°C and in some regions reaching 1.2°C, based on buoy and satellite estimates,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-makes-landfall-rain-hits-tamil-nadu/story-JPsMHU2jRDi9DNyxDhTwDL.html
26-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Next week is an important one for India in its fight against the coronavirus disease. There are clear signs of a second wave — there have been, for some time — but the week starting November 30 will decide how rapidly this gathers momentum. For, this is when we will know whether the crowded markets seen just ahead of Diwali (November 14), and the Diwali celebrations themselves — they were muted this year, but there were some gatherings and family get-togethers, and some people did travel to be with their families — have resulted in a spike in cases. If there is one, it will actually start showing up in the numbers by the end of this week.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThat’s because anecdotal evidence — from Labour Day weekend in the US to crowding in a vegetable market in Chennai in May — suggests that cases peak two weeks after such events. And that’s because science suggests that superspreaders and also superspreader events play an important role in the transmission of the disease.If there’s any chance at all that India will dodge this spike, it comes from the fact that Diwali came at a time that was either the end of the first wave, or the beginning of the second in India. It is possible, and also probable that the country’s second wave will, much like the first, gather momentum slowly, rather than being turbocharged right at its beginning by a sharp rise in case numbers.In this, India is fortunate.This week, the US celebrates one of its biggest holidays, Thanksgiving (on November 26) — one that usually sees a lot of people traveling to be with their families. In each of the past two weeks, the country, now seeing its third wave of the coronavirus disease, has added at least a million cases. And although the country’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that people avoid travelling, over the weekend, US airports saw their busiest period since March, with three million people passing through them, according to data from the Transport Security Administration. That’s still around 40% lower than the number of people who travelled by air ahead of Thanksgiving last year, but media reports suggest that many people believe that travelling to be with family on Thanksgiving is worth the risk of contracting Covid-19, and also that there is a surge in travel. That’s bad news for a country that is doing around 175,000 cases a day on average, where cases are high and rising in almost every state, and where hospitals are being overwhelmed by a growing number of hospitalisations. Experts fear that a Thanksgiving spike could push several states and their public health systems over the edge.It isn’t clear why the nature of waves across countries is as different as it is — the second wave seems to have peaked in much of Europe, which would mean that both waves in most European countries have lasted for less time than corresponding waves in the US (and also India).India’s first wave lasted for months, gathering momentum slowly, peaking in mid-September, and then falling. Geographical and population size could explain this — it is one thing in common to both India and the US, and also Brazil (it has seen the third highest number of cases), which is also seeing a second wave, although that country’s numbers are far too patchy to be taken seriously.In the US and elsewhere, the fact that four vaccines have now shown high efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 could well be encouraging people to take risks they otherwise would not — the New York Times reported, citing data from a travel search engine, that travel bookings increased after Pfizer/BioNTech’s announcement in early November that their vaccine was effective in protecting people from the coronavirus disease.This behaviour, stemming from the belief that the worst is over— it doesn’t have a name yet, but I am sure one will be coined soon — is just as bad as Covid- or pandemic-fatigue.Sure, at one level, the success of four vaccines has changed everything.Yet, at another, it has changed nothing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-XRMBAttSTD9tBzKKHkGhEP.html
26-11-2020||India||‘Gupkar can canvass freely’: J&K Governor Manoj Sinha||There is complete freedom in Jammu & Kashmir for politics, but not anti-national activities, the Union Territory’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said on Wednesday, days ahead of the region’s first direct election since it was controversially stripped of its special status and bifurcated last year. In an exclusive interview, Sinha, 61, laid out the political road map for the UT and detailed security arrangements for the district development council (DDC) elections, which begins on Saturday where six million electors across 20 districts will choose 280 representatives — 140 each in Jammu and Kashmir. He also shared his assessment of the security situation, insisting that the forces have an upper hand on militants despite recent incidents like a foiled terror plot last week in Nagrota in Jammu district. “Only India’s Constitution permits one to use unconstitutional language. There is full freedom here for those who want to do political activities. But permission is only for politics, not for anti-national activities,” he said. Sinha — who was a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Uttar Pradesh before he was appointed the UT’s second LG in August — strongly argued against separatism and a space for the Hurriyat Conference in the region’s politics. Also Read | J&K DDC polls: Gupkar Alliance releases fifth list“I feel that nationalist forces and pro-India voices should get patronage in J&K. We will carry that forward,” he said. Sinha said the state election commission responded to complaints by the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that their candidates were confined in security camp and not allowed to freely canvass for the eight-phase polls. “Following their complaints, the state election commissioner has assured a level-playing field for all parties. There will be no discrimination. Candidates will have all the freedom to canvass,” he said. PAGD is a recently stitched alliance between six mainstream parties in Kashmir, including former rivals National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, who demand the restoration of Article 370, which bestowed special status on the region. “This election will be a milestone for grassroots democracy and development… polling will be the real test of people’s fervour, but feedback suggests an overwhelming response,” Sinha said. He condemned the recent killings of political leaders – 10 local BJP leaders have been gunned down this year – but added that his administration made solid arrangements for security to ensure free and fair polls. “Attempts to disrupt the election process will not succeed. People want to participate in elections, and our forces are vigilant,” he added. Sinha disagreed with recent statements made by former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti that militancy was on the rise and more young people were joining extremism, and stressed that the coordination between forces had improved. “Security is not a concern. Our forces are fully alert to deal with any situation. There are people in our neighbourhood who want to destabilise the situation. But there is nothing to worry,” he said. Sinha said his biggest challenge was to create a mechanism for people to air their grievances and get redressal and added that Kashmiri youngsters, who took to arms but surrendered, should be allowed to return to the mainstream. “Anyone who expresses faith in the Constitution must get a chance.”Some political parties disagreed with the L-G’s assessment. “ Lt-Governor is right in theory that nationalist forces needs to be patronised in J&K. In reality, however, the government’s decisions and actions are pushing them to the other side of the fence,” said GA Mir, chief of J&K Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-can-canvass-freely-j-k-governor-manoj-sinha/story-BMxMfaqbT6jppXtf3SjJYI.html
26-11-2020||India||Delhi NCR in a chokehold of its own emissions||The air quality in the National Capital Region plunged back into the “severe” pollution zone and inched towards emergency levels on Wednesday, shrouding the region in a haze of its own emissions that have now been trapped by a cocktail of metrological factors: low winds, a blanket of clouds, and cold temperatures. The 24-hour air quality index in Delhi was 413 according to the 4pm bulletin by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and the concentration of fine PM10 particles and ultra-fine PM2.5 particles were close breaching the emergency thresholds. The deterioration comes after a brief respite from an early November spell of pollution largely caused by farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.Weather agency officials said the problem now is because local emissions – tailpipe gases, road dust, smoke from garbage burning and industrial emissions – are not being blown away by wind. It is made worse by cloud cover, which drives up moisture and reduces the room for pollutants to lift higher into the sky.“Both mixing height and ventilation index are very low now, which leads to accumulation of pollutants very close to the surface. This is mainly due to lack of winds which would otherwise disperse these pollutants,” said VK Soni, senior scientist at IMD.Experts also saw this as a reminder of how much of the problem that Capital itself is responsible for. “Today (Wednesday) a fire raged on at the Ghazipur landfill, that too on a day when pollution levels were already in the critical levels. It is such instances that we need to control. Can we say that there are no garbage fires happening in Delhi now? Or no vehicular emissions or we have been able to control road dust completely,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).Also Read | Delhi’s air quality worsens, temperature to rise over next couple of daysRoychowdhury added that Delhi’s air quality also depends on the polluting sources in the NCR towns such as Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad and Noida -- they recorded AQIs of 444, 299, 348, 414 respectively.Delhi largely goes through several cycles of bad air days in winter, which relent only when the region has favourable weather conditions. After the October-end, early-November peak seen every year for at least the past decade, the second peak arrives sometime in December. This year, however, it seems to have happened sooner than usual.A 2019 analysis by Council on Energy, Environment and Water showed tailpipe emissions from vehicles contribute as much as 39.2% of the city’s PM 2.5 levels. Roadsides dust adds up to 37.8% to this. In PM10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), the contribution of road dust goes up to 65.9%.Delhi does not have an emissions inventory showing contribution of local sources to overall pollution levels on a daily basis – the above numbers reflect how it is typically in winter. Experts point out that addressing these is crucial for a long-term solution.“If local emissions are reduced by a large fraction (at least by 25%-30%), the peak in pollution levels reaching in the ‘severe’ zone could definitely be lowered to ‘very poor’ and even ‘poor’ levels. While the number of ‘severe’ days recorded during winter has come down over the past few years, specific action and long-term planning is required,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi.Dey also said emissions from the neighbouring regions including Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are a problem for the Capital. “Gurugram and Faridabad are upwind of Delhi, the emissions directly have an impact on the city’s air. Besides, a number of industries, both conforming and not conforming to regulations, are located at Delhi’s border and in areas such as Ghaziabad, which also contribute to pollution in the capital,” said Dey.According to Union government’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution levels was as low as 2% (the number of fire counts was 63.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai, however, said most of the problem is still due to farm fires that neighbouring states need to address. “Even over the last fortnight, when Delhi’s air quality started deteriorating, the contribution of stubble fires was high. This can be clearly seen through the satellite images of NASA,” said Rai. MM Kutty, the chairperson of the newly-formed Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, said long-term solutions are being worked upon.“We have a forward looking approach. We are working on identifying long term solutions to this problem (stubble burning). A workable solution will be attempted by the Commission in consultation with all stakeholders so that the problem does not arise in future. Now stubble burning is over. We are also trying to establish the wherewithal to implement various measures to control spike in winter pollution. CPCB should continue to do its job,” said Kutty.A senior official in the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said action on hot spots is being taken. “The patrolling teams have been issuing fines wherever garbage burning has been observed. Besides, all efforts are being taken to prevent dust emissions,” the official said.Soni said slight improvement is likely in air quality from Thursday onwards when light rain is expected and the wind speed is predicted to pick up to 10-12kmph. “The air quality is expected to improve tomorrow onwards. Also, no major deterioration is likely till November 30. It will remain in the lower end of ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ zone,” he said.But even these few days of severe air quality can be more dangerous than typical years. Exposure to high levels of pollution has been linked to an increase in the likelihood that a person can develop a serious grade of Covid-19, raising the risk of fatalities. Over the next few days, people should expect winter to take hold more strongly. “Due to likely fall in minimum temperatures over northwest India, cold wave condition is expected to prevail at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh between November 27 and November 29,” the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. The minimum temperatures in Delhi on November 23 dipped to 6.3 degree Celsius, lowest for the month in the last 17 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ncr-in-a-chokehold-of-its-own-emissions/story-P9RMXaoIJhtQABpFR0kKDM.html
26-11-2020||India||Tension in air as farmer march to Capital halted||Delhi Police have upped their guard and bolstered security at the city’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in order to stonewall a massive protest by farmers who are marching to the national capital to stage a demonstration against three contentious laws enacted recently by Parliament to liberalise the farm sector, according to officials.About 200 farmers’ unions have called for a two-day protest in Delhi beginning Thursday, putting the city’s administration on alert over potential law and order issues and a traffic nightmare, and prompting it to announce that any such gathering in the national capital will attract legal action.On Wednesday, high drama unfolded in neighbouring Haryana, where authorities put up blockades on Punjab’s borders to stop farmers coming from the state. While the move worked to some extent, farmers within Haryana challenged law enforcement officials, used tractors to demolish multi-layer barricades on highways and continued their march towards the Capital. Also Read | Farmers at border for ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, Haryana determined to stop them: 10 pointsEish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said that all requests received from farmers’ organisations to hold protests have been rejected and they have been informed about the decision. “Please co-operate with Delhi Police in ensuring no gathering in Delhi amid Coronavirus, failing which legal action will be taken,” Singhal said on Twitter.He said that additional police and paramilitary forces have been deployed in districts that share borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and in New Delhi district. Jantar Mantar, which is the city’s protest venue, is in the New Delhi district. Ten of 15 territorial police districts share borders with either Haryana or Uttar Pradesh or both.“We have also begun a special checking of vehicles and people entering the city,” Singhal said. “We have warned them (protesters) over the phone, we have warned them on social media. If they still enter Delhi, they should be ready to face the law.”A deputy commissioner of police (DCP), who did not want to be named, said officials were keeping a close watch on large vehicles entering the city. “If people are coming in large numbers in a vehicle, they are being stopped and their identities ascertained,” he said. District DCPs are camping at the border points, where anti-riot and crowd control vehicles have been deployed.Metro train services on several corridors will be restricted during the first half of the day on Thursday. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has decided to stop regular services between several stations on six of its corridors.As tension hung in the air in Delhi on Wednesday, Haryana’s Ambala turned out to be the epicentre of a confrontation between police and the protesters. Despite appeals to withdraw their “Delhi Chalo” call, farmers gathered in large numbers near the New Grain Market in Ambala Cantonment on the national highway. The farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, hit the roads with tractors, cars and bikes that carried ration and tents. Officials used water cannons when the farmers managed to break the barricades at Ambala. Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia accused the farmers of creating a law and order challenge. “They resorted to stone-pelting...they tried to hit the police with their speeding vehicles and run over the police...we will lodge an FIR (first information report) against them,” he said, even as the farmers marched towards Kurukshetra. Attempts by police to stop the farmers failed in Kurukshetra as well, even though officials installed barricades and used water cannons. “We are farmers and we do not have any plan or strategy, but we will not clash with the police and will continue our march peacefully”, said BKU state president Charuni. Meanwhile, the district administrations of Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts blocked Haryana’s borders to halt farmers from Punjab. “The police have been deployed at the state border in Cheeka of Kaithal district and the farmers from Punjab will not be allowed to enter Haryana,” said Kaithal SP Shahank Kumar Sawan.Later at night, the farmers stopped their cavalcade near Samana Bahu village in Karnal district and announced that they will resume their march on Thursday morning. With the police diverting traffic on key roads, there was a long traffic jam on the National Highway 44.In Punjab, farmers who were stopped in their tracks said they did not want any confrontation but will carry on with their protest. Leaders of farmer organisations announced that they will sit on a dharna at the inter-state border for a week. “We don’t want a confrontation. Our aim is to oppose the Centre’s farm laws. If we are not allowed to cross Haryana and head for Delhi on Thursday, our protest destination will be the border points for a week. If we get public support, the duration of the dharnas may be increased,” BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said. In a related development, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday said that in view of losses being suffered by railways and Punjab, it would be forced to pass harsh orders against those blocking rail tracks. The observations were made as the Centre and Punjab told the court that blockade by farmers of rail tracks was still in place in Amritsar remained, although such obstructions have been removed from other places. Food bowl Punjab is at the centre stage of a farmers’ agitation against moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-air-as-farmer-march-to-capital-halted/story-7UaqmlSpTGoVUU2MkzAw2O.html
26-11-2020||India||Odisha orders CID probe into murder of 5-yr-old girl after parents try to kill themselves||A day after the parents of a 5-year-old girl of Odisha tried to immolate themselves in front of the state Assembly alleging police inaction in the investigation of the murder of their child and involvement of a senior BJD minister in the case, the Naveen Patnaik government handed over the case to CID.On Monday, amid high drama Ashok Sahu and his wife Soudamini Sahu of Jadupur village in Nayagarh district tried to immolate themselves after pouring kerosene over their bodies while the winter session of the Assembly was on. The couple was stopped by the police in the nick of time. They said they were frustrated over police inaction in the murder of their 5-year-old daughter Pari, who was kidnapped while playing outside her residence in the village in July this year. Pari’s bones and skull were found dumped in the backyard of their house ten days after she went missing from her home. Later, DNA tests on the bones as well as the Sahu couple proved that it was of the 5-year-old girl.As opposition BJP and Congress demanded resignation of the minister allegedly believed to be involved, minister of state(Home) Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra said the state government had decided to hand over the murder case of the five-year-old girl to CID. This was informed in the state Assembly.Mishra said the polygraph tests of four people have been completed in the case. The call detail records of mobile phones of the suspects have been examined. Till now, 34 suspects have been questioned in the case that was registered under sections 363, 364, 302, and 201 of IPC.On Monday the girl’s parents alleged that her body was found in the backyard with eyes gouged out and kidneys removed. “Babuli Nayak, a close aide of the minister along with his accomplices killed her. Even as months have passed, the accused are moving scot-free. Arun Sahu is sheltering the criminals,” alleged the deceased girl’s mother. Minister Sahoo, did not respond to the allegations levelled by the couple despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-orders-cid-probe-into-murder-of-5-yr-old-girl-after-parents-try-to-kill-themselves/story-fqyr1Tt0igqSfpCQwI6cwJ.html
26-11-2020||India||Kerala and Bengal accept govt’s GST borrowing option||Kerala and West Bengal are the latest members of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council to accept the Centre’s borrowing option of Rs1.1 lakh crore to meet the indirect tax revenue shortfall in 2020-21, reducing the number of dissenting states to three from 10 in September, the Union finance ministry said on Wednesday.“Governments of Kerala and West Bengal have communicated their acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation,” the ministry said in a statement. With this, the number of states and Union territories (UTs) that have accepted the first borrowing option has gone up to 28, it added.“While 28 members have formally accepted the first borrowing option proposed by the Centre, the total number of states may soon go to 29 as Punjab is also considering joining the majority,” an official in the Union government said requesting anonymity. The Centre is yet to get formal acceptance from the governments of Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, the official added.At the 41st GST Council on August 27, the Centre had given two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it had specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either the principle or interest if they borrow only Rs97,000 crore (later this amount was raised to Rs1.1 lakh crore) to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfalls due to an “act of god”, which was the Covid-19 pandemic. Initially 10 states – mostly administered by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties -- objected and insisted that the entire borrowing would have to be done by the Centre without imposing any direct interest burden on states. They were Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal.The states and UTs who opted for the first option are getting the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window, the statement said. The Union government has already borrowed Rs24,000 crore on behalf of states in four instalments during this window, which was operationalised on October 23.“Now the State of Kerala and West Bengal will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowings,” the finance ministry said.While formal notification with regard to Punjab is awaited, other 28 states and UTs to accept the first option are -- Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Puducherry, West Bengal and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-and-bengal-accept-govt-s-gst-borrowing-option/story-VnXLO0endVZ8CskDPxEsgK.html
26-11-2020||India||Freedom for politics, not anti-national activities: J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha||Fifteen months after constitutional changes nullified its seven-decade-old special status, Jammu & Kashmir is set for the District Development Council (DDC) polls, breaking the political ice in the turmoil-prone region. On the face of it, the eight-phase elections, beginning on November 28, are meant to bolster grassroots democratic institutions. They will be a barometer of the popular mood and security challenges – chillingly brought home last week by a foiled Nagrota terror plot – before the Centre decides to wade into deeper waters on the assembly elections. They will also be a litmus test for Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, 61, who, in his over three months at the helm, has started a quiet outreach to prepare the ground for the Union territory’s first political exercise in which the mainstream Kashmir parties are taking part.In an exclusive sit-down interview with Ramesh Vinayak at the Raj Bhawan in Jammu, Sinha spoke on a range of issues, including the security dynamics, the Gupkar alliance, the Roshni land scam, and a road map on economic revival. Edited excerpts:It’s been more than three months since you were appointed lieutenant governor of the country’s most sensitive region. What has been your experience? After taking over, the biggest challenge I sensed was that common people here didn’t have a platform to air their grievances and get redressal. To that end, I took decisions to create a regular and robust mechanism. All deputy commissioners and superintendents of police will meet the public for an hour five days a week. Likewise, commissioners and inspectors generals of Jammu & Kashmir divisions are meeting people three times a week. There are block divas programmes from 10am to 4pm every Wednesday, when officers of all departments attend to public grievances, including those related to ration cards, revenue records, and social pension. People are more interested in government construction works than social security schemes. A balance between the two is crucial for development. So I focused on 100% saturation of the Government of India’s 55-odd social welfare schemes. After a three-week public awareness programme, the implementation has gathered momentum, and reached 95% in 16 (of the 20) districts. In J&K, people are talented, but there has been a scarcity of opportunities. We are trying to get them maximum opportunities. People want peace and development. That is our prime focus. A key reason, it was speculated, that you were picked was because of the Centre’s keenness to have a political hand. Has lending a political touch helped? Now I don’t belong to any political party. I have no political leanings at all. Yes, democracy needs a political process, which we have initiated. For grassroots democracy, the most vital is Panchayati Raj institutions. When, in 1992, Parliament enacted the Panchayati Raj Act, it was formulated as a three-tier system – gram sabha, block development council, and district development council (DDC). But for some reasons in J&K, it was only a two-tier system which had the provision for the district development board, on which, instead of elected representatives, MLAs used to be nominated. It was felt that the system elsewhere should be implemented here too. So an amendment was brought to have directly elected district development councils for which the poll process is now underway. It is heartening that a large number of people have enthusiastically filed nominations for DDCs, which will be the third tier. Polling will be the real test of people’s fervour, but feedback suggests an overwhelming response. We want to create a strong Panchayati Raj system in J&K.What is your assessment of the security scenario in J&K? Security forces have an upper hand. A few incidents [of terrorism] have taken place, including the recent one at Nagrota. The coordination between security forces is good. J&K Police is now fighting on the front, which is seen as a new development. Security is not a concern. Our forces are fully alert to deal with any situation. There are people in our neighbourhood who want to destabilise the situation. But there is nothing to worry. When the Centre made constitutional changes in J&K last year, a key argument it made was that this will deal a decisive blow to militancy in Kashmir. But the security situation still appears fragile. The government has successfully met the challenges on the security front. I don’t agree that the situation is fragile. It is fully under control. You know what was happening here earlier. One can see the difference between then and now. How do you see the situation at the Line of Control? There has been escalation in ceasefire violations and infiltration attempts. Yes, there is cross-border firing. But our forces are giving muhn tor jawab (a befitting response). No one in the country now needs to be told how we retaliate to such situations. The country knows it well, and so does the other side. There has been a considerable decline in infiltration. This is not happening on Kashmir’s LoC. There is a new trend of infiltration from the border in Jammu, and in Punjab. We recently discovered a cross-border tunnel in the Jammu sector. There are attempts to drop narcotics and arms and ammunition through drones. Security agencies are upgrading the technological wherewithal to deal with the new challenges. In the run-up to the DDC elections, there have been targeted killings of political workers, particularly of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Valley. What steps has the government taken to ensure a secure environment for contestants and voters? Such incidents are aimed to diminish the people’s faith in the democratic process and create fear. We got an assessment done and made solid arrangements for security. Attempts to disrupt the election process will not succeed. People want to participate in elections, and our forces are vigilant. Let me assure the people of J&K and the rest of the country that we will make sure that the polls are free and fair. Leaders of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration allege that their candidates are confined in security camps, and are not allowed to move freely for canvassing. Following their complaints, the state election commissioner has assured a level-playing field for all parties. There will be no discrimination. Candidates will have all the freedom to canvass. How will you build on the DDC elections for the revival of a broader political process in J&K?Broadly, each district will elect 14 representatives. In some districts, four to five former MLAs are in the fray. So, in a way, it is a mini-MLA election. When the district development board will be constituted, the DDC members will have a pivotal role to play on development priorities of their districts. This election will be a milestone for grassroots democracy and development. What is your road map to holding elections to the legislative assembly? The nation and people of J&K have faith in what the Prime Minister said in his Independence Day address with regard to assembly elections here. The delimitation commission is doing its job. It is also working in four states of the north-east. Once delimitation is done, it will be up to Election Commission to hold the polls. The country has constitutional institutions whose rights are defined and no one can interfere in that. Is there is a time frame for the delimitation exercise? I can’t tell that. The question as to when will be elections be held should be addressed to Election Commission. Constitutional institutions have their dignity. They should be allowed to do what they are mandated to do. What the Prime Minister and home minister have said in Parliament [on elections in J&K] carries a lot of significance and should be trusted. What is the trend on locals joining militant ranks? Has their number gone up? Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti say that militancy is on the rise? I will go by the numbers put out by security agencies and J&K Police. Their number has considerably declined. Mainstream Kashmiri leaders allege that the government is not allowing the public to express dissent... Only India’s Constitution permits one to use unconstitutional language. There is full freedom here for those who want to do political activities. There is no restriction on them. But permission is only for politics, not for anti-national activities. Security agencies are encouraging Kashmiri youngsters who took to arms to surrender and return to the mainstream. You have promised rehabilitation, which drew criticism in Jammu. How will you strike a balance? Many youngsters [in militant ranks] are realising that they are on the wrong path, and are returning to the mainstream. This is a new and welcome trend. Nobody should have an objection to this. Agar subha ka gaya sham ko ghar wapis aata hai, use avsar milna chahiye (If one is back on the right path, he should get a chance). What I said with regard to their rehabilitation was misunderstood. Anyone who expresses faith in the Constitution must get a chance. Some of the states afflicted with Left-wing extremism have a rehabilitation policy. Security forces and the army are mulling such a policy here, too. What is your sense of the street mood in Kashmir? There is a perception that it is hostile to the Indian State. I don’t see anything like that. I have spent three months in Kashmir. There is a good atmosphere here. People are looking forward to opportunities to progress. How do you see the formation of the Gupkar alliance on a single-point demand for the restoration of Article 370? Do you see it as a sign of strengthening of democracy, or do you endorse the home minister’s view that this is a gang and unholy global alliance? It is not my job to make a political comment. The home minister is also a leader of a political party. He may have said something. In the country, anyone is free to form a political alliance. Some people have made that [alliance]. The public will decide. Is the alliance good for democracy? Time will tell. Let’s wait. The Kashmiri parties say the ruling BJP is trying to delegitimise their dissent and discredit them. If the BJP is discrediting some party, where do I come in the picture? I don’t have any connection with the BJP right now. So how can I answer on behalf of the BJP or any other party? Kashmiri parties are crying foul over the J&K administration’s decision to make public the names of those allegedly involved in the Roshni land scam and the encroachment of forest land ahead of the DDC elections. They are calling it politically motivated..The administration has not decided anything at its own level. The Roshni Act, and how people got the government land under it, has been under the scanner for a long time. There is already a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report on this. In 2018, the act was scrapped by the then governor. Some public interest litigations were filed in the high court, which last month held that all land allotments under the act were illegal. It also directed the divisional commissioners in Jammu and Srinagar to upload the names of those who were allotted government land for a song under the Roshni Act, and also encroachers of forest land. This is what the administration started doing two days ago. There is no politics in it. This is only compliance of the high court directions. The recently notified new land ownership rules for J&K, allowing outsiders to buy land, have evoked strong reactions in both Jammu and the Valley. Kashmir parties have even alleged that J&K is now up for sale. How are you allaying their apprehensions? The land laws of J&K were antiquated, and some of the clauses were contradictory. The new law is progressive and has adequate safeguards. About 90% of J&K land is agricultural and can be bought only by an agriculturist who will not be from Punjab or Haryana, but only J&K. So, 90% is fully secure. About 5% to 6% is government land, and gone are the days when someone could occupy that. We have opened up the land to set up industrial clusters, private educational and health institutions. J&K has lagged in that. That is all that has changed on land laws. We have identified 3,000 acres and initiated the process of acquisition. The new land law is for the betterment of the people of J&K who have been given the same safeguards as those in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. What has been the progress on vesting forest land rights to communities?The Forest Rights Act, 2006, came into force in the entire country except J&K. That deprived rural and tribal peoples dependent on forests of their rights. But, after abrogation of Article 370, this act has been implemented here, too, since October last year. A detailed plan has been drawn up. By March 1, the district committees will complete the task of providing land rights to Paharis, Bakarwals, Gujjars, and other tribal communities. There appears to be a deep distrust between Kashmir’s mainstream politicians and the Centre? I meet representatives of all political parties. It is a continuing interaction and I solicit their cooperation for fast development of J&K. I have no issue with seeking their support for peace and progress. Are you open to recommending the restoration of statehood to J&K? What is the tangible achievement that you want to see before the Centre can consider doing this? The Prime Minister has told the nation that this is a temporary phase. The home minister said in Parliament that the statehood will be restored. So people should trust what he has said. Definitely, people will get statehood in the near future. What is your road map for the economic revival of J&K, reeling under the double whammy of turmoil and the Covid-19 pandemic? The economy of this place has suffered for a long time. After consultations with all stakeholders, a Rs 1,375-crore package was sanctioned for local business and industry, which have also been granted 50% concession on electricity and water charges for a year. Several administrative reforms have been implemented. A new industrial policy is expected to get the Union cabinet’s sanction anytime soon. That, I am confident, will get J&K private investments of Rs 30,000 crore in two or three years. It will boost the economic revival and create employment avenues. How do you plan to address unemployment?Unemployment is big problem everywhere, but it’s more acute in J&K. Apart from government jobs, there are fewer job opportunities here. The number of government employees here is the same as in Bihar though the latter’s population is 11 times more. We are working on a three-pronged approach. First, a time-bound recruitment drive for 13,000 vacant government jobs is underway, and will be completed in six months. Second, we expect a plethora of opportunities after the new industrial policy kicks in. Third, we are focusing on skilling and start-ups. By 2025, the target is to provide entrepreneurial opportunities to 80% of J&K youth. Tata group has set up a skill development centre in Baramulla, which will be inaugurated after the DDC elections. A similar facility in Jammu will come up this month. In a week or so, we will sign a memorandum of understanding with the Bombay Stock Exchange for setting up training centres in financial and insurance services. We are working on many fronts, including setting up of a state-of-the-art sports infrastructure for which the PM has sanctioned Rs 200 crore.What is your assessment of the future of the Hurriyat specifically and separatist politics in general in Kashmir? I feel that nationalist forces and pro-India voices should get patronage in J&K. We will carry that forward. How have you adapted from being a long-time political activist to the hot seat of constitutional head of India’s most sensitive border territory? I don’t see it as a hot seat. I have already toured 16 of the 20 districts and done public outreach on a large scale. I enjoy working here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-for-politics-not-anti-national-activities-j-k-lieutenant-governor-manoj-sinha/story-XaALmgAJggEl5re9v8Rk5K.html
26-11-2020||India||Rajasthan court pulls up cops who helped parents trying to coerce daughter to get married||A Delhi University graduate who was brought back by police to Rajasthan after her parents filed an abduction report was told by a local court in Dholpur that she is free to go anywhere. The woman had earlier approached the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) alleging that her parents are forcing her to get married against her will.The court also directed the district police to provide security to the woman, who was doing a fellowship at Zila Parishad in Dholpur, till she is dropped at the desired place and inform the local police station of the area. The police are further asked to submit an action taken report in the matter. According to police, the parents of the woman complained of her going missing and a report was filed on November 21. Thereafter, they lodged an abduction complaint on November 23 at Nihalganj police station, Dholpur.The police traced the woman to Delhi and got her back to Rajasthan. Keshar Singh Shekhawat, Superintendent of Police, Dholpur, said the statement of the woman was taken and she was produced before the CJM court on Wednesday.In a letter to SP, Dholpur, the DCW chairperson asked the police to look into the matter and ensure her safety. The woman is a graduate from a college in Delhi and was visiting her family during the Diwali break when her parents arranged a match without her wishes, said the chairperson. She was harassed and threatened by her family members over the phone, the chairperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-complains-parents-forcibly-marrying-her-court-says-free-to-go-anywhere/story-j5QfXUJpuMngp5W93Lc0FK.html
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, rains pound Tamil Nadu coast||The landfall of Cyclone Nivar (pronounced Nivaar, meaning atmosphere) began around 10:30 pm, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) latest weather bulletin on Wednesday night.The wind speed is expected to be between 120 and 130 kmph, gusting upto 145 kmph when the cyclone will make landfall, the IMD said in its bulletin at 9:30 pm.Nivar will hit as very severe cyclonic storm, the IMD said, adding that the storm is likely to cross the coast between Karaikal in Puducherry and Mamallapuram “during the midnight of November 25 and early hours of November 26”.Torrential rains accompanied by gusty winds lashed several parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday, inundating many localities while over one lakh people were moved to shelters as the cyclone approached land.More than 150 relief centres are on standby, government officials said.Areas in and around Chennai witnessed intense spells of rain, accompanied by strong winds on Wednesday.The cyclone is likely to damage houses and roads, uproot power lines and trees and destroy crops along India’s south east coast, the IMD said in a statement.Edappadi Palaniswami, Tamil Nadu state’s chief minister, has declared Wednesday and Thursday as public holidays in some areas, ordered the halting of bus services, advised fishermen not venture to sea and asked people to stay indoors. Vessels in the city’s port have been moved to sea and port operations will likely remain shut until the cyclone makes landfall, a senior port official said.Chennai’s airport will remain closed until 7 am local time (0130 GMT) on Thursday, India’s aviation minister said in a post on Twitter.Nivar is moving west northwards with a speed of 16 kmph and is currently about 130 km off Chennai and 55 km from Puducherry, the IMD said in its latest bulletin.Chennai, Chengelpet, Tiruvallur and Cuddalore districts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry received heavy rains. Chennai recorded the maximum of 16 cm on Wednesday, while Puducherry received 10 cm, the IMD said.The gates of Chembarambakkam reservoir near here were opened for the first time in five years as a precautionary measure, releasing a torrent of surplus water into the Adyar river after its storage was just 20 per cent short of its capacity due to heavy rain ahead of the cyclone.Rainfall is expected to continue in many places in these regions on Thursday too with heavy rainfall at some places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-s-landfall-begins-rains-pound-tamil-nadu-coast/story-xeWmO2NQZgDK5LheSGepEO.html
26-11-2020||India||Highlights: Severe cyclone Nivar continues to move north-northwest wards||Cyclone Nivar, which has already intensified into a severe cyclonic storm over the southwest Bay of Bengal, is likely to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday night or early Thursday. It has intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm”. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin said Cylone Nivar began landfall near Puducherry by 10.30 pm. Nivar moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 6kmph in the past six hours and lay centred over southwest Bay of Bengal about 300km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 310km east southeast of Puducherry and 370km south southeast of Chennai.Follow latest updates on Cyclone Nivar here:Cyclone Nivar wekanes into severe cyclonic storm: IMDVery severe cyclonic storm Nivar weakens into a severe cyclonic storm with wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph at 2:30 am of 26th November., said India Meteorological Department (IMD).The cyclones crossed coast near Puducherry during 11:30 pm of 25th November to 2:30 am of 26th November, it also said.It would continue to move north-northwest wards and weaken further into a cyclonic storm during next six hours.Severe weather warning issued for Tamil NaduState disaster management authorities issues severe weather warning for Tamil Nadu. It warned that severe thunderstorm accompanied with heavy rain likely to occur over Thiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Kallakurichy and Viluppuram districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry area within next 3 hours.Puducherry receives 187 mm rainfall: IMDAs per the Indian Meteorological Department, Cuddalore on Wednesday received 227 mm rainfall between 8:30 am to 10:30 pm. Puducherry received 187 mm rainfall, Karaikal 84 mm, Chennai 89 mm and Nagapatnam received 62 mm rainfall.Nivar begins landfall , says IMDThe The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin said Cylone Nivar began landfall near Puducherry by 10.30 pm. It has already intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm”. ‘Nivar’ now a very severe cyclonic storm, to cross Tamil Nadu- Puducherry coast before dawn on ThursdayTorrential rains accompanied by gusty winds lashed several parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as ‘Nivar’ intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is closing in on the coast. BJP cancels Vetrivel Yatra in Tamil Nadu till Dec 5 due to Cyclone Nivar In view of Cyclone Nivar, Bharatiya Janata Party has cancelled programmes under Vetrivel Yatra from November 25 till December 5 in Tamil Nadu, said BJP state chief L Murugan, on Wednesday. Cyclone Nivar to make landfall after 2 am on Thursday, over 1 lakh people evacuated across Tamil Nadu: NDRF chiefCyclone Nivar, heading towards Tamil Nadu coast, will make landfall after 2 am on Thursday, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director-general SN Pradhan said on Wednesday. He also said that over one lakh people have been evacuated in Tamil Nadu and over 1,000 people have been evacuated in Puducherry. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges AAP volunteers to be ready to helpDelhi chief minister Arind Kejriwal said all Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers should be readu to help in view of Nivar. Kejriwal said he hopes the central and state governments are equipped to handle the situation. Hundreds evacuated in low lying areas in Chennai As the state of Tamil Nadu braces for the impact of Cyclone Nivar, Hundreds of people living in low lying areas in Chennai were evacuated and 150 relief centres were on standby, government officials told news agency Reuters. Areas in and around Chennai witnessed intense spells of rain, accompanied by strong winds on Wednesday. Chennai airport to remain shut from 7pm tonight to 7am tomorrowDue to Cyclone Nivar aircraft operations at the Chennai airport will remain suspended from 7 pm tonight till 7 am Thursday. The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and the severity of approching Cyclone, the airport authorities said in a tweet. Pondy govt geared for cyclone ‘Nivar’As cyclone Nivar approaches, the Puducherry government on Wednesday said the administrative machinery is fully geared up to meet any exigency while chief minister V Narayanasamy visited coastal villages to monitor steps taken to ensure the safety of fishermen community.Homes evacuated as cyclone approaches Several thousand people in south-eastern India fled their homes on Wednesday, out of the path of a cyclone due to slam coastal areas after midnight, bringing with it heavy rain.‘Preparing for the worst’: NDRFCyclone Nivar has been categorised as ‘very severe’. “With this perspective, we’re preparing for worst. Our teams have been on the ground for last two days. Till now, 25 teams been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh,” Sn Pradhan, DG, National Disaster Response Force, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Tamil Nadu CM visits Chembarambakkam Lake to review situation Ahead of Cyclone Nivar, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday visited Chembarambakkam lake to review the ground situation. Water-logging in the area around ChennaiSevere water-logging was reported in the area around Chennai’s Poonamallee High Road following heavy rains.Puducherry CM tells people to stay indoorsPuducherry CM V Narayanasamy on Wednesday advised people to stay indoors and asked those living in low-lying areas to go to safer places. “Eighty centres have been identified where food and medicines are being provided. We shall restore electricity within 12 hours,” he added. Shutters of Chembarambakkam Lake opened to release water into Adyar River #WATCH: Shutters of Chembarambakkam Lake opened to release water into Adyar River, in order to avert flooding. #TamilNadu pic.twitter.com/gztfVJgORN26 flights from/to Chennai cancelledTwenty-six flights from and to Chennai cancelled due to Cyclone Nivar, the Chennai Airport said on Wednesday.Army ready to assist government and civil administration in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry “Army ready to assist government and civil administration in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to face Cyclone Nivar, maintaining communication with officials. Twelve humanitarian assistance and disaster relief teams and two engineer task forces ready for deployment,” the Southern Command, Indian Army stated.Trains services disruptedTwo trains fully cancelled for Wednesday, three for Thursday and one for November 28. A total of five trains have been cancelled partially, the Southern Railways said on Wednesday.  Two trains fully cancelled for today, three for tomorrow and one for 28th November. A total of five trains partially cancelled: Southern Railways #CycloneNivar pic.twitter.com/227m3hqAaJScattered heavy to very heavy rain likely in Tamil Nadu districtsScattered heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam,Cuddalore, Chennai, Kanchipuram,Chengalpattu, Myladuthirai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Kallakurchi, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai Dist of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, the Met department has said. Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvallur, Tirupattur, Krishnagiri, Tiruchirapalli, Salem and Dharmapuri districts of Tamil Nadu are also likely to witness heavy rain, it added.Strong winds at Mamallapuram Mamallapuram experienced strong winds ahead of the expected landfall of Cyclone Nivar between Karaikal and Mamallapuram during midnight Wednesday or early hours Thursday. Ensure that there is no loss of life: Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) meeting on Tuesday through video conferencing with the chief secretaries of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh and secretaries of different ministries and said that their aim should be to ensure that there is no loss of life, damage is minimum and normalcy is restored in power, telecom and other important sectors in the shortest possible time.Are you safe from the cyclone Nivar? The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared the guidelines, suggesting some dos and don’ts before, during and after Cyclone Nivar, which is expected to make landfall on Wednesday night or early Thursday. Check guidelines hereNo flooding, water from Chembarambakkam to be released: OfficialsThere won't be any flooding in Chennai and adjoining districts despite heavy rains ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Nivar on Wednesday, authorities said. Rains have inundated several water bodies in Chennai, however, authorities have ensured the restricted release of surplus water and strengthening of river bunds over the years, they said.Cyclone Nivar about 320 km east-southeast of CuddaloreThe cyclonic storm Nivar over southwest Bay of Bengal moved westwards with a speed of 05 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 5:30pm on Tuesday over southwest Bay of Bengal about 320 km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 350 km southeast of Puducherry and 410 km east southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during subsequent 12 hours.Cyclone Nivar likely to cross between Mamallapuram and Karaikal by midnightCyclone Nivar is likely to cross between Mamallapuram and Karaikal during midnight of Wednesday and early hours of November 26, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD).Officials to remove all the hoardings in Chennai: Chennai Corporation Commissioner Thiru. Prakash has instructed officials to remove all the hoardings/ banners etc in the city before 12pm to avoid any danger, AIADMK said in a tweet.Heavy rain lashes Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s Chennai is witnessing heavy rainfall for the past two days. During to the prevailing weather and Cyclone Nivar set to make landfall tonight, authorities declared a holiday on Wednesday, have banned public gatherings, and closed shops and have mobilised thousands of rescue personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-latest-updates-november-25-2020-tamil-nadu-puducherry-cyclonic-storm-landfall-mamallapuram-karaikal-chennai-cuddalore/story-tNegCg005shy68jCOewcqN.html
