27-11-2020||India||CM Mamata Banerjee concerned as Bengal govt’s potato, onion stocks deplete||With onions and potatoes still selling at double their normal price, their dwindling stock in the government-freezers has come as a cause of concern for the Mamata Banerjee administration, which is gearing up for the crucial 2021 assembly elections. When the prices had hit the roof, the state government was providing onions and potatoes at half the market price to consumers from its own stores. But that stock is expected to last till December only. “The prices of potatoes and onions are rising. As of now we are providing them at reasonable prices from our stocks. But that will last till December only. I don’t know what will happen after that. I have written a letter to the Prime Minister,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, said while speaking in an administrative meeting earlier this week. In February this year, the state government had planned to purchase around one million tons of potato from farmers. The government could, however, purchase only around 42,000 tons of potato before the lockdown started. “At a time when potatoes are selling in the local market at Rs 45 per kilo, the government is selling at Rs 25 per kilo from 630 outlets. The stock won’t last long,” said a senior official of the state government. Even though experts are hopeful that the prices of potatoes and onions will go down once fresh supplies hit the market in the winter, the government seems to be concerned and has asked all cold storage units to clear their stocks by November 30. “This will prevent any kind of hoarding and provide some relief before the fresh winter supplies hit the market. The main concern is that if there is a shortage of supply resulting in a price rise the opposition will get a chance to attack the government before the elections,” said a TMC leader. Banerjee had earlier sent a letter to Modi urging the Prime Minister to either control the prices of potatoes and onions or allow the state to do so. The parliament had in September passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to deregulate commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes. “Winter vegetables are being harvested. We hope that the prices would come down once the fresh supplies hit the market in the winter. The prices of some vegetable such as cauliflower and brinjal have already come down. The prices of onion and potatoes are also expected to decline,” said Rabindranath Kole, a member of the government’s task force. West Bengal needs around six million tons of potato and around eight lakh tons of onion. While the lion’s share of the potato crop is grown in various districts of south Bengal, 80% of the onions come from Maharashtra and other states in south India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-concerned-as-bengal-govt-s-potato-onion-stocks-deplete/story-rbDjcvfS6MC8jIlvzMFtVM.html
27-11-2020||India||IndiGo issues advisory to carry RT-PCR report while travelling to Maharashtra from Delhi-NCR, 3 states||India’s budget airline IndiGo on Friday issued an advisory for passengers travelling to Maharashtra from Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa. The airline has advised the travellers to carry negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours, starting November 25. It also suggested that passengers without negative RT-PCR reports can undergo the test at the concerned airports at their own cost. “Effective 25th November, passengers travelling to Maharashtra from Delhi NCR, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa are encouraged to carry RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours,” the advisory shared from its official Twitter handle read.IndiGo has also published a state-wise requirement on its website. Aarogya setu App has already been made compulsory at several airports and passengers go through thermal screening before boarding their flight. The airline issued the advisory in the wake of rising cases of coronavirus in the several states, including Gujarat and Rajasthan.Also Read | SpiceJet shares surge to 50%, Indigo up 29% in NovemberGujarat health department announced that the state has reported the highest single-day spike of 1,607 Covid-19 cases and 16 new fatalities, taking overall caseload and deaths to 2,05,116 and 3,938 respectively. According to the latest report, Delhi on Friday recorded 5,482 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 5.56 lakh cases, and 98 related deaths.The central government informed the Supreme Court that 10 States have contributed to almost 77 per cent of active Covid caseload in the country. The 10 states contributing the majority of the cases include Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-issues-advisory-to-carry-rt-pcr-report-while-travelling-to-maharashtra-from-delhi-ncr-3-states/story-xp95KFjHhXo7vSFh3W3dsK.html
27-11-2020||India||Odisha CM says ready for SIT probe in murder case of 5-year-old girl||With the opposition BJP and Congress unrelenting in their demand seeking resignation of higher education and panchayati raj minister Arun Sahoo over the alleged murder of 5-year-old girl by one of his aides, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday said the state government was ready for a probe by an SIT if needed.Attending the winter session of the Odisha Assembly through video conference from his residence, CM Patnaik said a probe by the Special Investigating Team (SIT) into the alleged murder of Pari, the 5-year-old daughter of a rickshaw-puller can be ordered, if needed.“My government is always committed to free and fair investigation. I am deeply saddened by the incident and my Government always stand for the rule of law,” said Patnaik requesting the opposition MLAs to cooperate in running of the House. Patnaik early this week had ordered a probe by state CID into the case of murder.However, both Congress and BJP members continued to create ruckus in the Assembly demanding the minister’s ouster from the Cabinet, forcing Speaker Surjya Patro to adjourn the proceedings for the day. BJP leader Jayanarayan Mishra said Patnaik hasn’t ordered an SIT probe. “All that he said was if SIT probe is what is required, the state government will take steps in this regard and do it immediately. In any case, our party did not demand an SIT probe. We want the minister’s resignation,” said Mishra.On July 14, 5-year-old Pari, daughter of rickshaw-puller Ashok Sahu and his wife Saudamini Sahu in Jadupur village of Nayagarh, had gone missing while playing outside. Ten days later, her skeletal remains were discovered in a sack outside their house. The girl’s father alleged that his daughter was killed by one Babuli Nayak, aide of minister Sahoo, as he traded in human organs. As the local police floundered in the investigation, the Sahu couple on November 24 tried to bring attention to the case by attempting self-immolation outside the Odisha Assembly. However, they were saved in the nick of time by cops.Also read: Riding tractor trolleys, farmers from 4 states to join protest in DelhiSenior BJD MLA Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak said it’s unjust on the part of the opposition to create ruckus in the Assembly and mar proceedings of the House. “There is enough scope for the opposition members to discuss the matter in details as home department’s demand of discussion is on the schedule,” he said. Outside the Assembly, BJP activists and youth Congress workers took out a rally demanding the minister’s ouster.On Friday, Soumyaranjan Pradhan, sarpanch of Lakshmiprasad gram panchayat, where the murder occurred, moved Orissa High Court seeking protection for himself and family from the minister claiming that he had received death threats. “I’m receiving threat calls as I’m vocal in this incident. If anything happens to me or my family, Arun Sahoo will be responsible,” said Pradhan, who has made state home secretary, DGP, Nayagarh Collector, SP and inspector of local police station as parties.A public interest litigation has also been filed in the Orissa High Court seeking CBI probe and Rs 25 lakh compensation for the kin of the deceased minor girl.The issue attracted more controversy with BJD vice-president and Khandapada MLA Soumyaranjan Patnaik terming the case as a ‘minor incident’. State BJP leader Lekhashree Samantasinghar said the MLA’s comments were shameful. “The little girl lost her life even before understanding it and her family is completely devastated. What more does MLA Soumya Patnaik think would have happened to the girl to make it a big case,” said Lekha Samantasinghar.Meanwhile, the minister who is under fire for his role in the issue, said he welcomed the CID probe and requested opposition parties not to politicise the issue, instead focus on unravelling the truth.“In my entire political career, I have never supported any kind of violence. I welcome the crime branch probe decision by the state government and hopeful that justice will be delivered. I want to see that the family of Pari gets justice. People involved in the crime should not be left free,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-says-ready-for-sit-probe-in-murder-case-of-5-year-old-girl/story-9MHFfAXznolAbbPAclBF9K.html
27-11-2020||India||Yediyurappa’s move to grant reservation to Lingayats deferred after high command’s intervention||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s sudden move to provide reservation to the dominant Lingayat community in the state has been put on hold after the party high command intervened. The move to defer the decision was announced by the CM himself who said, “The decision (on providing reservation to Veerashaiva Lingayats) will be taken after my visit to Delhi as this is a special decision which requires more discussion. Even my cabinet colleagues are of the same view.”The move to provide reservation to the Lingayat community who at 16-17% of the state population are the single largest community was seen as the CM’s signalling rebellion to the party high command. Yediyurappa who hails from the community is seen as its champion. The CM has been upset over continued statements by some leaders in the party about leadership change and him being replaced apart from the inordinate delay in approving cabinet expansion.The party high command and the local leadership are also said to be not in sync on who would be inducted. However, the CM commenting on cabinet expansion said, “It will happen in 2-3 days. I have spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and they will send a list (of ministers) soon.”Currently, Veerashaiva Lingayats come under Other Backward Class category with some of the sub-sects getting preference under Category 3B in which 5% reservation is based on economic criteria. Yediyurappa’s current proposal would enable Lingayats as a whole to get quota under the 27% reservation for OBC’s in central government jobs and educational institutions. The move if successfully implemented would also further enhance his stature as the tallest leader of the community.Law minister J Madhuswamy explaining the reason why the decision to grant reservation to Lingayats was deferred said, “There are various communities which are seen as forward but are actually backward. So we wanted to take a holistic view with the help of anthropological studies and thus the deferment.”Also inclusion of any community in the Central OBC list will happen after the state government recommends it and the Centre accepts it. Home Minister Amit Shah is said to have asked Yediyurappa not to take a decision in this regard though Madhuswamy refused to comment on this saying, “We will take a holistic decision keeping all factors in mind.”Last week Yediyurappa had ordered the setting up of a Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Board with an initial corpus of Rs 500 crore leading to clamour from various other communities for similar initiatives. On Friday, a delegation of Kuruba (traditional shepherd community) leaders met the Chief Minister and demanded a similar corporation for upliftment of their community. BJP MLC Vishwanath speaking to the media said, “We also want a development board with a similar corpus. We also want our community members to be inducted into the cabinet during expansion.”The Kurubas at 11% of the state’s population are the third largest community after Lingayats and Vokkaligas. Numerous Lingayat mutt heads including Basava Peetha head Jaya Murtunjaya Swami and Vachananda Swami of Panchamsali Mutt have demanded that the government immediately announce reservation for Lingayats.Senior political analyst Manjunath commenting on Yediyurappa’s move said, “This is clearly a signal to the BJP high command by Yediyurappa that unless he is allowed to continue as CM and form a cabinet of his choice, he will take counter-measures. In 2012 too, he has walked out of the party. It would be interesting to see how the BJP high command tackles the challenge posed by Yediyurappa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-s-move-to-grant-reservation-to-lingayats-deferred-after-high-command-s-intervention/story-ReDvwPx8tgxY5Q3HieZ4oN.html
27-11-2020||India||Suresh Bhatt appointed general secretary of Uttarakhand BJP||Suresh Bhatt has been appointed the general secretary of BJP’s Uttarakhand unit. The appointment was made by BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat. Bhagat said he hopes that the party will be further strengthened in the state with Bhatt as the general secretary. He said Bhatt has good experience of party matters which will help the party in many ways in the coming days. State BJP media in-charge Devendra Bhasin said there were three posts of general secretaries in the state party unit. “One post was lying vacant after the party president announced the new working committee in the state. Bhatt’s appointment has been made against this vacant post,” he said. Bhasin said prior to this latest appointment, Bhatt was general secretary (organisation) in the Haryana BJP unit. Bhatt, born in 1968 in Nainital, has served in various capacities in ABVP and BJP. Meanwhile, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, BJP’s national general secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand and Rekha Verma, national vice president and co-in-charge for Uttarakhand will be arriving in the state for a two-day visit on November 28. During their stay, they will hold various meetings and interact with party leaders and cadre. Bhasin said it will be their first visit to the state after getting the charge of in-charge and co-in-charge of Uttarakhand BJP. BJP national president JP Nadda, will also start his nationwide tour with a three-day visit to Uttarakhand from December 5. He will hold 14 meetings with party members on various issues. The visit of the ruling party national president is significant with the fact that only about one and a half years is left for the next state assembly elections which is due in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suresh-bhatt-appointed-general-secretary-of-uttarakhand-bjp/story-tcBgd8CjgJIzSa3nf7EOfN.html
27-11-2020||India||In Odisha, three farmers attempt to immolate themselves over loan irregularities||Three small and marginal farmers of Cuttack district on Friday afternoon tried to immolate themselves in front of the Odisha Assembly alleging that someone had taken loans from the cooperative bank fraudulently which forced them to repay the loan amount.The farmers were attempting to douse themselves with kerosene when alert security personnel on duty in front of the Assembly building overpowered them. They alleged that some people had taken loans in their name from the Athagarh branch of the Cuttack Central Cooperative Bank using fraudulent means. As a result of such fraud, they were forced to repay the loan amount.On Wednesday, several farmers in Athagarh area of Cuttack had staged a demonstration alleging loan irregularities in the Cuttack District Central Cooperative Bank. They had alleged that money to the tune of over Rs 1 crore was misappropriated from the bank accounts of several people in the district.The victims alleged that Odisha Cooperation Minister Ranendra Pratap Swain’s brother, Birendra Pratap Swain had a role in the scam. Birendra was the president of the Cuttack Central Cooperative Bank. The farmers had staged a demonstration in connection with the incident in Athagarh on Wednesday. However, their allegations were not taken note of by the district collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-three-farmers-attempt-to-immolate-themselves-over-loan-irregularities/story-x6JlpSDQqHzhkqpRBsn8CM.html
27-11-2020||India||Andhra CM Jagan Reddy to conduct aerial survey of Cyclone Nivar-hit areas||The heavy rain due to Cyclone Nivar in the last two days caused a loss of crops in around 30,000 hectares, besides destruction of horticulture in around 1300 hectares in four districts of Andhra Pradesh, according to preliminary estimates by the state agriculture department.The state cabinet which met on Friday discussed the devastation caused by Nivar in the last 48 hours. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy directed that the enumeration of crop loss should be completed by December 15 and farmers who suffered heavy losses be paid compensation as per the norms by December 31.The chief minister would take an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas on Saturday and hold a review meeting with officials of Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa at Tirupati.Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, state agriculture minister K Kannababu said Nellore, Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts had suffered heavy losses due to excess rainfall to the extent of 188 per cent. According to preliminary reports, crop loss was reported in about 30,000 hectares in Chittoor, Nellore, YSR Kadapa and Prakasam districts. Paddy (16,290 hectares) followed by blackgram (7,362), cotton (3,571) and other crops (2,529 hectares) were damaged due the heavy rain that was triggered by the cyclone.He said more than 10,000 people were shifted to 147 relief camps. Each person, irrespective of age and gender, would be given Rs 500 in cash as immediate relief so that they could return home after the rain fury.He said farmers who suffered heavy crop loss would be supplied seeds at 80 per cent subsidy. Ex-gratia and compensation with regard to loss of human life and damage to property would be paid as per guidelines.The rain also resulted in disruption of power supply in several areas and roads to the extent of 180 kms were damaged. As many as 664 houses were inundated and another 673 houses suffered damages.The cabinet also approved the decision to inaugurate the house sites distribution programme on December 25. In all, 30.6 lakh people would be given house site pattas. So far, 66,518 acres of land was acquired at a cost of Rs 23,000 crore for distribution of house sites.Similarly, houses will be constructed for 28.3 lakh people in the name of Jagananna Colonies. The houses will be completed within three years. In the first phase, 16 lakh houses would be constructed by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-reddy-to-conduct-aerial-survey-of-cyclone-nivar-hit-areas/story-h4clLB7iiOPYyBb1gR8fAJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh CM to take aerial survey of cyclone Nivar affected areas tomorrow||In light of the widespread devastation caused by cyclone Nivar across the southern parts of the country, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will take an aerial survey of the affected areas on Saturday. After the aerial survey, the Chief Minister would hold a review meeting at Tirupati with the district collectors of Nellore, Chittoor and YSR Kadapa and other officials.The state cabinet which met here earlier in the day decided that there would be an 80 per cent subsidy on seeds to farmers in the affected areas and an ex gratia and compensation with regard to loss of human life and damage to property would be paid as per guidelines.“Due to the heavy rains that battered the State between November 23-26, Nellore, Prakasam and Rayalaseema bore the brunt with almost 188 per cent of excess rainfall and over 10,000 people are taking shelter in 147 relief camps. Several areas suffered power interruptions and almost 180 kilometres of roads were damaged. Inundated houses were recorded as 664 while damaged houses were 673,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. The Chief Minister also directed authorities to be on high alert and asked them to give Rs 500 to each person in the relief camp while returning home. He further instructed officials to focus on the restoration of power supply and repairs to damaged roads on a war-footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cm-to-take-aerial-survey-of-cyclone-nivar-affected-areas-tomorrow/story-tG81BYUTIqvT6CpElGCiLN.html
27-11-2020||India||No place for disruption, be it Parliament or state assemblies: Om Birla||There is no place for disruption, be it Parliament or state assemblies, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday and stressed on debate, discussion and dialogue.Efforts are being made to ensure there is minimum disruption and a committee has been formed under the Uttar Pradesh assembly speaker to discuss and submit a report so that a common programme is formed and people’s representative play their role ideally, he said.The Lok Sabha speaker was briefing reporters about the two-day All India Presiding Officers’ Conference held in Gujarat recently.“It is right and a matter of concern that bills get passed in Parliament and state assemblies amid disruption. There is no place for disruption,” Birla said while replying to a question.On the conference, the speaker said that discussions were held on issues related to the anti-defection law and use of information technology in relaying proceedings of Parliament and the assemblies.“In the last conference held in Uttarakhand, issues related to the anti-defection law were discussed. We had formed a committee under Rajasthan Vidhan Sabha Speaker C P Joshi. If necessary, discussion will be done with the government to make changes after analysing the report,” he said. He said that all presiding officers took a pledge to make legislatures more accountable, while strengthening and empowering them according to constitutional values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-for-disruption-be-it-parliament-or-state-assemblies-om-birla/story-7ZGRMZidERXCcjb3g3ahOJ.html
27-11-2020||India||3 soldiers killed in Pak shelling along LoC in Rajouri and Poonch, India hits back||With no let-up in ugly skirmishes on the Line of Control (LoC), three Indian soldiers were killed when Pakistan opened heavy fire in Rajouri and Poonch districts of Jammu and Kashmir, prompting India to hit back in equal measure.Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and Rifleman Sukhbir Singh were injured after the Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation in Rajouri’s Sunderbani sector, the army said.“Pak Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violations on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani Sector of Rajouri on Friday. Indian troops responded immediately to the enemy fire. In the ensuing fire, two soldiers Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and Rifleman Sukhbir Singh got critically injured and later succumbed to their injuries,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and Rifleman Sukhbir Singh were brave, highly motivated and sincere soldiers. The nation will always remain indebted to them for their supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.Also read: India’s economy contracts by 7.5%, enters ‘technical recession’Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri belonged to Sarojni Nagar village in Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh while Rifleman Sukhbir Singh hailed from Khawaspur village in Tarn Taran district of neighbouring Punjab.Late Thursday, a junior commissioned officer (JCO) of the army, Subedar Swatantra Singh, was killed and a civilian got injured as Pakistani troops shelled and fired on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control in Poonch district.“Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Poonch Sector late Thursday. Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Subedar Swatantra Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” said Col Anand.“Subedar Swatantra Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.The deceased soldier hailed from Odiyari village in Pauri Garhwal district of Uttrakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-soldiers-killed-in-pak-shelling-along-loc-in-rajouri-and-poonch-india-hits-back/story-jVK9paUrrHCn1XPwN6rH1L.html
27-11-2020||India||After clashes, tear gas, protesting farmers move to Delhi’s Burari ground||Thousands of agitating farmers, after braving water cannons and clashing with security personnel, on Friday reached Delhi’s Burari ground after police allowed them to hold peaceful protests. The farmers, who were part of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Centre’s three farm laws, were escorted to the national capital by the police amid tight security.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday reiterated his invitation for talks on December 3 to resolves differences. Tomar had on Thursday assured that the talk will have a positive outcome as he appealed to the farmers to not agitate.Also read | Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiDelhi Police agreed to let the farmers stage a peaceful protest inside the Capital after initially blocking them on the outskirts and firing tear gas and water cannon at them. They allowed the farmers to hold their protest at north Delhi’s Nirankari Ground - one of the biggest grounds in the national capital. However, farmers gathered at the Singhu border have not entered the city so far.The agitating farmers were let in soon after Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava announced that they will be allowed to enter and continue with their demonstration peacefully at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the city’s Burari area. “They will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area,” Shrivastava was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Centre has not ruled out a law to guarantee MSP, hints Narendra Singh TomarBharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said that the farmers were headed to the Burari ground after their demand to hold their protest at the Ramlila Ground was rejected by the Delhi Police. “We’ve crossed about 10 barriers on our way. We’re thankful to the administration for giving us permission to protest. We’re happy and only want a peaceful resolution to the issue,” a farmer told ANI.Earlier in the day, Delhi Police used tear gas at the Singhu border to disperse the protesting farmers who were trying to head towards the national capital. Farmers also pelted stones at police and broke barricades in an attempt to enter Delhi amid heavy deployment. Plumes of smoke were seen as security personnel used multiple rounds of tear gas to disperse the protesting farmers at this border. The marching farmers clashed with police at the Tikri border and also tried to remove a truck, which was placed as a barricade, by tying it to a tractor with the help of a chain.Opposition criticismPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the move to allow the agitating farmers to enter Delhi and continue with their stir. Singh also renewed his appeal to the Centre to initiate talks with the farmers to resolve the issue that has been raging for over two months now.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that no government in the world can stop them from fighting the ‘battle of truth’. “The PM should have remembered that whenever the ego hits the truth, it is defeated. No government in the world can stop the farmers fighting the battle for truth. The Modi government has to accept the demands of the farmers and black laws will have to be withdrawn. This is only the beginning!” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.His sister and Congress party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also lashed out at the Centre and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should implement “one nation, one behaviour”, in an apparent jibe at his suggestion for “one nation, one election”.Legislators of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also extended their support to farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws and said these “dark laws” must be withdrawn. They said that the farmers, mainly from Punjab, reached Delhi after “much struggle”. “Farmers are coming from Punjab, Haryana and other states to protest against farm bills. For our farmer brothers, the Delhi government has made arrangements for water and other facilities,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s party also tweeted.Traffic, Metro servicesDelhi Metro services resumed on all lines on Friday evening after they were interrupted for few hours at several locations due to the ongoing protest march by farmers. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) added that services will be regular on all lines on Saturday.Traffic was disrupted in many parts of the city due to the farmers’ protest. Delhi Traffic Police on Friday posted a series of tweets, asking people to avoid outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu Border in view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march by farmers from Punjab against the farm laws.“In view of the rally/ march/protest by All India Kishan Sangharsh co-ordination committee, the traffic police is diverting traffic from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very very heavy in this area,” it said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana marched towards Delhi against the Centre for clearing three farm laws - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. While the government claims that the laws will eliminate the role of middlemen and ensure fair prices to farmers for their crops, the farmers contend the legislation would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-clashes-tear-gas-protesting-farmers-move-to-delhi-s-burari-ground/story-79WC9vfLNCuLBEbspXgdIJ.html
27-11-2020||India||India, Vietnam sign pact to share hydrographic data||India and Vietnam on Thursday signed an agreement for cooperation in the field of hydrography to enable sharing of data and assist in production of navigational charts by both countries, defence ministry officials said after defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Vietnamese counterpart General Ngo Xuan Lich held talks via video-conferencing on Friday. Hydrography deals with the measurement and description of the physical features of oceans and seas. “During the talks, both ministers reaffirmed the strong India-Vietnam defence cooperation which is a key pillar of Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between the two countries. They discussed various ongoing projects and the future trajectory of bilateral defence engagements,” a defence ministry spokesperson said. Vietnam is said to be interested in buying the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile --- a joint venture between India and Russia --- to shore up its defences at a time of Beijing’s aggressive posturing in the South China Sea. Vietnamese sailors have trained in India to hone their underwater warfare skills. Both ministers discussed collaboration in defence industry capability building, training and cooperation in UN peacekeeping operations, the ministry said in a statement. Singh told his counterpart that a strong and self-reliant India would contribute positively to capacity building of friendly partner countries like Vietnam. He pitched closer defence industry cooperation between the two countries by concluding an institutionalised framework agreement soon. “Vietnamese Defence Minister also invited the Raksha Mantri for ADMM (Asean Defence Ministers’ Meeting)-Plus meeting being hosted by Vietnam on December 10, 2020, through the virtual mode,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vietnam-sign-pact-to-share-hydrographic-data/story-v1XDwWR7QFeiN0uMdFKS4H.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Odisha IFS officer who took 20 chartered flights during lockdown arrested’: Vigilance officials||A day after Odisha vigilance department finished its nationwide raids on the premises of senior Indian Forest Service Abhay Pathak for his ‘unaccounted riches’, the sleuths on Friday arrested him along with his son. The raids revealed the lavish lifestyle of the officer disproportionate to his known sources of income. Pathak was suspended by the state government after his arrest.Pathak, a 1987-batch IFS officer, working as the additional principal chief conservator of forests (plan, programme and afforestation) of Odisha since June 2018, was arrested after vigilance officials conducted raids across 13 places, including his official residence in Bhubaneswar, his office, his apartment, the apartment of his nephew, driver’s house, his house at his native village in Bihar, luxury apartments and farmhouse in Pune and residence of his son’s manager at Samata Colony, Pune.His son Abhay Pathak, possessed expensive vehicles like Mercedes, BMW and Tata Harrier as well as high-end bikes such as Yamaha FZS motorcycles, was also arrested.The arrests came after a team of over 150 vigilance officials, including chartered accountants, bank officials and cyber cell, rummaged through documents and other records of Pathak and his family.Also read: ‘Biggest ever catch’ - Odisha IFS officer in vigilance net for ‘unaccounted riches’The father-son duo was medically examined before they were produced before a local court. Both of them denied the allegations of amassing disproportionate assets.“My son gets a salary of Rs 1 crore a month. I have no ill-gotten wealth and everything is legal,” Pathak said while his son said they were being framed. A special vigilance team last night grilled Pathak, his son, nephew Harsh and his driver.During the search ops in the last two days, the vigilance sleuths found that Pathak and his family had made at least 20 trips to different cities across the country through chartered planes at an expenditure of over Rs 3 crores during the lockdown. It was found that Pathak made cash deposits of about Rs 9.4 crores in the bank accounts of his son, out of which about Rs 8.4 crores was deposited in Bhubaneswar through ATMs. During the house search and subsequent inquiry, cash worth around Rs 60 lakh was found along with gold ornaments weighing 800 grams. He was found to own an 8,000 sq ft luxurious apartment with ivory-crusted bed.The officials also found hotel bills worth more than Rs 90 lakhs at Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai, and a booking amount of Rs 20 lakhs at Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur in Rajasthan for the upcoming marriage of his son with the daughter of a senior BJD politician from Ganjam district.Officials said Pathak was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 9.35 crore which was 435 per cent of his total income from all known sources. Accordingly, a case under several sections of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, has been registered against the officer and his son. The father-son duo was remanded to judicial custody till December 9.Vigilance department officials said as huge cash deposits were made in private banks through deposit slips and ATM counters and high-value transactions have been made in the accounts, details of operations of the concerned banks in this regard are being probed. Similarly, since the bookings and payments concerning chartered flights have been made through Bhubaneswar-based travel agencies, their role is being investigated. Details of income tax returns are being ascertained. Investments in shares, mutual funds and other market instruments are also being probed. The aspects of benami transactions and properties are also being looked into.In view of the expanding scope of investigation, a 20 member SIT has been formed to thoroughly investigate all aspects.Pathak’s son Akash was allegedly cheating people of money, promising to get them jobs at Tata Motors by falsely claiming to be a managing director at Tata Motors. The company in May had complained with the CID against Akash, accusing him of committing cheating, forgery and impersonating as the MD of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vigilance-sleuths-arrest-odisha-ifs-officer-who-allegedly-took-20-chartered-flights-during-lockdown-with-family/story-lA5gEapSrGYkO4anooif4J.html
27-11-2020||India||Manipur imposes night curfew till December 31 to check Covid spread||The Manipur government has imposed a night curfew from 6pm to 4am till the end of this year in the state to control the spread of coronavirus.The state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar issued an order in this regard on Friday.“There will be night curfew from 6pm to 4am and District Magistrates will issue orders in this regard,”says the order.Movement of essential services, good trucks and officials on duty shall be exempted.The order will remain in force upto December 31, 2020 or until further orders, it stated.Though hospitals, nursing home, clinics, dispensaries and all chemists and pharmacies shall be exempt from curfew restrictions, it said that social and customary ceremonies shall be organised for family only and in case some other persons are required to attend the ceremony/function, the size of the gathering shall be restricted to 20 or less persons.Opening of shops in Thangal and Paona bazaars, except the whole sale shops, will be in accordance with the roster system. In another development, the state health authority will begin sero-surveillance across four districts from November 30.Announcing this during a press conference in Imphal on Friday, Principal Secretary(health) V Vumlunmang said that the districts are Imphal West, Kakching, Churachandpur and Ukhrul.It may be mentioned that the health authority had already started targeted testing in some of the assembly constituencies where by-elections were held on November 7, 2020.So far targeted testing was conducted at Wangoi in Imphal West district, Lilong and Wangjing-Tentha in Thoubal districts. Meanwhile, the state reported seven more deaths due to Covid in the past 24 hours.The death toll due to Covid touched 256 on Friday, according to an official press release issued by a health department spokesperson on Friday. Otherwise, with 222 new Covid 19 positive cases in the last 24 hours,the state’s total number of Covid19 cases touched 24,292 including 3,252 active cases.The cumulative number of recovered cases stands at 21,006. The total recovery rate stands at 85.68%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-imposes-night-curfew-till-december-31-to-check-covid-spread/story-5Sh41HWShlkLaZiPgLDfMK.html
27-11-2020||India||PM Modi, Johnson discuss ‘ambitious roadmap’ for India-UK ties in next decade||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Friday about the way ahead for the bilateral ties between the two countries in the next 10 years. The two leaders discussed cooperation in sectors of trade and investment, defence and the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“Had an excellent discussion with my friend, UK PM @BorisJohnson on an ambitious roadmap for India-UK ties in the next decade. We agreed to work towards a quantum leap in our cooperation in all areas - trade & investment, defence & security, climate change, and fighting Covid-19,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.Johnson, on the other hand, made a pitch for 2021 to be a year to deepen and strengthen the relationship between India and the United Kingdom in the sectors including climate change and health.“Thank you @narendramodi, great to speak to you. I’m very much looking forward to deepening and strengthening the UK-India relationship in 2021 and beyond!” the British Prime Minister tweeted.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two prime ministers discussed joint efforts to find treatments and vaccines for coronavirus and welcomed the collaboration between the two countries’ leading scientists. “They looked forward to next month’s Climate Ambition Summit, which will be an opportunity to reinvigorate the global efforts against climate change ahead of the UK-hosted COP26 Summit next year,” he added.As the UK won’t be part of the European Union from January 1, 2021, it hopes to build new relationships and strengthen existing ones across the world, particularly a free trade agreement with India, as mentioned by pro-Brexit supporters such as Johnson and others.“The Prime Minister stressed the importance of improving bilateral trade and investment flows. Both leaders welcomed the extensive work that has taken place on this to date and shared an ambition for deepening the economic relationship,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-boris-johnson-discuss-ambitious-roadmap-for-india-uk-ties-in-next-decade/story-DRczgWnZEC8JI2ZhX85ARI.html
27-11-2020||India||Under PM Modi, India’s economy in recession first-time ever, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the Indian economy is in recession for the first time under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Gandhi’s tweet came after data showed India’s gross domestic product or GDP contracted by 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter after the economy shrank by a record 23.9 per cent in the last quarter.Also Read: Estimates show ‘upside potential’ for economy this financial year: CEA“Under PM Modi, India’s economy is officially in a recession for the first time ever,” he said on Twitter. “More importantly, 3 crore people are still looking for work under MNREGA. Economy cannot be ordered to grow by diktats. PM needs to first understand this basic idea,” he added.Owning to the coronavirus lockdown among other factors, India’s GDP had contracted by a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021). The GDP contraction of 7.5 per cent in July-September compares with a growth of 4.4 per cent in the same quarter last year.Also Read: India’s GDP in September quarter contracts 7.5%: Govt dataAccording to PTI, though the 7.5 per cent contraction pushed India into its first technical recession since Independence, records going back to 1996 show that a sharp recovery holds out hopes for the economy turning around before the end of the fiscal year.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-pm-modi-india-s-economy-in-recession-first-time-ever-tweets-rahul-gandhi/story-LQG7yohIcuTkd73GfqLQ3H.html
27-11-2020||India||BJP trying to destabilise my govt: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday accused the BJP of trying to destabilise his government by resorting to “negative politics” by speculating on its fall and stoking fears about coronavirus pandemic.Asserting that the BJP leaders’ speculations on behalf of their central leadership reveal their anti-democratic moorings, the chief minister expressed faith in the people of Rajasthan, saying they would accept no “unethical” practices and reply to the BJP’s efforts to take political mileage.“Blinded by the greed for power, the state BJP leaders are doing negative politics by giving statements at the behest of their Central leaders about toppling the government and spreading fear about coronavirus,” said Gehlot in a statement.“The BJP should know that people of Rajasthan will not accept such unethical acts and will reply to BJP’’s measly efforts to take political mileage,” he added.Accusing the BJP leaders of indulging in “negative politics”, Gehlot said, “In this era of a global pandemic, when the Rajasthan government is working along with the opposition and all sections of the society, the BJP leaders’ statements are bringing down the level of politics in the state.” In his statement, Gehlot said the BJP leaders have made “unrestrained” remarks in the past few days about the corona management of the Rajasthan government and the future of the government.“Their negative politics has created resentment in the public against the opposition,” he said.“Many senior leaders of Rajasthan’s BJP have given statements that the state government will fall in coming days,” he said, naming Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria and Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal among others as having made such statements.“It is clear from these statements that the BJP is trying to destabilise the Rajasthan government on the basis of money and muscle power,” he said The BJP made similar efforts in the past, but due to the solidarity and commitment of the Congress MLAs, they had to face defeat, Gehlot added.The BJP, which formed the government through horse-trading in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, is still frustrated by its defeat in Rajasthan, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-trying-to-destabilise-my-govt-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-T3NCbG4ye1bW4FeVcRcWjM.html
27-11-2020||India||Sushil Modi is BJP’s Rajya Sabha choice for Ram Vilas Paswan seat||The BJP has nominated Sushil Modi, former deputy chief minister of Bihar, as its Rajya Sabha candidate for the December 14 by-poll to fill the vacancy that arose from the state. It signals Sushil Modi’s move to the Centre. The vacancy arose after the passing away of former LJP chief and union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has got two new deputies this time: Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi. The BJP high command’s decision to replace Sushil Modi with new faces came as a surprise to several party leaders and also to BJP’s alliance partner, the JD(U). Amid chatter that Sushil Modi was upset at the move, Devendra Fadnavis, who was Bihar in-charge for the just concluded polls, had said at the time that “a new responsibility will be given to him”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-is-bjp-s-rajya-sabha-choice-for-ram-vilas-paswan-seat-on-dec-14/story-tADIpSmXlU3AAJaTWAik0I.html
27-11-2020||India||Hyderabad civic polls: BJP urges Governor to deploy Special Forces||The BJP’s Telangana unit sought deployment of Special Forces to monitor law and order situation and to pre-empt the designs of anti-socials to create problems during the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls on December 1. The party in a memorandum submitted to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan alleged that the Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao came up with a false narrative of ‘fomenting communal trouble.’ It also alleged the chief minister was trying to divert peoples attention from the core civic issues that people of the GHMC have been facing and the “misrule of TRS and its miserable failure in fulfilling the promises made during the last elections.” Rao on Wednesday in a statement said some forces want to whip up communal passions and create such a communal disturbance so that the GHMC polls are not held and postponed. “BJP demands deployment of special forces to monitor law and order situation and to pre-empt the designs of anti-socials to create problems.BJP demands appointment of special observers to ensure free and fair elections,” the memorandum said.The party also sought instructions to officials not to attend the chief ministers review programmes as they are being used for political purposes until the completion of elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-civic-polls-bjp-urges-governor-to-deploy-special-forces/story-9W2MZHzo7mPKKHomF0urvN.html
27-11-2020||India||Ex IPS officer-in-charge of former PM Indira Gandhi’s security disqualified as Independent MLA||A former IPS officer, who was in charge of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s security, was disqualified on Friday as a member of Mizoram assembly under the anti-defection law. Mizoram Assembly Speaker Lalrinliana Sailo disqualified Lalduhoma, who was elected from Serchhip as an Independent candidate in 2018 polls, for defecting to Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM). “After a thorough study of the case and hearing the statements from the respondent (Lalduhoma) and the petitioner, it is clearly verified that the MLA has joined ZPM in theory and practice, which the respondent himself declared in his declaration on September 9,” news agency PTI quoted Sailo. Incidentally, the 71-year-old had been disqualified from Lok Sabha in 1988, the first MP to be disqualified under the anti-defection law for giving up membership of the Congress, the party he represented in Lok Sabha. With Friday’s development, Lalduhoma becomes the first MLA in Mizoram to be disqualified under the anti-defection law. Also read: ‘No impact of Covid-19 on road projects, construction,’ says GadkariIn September, 12 members of the ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) had filed petitions with the assembly Speaker seeking Lalduhoma’s disqualification for violating the anti-defection law. In 2018, Laldumoha had won from two seats, Serchhip and Aizawl West-1, where he had defeated incumbent chief minister Lalthanhawla of Congress. He had given up the Aizawl West 1 seat and retained Serchhip. Seven different political parties formed the ZPM and contested the polls in 2018. The group won seven seats becoming the principal opposition in the assembly. With Lalduhoma’s disqualification, the ZPM now has six members in the 60 member house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-ips-officer-in-charge-of-former-pm-indira-gandhi-s-security-disqualified-as-independent-mla/story-vvumfSUbg1GrlzYMNxcxSL.html
27-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: BJP win in Hyderabad polls will mark the beginning of TRS’ end, says JP Nadda and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘BJP win in Hyderabad polls to mark beginning of TRS end’: JP NaddaThe BJP will not rest until it conquers Hyderabad and then Telangana, underlined BJP president JP Nadda on Friday, adding a victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party in the December 1 elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation will be the beginning of the end for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi in Telangana. Read moreIndia’s GDP in September quarter contracts 7.5%: Govt dataIndia’s gross domestic product or GDP contracted 7.5% in the quarter ending September in comparison to the same period last year, data released by the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation (Mospi) showed on Friday. India’s GDP fell by 23.9% in April-June period quarter, worst in decades, amid the coronavirus pandemic-induced which hit businesses and livelihoods across the country. Read moreNo Covid impact on road projects, targets on track: Nitin Gadkari at HTLS 2020Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has ruled out any impact of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis on construction and development of roads, including several ongoing greenfield highways and expressways. Speaking at the HT Leadership Summit 2020 on Friday, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister said his department is taking all the initiatives to fast-track some of the stalled projects as well. Read moreGarmin launches Forerunner 745 in India for ₹52,900Garmin India has launched the new Forerunner 745 which is an advanced GPS smartwatch built for runners and triathletes. Specially designed keeping the requirements of athletes in mind, the Garmin Forerunner 745 monitors stats and analyses data to help users in achieving their goals. The users can train with dozens of built-in activity profiles, including triathlon, pool swimming, track running and more. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Unfortunately, Hardik is not fit enough to bowl,’ Virat Kohli says Team India doesn’t have other all-round options to pickIndia are missing the services of Hardik Pandya in the bowling department. The seaming all-rounder is still not cleared to bowl as he is still recuperating from a back injury he suffered last year. Hardik did not bowl during the whole of Indian Premier League 2020 but looked in good knick with the bat for champions Mumbai Indians. He was picked as a pure batsman in India’s playing XI for the first One Day International against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Read moreHTLS 2020: Country and consumers way ahead of govt regulators, says Disney India chairman Uday ShankarUday Shankar, (Chairman, Star and Disney India) has said that some amount of responsible behaviour is very important on part of a streaming platform as India is a sensitive country. Without mentioning a film or a show in particular, he said at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 that a streaming platform faces backlash when the decision makers believe “what works in one country can work in every other country”. Read moreMukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia: Inside India’s richest man’s opulent Rs 15,000 crore Mumbai homeIndia’s richest man and Reliance Industries’ chairman Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home, Antilia, which he shares with wife Nita and their three children - Anant, Akash and Isha (who now lives at her Worli home with husband Anand Piramal) is one of the most valuable private residential properties in the world. Read moreHe accidentally met ‘Thanksgiving grandma’ after receiving a wrong text, they still celebrate togetherWanda Dench, back in 2016, texted to a wrong number thinking she was messaging her grandson. The person, Jamal Hinton, who received the text, instead of ignoring it, replied. This led to a conversation between the duo, and eventually, ended with a Thanksgiving invitation for Hinton from Dench. What started with an accidental text has now turned into a sweet holiday tradition for them. Read more‘Biggest IPL ever’ amid Covid: Uday Shankar explains success #HTLS2020Uday Shankar, President of the Walt Disney Company, Asia Pacific, and Chairman, Star & Disney India explained the success of the 2020 Indian Premier League tournament. Speaking at the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Shankar said that the IPL could even have turned out disastrous if the immense challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown weren’t overcome properly. He revealed that this year’s IPL generated 25-30% greater viewership than previous editions. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-bjp-win-in-hyderabad-polls-will-mark-the-beginning-of-trs-end-says-jp-nadda-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LxI2svVarYpDqBmUFgVDeJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Ahead of next year’s electoral battle, TMC MLA Mihir Goswami joins BJP||After resigning from the TMC, Mihir Goswami, a legislator from West Bengal joined the BJP in Delhi on Friday. Flanked by party’s national general secretary and in-charge of West Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Goswami said he was unhappy with the governance of TMC chief and WB chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Goswami, said his leaving the TMC is a “crusade against the immoral and incorrect happenings in the state, especially the injustice to the northern part of Bengal.” As the BJP readies for the 2021 electoral battle in West Bengal, party leaders said there is a long list of functionaries who are keen to join the party. A senior party leader speaking on condition of anonymity said several leaders in the state are in discussion with BJP functionaries in Bengal and will be joining over the course of the next few weeks. On whether Suvendu Adhikari, who resigned as the state’s transport minister is also expected to join soon, the functionary said: “There are several big names who are distressed by the way the Mamata Banerjee government is ruling the state and they want to be part of the BJP’s development agenda.” A second functionary said the violence against BJP cadre has raised an alarm in the state and the issue of providing security to some leaders is being discussed with the Centre. While the party is upfront about negotiating with some TMC leaders who are keen to switch sides, there is consternation among the cadre in the state, with a section of leaders complaining about being sidelined. “The BJP has been building its cadre in the state, but in order to win elections, there is a need to have on board leaders who wield influence in a wider area. For instance Adhikari’s influence spans to at least 30 assembly constituencies,” the second leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-next-year-s-electoral-battle-tmc-mla-mihir-goswami-joins-bjp/story-DFm9QflAhWZavEM0MuxCeK.html
27-11-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu to chair SCO heads of govt meet, India, Pakistan PMs unlikely to join||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu will chair the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s (SCO) council of heads of government summit on November 30, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan expected not to join the virtual meeting. The council of heads of government is the second highest body of SCO and is responsible for handling the grouping’s trade and economic agenda and approving its annual budget. This is the first time India is hosting a meeting of the body since it was admitted to the eight-member grouping in 2017. Modi, Khan and Chinese President Xi Jinping had joined the virtual SCO Summit that was chaired by Russia earlier this month. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India has usually been represented at meetings of the council of heads of government at the level of the external affairs minister, while defence minister Rajnath Singh had attended last year’s meeting in Uzbekistan. “Since India is hosting the meeting this year, the vice president will chair it,” said one of the people cited above. In January, the external affairs ministry had said that the council of heads of government meeting is “held annually at the prime ministerial level” and that India would invite all eight members of SCO and four observer states and other international dialogue partners to the meet in November. According to media reports, Modi is set to visit his constituency of Varanasi on November 30 to launch the Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project and participate in Deepotsav celebrations at the Ganges ghats. The people cited above also said Pakistan is expected to be represented by a minister as Khan would skip the meeting. Though Khan has joined virtual multilateral meetings hosted by other countries, he skipped the online meeting of leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation hosted by India in March to discuss ways to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. Pakistan’s representative at that meeting had created a flutter by raising the Kashmir issue. One of the people cited above said India considers SCO an important regional organisation to promote cooperation in security, trade and economy based on universally recognised international norms, good governance, rule of law, transparency and equality. “India is committed to widening our cooperation with SCO by playing a proactive, positive and constructive role in the organisation,” the person said. The other seven members of SCO are China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan and the four observer states are Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia. Turkmenistan, the SCO secretary general and the executive director of SCO’s Regional Anti-terrorist Structure have also been invited for the November 30 meeting. The annual meeting ends with a joint communiqué with major proposals on trade and economic cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-to-chair-sco-heads-of-govt-meet-india-pakistan-pms-unlikely-to-join/story-9e26m7DUgIWtWGVqEMH0tO.html
27-11-2020||India||‘BJP win in Hyderabad polls to mark beginning of TRS end’: JP Nadda||The BJP will not rest until it conquers Hyderabad and then Telangana, underlined BJP president JP Nadda on Friday, adding a victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party in the December 1 elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation will be the beginning of the end for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi in Telangana.Nadda, who took out a road show from Kothapet to Nagole on the outskirts of Hyderabad in which thousands of party workers participated braving heavy drizzle, exuded confidence that saffron flag would flutter in every division in the GHMC after the elections. “After seeing the tremendous response from the people, I have no doubt that they have already decided to put an end to the rule of TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao. The GHMC elections would mark the beginning of the end for TRS in Telangana,” the BJP chief said. Accusing the TRS government of pushing Telangana into a debt trap with heavy borrowings, Nadda said it was wrong on the part of KCR to make more promises to the people without even fulfilling the promises made in the last GHMC elections. He said the BJP was the only party which had the vision to develop Hyderabad in a much better way. “The time is up for the TRS in Telangana and it is going to the BJP all the way in Hyderabad,” the BJP chief said. Reacting to the criticism of TRS working president and state minister for municipal administration KT Rama Rao that BJP was roping in Delhi leaders for “gully elections,” Nadda said the BJP would definitely go wherever there was injustice to the people. “We shall go anywhere to put an end to corrupt and monarchic rule of some leaders and bring the BJP to power. We shall not rest until our party conquers Hyderabad and then Telangana,” the BJP national president said. Along with Nadda, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and other seniors took part in the road show. Meanwhile Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be campaigning for the BJP on Saturday. He would conduct a roadshow at Jeedimetla which is part of Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency, besides addressing a public meeting at Shalibanda in old city of Hyderabad in the evening. On Sunday, the last day of the campaign, Union home minister Amit Shah will address a rally in Secunderabad, party spokesman K Krishnasagar Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-win-in-hyderabad-polls-to-mark-beginning-of-trs-end-jp-nadda/story-lQx8yIZKhdvcR1hcAiXXiO.html
27-11-2020||India||3 farmers attempt self-immolation outside Odisha Assembly||Four days after a couple from Nayagarh district attempted self-immolation outside the Assembly building here, three farmers on Friday made an unsuccessful bid to set themselves on fire in front of the same structure.The three persons have been identified to be cultivators belonging to Athagarh in Odisha’s Cuttack district, police said.They were, however, rescued by security personnel present in front of the Assembly, before they lit matchsticks. They had already poured kerosene on themselves, the police said.Also Read: Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiThe farmers who were whisked away from the spot by the police said that they had attempted the “extreme step” over alleged irregularities in cooperative bank loans.“Some persons have fraudulently taken loans from the District Cooperative Bank of Athagarh branch in our names.Though we have not actually availed the loans, the bank forced us to repay the loan amount,” they alleged.Several farmers in Athagarh on Wednesday had staged a demonstration alleging loan scam in the Cuttack District Central Cooperative Bank.They had alleged that money to the tune of over Rs 1 crore was misappropriated from the bank accounts of several people in the district.Also Read: Dilli Chalo: Haryana, Punjab farmers unite in Panipat, move together towards DelhiThe incident has brought to the fore the issue of security near the Assembly building.This was the second such incident in a week when people came near the Assembly gate and attempted self- immolation.On Tuesday, a couple from Nayagarh had made a similar attempt seeking justice over the alleged kidnapping and murder of their five-year-old daughter.A senior police officer looking after the security of the Assembly building said, “We cannot stop people from walking on the road in front of the Assembly building.However, the farmers were rescued due to the alertness of the personnel deployed near the building,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-farmers-attempt-self-immolation-outside-odisha-assembly/story-51bIjd3gtm6wvHMLC07yzH.html
27-11-2020||India||Fresh snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, Keylong shivers at minus 9.9 deg C||Tourist hotspots Kufri and Kalpa in Himachal Pradesh received fresh snowfall on Friday, while Keylong recorded the lowest temperature in the state at minus 9.9 degrees Celsius.While Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 17 cm snowfall, Kufri registered one cm, Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh said.He said Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong was the coldest place in the state at minus 9.9 degrees Celsius.Manali, another popular tourist destination, recorded a low of minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, while it was minus 3.6 degrees Celsius in Kalpa, Singh added.The minimum temperatures in Kufri and Dalhousie were recorded at 1.5 degrees Celsius and 3.4 degrees Celsius respectively, the weatherman said.Shimla recorded a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius, Singh added.The highest temperature recorded on Thursday was in Una at 27 degrees Celsius, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-in-himachal-pradesh-keylong-shivers-at-minus-9-9-deg-c/story-D5ErpbHux4NSYeJM8itMYM.html
27-11-2020||India||10 States have almost 77 per cent of active Covid caseload in country: Centre to SC||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that ten States have almost 77 per cent of the active Covid-19 caseload of the country with Maharashtra and Kerala contributing almost 33 per cent of the overall actives cases. It said that most of the countries across the world are observing resurgence of Covid cases and given the size and density of population in India, the country has done remarkably well in restricting the spread.   The Centre pointed out that as on November 24, India stands at 9.2 million Covid cases, with over 0.44 million active cases, which make up only 4.75 per cent of the current cumulative cases. “Our recovery rate has gone up to 93.76 per cent, with almost 8.6 million recoveries made. The average cases per day have reduced by 50 per cent since the past 8 weeks. Currently, only 2 two states have more than 50,000 cases and they contribute to almost 33 per cent of the overall active cases,” the Ministry of Home Affairs said in its affidavit. It said that the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of India remains low at 1.46 per cent, when compared to the global average of 2.36 per cent and stands at a total death count of 0.13 million. The Centre said that the government will continue making efforts to bring CFR down to less than one per cent and accelerate efforts in reducing the positivity rate, which currently stands at 6.9 per cent. “The 10 States contribute almost 77% of the active case load for the country. These are: Maharashtra (18.9%), Kerala (14.7%), Delhi (8.5%), West Bengal (5.7%), Karnataka (5.6%), Uttar Pradesh (5.4%), Rajasthan (5.5%), Chhattisgarh (5.0%), Haryana (4.7%) and Andhra Pradesh (3.1%),” the Centre said. It said that India is now testing on an average, almost 1.1 million samples daily and this has been a remarkable increase from 6 thousand tests daily at the start of April.   “We are further trying to reduce the spread with the use of digital innovations such as Arogya Setu/ITIHAS to predict emerging hotspots and they are also aiding contact tracing efforts. Our efforts are also directed towards managing Covid, non-Covid health facilities should also be effectively managed - these include: immunization, maternal and child health services, cancer, dialysis, etc,” it added. The Centre’s 170-page affidavit filed before the top court added that given the ferocity with which the disease had spread, countries have been compelled to take drastic measures which have affected almost every facet of life and India was no exception to the same.   “However, India looked at the challenges imposed by the pandemic as a unique opportunity to demonstrate its self-reliance in areas like manufacturing of critical medical equipment, use of information technology etc. In order to become self-sufficient or “Atma-nirbhar” in all our capacities and enhance our healthcare preparedness, India also worked to boost domestic production and expand our healthcare workforce,” it said. Giving the statistics of various steps taken, the government said that as on November 23, 2020, a total of 24, 17, 085 passengers and crew members have been screened at the airports. It said that the laboratory network is continuously being strengthened and as of November 23, 2020, total operational (initiated independent testing) government laboratories reporting to ICMR is 1166 and in addition, 968 private laboratories have been approved for Covid-19 testing. It added that adequate laboratory reagents are available with ICMR and a total of 133.8 million (13.38 Crore) samples have been tested as on November 23, 2020. “It is submitted that as on November 24, 2020, a total of 15,454 dedicated Covid treatment facilities with 1,54,6983 dedicated isolation beds (including 2, 67, 886 oxygen supported beds) have been identified. Also, a total of 79,005 ICU beds (including 40,183 ventilator beds) have been earmarked in these facilities”, it said. Regarding development of drugs and vaccines, the government said that the principal scientific advisor to the Government of India has constituted a core group on Covid-19 and “thirteen clinical trials of repurposed drugs have been undertaken to build a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients”. “It is submitted that nearly 30 vaccine candidates encompassing a diverse group of vaccines based on multiple technologies / platforms are under development in India, by both academia and industry,” it said. The government submitted that five candidates are in the clinical trial stage, of which two vaccines are in Phase III trials and three are in phase II trials.   “A National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has been constituted on August 7, 2020, under Member (Health), NITI Ayog, which is working round the clock to ensure that vaccines are developed and introduced for public administration at the earliest and at affordable price,” it said. Dealing with logistics, the Centre informed the top court that total orders for 1.92 Crore Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) have been placed by it so far and States/UTs and Central Government institutions are being supported in terms of supply of logistics.   “So far 1.62 Crore of PPE Kits, 3.89 crores N-95 masks, 11.16 crore tablets of Hydroxychloroquine, 34,279 ventilators and 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to States/UTs/ Central Government hospitals so far. In addition, oxygen concentrators are also being supplied to States,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/10-states-have-almost-77-per-cent-of-active-covid-caseload-in-country-centre-to-sc/story-5A23I9fZ8fiI73UBFBJNLM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Developing a portal to prevent accidents on highways’: Nitin Gadkari at HTLS 2020||A portal is being developed for real-time updates on black spots on highways to prevent accidents, Union minister of road transport & highways and MSMEs, Nitin Gadkari told Hindustan Times on Friday. Gadkari was speaking on Day 4 of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Friday. He said that road accidents and deaths have reduced by almost 20 per cent.Gadkari also said that there has been no impact of Covid-19 on road construction projects. “The capacity of the construction equipment manufacturers have increased by 80 per cent, that is almost double,” he said. The minister expressed happiness on the rise in sale of two-wheeler vehicles in the country which, according to him, has gone up by a whopping 130 per cent. He said that the government is encouraging people to use electric vehicles. Also read: HTLS 2020 - ‘No impact of Covid-19 on road projects, construction,’ says Gadkari #HTLS2020 | Union minister @nitin_gadkari said that the sale of two-wheelers in the country has gone up by 130%. He emphasised that the government is encouraging people to use electric vehiclesWatch here- https://t.co/IGzXtDO0dA#DefiningANewEra pic.twitter.com/QXoVut6Q6u“We plan to complete the FASTags procedure in the nest 2-3 months,” Gadkari added. Besides Gadkari, the fourth day of the HTLS 2020 saw Ajay Bijli, chairman and MD at PVR Ltd., and Uday Shankar, chairman of Star and Disney India in conversation with Anuradha Sengupta, consulting editor, CNBC TV-18.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Brown University School of Public Health dean Dr Ashish K Jha, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, veteran cricketer Kapil Dev, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, defence minister Rajnath Singh, State Bank of India Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel were the esteemed guests who participated in the previous sessions of the virtual summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-developing-a-portal-to-prevent-accidents-on-highways-says-nitin-gadkari/story-3VZ5YFoBmJPBuOMzIQ42RL.html
27-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: ‘Be serious. Don’t take it lightly’: Covid survivor Nitin Gadkari’s advice||Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who had contracted the coronavirus disease in September, said on Friday people must take preventive measure like wearing masks and maintaining distance, seriously to keep Covid-19 away. “First of all using masks is very important. My only suggestion to people is that be serious. Don’t take it lightly. On a flight, going to the market, on the road, take these preventive measure. Life is very important,” the Union minister for road transport and highways and MSMEs said while speaking with Zakka Jacob, managing editor of CNN-News18, at the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. Gadkari had tested positive for the coronavirus disease in September after he attended the monsoon session of Parliament. “Yesterday, I was feeling weak and consulted my Doctor. During the course of my check up, I have been tested COVID-19 positive,” Gadkari had tweeted. “I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I have isolated myself,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-serious-don-t-take-preventive-measures-against-covid-19-lightly-nitin-gadkari-at-htls-2020/story-FGadetZ23iYISKN4vmrn7N.html
27-11-2020||India||Govt intends to formalise registration process of vintage motor vehicles||The Centre on Friday said it intends to formalise the registration process of the vintage motor vehicles, and has sought public comments for proposed rules regarding this.In a statement, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said it has invited public comments for proposed rules on registering vintage vehicles.“The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has published GSR 734 (E) dated November 25, 2020, seeking comments and suggestions in regards to amendment to CMVR 1989 relating to vintage motor vehicles,” it said.Through this notification, the ministry intends to formalise the registration process of the vintage motor vehicles.“There are no existing rules for regulating the registration process of vehicles of heritage value. These rules are proposed to be inserted as sub-rules 81A, 81B, 81C, 81D, 81E, 81F, 81G in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989,” it said.The draft rules define vintage motor vehicles as all those vehicles that are two-wheelers and four-wheelers (non-commercial and personal use) and are more than 50 years old from the date of their first registration (including imported vehicle).There is a restriction in the definition — no substantial overhaul of the vehicle which includes modification in chassis or body shell, and/or engine.“It is proposed that all applications for registration shall be applied on ‘PARIVAHAN’ portal. It is further proposed that all states registering authority will appoint a nodal officer who will process all applications for registration of vintage motor vehicles,” it said.Further, states will form a committee that will inspect a vehicle and declare whether the vehicle is fit for registration under vintage motor vehicle or not.“If approved, a 10-digit alphanumeric number will be assigned to the respective vintage vehicle. This registration shall be valid for 10 years,” the statement said.The format for the registration mark will be ‘XX VA YY ****’, where VA stands for vintage, XX will be the state code, YY will be a two-letter series and ‘****’ is a number from 0001 to 9999 allotted by state registering authority, it added.The fees for a new registration will be Rs 20,000; while for subsequent re-registration, it will be Rs 5,000.If a vehicle is registered as a vintage motor vehicle, the sale and purchase of the vehicle is allowed under the rules, it said.A vintage motor vehicle is allowed to run on Indian roads only for display, technical research or taking part in a vintage car rally, refuelling and maintenance, exhibitions, vintage rallies, and to and fro to such exhibition or car rally.The government said the objective is to preserve and promote the heritage of old vehicles in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-intends-to-formalise-registration-process-of-vintage-motor-vehicles/story-rXn25uqfKRFZAWjUSnOuHN.html
27-11-2020||India||With independent music it’s like I’m flying in open sky, says Vishal Mishra||Lucknow-lad Vishal Mishra, singer-composer of chartbuster song ‘Kaise Hua’ from ‘Kabir Singh’, is enjoying his independence as well as film music stint. “Our elders always said that ‘beta do naav pe sawari nahi karni chahiye par meri toh bahut acchi chal rahi hai!’ But I feel it’s more about balancing everything for which I have given my heart and soul,” said the ‘Race-3’ singer. Talking more about his music Vishal said that for films music has to go with the story and is script bound. “When I do independent music it’s about my vision. It’s like flying in open sky without any traffic police trying to stop me, though I feel lucky to do both kind of music. I did independent songs like ‘Aaj Bhi’, ‘Manjha’, during lockdown ‘Muskrayega India’ besides, ‘Sajna Ve’ and ‘Humko Tum Mil Gaye’. At the same time I did ‘Saand ki Aankh’, ‘Pranam’ and ‘Khuda Hafiz’,” he said. His latest single ‘Woh Chaand Kahan Se Laogi’ is doing well on charts. “My thought for the song was to bring out emotions of love which speaks the universal language. The reason that I asked Manoj Muntashir to pen the lyrics was that he has travelled a full circle from Gauriganj (Amethi) to Mumbai and he understands the language and flavour of these emotions.” Born in Unnao, Vishal has grown up in Lucknow and went to New Way Senior Secondary School, Aliganj, before he went Bhubaneswar to pursue law. “Then I had no plans for a career in music and was rejected in all auditions held in Lucknow. For my internship, I went to Mumbai where I auditioned for a reality show and that’s how my musical journey began. Now, when come to my hometown and see my family all happy with my success it makes me feel elated.” On a parting note he said, “God is very kind. When you are getting love for your work then you feel you are in happy space. I feel blessed when people say my music relaxes and calms them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/with-independent-music-it-s-like-i-m-flying-in-open-sky-says-vishal-mishra/story-jsO9Z1iEEuL7w6nL6tvlTO.html
27-11-2020||India||Estimates show ‘upside potential’ for economy this financial year: CEA||Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian on Friday said there is an “upside potential” in the estimates about the economy during the current financial year as recovery is taking faster than expected.Giving outlook for the near future, he said, “We should be cautiously optimistic and the caution is warranted because economic impact is primarily due to the pandemic.” Given the uncertainty, he said, it is difficult to predict if positive territory can be hit in the third or fourth quarter of this fiscal.“I would say that the given what we have seen in Q1 and Q2 and with the optimism that is being seen in the estimates, I do see upside potential in that estimate given the good recovery that is happening,” he said when asked about growth estimates for the entire financial year.He further said that food inflation is expected to soften in the third quarter and it is something which has to be tracked closely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/estimates-show-upside-potential-for-economy-this-financial-year-cea/story-HrCcUHkVy8Lu9SnsiqHMFO.html
27-11-2020||India||ICMR nod for CCMB’s dry swab testing for Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved a dry swab RNA- extraction-free testing method for the Covid-19 virus developed by CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, CCMB said here on Friday.Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is an important macromolecule that is present in all biological cells.In the conventional testing method, nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swab samples collected by sample collection centres are transported to testing centres, sometimes even hundreds of kilometres away.The samples are generally placed in a liquid called Viral Transport Medium (VTM).Click here for complete coverage of Coronavirus pandemicTo avoid leakage, they are packed heavily that adds on to sample processing times at both the sample collection and testing centres.Despite this, there are leakages from samples, which render those batches untestable and unsafe in handling.CCMB researchers found that VTM can be totally avoided and dry swab technique also does not require RNA extraction and can be directly used for RT-PCR testing with sensitivity and specificity similar to the current gold standard.This method has now received ICMR approval for use in settings where automated RNA extraction is not available, the city based premier research institute said in a release.Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB said RNA extraction, even with automation, takes four hours for roughly 500 samples. VTM and RNA extraction both add a significant burden on money and time required for mass testing for coronavirus.“We believe the technique’s merit holds for all kinds of settings and has the potential of bringing down the costs and time of testing by 40-50 per cent.It is a game changing technology as with the existing infrastructure, the output of Covid-19 screening can be enhanced several fold with immediate effect while, at the same time, making the whole process safer,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/icmr-nod-for-ccmb-s-dry-swab-testing-for-covid-19/story-PF5uCzICW7JSESVeqwKTFN.html
27-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Immense response to pro-industry reforms has led to more jobs, says Nitin Gadkari||Among the senior-most ministers in the Narendra Modi-led government, Union minister of road, transport and highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that for reviving the country’s economy in the post Covid-19 world, it was essential to work on India’s infrastructure specifically on the construction of roads and highways which in turn would create more jobs. “There has been immense response to the government’s pro-industry reforms which has also led to generation of employment. For reviving the economy after Covid-19, we need to revive and work on the country’s infrastructure. Fast tracking construction activities and completing pending ones not only gives an impetus to economic revival but also generates more employment,” Gadkari said.“Road construction has led to an increase in employment. During the lockdown, a lot of migrant labourers had left for their villages in other states but they have since returned to work on projects helmed by the road transport ministry,” Gadkari said.ALSO READ | HTLS 2020: ‘No impact of Covid-19 on road projects, construction,’ says GadkariMigrant workers are critical to building the country’s infrastructure and the road, transport and highways ministry has put in place a number of measures so that labourers can work safely and complete infra projects amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have offered extensions without penalty to contractors so that they can complete pending projects stalled due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. After the lockdown was lifted, contractors have ensured protective measures for workers. They have taken care of their food and shelter, have provided medical benefits, ensured masks and sanitisers at construction sites and also tried to maintain social distance while the labourers are at work. All this has led to confidence-building among migrant workers and a large section have returned to work on stalled projects,” Gadkari said. ALSO READ | ‘Developing a portal to prevent accidents on highways’: Nitin Gadkari at HTLS 2020The minister was participating in the 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) 2020. Other key speakers at the wholly virtual summit included Ajay Bijli, Chairman and Managing Director of PVR Limited and Uday Shankar, President, The Walt Disney Company, Asia-Pacific and Chairman, Star and Disney India. Gadkari was in conversation with Zakka Jacob, Executive Editor, CNN News 18 on the fourth day of the summit.Politically, Gadkari rose through the ranks in the Bharatiya Janata Party, becoming a minister in his home state of Maharashtra. He took over as party chief at a time of crisis soon after the 2009 polls and won the Nagpur parliamentary seat -- the bastion of the RSS-- in both 2014 and 2019.In the midst of the largest public health crisis that the world has ever witnessed—the Covid-19 pandemic-- this year’s edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) is a totally virtual affair and an amalgamation of global leaders from all spheres of life. Live discussions with the celebrity participants has been spread over the span of four weeks scheduled twice a week on Thursdays and Fridays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-immense-response-to-pro-industry-reforms-has-led-to-more-jobs-says-nitin-gadkari/story-Pl12WMHX33E1acwknxgeeN.html
27-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: ‘No impact of Covid-19 on road projects, construction,’ says Gadkari||Union minister of road transport & highways and MSMEs, Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that there has been no impact of Covid-19 on road construction projects. The minister was speaking on Day 4 of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Friday in a session moderated by Zakka Jacob, managing editor, CNN-NEWS18.“The capacity of the construction equipment manufacturers have increased by 80 per cent, that is almost double,” the minister said. Gadkari said that one of the major initiatives has been to improve the situation of the builders and contractors in “these difficult economic times”.He also said that FASTag will be made mandatory within 2-3 months. Also read: HTLS 2020 - Uday Shankar confirms IPL 2020 has been the biggest ever#HTLS2020 | Union minister @nitin_gadkari in conversion with Zakka JacobWatch LIVE - https://t.co/IGzXtDO0dAFollow LIVE updates here - https://t.co/swTtV56r8a#DefinigANewEra pic.twitter.com/nJdDmxDzte“We plan to complete the FASTags procedure in the nest 2-3 months,” the minister said, adding that a portal is being developed for real-time updates on black spots on highways to prevent accidents.“Road accidents and deaths have reduced by almost 20 per cent,” he said. The opening session of Day 4 of the HTLS 2020 saw Ajay Bijli, chairman and MD at PVR Ltd., and Uday Shankar, chairman of Star and Disney India in conversation with Anuradha Sengupta, consulting editor, CNBC TV-18.  The third day of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday had defence minister Rajnath Singh, State Bank of India Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in participation.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Brown University School of Public Health dean Dr Ashish K Jha, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, veteran cricketer Kapil Dev and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were the esteemed guests who participated in the previous sessions of the summit last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-no-impact-of-covid-19-on-road-projects-construction-says-union-minister-nitin-gadkari/story-HfSnL8ikzKvWnRUbQvVSaJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Court directs Delhi CM Kejriwal, others to appear in defamation case||A Delhi court has directed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia to appear before it “without any failure” on December 3 in a criminal defamation complaint filed in 2013 by a ticket aspirant for the assembly elections.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey directed Kejriwal, Sisodia and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav to appear before the court while granting them exemption on November 25 for the day.Yadav was then in the Aam Aadmi Party.The court was hearing an application filed by Yogesh Gaur, the legal heir of the complainant Surender Kumar Sharma, who died recently.In his application, Gaur has sought substitution of the name of complainant.“All the three accused persons are exempted through their counsel for today (Nov 25) only and they are directed to join the proceedings on the next date of hearing without any failure,” the court said.In their application seeking adjournment, the counsel for Kejriwal and Sisodia also told the court that their main advocate was suffering from Covid-19.The judge posted the matter for further hearing on December 3.Sharma, in his complaint, had alleged that in 2013 he was approached by volunteers of AAP who had asked him to contest the Delhi Assembly elections on a party ticket, saying Kejriwal was pleased with his social services.He said he filled up the application form to contest the polls after being told by Sisodia and Yadav that AAP’s Political Affairs Committee had decided to give him the ticket. However, it was later denied to him.On October 14, 2013, the complainant claimed that articles in leading newspapers carried “defamatory, unlawful and derogatory words used by the accused persons” which have lowered his reputation in the Bar and the society.Opposing the complaint, the accused had submitted that cancellation or allotment of an election ticket was the prerogative of the party and the complainant had not divulged correct information regarding the cases pending against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-directs-delhi-cm-kejriwal-others-to-appear-in-defamation-case/story-vrKZCZk1CaZSxnsGWeoUQO.html
27-11-2020||India||Centre in SC blames Delhi govt for rise in Covid cases, says no steps taken despite exhortations||The Centre on Friday blamed Delhi government for rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital and said that despite “repeated exhortations” it did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 tests for a long time. The Centre said that Delhi government was well aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases and this foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and Information, Education and Communication (IEC) measures being instituted well in time but this was not done. In its affidavit, filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home affairs (MHA), said “while there were regular advertisements on achievements of Delhi Government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on Covid appropriate behaviour were to be seen. The people, at large, were also not apprised about this through regular outreach measures”. It said, “That despite repeated exhortations in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Government did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 RTPCR tests for a long time”. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah took the Centre’s affidavit on record and observed that “Things are going from bad to worse but no concrete steps are being taken. States will have to rise above the politics. All states will have to rise to the occasion,” the bench said while posting the matter for further hearing on December 1. The Centre said that despite issuing several elaborate and exhaustive guidelines for containment and prevention of the infection and for ensuring proper treatment of Covid patients, Delhi government saw its first wave of Coronavirus infection in the month of June-July and the union government immediately had to take pro-active and pre-emptive steps to control further spread of Covid-19. The Centre pointed out that to deal with the shortcomings, which lead to a massive increase in the Covid infection and the increasing strain on the capacity of medical infrastructure in the hospitals of Delhi, the Union Home Minister Amit Shah was constrained to call another meeting on November 15 to review the situation in the national capital. It said that even now, “after it was committed that GNCTD would increase ICU (non-ventilator) beds by around 2,680, the Chief Minister, vide its letter dated November 19, 2020 addressed to the Union Home Minister, has expressed his inability to enhance ICU beds in the Delhi (State Government and private) hospitals by more than around 912, and has asked the Central Government to create the additional 1,700 ICU beds”. It said that several meetings were held by cabinet secretary, union home secretary and health secretary with all concerned officials of Delhi government, municipal bodies and others to review the status of Covid-19 management and it was emphasised that all steps be taken to contain the situation in Delhi.The Centre pointed out that despite constant monitoring by the MHA about scrupulous compliance of the directions by Delhi government various short-comings, going into the root of the matter, were noticed in the implementation of the program. It said that thereafter a series of review meetings chaired by the Union Health Secretary were held from July 8 to November 13 and several issues were regularly emphasized to the Delhi government. The affidavit highlighted the shortcomings which include conversion of more beds into oxygenated/ventilator supported beds, strict perimeter control of containment zones, and more testing and especially through the RT-PCR method, to ensure that COVID positive persons are detected early and medical response can be given. The Centre said that several other issues which were flagged in the review meetings include that Delhi must monitor requirement of ambulances and other infrastructure so that no patient remains untreated and responded to and in view of the approaching festival period, marriage season and winter climatic conditions, GNCTD shall act proactively and thoroughly act according to the guidelines. “In addition, Cabinet Secretary also reviewed the Covid situation in 08 States/UTs including NCT of Delhi which constitute of 62 per cent of the nationwide active cases and 61 per cent of the total deaths, through Video conference on November 11”, it said, adding that it was emphasized on strict implementation of guidelines for COVID and rigor of containment measures. Detailing the shortcomings found on the part of Delhi government, the Centre said that no effective preventive steps to contain the infection were taken despite the recommendation of high power committee headed by Dr V K Paul, member NITI Ayog, which said that Delhi should plan for a surge of around 15,000 cases per day and accordingly provide for about 6,500 ICU beds. It said that the Delhi government did not take any timely measures to increase the ICU beds from the present level of around 3,500, thus causing a sudden pressure to come on the health and medical infrastructure in Delhi. The Centre said that even patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced and/or their contacts were also not traced effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/centre-in-sc-blames-delhi-govt-for-rise-in-covid-cases-says-no-steps-taken-despite-exhortations/story-5KBKGKyZeap54C2p8w8gUJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Kashi craftsman weaves special ‘Angvastram’ for PM Modi with Buddhist mantra||A Kashi craftsman has woven a special ‘Angvastram’ with the Buddhist mantra ‘Buddham Sharanam Gachchami, Dhammam Sharanam Gachchami, Sangham Sharanam Gachchami’ along with a leaf of the ‘Bodhivriksha’ for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The craftsman, Bachche Lal Maurya, a resident of Chhahi village in Varanasi wishes that chief minister Yogi Adityanath gifts the ‘Angavastram’ to the Prime Minister during his visit to Varanasi on November 30 to participate in the ‘Dev Deepawali’ celebrations. Also read: ‘He’s lying’: Nitish Kumar loses cool after Tejashwi Yadav’s sharp attackPM Modi is likely to visit the holy site of Sarnath to watch the light and sound show which shows the transformation of prince Siddhartha into Lord Buddha, his first preaching and beyond. Maurya said, “As I got to know that PM Modi may go to Sarnath during his proposed visit to Varanasi, I started weaving the ‘Angvastram’ with a Buddhist mantra and a leaf of ‘Bodhivriksha’. The ‘Angvastam’ is ready. I wish that chief minister Yogi Adityanath gift it to PM Modi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashi-craftsman-weaves-special-angvastram-for-pm-modi-with-buddhist-mantra/story-D1Uax7V6gjLxmWcsQ6N8HL.html
27-11-2020||India||10700 MW solar power projects to be installed in UP by 2022, says CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that 10700 Mega Watts (MW) solar power projects will be installed in Uttar Pradesh by 2022. Adityanath was attending the Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo Invest 2020 (3rd Re-Invest) on Friday. “The Chief Minister said that Uttar Pradesh is moving ahead with full commitment towards large scale unlimited solar power generation from renewable energy sources. The target is to set up 10700 MW solar power projects in the state by 2022. Efforts are on to achieve this target,” read the press statement in Hindi from the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister’s Office on Friday. The press statement read, “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that our basic mantra is ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. There should be investment in every part of the state. The projects that will be set up in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal areas, along with other facilities for those projects. the state government is working seriously for grid connectivity.”Adityanath in a tweet said, “I am confident that under the leadership of respected PM Shri Narendra Modi, the confidence with which the Ministry of Energy has organized the third Re-Invest Summit, it will surely achieve its goals. Undoubtedly, in the field of energy, our country will set a new milestone of self-reliance.” मुझे पूर्ण विश्वास है कि आदरणीय PM श्री @narendramodi जी के मार्गदर्शन में जिस विश्वास के साथ ऊर्जा मंत्रालय ने #3rdREINVEST समिट का आयोजन किया है वह निश्चित ही अपने लक्ष्यों को प्राप्त करेगा।निःसंदेह ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में हमारा देश आत्मनिर्भरता के नए प्रतिमान स्थापित करेगा। https://t.co/YPq7Gn8k0vThe press statement added, “The state government is determined to provide electricity to every household. Almost all the villages have been electrified by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and under the Saubhagya Scheme or Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, a target has been set to provide electricity to every household. In this scheme, solar energy also contributes greatly.”On November 26, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the 3rd virtual Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo (RE-Invest 2020) and expressed happiness that in the renewable energy sector, within a short time the progress from megawatts to gigawatts in generation capacity is becoming a reality.The summit is organized by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. The theme for RE-Invest 2020 is ‘Innovations for Sustainable Energy Transition’, according to a press statement from the Prime Minister’s Office on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10700-mw-solar-power-projects-to-be-installed-in-up-by-2022-says-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-rLHRpyFHAMVzMCUZxGC1DM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Diamond rush’ in Nagaland village, govt deputes geologists to investigate||News of what was believed to be diamonds being found in Wanching, a village in Mon district of Nagaland, spread like wildfire after photographs and video clips of villagers digging for the purported precious stone went viral on various social media platforms, prompting the state government to order an investigation to verify the claims.The video clips and photographs showed villagers gathered in large numbers, digging soil on a hillock and displaying small crystalline finds on their palms.The department of geology and mining on Friday deputed a team of four geologists to the site. “They will investigate and submit the status report at the earliest,” stated department director S Manen in an order. The team is expected to reach the village on November 30 or December 1.When contacted, deputy commissioner of Mon, Thavaseelan K said the incident took place earlier this week after some villagers found some crystals while working in the forest and informed others in the village on the presumption that they were diamonds. Also read: India’s GDP in September quarter contracts 7.5% - Govt dataThe official said it was doubtful that they were diamonds as the stones were found close to the surface. But he hoped the stones would bring some sort of benefit to the villagers even if they were quartz crystals as quartz has many applications.On whether an influx of curious people to the district was expected by the authorities, the DC replied positively if speculations were ruled to be true. However, he pointed out that the situation remains unpredictable until experts examined and declared what the stones were really worth. Although the matter has churned debates among the public, geologists were unconvinced that the small crystals were actual diamonds since there were no records of diamonds being present in the region.“Those are ordinary quartz crystals. They are very common and are found in different parts of Nagaland,” said Professor GT Thong from Nagaland University’s department of geology. He believes that the ‘poor villagers’ were misguided by some people and expressed hope that the team of geologists deputed to the village to investigate would officially shed some light on the matter soon.Meanwhile, the Wanching village council has issued a notice prohibiting anyone to post anything in social media regarding the stones and restricted anyone from other villages or towns from entering the village in search of the same. An elderly from the village informed that the village council was dismayed over the spread of unverified information, therefore in the apprehension of the arrival of many visitors following the news of the purported precious stones being found in the village, it has put up an order that anyone wanting to visit the village would require to obtain the council’s permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diamond-rush-in-nagaland-village-govt-deputes-geologists-to-investigate/story-lcTsjuoiU4jYwz0q3q8DDK.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Only women, no children allowed in Mumbai’s local trains||Amid a continued surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Railways today reiterated that children will not be allowed on local trains and only women will be allowed to board these.“Railway Board has only permitted the ladies passengers to travel in local trains during the stipulated hours over Mumbai Metropolitan region,” the directive issued by DRM/MMCT stated. The decision came after it was noticed that a large number of women passengers were seen travelling with children in the trains. “Railway Board has only permitted the ladies passengers to travel in local trains during the stipulated hours over Mumbai Metropolitan region. However, it has been noticed that women passengers are travelling with their children,” DRM Mumbai Central, WR said in a tweet. Railway Board has only permitted the ladiespassengers to travel in local trains during the stipulated hours over MumbaiMetropolitan region. However, it has been noticed that women passengers aretravelling with their Child/Children.Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will be deployed at each entry gate of stations to stop women who are with children to board the local trains.“In view of the above, it is once again reiterated that only ladies are allowed during the timing stipulated and not children. Hence it is requested to depute RPF at each entry gate and issue necessary instructions to restrict the entry of the children at the entrance itself,” another tweet mentioned.The Maharashtra government earlier in October had permitted all women to travel by the local trains under the ‘Begin Again’ Mission.Maharashtra continued to witness a significant uptick in Covid-19 cases, with the state reporting 6,406 fresh cases on Thursday to take the Covid-19 case tally to 18,02,365.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-only-women-no-children-allowed-in-mumbai-s-local-trains/story-hwkjQ6Ij2kXkIMFFnGb1vO.html
27-11-2020||India||Russia, Hungary in talks to allow Covid-19 vaccine to be produced in Hungary as well||Hungary and Russia have agreed that after a visit by Hungarian doctors next week to see the manufacturing process for its Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19, Russia will ship some of the vaccines to Budapest, Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said on Friday.Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said talks were also underway on how the Russian vaccine could be potentially produced in Hungary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/russia-hungary-in-talks-to-allow-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-produced-in-hungary-as-well/story-7F6y5JlaHLHxACGzt9LSQP.html
27-11-2020||India||EAM Jaishankar begins Seycelles visit, to focus on security, development cooperation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday began a two-day visit to Seychelles, part of India’s renewed focus on security and development cooperation with its Indian Ocean neighbours in the face of China’s aggression across the region. Seychelles is the last leg of Jaishankar’s three-nation tour that also took him to Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, and his main objective in the capital Victoria is to meet newly elected President Wavel Ramkalawan and present a letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Jaishankar is set to be the first senior foreign leader to meet Indian-origin Ramkalawan – who in October became the first opposition candidate to be elected president of the archipelago since 1977 – as Seychelles is under strict quarantine norms. Seychelles made a special exemption for the visit. Also read | S Jaishankar meets UAE counterpart; discusses Covid-19, strategic cooperationThe visit coincides with Seychelles joining Bangladesh and Mauritius as observers for a meeting of the trilateral maritime security cooperation dialogue between India, the Maldives and Sri Lanka in Colombo. India is being represented at the talks, which are being held after a gap of six years, by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. “The meeting in Sri Lanka and the external affairs minister’s visit to Seychelles are part of efforts to ramp up security and development cooperation across the Indian Ocean, especially for maritime domain awareness,” said a person familiar with developments who declined to be named. “The Indian side also wants to understand President Ramkalawan’s development priorities to strengthen bilateral cooperation. India has tried to broad-base its relationship through assistance in the form of grants and concessional loans,” the person said. Though development cooperation will top the agenda – India is currently helping Seychelles build a new Government House, police headquarters and attorney general’s office at a total cost of almost $91 million – the Indian side is also expected to discuss the stalled move to build naval facilities on Assumption Island, located about 1,100 km from the main island of Mahe. Though the two sides signed two agreements for this in 2015 and 2018, the construction couldn’t begin because of protests by Opposition parties. Ramkalawan had led the opposition to the project and political parties had refused to ratify the agreements despite the second one incorporating specific clauses to address concerns expressed by some quarters in Seychelles. While China has provided two light aircraft and two warships and financed the building of Seychelles’ Parliament, India has gifted the archipelago three naval boats and two maritime surveillance aircraft and established six coastal radar stations. Experts say such cooperation is crucial for patrolling the exclusive economic zones (EEZs) of Indian Ocean states and track the movement of vessels, including Chinese warships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-begins-seycelles-visit-to-focus-on-security-development-cooperation/story-VoTRa5VYfeumUyCIKIFIDI.html
27-11-2020||India||Suspected North Korean hackers targeted Covid vaccine maker AstraZeneca||Suspected North Korean hackers have tried to break into the systems of British drugmaker AstraZeneca in recent weeks, two people with knowledge of the matter told Reuters, as the company races to deploy its vaccine for the Covid-19 virus.The hackers posed as recruiters on networking site LinkedIn and WhatsApp to approach AstraZeneca staff with fake job offers, the sources said. They then sent documents purporting to be job descriptions that were laced with malicious code designed to gain access to a victim’s computer.The hacking attempts targeted a “broad set of people” including staff working on Covid-19 research, said one of the sources, but are not thought to have been successful. The North Korean mission to the United Nations in Geneva did not respond to a request for comment. Pyongyang has previously denied carrying out cyberattacks. It has no direct line of contact for foreign media.AstraZeneca, which has emerged as one of the top three Covid-19 vaccine developers, declined to comment.Read more | North Korea executed people, shut capital: South Korean agencyThe sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss non-public information, said the tools and techniques used in the attacks showed they were part of an ongoing hacking campaign that U.S. officials and cybersecurity researchers have attributed to North Korea.The campaign has previously focused on defence companies and media organisations but pivoted to Covid-related targets in recent weeks, according to three people who have investigated the attacks. Cyberattacks against health bodies, vaccine scientists and drugmakers have soared during the Covid-19 pandemic as state-backed and criminal hacking groups scramble to obtain the latest research and information about the outbreak.Western officials say any stolen information could be sold for profit, used to extort the victims, or give foreign governments a valuable strategic advantage as they fight to contain a disease that has killed 1.4 million people worldwide.Microsoft said this month it had seen two North Korean hacking groups target vaccine developers in multiple countries, including by “sending messages with fabricated job descriptions.” Microsoft did not name any of the targeted organisations.South Korean lawmakers said on Friday that the country’s intelligence agency had foiled some of those attempts. Reuters has previously reported that hackers from Iran, China and Russia have attempted to break into leading drugmakers and even the World Health Organisation this year. Tehran, Beijing and Moscow have all denied the allegations.Some of the accounts used in the attacks on AstraZeneca were registered to Russian email addresses, one of the sources said, in a possible attempt to mislead investigators. North Korea has been blamed by US prosecutors for some of the world’s most audacious and damaging cyberattacks, including the hack and leak of emails from Sony Pictures in 2014, the 2016 theft of $81 million from the Central Bank of Bangladesh, and unleashing the Wannacry ransomware virus in 2017.Pyongyang has described the allegations as part of attempts by Washington to smear its image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/suspected-north-korean-hackers-targeted-covid-vaccine-maker-astrazeneca/story-Bo2obo6gI7Jh4JBLQ0wiLM.html
27-11-2020||India||India’s GDP in September quarter contracts 7.5%: Govt data||India’s gross domestic product or GDP contracted 7.5% in the quarter ending September in comparison to the same period last year, data released by the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation (Mospi) showed on Friday. India’s GDP fell by 23.9% in April-June period quarter, worst in decades, amid the coronavirus pandemic-induced which hit businesses and livelihoods across the country.Analysts had said that they marked a significant improvement from the massive 23.9% contraction seen in the GDP numbers for the quarter ending June. The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) internal model expected a GDP contraction of 8.6% in the September quarter. A recent research note by Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, expected the contraction to be 7.9%. Economists in a Reuters poll had forecast GDP to shrink 8.8%, a contraction that would still amount to a technical recession.Also Read: India’s economy seen clawing back after slipping into recessionThe economy had grown at 3.1% in the January-March quarter, its slowest pace in at least eight years. The GDP data had shown that consumer spending slowing, private investments and exports contracting in the March quarter.Data showed earlier that India’s GDP growth had slowed even before the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions. The growth rate in Q4 FY20 at 3.1% was the weakest point in the new data series that had started in 2012-2013. The FY20 real GDP growth is 4.2%, which is also the weakest in the series.Also Read| Consumer goods sector may shift to the slow lane: NielsenIndia’s economy grew at its weakest pace since 2013 between April and June period last year as consumer demand and government spending slowed amid global trade frictions, raising chances of the central bank cutting interest rates further at its next meeting. Asia’s third-largest economy expanded just 5.0% year on year, it grew 8% in the same quarter of 2018, and 5.8% in the previous quarter.Global economies are experiencing contraction due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-gdp-in-july-september-quarter-recovers-to-7-5/story-NrjDUlezOnburpQJyGp7kL.html
27-11-2020||India||Woman BJP leader, 4 others arrested in human trafficking case in Chhattisgarh||Police arrested five people, including a woman BJP leader of Raipur, in the last five days for their alleged involvement in human trafficking which took place in Dongargarh area of Rajnandgaon district, a senior official said. Rajnandgaon police in a statement claimed that the arrests were made after a married woman, who was abducted and sold off, managed to reach to the police and told her story. Police said that the accused were identified as Sajda Sayyad (32), Salman Khan (30), Junaid Khan (22) and Shubham Tiwari, all residents of Dongargarh and were arrested on November 23. Another accused, Ganga Pande, was nabbed on Thursday from her residence in Raipur. Pande was a ward-level BJP leader in the state capital and was expelled from the party on Friday afternoon. “After the incident came into light, state BJP president Vishnudeo Sai immediately expelled Pandey from the party. She was ward-level leader from north of Raipur,” said state BJP spokesperson Gaurishankar Srivas. Rajnandgaon police claimed that the 23-year-old victim in her statement said she was befriended by Sajda and on September 11 was invited to her home for tea. The victim’s 3-year-old son was with her when she reached her house. Subsequently, the accused had offered her tea mixed with some sedatives and after drinking it she fell unconscious. Also read: Farmers enter Delhi via Tikri border, told to demonstrate at Burari groundWhen she gained consciousness after a few hours, the victim was at Raipur airport from where she was taken to Delhi on a flight. Three other accused who had accompanied her threatened to kill her son if she narrated the incident to anyone, the police claimed. From Delhi, the woman and her son were taken to Haryana by road and were kept in a rented house there. Tiwari allegedly raped the woman before she was being sold to a person identified as Suresh for Rs 1 lakh. “After a few days, the woman tried to escape with her kid from his clutches but she was caught and handed her over to the gang that sold her. The woman was again sold to another man named Rajesh in Haryana for marriage. However, when the woman narrated her ordeal to Rajesh he informed the local police and facilitated her return to Dongargarh,” police said. “After reaching Dongargarh on November 22, the woman lodged a case in this connection and the four accused of the town were immediately arrested. The investigation revealed the involvement of Ganga Pade, a local politician from Raipur who had arranged for the tickets for the accused to travel to Delhi,” the police said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-bjp-leader-4-others-arrested-in-human-trafficking-case-in-chhattisgarh/story-nlRx74LQLwqYJAXFlgDddN.html
27-11-2020||India||Others should look to follow India-Denmark Green Strategic Partnership, says Danish climate minister||India and Denmark recently signed a Green Strategic Partnership, the first such agreement for either country. Dan Jorgensen, the Danish Minister for Climate and Energy, in an interview with Hindustan Times, explained its significance. Edited excerpts:What is the importance of the Green Strategic Partnership? Is this unique in the world?The Green Strategic Partnership is extremely important to both of us and the world. India and Denmark are in a very fortunate situation in that we can really help each over and learn from each other, Denmark is a front runner in renewable energy, especially in offshore wind where we are in the process of using this technology to create “energy islands”. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted about the partnership, “Denmark has the skills, India has the scale.” India has ambitious plans for renewable energy and I am very impressed by these plans. Denmark has skills which could be used to help India achieve those goals. I hesitate to say the partnership is a first, as I am not certain if other countries do not have similar arrangements. But it is the first time Denmark has concluded such a partnership of this sort. We definitely hope other countries look at this strategic partnership as something that they would like to follow. We, as part of a global community, look to the United Nations in climate issues but we must also create bilateral alliances in this field.Denmark and India are very different in size and climate. Why should they have looked to each other to form a partnership?First of all, there is considerable friendship, trust and good cooperation between our two countries. Our authorities are used to working together. We have a record of efficient transfer of knowledge. The scale of the energy transformation that India is undergoing will be a benefit for not only India but also the whole world. India is a key player in fighting climate change. More to the point, if we are to have a chance to fulfil the Paris agreement, India is a key player given its size. Other countries are looking to India to take a leadership role in climate. All of us are impressed by the level of ambition India has shown in green energy. Denmark has many areas of renewable expertise. I believe we can help a lot in wind. We have the greatest experience in offshore wind, with the first offshore wind park set up in Denmark in 1991. There has been remarkable technological advance in this area. In many places, offshore wind competes with coal. Next level of technology is the energy island where many wind parks are connected to an island which serves as an energy hub. We have two islands already, one gigawatt and three gigawatts. We are increasing the second to 10 gigawatts. The technology exists to scale this up and use this power to create hydrogen which can then be used as a liquid fuel for heavy transport including trucks, ships and airplanes. This would solve key problems in renewable energy: one, how do you store energy and, two, how do you put renewable energy into your transport system. Where will green cooperation go in the future?Indian government officials and experts are looking at our plans for offshore wind with interest. But our plans for the future are to take wind energy into a whole new area. We do not see this as a sector in which we are in competition with other countries, this is something where we have to work with other countries with the ultimate aim of global energy transformation. At the global level, first and foremost, we must fulfil the Paris accord. At present, we are not on track globally. But I am an optimist, thanks to the developments among the world’s major emitters, including India, China and the United States. I am especially pleased that the US has pledged to re-enter the Paris accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/others-should-look-to-follow-india-denmark-green-strategic-partnership-says-danish-climate-minister/story-DlYUv3ucYlF68h817iA2eP.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Only the beginning’: Rahul Gandhi targets Centre, says it has to accept farmers’ demands||Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation against farm laws, which witnessed several clashes between the police and protesters, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Centre and said that no government in the world can stop them from fighting the ‘battle of truth’.“The PM should have remembered that whenever the ego hits the truth, it is defeated. No government in the world can stop the farmers fighting the battle for truth. The Modi government has to accept the demands of the farmers and black laws will have to be withdrawn. This is only the beginning!” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Earlier in the day, his sister and Congress party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also lashed out at the Centre and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should implement “one nation, one behaviour”, in an apparent jibe at his suggestion for “one nation, one election”.Also Read: Protesting farmers enter Delhi through Tikri border, to demonstrate at Burari groundSince Thursday, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been marching towards the national capital as a part of the ‘Dilli Challo’ march to protest against the three farm laws passed by the central government in September. Carrying flags and shouting slogans, farmers gathered at several entry points to enter into Delhi while police blocked them with barricades, batons and tear gas shells.Metro and train services were disrupted due to the ongoing stir and massive traffic snarls were witnessed in Delhi and surrounding areas. PM को याद रखना चाहिए था जब-जब अहंकार सच्चाई से टकराता है, पराजित होता है।सच्चाई की लड़ाई लड़ रहे किसानों को दुनिया की कोई सरकार नहीं रोक सकती।मोदी सरकार को किसानों की माँगें माननी ही होंगी और काले क़ानून वापस लेने होंगे। ये तो बस शुरुआत है!#IamWithFarmersDelhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava later allowed the farmers to enter the national capital adding they will be permitted to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area. Shrivastava also appealed to the farmers to demonstrate peacefully and maintain law and order.Follow live updates on the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest marchThe farmers are demanding the revocation of The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, which they said should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-the-beginning-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre-says-it-has-to-accept-farmers-demands/story-zMcyLRQWwQNDtX7eBChzeP.html
27-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers in western UP block highways in support of ‘Chalo Dilli’ march and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers in western UP block highways in support of ‘Chalo Dilli’ marchFarmers blocked traffic on highways at different points in eight districts of the Meerut region in western Uttar Pradesh on Friday in support of the ongoing agitation against three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. Read more.Fodder scam: Jolt for RJD as Jharkhand high court defers Lalu’s bail plea hearingThe Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred the hearing in RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea to December 11. “Party workers across the state were gearing up to accord a grand welcome to him. Read morePunjab CM welcomes Centre’s decision to allow protesting farmers to enter DelhiPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow farmers from his state and Haryana, protesting against the three farm laws enacted earlier this year, to enter Delhi and continue with their demonstration peacefully. Read moreNew UK regulator to rein in Google, Facebook, other tech giantsThird-generation Tech giants such as Google and Facebook will be subject to a new UK regime to give consumers more choice and control over their data, help small businesses thrive, and ensure news outlets are not forced out by bigger rivals, business secretary Alok Sharma announced on Friday. Read moreVolvo S60 unveiled in India, bookings to start January 21The third-generation Volvo S60 was officially unveiled by the Swedish car maker in the Indian market on Friday with its launch here scheduled for early 2021. The sedan was previously expected to go on sale earlier this year but the plans were reportedly pushed back owing to Covid-19-related factors. Read moreDad and brothers hilariously interrupt girl trying to record video for teacher. WatchWe all have those family members who perfectly capture the definition of the word silly. In fact, their antics often create situations that make us laugh out loud. This video of a little girl named Delaney getting interrupted by her dad and brother while trying to create an art for her teacher perfectly shows how goofy a family can be. Watch hereHalima Aden quits fashion industry, Rihanna-Bella Hadid-Gigi Hadid support hijab-wearing American supermodelIn a series of historic Instagram confessions, Somali American supermodel Halima Aden opened up about her hijab journey and quit “bowed out gracefully” from runaway modeling because it forced her to compromise her religious beliefs as a Muslim woman. Read moreGautam Gambhir explains why he ‘would go with Hardik Pandya’ over Manish Pandey in India’s ODI XIIndia included all-rounder Hardik Pandya in their Playing XI against Australia in the first ODI in Sydney. This is Pandya’s first international game since September 2019 and coming off a productive IPL season, one would assume he is deserving of a place in India’s XI. Read more‘Muslim boys should consider Hindu girls as their sisters’: SP leaderSamajwadi Party (SP) MP from Moradabad ST Hasan called ‘Love Jihad’ a political stunt and asked Muslim boys to consider Hindu girls their ‘sisters’. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-in-western-up-block-highways-in-support-of-chalo-dilli-march-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1qe65LlAUUisozAdrp43WL.html
27-11-2020||India||Germany preps vaccine drive as Covid cases hit 1 million||Hulking gray boxes are rolling off the production line at a factory in the southern town of Tuttlingen, ready to be shipped to the front in the next phase of Germany’s battle against the coronavirus as it became the latest country to hit the milestone of 1 million confirmed cases Friday.Man-sized freezers such as those manufactured by family-owned firm Binder GmbH could become a key part of the vast immunization program the German government is preparing to roll out when the first vaccines become available next month.That’s because one of the front-runners in the race for a vaccine is BioNTech, a German company that together with U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer has developed a shot it says is up to 96% effective in trials but comes with a small hitch: it needs to be cooled to minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit) for shipping and storage.Ensuring such temperatures, colder even than an Antarctic winter, is just one of the many challenges that countries face in trying to get their populations immunized.The effort has been compared to a military operation. Indeed some countries, including Germany, are relying on military and civilian expertise to ensure the precious doses are safely transported from manufacturing plants to secret storage facilities, before being distributed.Read more| Germany passes 1 million Covid cases since start of pandemicGermany has benefited from the market power that comes with being a member of the European Union. The 27-nation bloc’s executive Commission — led by former German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen — has spearheaded negotiations with vaccine makers, ordering more than a billion doses so far.German officials have said the country hopes to secure up to 300 million doses from the EU orders and bilateral deals with three manufacturers in Germany, including BioNTech and CureVac, a company based in Tuebingen that says its vaccine can be stored at regular refrigerator temperatures for up to three months. Its trials are not as far along, however, as Pfizer/BioNTech and others.The figure of 300 million is contingent on all vaccines being developed making it to market. That would be more than enough to immunize Germany’s population of 83 million, even if two shots are required, as seems likely.How exactly the vaccine is delivered to patients differs from country to country. In Germany, the federal government has delegated the task to its 16 states, which are now working to build large vaccination centers.The city-state of Berlin has drafted in Albrecht Broemme, a veteran of disaster management. The former Berlin fire chief later led Germany’s federal civil protection organization THW, where he helped organize disaster relief operations for floods, storms and quakes around the world.The 67-year-old is now coordinating the setting-up of six vaccine hubs in Berlin in a convention center, two former airports, an ice skating rink, a concert hall and an indoor cycle race track.Authorities want them ready by mid-December to begin vaccinating more than 3,000 people per day at each location. With just a few minutes to deliver each shot and mindful of keeping the number of people in each center at a minimum, Broemme and his colleagues are devising a one-way flow system similar to that found in large stores like furniture company Ikea.Each site will be run by a medical aid group, such as the Red Cross, with volunteers to help register and guide people through the venue.Like elsewhere, the first phase of vaccination in Berlin will likely focus on immunizing health care workers and vulnerable groups such as the elderly and those with chronic illnesses. About 20,000 people will be vaccinated each day, returning after three weeks for a booster shot.Demand is likely to outstrip supply at first, but that will change as more vaccines come onto the market.“We’re hopeful that approvals in the field of vaccination will be issued very quickly,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel told parliament on Thursday. “That won’t solve the problem immediately, but there’s a light at the end of the tunnel.”Broemme has said he expects four-fifths of the vaccines initially available to need ultra-low cooling. That means every center will need a pharmacy that handles both the storage and thawing of vaccines.At the other end of the country in Tuttlingen, Binder GmbH, one of hundreds of medical device manufacturers in the town, some with a history dating back to the 19th century, is seeing demand for its freezers surge.Priced at 13,000-15,000 euros ($15,500-17,900), each device can keep tens of thousands of vials of vaccine at optimum temperature, says Peter Wimmer, the company’s head of innovation.“It’s plug and play,” he told the AP. “All you need is an electrical socket, switch it on and the device is ready to go.”Having the whole vaccination system ready to go at the touch of a button is a different matter, though.It is still unclear who will actually administer the vaccines in Berlin. Unlike Britain, which has a centralized National Health Service organizing the immunization drive, Germany is relying on doctors associations to provide the necessary medical staff.Doerthe Arnold, a spokeswoman for the Berlin branch of Germany’s Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians, said they are still waiting for the state government to provide details on what will be required of doctors.“Despite the positive feedback from doctors practices that they’re willing to help out even more, providing medical personnel for the six vaccination centers will be a challenge,” she said.The limits of medical logistics were tested in spring, when huge worldwide demand for ventilators, therapeutic drugs, face masks and other protective equipment prompted bidding wars, bottlenecks and reports of faulty products.Global logistics company DHL estimates that to provide worldwide coverage of vaccines over the coming two years may require 15,000 flights.“The challenge is the sheer number of doses and the fact that it’s not clear which vaccine needs to go where,” Sabine Hartmann, a DHL spokeswoman, told The AP. “It’s not something a single company can do on its own. All logistics companies have to work together on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/germany-preps-vaccine-drive-as-covid-cases-hit-1-million/story-LjP3D4zT5T4Zy9Hnd8BFNM.html
27-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti not under house arrest, asked to defer Pulwama visit over security reasons: Police||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti has not been put under house arrest, police said on Friday, adding that she was asked to postpone her visit to Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district over security reasons.“PDP leader Ms Mehbooba Mufti is not under house arrest. She was requested to #postpone her visit to #Pulwama purely due to #security reasons. @JmuKmrPolice,” the police said in a tweet.Earlier in the day, Mufti claimed that she and her daughter, Iltija Mufti, were placed under house arrest and not allowed to visit the Pulwama residence of party leader Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the NIA earlier this week.Watch | Police reject Mehbooba Mufti’s ‘detained’ claim; Waheed Parra in NIA custody “I’ve been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, J&K admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid’s family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers & their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case,” the former chief minister said in a tweet.Parra was on Friday remanded to 15 days by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) following his arrest on Wednesday for allegedly conspiring with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists to get their support during the 2019 parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-not-under-house-arrest-asked-to-defer-pulwama-visit-over-security-reasons-police/story-fHMric4mnNs6HjyjI5X0aI.html
27-11-2020||India||Russia to vaccinate armed forces against Covid-19 as new cases hit daily record||Russia plans to vaccinate more than 400,000 military personnel against Covid-19, Defence minister Sergei Shoigu said on Friday, as authorities reported a record 27,543 new coronavirus cases.Russia, which is working on several vaccines against the virus, has seen a surge in infections since September but authorities have resisted imposing lockdowns, relying instead on targeted measures in certain regions.Indian pharmaceutical company Hetero will manufacture more than 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine per year under the terms of a deal with Russia’s RDIF sovereign wealth fund unveiled on Friday.Siberia’s Vector Institute, developing EpiVacCorona, Russia’s second Covid-19 vaccine, said immunity would not be lifelong and that additional vaccinations would be required 6-10 months after the first two shots, and then once every three years. Read more | Russia’s Sputnik V developers call on AstraZeneca to try combining vaccinesThe Vector Institute was ready to produce up to five million doses of its vaccine per year, Alexander Ryzhikov, head of the institute’s zoonotic infections and influenza department, said on Friday. Shoigu said 2,500 military personnel had been vaccinated against Covid-19 already, with the total expected to reach 80,000 by the end of the year, news agencies cited him as saying. In Moscow, between 1,500 and 1,700 patients were being hospitalised with the virus every day, said Deputy Mayor Anastasia Rakova. “The situation with coronavirus in Moscow remains very tense, today we have recorded a so-called new anti-record,” news agencies quoted Rakova as saying, as infections in the capital surged to a record high 7,918. Despite the increase, Rakova said there were still around 5,000 hospital beds available and that 12 additional computerized tomography (CT) scan centres had been opened to provide 24-hour assistance to patients. With 2,215,533 infections, Russia has the fourth-largest number of Covid-19 cases in the world behind the United States, India and Brazil. It has recorded 38,558 deaths related to Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/russia-to-vaccinate-armed-forces-against-covid-19-as-new-cases-hit-daily-record/story-D1SLrmjUef5qkcVXqeaLGM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Son of brother-like friend’: Nitish Kumar to Tejashwi Yadav’s sharp attack||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday appeared to lose his cool in the Bihar assembly, following a stinging personal attack on him by the leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav.Reeling off charges, Tejashwi Yadav referred to the 1991 murder case - in which the CM has been given a clean chit - controversy over a book in the name of CM, the Srijan scam, among others.There was palpable unease in the treasury benches. The 31-year-old leader, whose party emerged the single largest party in the just concluded elections, also referred to Nitish Kumar’s ‘8-9 children’ jibe during campaigning.Nitish Kumar seemed very displeased as soon as Tejashwi Yadav once again got up for rebuttal after parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary gave pointed clarification on the charges and urged the Chair to restrain members from making unsubstantiated charges.“I urge the chair to remove objectionable and unsubstantiated remarks from the proceedings, as despite clear court orders, baseless allegations are being made against the leader of the House ,” said Choudhary.However, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said that he would get the matter examined and then take action. At this point, Tejashwi again reiterated his allegations.CM Kumar, angry with consistent assault on his image, got up to defend himself.“He is making absurd allegations. He is lying. I kept mum for far too long, as he happens to be the son of a brother-like friend. I did not speak, hoping he will mend his ways,” Kumar said as leaders of the treasury and opposition benched trooped into the well and nearly came to blows before the marshals intervened.“He should know that I was the one who made his father the Legislature party leader. Even he became the deputy CM due to me, and he has the cheek to speak like this. I had asked him to explain corruption charges against him, but he did not. Everyone knows the court orders in my case and he is still repeating lies. I tolerated everything, but now it is too much,” the CM said.As the pandemonium continued, the marshals stepped in. The Speaker adjourned the House for half an hour. It is the last day of the five-day session.Right from the start of the session, the opposition has been on the offensive and it had also forced election for the Speaker’s post, which also witnessed adjournments and furore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/son-of-brother-like-friend-nitish-kumar-to-tejashwi-yadav-s-sharp-attack/story-zVy12E8wvxTrQmpqXVmTUK.html
27-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers enter Delhi through Tikri border, to demonstrate at Burari ground||After two days of high voltage drama, farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting against three farms laws enacted by the Centre in September, on Friday finally entered Delhi through the Tikri border leading from Delhi to Bahadurgarh.The agitating farmers were let in soon after Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava announced that the former will be allowed to enter and continue with their demonstration peacefully at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the city’s Burari area. “They will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area,” Shrivastava was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said that the farmers were headed to the Burari ground after their demand to hold their protest at the Ramlila Ground was rejected by the Delhi Police.Thanking the authorities for granting permission for the protest, a farmer told ANI, “We’ve crossed about 10 barriers on our way. We’re thankful to the administration for giving us permission to protest. We’re happy and only want a peaceful resolution to the issue.”Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also welcomed the move to allow the agitating farmers to enter Delhi and continue with their stir. He renewed his appeal to the Centre to initiate talks with the farmers to resolve the issue that has been raging for over two months now.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are marching towards Delhi as part of their ‘Dilli Challo’ call against the Centre for clearing three farm laws-The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020- during the monsoon session of the Parliament.While the government claims that the laws will eliminate the role of middlemen and ensure fair prices to farmers for their crops, the farmers contend the legislation would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-enter-delhi-through-tikri-border-to-demonstrate-at-burari-ground/story-n7gX7F02mB5Ce8iAhCrDcK.html
27-11-2020||India||Goa to host year-long celebrations to mark 60 years of liberation from Portuguese rule||The Goa government will host year-long celebrations to mark the diamond jubilee year of the state’s liberation from Portuguese rule beginning December 19, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Friday. The year-long celebrations will be highlighted through various programmes in Goa as well as across the country with a programme each in other states, Sawant said. “Beginning December 19, this year we will begin the 60th year of Goa’s liberation. We have decided to celebrate the year with programmes round the year. Throughout the year we will have programmes that celebrate Goa’s past 60 years and highlight the liberation movement,” Sawant said. “We will highlight the strides we have made since 1961 and even before that not only during the Portuguese regime but also the era before that - the Kadamba dynasty, Marathas, etc,” Sawant said. “The programmes will not only be in Goa but across the country in each state, a programme will be organised in each state capital or any other city to promote Goa and our tourism as well as in Delhi,” Sawant said. The state government has sought funding from the Centre for the celebrations to the tune of Rs 100 crore.Also read: Delhi is conducting more Covid-19 tests compared to rest of India, says Jain“We have asked for special grants from the Centre for these functions and are confident that they will help us,” Sawant said. Goa was freed from the Portuguese rule with the Indian Army marching on December 18, in 1961 in an operation codenamed Operation Vijay. The 48-hour bloodless operation ended when the Portuguese governor general hoisted a white flag atop the secretariat complex indicating that the Portuguese had surrendered the capital of what was once a vast maritime empire in Asia. Sawant said he hoped that the showcasing of Goa across the country would help boost the state’s tourism prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-host-year-long-celebrations-to-mark-60-years-of-liberation-from-portuguese-rule/story-7R6BFu89be1UWiIRuJUPqJ.html
27-11-2020||India||HC to hear next week MP Manoj Tiwari’s plea to quash defamation summons on Sisodia’s complaint||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear on December 1 a plea by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari challenging summons issued to him in a criminal defamation case filed by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia for allegedly levelling corruption charges against him.Senior advocate Pinky Anand, representing Tiwari, urged Justice Anu Malhotra to take up the plea next week.The BJP leader has challenged a trial court’s November 28, 2019 order summoning him and others as accused in the criminal defamation case filed by Sisodia.Sisodia had filed the complaint against BJP leaders -- Members of Parliament Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma, MLAs Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana -- for allegedly making corruption charges against him in relation to Delhi government schools’ classrooms.The accused were earlier granted bail after they appeared before the trial court.Tiwari, through advocate Neeraj, has sought quashing of the summons issued against him.The AAP leader had filed the complaint under section 200 of CrPC for commission of offences under Section 499 and 500 read with Sections 34 and 35 of the IPC for making false and defamatory statements in print, electronic and social media.Sisodia had stated that all the allegations made by the BJP leaders jointly and individually were false, defamatory and derogatory with an intention to harm and damage his reputation and goodwill.If convicted, the offence of defamation entails a maximum punishment of two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-hear-next-week-mp-manoj-tiwari-s-plea-to-quash-defamation-summons-on-sisodia-s-complaint/story-5V3UuldZihzpy0BeUrUkoI.html
27-11-2020||India||Thailand signs supply deals for AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||Thailand on Friday signed a deal to procure 26 million doses of the trial coronavirus vaccine developed by pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca in collaboration with Oxford University. It is expected to be delivered in mid-2021.The doses would cover 13 million people in a population of about 69 million.Thailand’s National Vaccine Institute signed a non-refundable advance market commitment contract worth 2.38 billion baht ($79 million) with AstraZeneca to reserve the supply of the vaccine candidate. Another 3.67 billion baht ($121 million) agreement for the purchase of the trial vaccine, known as AZD1222, was signed by the Health Ministry’s Disease Control Department.“We have followed the vaccine manufacturers globally, but this group has achieved very high progress,” Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said at the signing. “They are likely to be able to produce the vaccine early next year. Most importantly, we have to get ourselves ready for the domestic process including packaging and logistics.”Read more | Malaysia secures 12.8 million doses of Pfizer vaccine, delivery from first quarterGovernment spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri said officials are still considering how to prioritize vaccine recipients. “Those who work closely with Covid-19 patients, for example, doctors and nurses, should be among the first people. But this needs further discussion,” he said.Oxford and AstraZeneca reported Monday that their trial vaccine appeared to be 62% effective in people who received two doses, and 90% effective when volunteers were given a half dose followed by a full dose.They did not mention at the time, but later acknowledged, that a manufacturing issue had resulted in “a half dose of the vaccine being administered as the first dose” to some participants, a development that led to criticism that its test results were flawed.AstraZeneca has said it plans to conduct a new global clinical trial to make a fresh assessment of the vaccine’s efficacy.The AstraZeneca trial vaccine is regarded as having several advantages over rival vaccines being developed so far for less-developed countries, including cheaper cost and the ability to be stored at temperatures not as cold as the others.Under a separate deal in October, the Health Ministry, Siam Bioscience Co. and the SCG business conglomerate signed a letter of intent with AstraZeneca on the manufacturing and supply of the AZD1222 vaccine candidate. It would allow Siam Bioscience to produce the vaccine at its own plant, with a starting date targeted for the middle of next year.Siam Bioscience said that if plans proceed smoothly, Thailand would become the first country in Southeast Asia to produce the vaccine.Thailand has had 3,961 confirmed cases of the coronavirus since January, including 60 deaths. While it has coped well with the health aspects of the crisis, the measures it has taken to combat the disease, most notably stopping tourist flights into the country, have badly hurt its economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/thailand-signs-supply-deals-for-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine/story-D9MckniV3y5J0vgVEpYUnK.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers protesting against farm laws detained on Lucknow outskirts||Over 60 farmers were detained on Friday after they tried to block the busy Sultanpur Road on the outskirts of Lucknow during a protest against the three agricultural laws, the police said. Other protestors were dispersed. The agitating farmers were from the rural pockets of Lucknow and adjoining districts.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora said following local intelligence inputs, heavy force had been deployed at various vulnerable points on the outskirts of the city in order to check the entry of protestors into the state capital. He added that some protestors were detained.Despite the elaborate security arrangements, a large group of farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) reached Sultanpur Road to support the anti-farm laws agitation. The farmers said their protest was against the new laws, harassment in the name of stubble burning and several other issues.“The protest was staged on the call of our union against the government’s anti-farmer policies,” said Anil Dubey, a farmer who was heading the protest here in the state capital.The three laws, which according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Also Read: Farmers in western UP block highways in support of ‘Chalo Dilli’ marchSome farmers also criticised the government’s wheat procurement system, saying it was another way to harass farmers.“Wheat is not being procured in an effective way. Also, the farmers are being harassed in the name of stubble burning. FIRs are being lodged against poor farmers. We strongly oppose the harassment of farmers,” another farmer said.A group of farmers staged a march from Bagiyamau to the main Sultanpur highway where they were detained.Also Read: Punjab CM welcomes Centre’s decision to allow protesting farmers to enter DelhiThe protest call was given by several farmers’ unions associated with the All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee.Other than Sultanpur Road on Shaheed Path, heavy police force was deployed on the Faizabad Road near Chinhat in anticipation of protests. Barring Sultanpur Road, no farmer protest was reported elsewhere in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protesting-against-farm-laws-detained-on-lucknow-outskirts/story-1Wg457Ige8Yh1E00XQqV8N.html
27-11-2020||India||Fodder scam: Jolt for RJD as Jharkhand high court defers Lalu’s bail plea hearing||The Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred the hearing in RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea to December 11. “Party workers across the state were gearing up to accord a grand welcome to him. Some of them had even been arriving at former chief minister Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road residence since morning. But they were asked to go back and wait for the high court’s order,” said former party legislator and one of Yadav’s close confidantes, Bhola Yadav. A crowd had been building up at Rabri Devi’s residence since morning, holding banners and party flag. “Bihar government would be compelled to toe the line of social justice once Laluji gets out of jail,” said Ram Balak Yadav, a native of Panapur, who was present in the crowd.Talking to media persons, Rabri Devi said she had immense faith in the judiciary and she would welcome whatever the court decided. Also read | Lalu Prasad stays in bungalow, allottee in guest house; BJP questions ‘irony’Danapur MLA Bhai Birendra said some of the party workers had gone to Ranchi to welcome Yadav’s release. “We all were expecting the release. Party workers and common people of my constituency were preparing to celebrate it,” said Birendra. However, turning their hope into despair, the court deferred the hearing, asking for the lower court’s record of the number of days Yadav has spent in jail in connection with the Dumka treasury case. Out of all the cases of the infamous fodder scam, Prasad has been granted bail in three. “He could be released from the jail if the court had granted bail in this case,” said Bhola Yadav. Associate professor, medicine department, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), DK Jha, who is treating the RJD chief, said his condition was stable. “His kidney is in fourth stage deformity. Heartbeat, which generally goes irregular, is under control now. However, he needs to remain under constant observation of specialised doctor even after he gets out on bail,” said Dr Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fodder-scam-jolt-for-rjd-as-jharkhand-high-court-defers-lalu-s-bail-plea-hearing/story-h84UwPNU1Ref32skyV7LiK.html
27-11-2020||India||Malaysia secures 12.8 million doses of Pfizer vaccine, delivery from first quarter||Malaysia is expected to receive its first Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer in the first quarter of 2021 after signing a deal for 12.8 million doses from the U.S. manufacturer, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Friday. The deal is expected to cover 6.4 million Malaysians, or 20 percent of the population, with another 10 percent to be covered under Malaysia’s participation in the global COVAX facility, backed by the World Health Organization. Pfizer has agreed to deliver the first one million doses in the first quarter of 2021, with 1.7 million doses, 5.8 million and 4.3 million to follow in subsequent quarters, Muhyiddin said.The vaccination programme would prioritise “high-risk groups... including frontliners, senior citizens, and those with non-communicable diseases, such as heart diseases, diabetes,” he said during a televised news conference. The Pfizer vaccine still requires approvals from regulator including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Malaysia’s Health Ministry before it can be distributed, Muhyiddin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/malaysia-secures-12-8-million-doses-of-pfizer-vaccine-delivery-from-first-quarter/story-v5tFFBP0wXBkbTwCbqu1hJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Rajkot’s fire incident is tragedy beyond words: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday condoled the death of Covid-19 patients in a fire at a hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot, calling it a tragedy beyond words.Five coronavirus patients were killed after a fire broke out in the ICU of a designated Covid-19 hospital in Rajkot in the early hours of Friday.“The death of Covid-19 patients in a fire accident at a hospital in Rajkot, Gujarat is a tragedy beyond words. In this agonising time, I offer my heartfelt empathy for the bereaved families. I pray for speedy recovery for the injured,” Kovind tweeted.  The death of Covid-19 patients in a fire accident at a hospital in Rajkot, Gujarat is a tragedy beyond words. In this agonising time, I offer my heartfelt empathy for the bereaved families. I pray for speedy recovery for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajkot-s-fire-incident-is-tragedy-beyond-words-president-kovind/story-VslxLOZpyD8pHsfaok2PuL.html
27-11-2020||India||Punjab CM welcomes Centre’s decision to allow protesting farmers to enter Delhi||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow farmers from his state and Haryana, protesting against the three farm laws enacted earlier this year, to enter Delhi and continue with their demonstration peacefully. The Punjab chief minister also renewed his appeal to the Centre to initiate talks with the farmers to resolve the simmering issue.“The Centre should now move quickly towards holding further talks with the Kisan Unions to thrash out the problem triggered by the agricultural legislations which have threatened the lives and livelihoods of the farmers,” Singh said in a statement.Click here for live updates on farmers protestSingh’s comments came minutes after Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that the agitating farmers will be permitted inside the national capital and hold a peaceful protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the city’s Burari area. Expecting a possible law and order challenge, the Delhi Police earlier in the day sought permission from the state government to turn nine of the city’s stadiums into temporary detention centres for the protesting farmers. The Arvind Kejriwal government, however, turned down the request.Singh also slammed the Manohar Khattar-led government in Haryana for its use of force to stop farmers despite the Centre’s nod. “Though the central government has allowed the farmers to enter the national capital to exercise their democratic right to protest, the Haryana government is engaged in a confrontationist approach against the farmers moving towards Delhi,” he said.Commenting on the police action on the agitating farmers on reaching Haryana, the Punjab chief minister said, “What’s the need for such harsh measures? This barbarism needs to stop right now @mlkhattar ji.” “The farmers did not inflict even an iota of damage to any public property over the past three months of their protest, and here is a state government that is brazenly and shamelessly digging up roads made of public money,” he added.Thousands of farmers from northern states including Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, are headed towards Delhi as part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest march. On Thursday, the farmers from Punjab broke barricades and forced their way into Haryana, braving tear gas shells and water cannons en route to Delhi, where security was heightened to stop them from entering the Capital.After high drama unfolded in Haryana over police action, the farmers from Punjab and Haryana then gathered at Panipat on Friday and jointly resumed their march to Delhi for an indefinite protest against the farm laws- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020- cleared by the Parliament during the monsoon session in September.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to step up its drive of reaching out to farmers across the country in a bid to dispel concerns about the farm legislation. Concerned about the impact that the tussle will have on the ground, senior ministers have also been urged to initiate dialogue with farmers’ unions to call off the stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-punjab-cm-welcomes-centre-s-decision-to-allow-protesting-farmers-to-enter-delhi/story-7jNu3rXY4yAl8gHJM6JOOM.html
27-11-2020||India||MeT department forecasts more rains for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry next week||A low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal on November 30 could bring more rains to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry from December 1, the regional weather office said on Friday.Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, S Balachandran, told reporters that the system was likely to intensify into a depression later.“A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to intensify into a depression on November 30 and move towards the Tamil Nadu coast,” he told reporters here.As a result, there will be widespread rains in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry from December 1-3, he said.The forecast for more rains for the southern state and the union territory comes a day after severe cyclonic storm ‘Nivar’ made landfall between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry early on Thursday, bringing sharp showers.At least three people were killed in Tamil Nadu in rain-related incidents like wall and tree collapse, while over a thousand trees were uprooted.Balachandran further said that in the last 24 hours, northwestern districts in Tamil Nadu received rains, with Sholinghur in Ranipet recording the highest rainfall of 23 cm.He also forecast light to moderate rains in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the next two days in some places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-department-forecasts-more-rains-for-tamil-nadu-and-puducherry-next-week/story-TydbCjg04NUPV7WxjAYP7L.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers in western UP block highways in support of ‘Chalo Dilli’ march||Farmers blocked traffic on highways at different points in eight districts of the Meerut region in western Uttar Pradesh on Friday in support of the ongoing agitation against three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September.Protests were witnessed in Meerut, Baghpat, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Bijnor. Adequate police arrangements were made in the view of the protests and traffic was diverted to other routes to prevent jams on highways, additional director general of police (Meerut zone) Rajeev Sabharwal said.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) had given the call for blocking highways in UP to show their solidarity with farmers from Punjab and Haryana who are on the way to the national capital as part of their ‘Chalo Dilli’ agitation against the new farm laws.Farmers fear the three laws-- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020-- would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations while doing away with the minimum support price (MSP) regime.Also Read: Farmers to be allowed into Delhi, says top cop, identifies protest site for themIn Meerut, a groom and his family members were stuck in the traffic jam and they had to walk to their destination to join the marriage ceremony.Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of BKU, said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait led the protest at Nawla on National Highway 58 in Muzaffarnagar.Also Read: ‘Only solution is...’ Haryana CM urges farmers to stop protestsHe said the future course of the movement would depend on Union government’s attitude towards thousands of farmers marching towards Delhi.He recalled that over five lakh farmers had staged a protest in Delhi for seven days in 1988 under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, compelling the then Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre to accept their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-western-up-block-highways-in-support-of-chalo-dilli-march/story-r75csKcfSSBqtmYmbPMDEO.html
27-11-2020||India||Britain presses on with AstraZeneca vaccine amid questions over trial data||Britain gave AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine a vote of confidence on Friday when it asked its regulator to assess it for a rollout after experts raised questions about trial data and the company said it may run another study to gauge the shot’s efficacy. The UK government has secured 100 million doses of the vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, the most supplies it has ordered of any shot to fight the pandemic.The British drugmaker expects 4 million doses to be available in the country by the end of next month, and Health Secretary Matt Hancock aims for a rollout to begin before Christmas.“We have formally asked the regulator to assess the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, to understand the data and determine whether it meets rigorous safety standards,” Hancock said.“This letter is an important step towards deploying a vaccine as quickly as safely possible.”Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) started an accelerated “rolling review” of the vaccine at the start of this month as data comes in on safety and efficacy.In the global race to develop vaccines against Covid-19, AstraZeneca’s candidate is viewed as offering one of the best hopes for many developing countries because of its cheaper price and ability to be transported at normal fridge temperatures.Officials in the Philippines said on Friday they would secure 2.6 million shots of the AstraZeneca shot - the country’s first supply deal for a Covid-19 vaccine - and were negotiating a possible purchase of a further 1 million doses.The announcements came despite some scientists raising doubts about the robustness of results showing the shot was 90% effective in a sub-group of trial participants who, by error initially, received a half dose followed by a full dose.AstraZeneca had released trial data on Monday that showed its experimental vaccine prevented on average 70% of COVID-19 cases in late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil.While the success rate was 90% in the sub-group, some experts said the relatively small number of participants made it harder to be confident in the findings.AstraZeneca said the administering of the half dose in the trial had been reviewed and approved by independent data safety monitors and the UK regulator, adding that the regulator publicly confirmed there was “no concern”.CEO Pascal Soriot said on Thursday, though, that the drugmaker was likely to run an additional global trial to assess the efficacy of its vaccine using the lower dosage. Pauline Londeix, co-founder of French drug transparency group OT-Med, said the apparent confusion over the trial results was “very problematic for public confidence in vaccines”. “It has largely to do with the race drugmakers are engaged in currently, which leads them to present vaccine candidates in the best possible way and not release full protocols and results. It is the opposite of what is needed in our view.” Nonetheless, Britain’s top science adviser said on Thursday that the interim results showed the AstraZeneca vaccine was successful.“The headline result is the vaccine works and that’s very exciting,” Patrick Vallance said during a news conference with Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Shares in AstraZeneca were down 0.8% at around 0830 GMT. They have fallen about 7% since it reported the vaccine data on Monday.Only 2,741 volunteers were in the sub-group of the AstraZeneca-Oxford trial that gave the 90% efficacy read-out, a fraction of the tens of thousands in trials that resulted in the above 90% efficacy data released earlier this month for Pfizer-BioNTech’s and Moderna’s vaccines.“Sub-group analyses in randomised controlled trials are always fraught with difficulties,” said Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at Britain’s University of East Anglia.“In order to have faith in the results,” Hunter said, any sub-group analysis “should be sufficiently powered” with large numbers of volunteers to take readings from. In contrast to AstraZeneca’s stock price drop this week, Moderna has rallied 22% since releasing its vaccine trial data on Nov. 16 and Pfizer and BioNTech are up 6% and 14% respectively since announcing their successful data on Nov. 9.The U.S. regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), has not commented on AstraZeneca’s vaccine trial results. The European Medicines Agency said on Thursday it would “assess data on the efficacy and safety of the vaccine in the coming weeks once they have been received from the company”.Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser for the US government’s vaccine programme Operation Warp Speed, has also highlighted gaps in the trial data.He said no-one in the subgroup that got the initial half dose was older than 55 - suggesting the regimen’s efficacy in crucial older age groups is unproven in this interim data.In the group that received a correct full dose followed by a full dose, he noted, older people were included.“There are a number of variables that we need to understand, and what has been the role of each one of them in achieving the difference in efficacy,” Slaoui told a briefing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/britain-presses-on-with-astrazeneca-vaccine-amid-questions-over-trial-data/story-pwIsBzH51DF067AybWtQbO.html
27-11-2020||India||No complaint from volunteers given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin: Ahmedabad doctor||The five healthy volunteers, who were given a shot of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covid-19 vaccine at Sola Civil Hospital in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, have not complained of any health issues so far, a senior doctor said on Friday. During phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin, the first dose of the shot was given to the five volunteers, including a woman.Dr Parul Bhatt, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said the second dose will now be given after 28 days. “Volunteers who’ve been vaccinated have yet not complained of any health issues/symptoms. More will be vaccinated today,” Bhatt was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Phase 3 of Covaxin trials kick off at AIIMS, neurology chief gets first doseThe large-scale phase 3 trials of Covaxin, which is being developed by the Hyderabad-based firm Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will recruit over 26,000 volunteers from 25 trial sites across the country.Also Watch l SII’s Adar Poonawala on side-effects of Oxford’s Covid vaccine at #HTLS2020 Vaccine candidates have to be tested on animal models first to check their safety and immune response. In humans, a small phase 1 trial is done to check the safety of the compound, while in phase 2, trials are done to see the immune response and the dose at which the vaccine should be administered. Large scale phase 3 trials are done to see how many infections or severe disease the vaccine prevents in a given population.Also read | Sion, JJ Hospitals in Mumbai get approval to start phase 3 of Covaxin clinical trials“In the first phase, we have planned to cover 1,000 healthy volunteers. They must be in the age group of 18 to 60 and with no history of coronavirus infection. Anyone who fulfils the criteria can approach us and enrol as a volunteer,” Bhatt had said on Thursday, according to PTI.She said that doctors at the hospital engaged in the clinical trial exercise will remain in touch with the volunteers over the phone to monitor their health condition after the vaccine is administered. The senior doctor had said that volunteers will be called at the hospital at regular intervals for follow-up procedures and tests, including blood test and oxygen level.Also read | Covid-19 vaccines: How does the emergency use authorisation work in India?“This whole exercise will continue for 12 months. We will also give a contact number to the volunteers in case they need any urgent intervention. The hospital will provide necessary treatment in case of any complication,” she added.Ahmedabad’s Sola Civil Hospital is among 130 centres across the country selected for Covaxin’s phase three trials, HG Koshia, commissioner of the Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA), said. Bharat Biotech had last week announced the commencement of the third phase trials, the first candidate in India to reach this stage.Four vaccine candidates from around the world have announced preliminary reports – trial data from US Pfizer and Moderna and Russian Sputnik V show their vaccines were about 95% effective at preventing Covid-19, while AstraZeneca-Oxford University said its vaccine could be up to 90% effective with a particular half dose first and a full dose later. ZyCovD, which has been developed by Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus, is also in advanced stages of human trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-complaint-from-volunteers-given-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-ahmedabad-doctor/story-tJckKQzp7Kj2RaxW9FCxqO.html
27-11-2020||India||BJP promises implementation of Bodo accord, development ahead of BTC polls in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party has promised all-round development and peace in Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) apart from implementation of the Bodo accord if it wins the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls scheduled next month. Polling for BTC, which administers the four districts under BTR, will take place on December 7 and December 10 and the BJP is aiming to upset Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), its coalition partner in the State government. BPF has been in power in the council for 17 years since 2003. Relations between the BJP and the BPF soured after election to BTC, originally scheduled for April this year, was postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic and the BTR areas were placed under the governor’s rule. Both parties are contesting the BTC polls independently. In a bid to woo voters, BJP released its manifesto for the polls in Kokrajhar on Friday. The programme was attended by BJP state unit chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass, finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, former Rajya Sabha MP Biswajit Daimary (who left BPF this month and joined the BJP) and BJP national general secretary and Lok Sabha MP from Assam Dilip Saikia. “It is our resolve that BJP will come to power in BTC on our own without support from anyone. We have got immense support from the masses wherever we have gone. It clearly shows that the next government in BTC will be formed by our party,” said Sarma. The manifesto promises to implement the Bodo accord signed in Delhi in January this year in letter and spirit. Sarma said there will be fresh delimitation of seats in BTC, which will increase from 40 at present to 60. “Apart from the usual reservations on basis of caste and tribes, there will be an additional 10% reservation for economically weaker sections in jobs. Land certificates will be given to those staying on government land for several years,” said Sarma. He assured that all political murders that took place in BTR in the past 10 years will be probed and the culprits nabbed. The manifesto promised at least 100 km of roads to be constructed in each of the 40 constituencies under the BTC. Also Read: Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s son seeks blessings to fulfil his father’s last wish Other promises include a campus for Bodoland University at Udalguri, a medical college in Tamulpur, formation of a separate district of Tamulpur, a government college in each sub-division, a 30-bedded hospital in each of the 40 constituencies and 40 stadiums in the region. Accusing BPF of large-scale corruption, Sarma said that from now onwards at least 70% of funds allocated to BTC will have to be spent on constructing capital assets. A guideline in that regard will be issued by state government within the next 15 days. “Records show that BTC was getting nearly Rs 3,000 crore each year as funds from the Centre and state government. If we come to power, we will be able to fulfil all our promises and more with that kind of money,” said Sarma. Also Read: Assam reports no new Covid-19 deaths, tally rises to 2,12,171Sarma said that despite getting around Rs 15,000 crore in funds in the past 5 years, there are no roads, schools, hospitals in BTC areas. “We request voters to ensure BJP comes to power in BTC so that there is peace and all round development. In constituencies where we have not fielded candidates, please ensure defeat of BPF and support Independent candidates backed by our party,” he added. BJP state chief Dass stressed that the alliance between the two parties won’t continue in the next assembly polls scheduled in March-April next year and the saffron party would contest all 12 assembly seats in BTR alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-promises-implementation-of-bodo-accord-development-ahead-of-btc-polls-in-assam/story-LfPEbJxSuV7xRNeCEQf9YI.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Vials for phase 3 trials of Covaxin arrive in Kolkata; NICED looking for volunteers||The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) is looking for around 1,000 volunteers to conduct the phase 3 clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine. While vials for the same arrived in Kolkata on Thursday, the trial is expected to start in December. State urban development minister Firhad Hakim has offered to become a volunteer. “We are looking for volunteers who reside preferably within a range of 10 km radius from the institute. The volunteers will have to sign an undertaking that they will not leave their present address for the next one year, as they need to be closely monitored,” said a senior NICED official. NICED in Kolkata is one of the institutes in India which has been selected to conduct the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)-approved regulatory trials. It would be conducted in around 25 sites across 10 states. The trial has already started at a few sites. Also read | Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine“As of now, we have urged volunteers to contact us over phone or email. Around 1,000 volunteers would be enrolled in this trial after screening for their eligibility criteria. The eligible participants will be contacted for further details. The enrolment will continue until the target number is achieved,” said the official. Covaxin – the first indigenously-developed anti-coronavirus vaccine – is being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As part of the trial application, a dose of 0.5 ml would be given on day 1 and again on day 28. “We have already received a few hundred vials from Hyderabad on Thursday. The clinical trial would start soon,” said an official. Out of the 1,000 volunteers, while 500 will get the trial vaccine, the remaining will get placebo shots. The placebo will help researchers compare the two groups and understand how effectively the vaccine is working. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on November 24 told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Bengal is prepared for vaccination programme. “West Bengal is fully prepared with trained man power and required infrastructure, including cold chains for the vaccination programme. We are ready to work with the Centre and other stakeholders to ensure speedy vaccination drive for every one as soon as the vaccine is available,” Banerjee had told Modi, according to a statement released by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vials-for-phase-3-trials-of-covaxin-arrive-in-kolkata-niced-looking-for-volunteers/story-1isBNzj4t0h1uJ6x8jP1SN.html
27-11-2020||India||IAS officer Tina Dabi joins as joint secretary with Rajasthan govt||Tina Dabi, the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of 2016 batch, on Friday said she has joined as the joint secretary (finance) of the government of Rajasthan. “Joined as Joint Secretary Finance (Tax) to Govt of Rajasthan today,” Dabi posted on Twitter. Joined as Joint Secretary Finance (Tax) to Govt of Rajasthan today. pic.twitter.com/4VDlQLoCp5Dabi, who topped the Union Public Service Commission’s (UPSC’s) civil service examination, is the first-ever Dalit woman to top the prestigious examinations. Dabi, who belongs to Bhopal, was allocated the Rajasthan cadre. The 26-year-old, a political science graduate from Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College, was posted to Sri Ganganagar as the chief executive officer of the zila parishad, after her training.Recently, Dabi was in the news as she and her husband IAS Athar Khan filed for divorce with mutual consent in a family court in Jaipur, two years after their wedding. Their relationship apparently started at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy for Administration in Mussoorie and subsequent wedding grabbed the attention of the nation. Dabi ranked first in the UPSC examinations, Khan ranked second.Their wedding was hailed as a symbol of communal harmony. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had congratulated the IAS couple and had tweeted, “May your love grow from strength to strength and may you be an inspiration to all Indians in this age of growing intolerance and communal hatred. God bless you.” Congratulations Tina Dabi & Athar Amir-ul-Shafi, IAS toppers, batch of 2015, on your wedding!May your love grow from strength to strength and may you be an inspiration to all Indians in this age of growing intolerance and communal hatred.God bless you.https://t.co/PPCOHotMFWVice president M Venkaiah Naidu, former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were among those who had attended their wedding reception in Delhi. There were three wedding receptions — the first in Jaipur which was a simple court ceremony, the second in Pahalgam and the third in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-tina-dabi-joins-as-joint-secretary-with-rajasthan-govt/story-Bi9ptI5jQoydhhkB9cvARL.html
27-11-2020||India||Under fire over press freedom, Odisha announces sops for journalists||Under fire from the Editors Guild of India over allegations of muzzling press freedom, the Naveen Patnaik government on Thursday amended the Odisha State Working Journalists Welfare Fund Rules making provisions for payment of ex-gratia for the families of working journalists in case of their death as well as financial assistance for treatment of ailments related to kidney and heart.The information and public relations department of the state which gives press accreditation to journalists in Bhubaneswar and district headquarters, said, it has amended the rules for providing ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the near and dear of a working journalist in the event of his death. Under the new rules, financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh would be given to working journalists in the event of permanent incapacitation on account of accident, disease or any other reason.The department said in the event of death of a working journalist, financial assistance to the children of the deceased would be provided up to Rs. 1,500/- per month till matriculation and up to Rs 2,500/- per month for higher education. This recurring financial assistance would be provided towards payment of actual tuition fees and expenditure towards study materials.Top up financial assistance, in addition to health insurance benefit would be sanctioned for treatment of ailments related to heart, kidney and cancer or other critical illness suffered by a working Journalist or any of his/her family members where the expenditure exceeds Rs 2 lakh health insurance benefit.Also Read: ‘Biggest ever catch’: Odisha IFS officer in vigilance net for ‘unaccounted riches’Apart from this, a 3% interest subvention with a maximum limit of Rs 25 lakh would be given on home loans. The interest subvention would be released annually after repayment of regular instalments by the journalist. Similarly, an interest subvention of 3% would be given for two-wheeler loans with a cap of Rs 50,000 and a similar interest subvention for four-wheeler loan with a cap of Rs 4 lakh would be given to each working journalist.To facilitate training of journalists in government institutions like the Indian Institute of Mass Communication, training costs up to Rs 10,000 per journalist would be borne by the government in a 5-year block period.Also Read: Puri under Section 144 to prevent crowds during Nagarjuna Besha held after 26 yearsThe sops for journalists came a month after Editors Guild of India had expressed its concern over the action taken by Odisha government against popular TV channel Odisha Television Limited and its senior journalist Ramesh Rath, who was picked up by police near his home and interrogated in a case of morphed video of Keonjhar MP. Rath later resigned from the channel.Expressing its displeasure over the manner in which the government and its agencies acted, the Guild said such acts undermined the independent functioning of media organisations. The Guild, in its executive committee meeting early this month, had said it would set up a fact finding panels to assess media freedom issues in regions and states like Odisha, Kashmir, Telangana and UP where such rights have allegedly been compromised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-fire-over-press-freedom-odisha-announces-sops-for-journalists/story-3vEKuExpjLqTEGQh1ovwYK.html
27-11-2020||India||Anti-Sikh riots: HC directs police to continue providing security to witness Verma till CBI clears stand||The Delhi High Court has directed the police to continue providing security to controversial arms dealer Abhishek Verma, a witness in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, till the CBI informs that it does not require him any further.The high court was informed by the CBI that the investigation in the case is still going on and they are not in a position to make a statement if Verma, who was receiving threats, is required as a witness or not.“In the circumstances, without getting into the merits of the case and without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties, the security cover be extended till the CBI informs the Delhi Police that they do not require the petitioner (Verma) as their witness. This concession is given in view of the reason, also mentioned in my order dated September 28,” Justice Yogesh Khanna said on Thursday.On the court’s direction, Verma and his family members have been provided with three security personnel round the clock.Advocates Maninder Singh and Dinhar Takiar, representing Verma, submitted that he be provided security at least till his statement is recorded in the case.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi govt refuses permission to convert 9 stadiums into detention centersDelhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain read out the affidavit filed by the state in which the necessity of providing the security cover to Verma was mentioned but only till the polygraph test was conducted on him. Polygraph test has already been conducted on him in December 2018.The counsel further submitted that on assessment of the threat perception by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, he was not inclined to continue the security cover given to Verma and said that the CBI should file a reply if he is required as a witness in this case. The court noted that it was an admitted fact that the Witness Protection Committee has not recommended for security cover.While Congress leader Jagdish Tytler, who has been given clean chit thrice by the CBI, has refused to undergo the test, Verma had given conditional consent saying he is ready to undergo the test if he was provided round-the-clock security as he feared threat to his life.The court had earlier said the submission of Verma’s counsel that his presence may be required at the time of trial cannot be brushed aside lightly and also noted that it has been the CBI’s claim that he is an important witness.Verma had sought direction to the authorities to continue to provide security to him nd his family in view of the imminent threat to life and property of them, if he does not withdraw himself from being a witness in the riots case and also for undergoing polygraph test (lie detection test).Verma was first provided security in 2017.The counsel told the high court that Verma’s lie detection test was conducted for three days from December 4 to 6, 2018 and the next day he received a threat again.The petition said that on December 20, 2019 an open threat letter was received by the CMM giving threat to the presiding officer and the counsel for the Complainant and the witnesses of the case.The case pertains to the riots at Gurudwara Pulbangash in North Delhi where three people were killed on November 1, 1984, a day after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards.Also Read | No prima facie case against Arnab Goswami in abetment to suicide case, says SCTytler, who has denied any role in the riots, was thrice given clean chit by the CBI in the case, but the agency was directed by the court to further investigate the matter. The victims had filed a protest petition challenging the CBI’s closure reports in the case.The agency had reinvestigated the case of killing of Badal Singh, Thakur Singh and Gurcharan Singh near the gurudwara after a court in December 2007 refused to accept its closure report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-sikh-riots-hc-directs-police-to-continue-providing-security-to-witness-verma-till-cbi-clears-stand/story-XFDmnB4IFkkja2zDLZxEyO.html
27-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers allowed into Delhi, spot identified for peaceful demonstration||Protesting farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh on Friday entered Delhi through Tikri border after police commissioner of the national capital, SN Shrivastava, said they will be allowed to enter. He appealed to the farmers agitating against the three farm laws to maintain order and demonstrate peacefully, according to news agency ANI. “They will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area,” Shrivastava said.Punjab farmers’ bodies also said that the Centre has allowed them entry into Delhi with permission to hold their agitation at the Burari ground, according to PTI. “We have been allowed safe passage to Delhi,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal.Also Read: Barricades on Gurugram-Delhi Expressway removed after reports of congestionBharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said that the farmers were headed to the Burari ground after their demand that they are allowed to hold their protest at the Ramlila Ground was rejected by the Delhi Police.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the decision and said that the government should immediately initiate talks to address farmers’ issues. “I welcome Centre’s decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue,” he said.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Delhi govt says no to converting 9 stadiums into detention centersThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are on their way to Delhi as part of their ‘Chalo Dilli’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-will-be-allowed-to-enter-national-capital-delhi-police-commissioner/story-fcp6tsq0v2OOf0Hp7r2JXO.html
27-11-2020||India||PDP’s Waheed Parra remanded to 15-day NIA custody for his alleged connections with Hizbul Mujahideen, say officials||A day before Jammu and Kashmir’s District Development Council election begins, PDP leader Waheed Parra has been remanded to 15 days of National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody on Friday. He was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly conspiring with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists to get their support during the 2019 parliamentary elections. Parra had filed his nomination for the election beginning from November 28.On Thursday, the NIA produced Parra in a Delhi court and sought a transit remand for his production before a designated court in Jammu. Parra was taken to Jammu and produced before a designated NIA court which remanded him to 15-day custody. It has been alleged that Parra has “close links” with some Irfan Shafi Mir, who was arrested along with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Naveed Babu and suspended Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Singh earlier this year.Early on Friday, PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and her daughter Iltija claimed that they had been detained at their residence to prevent them from visiting the house of Parra in Pulwama in South Kashmir.“Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges and I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she also wanted to visit Waheed’s family,” Mehbooba tweeted.According to the officials, during the investigation into Singh’s association with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, the NIA came across phone records of Mir which showed that he was in close contact with Parra.Mir had claimed during questioning that Parra sought his support during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections for his party candidate Mehbooba Mufti, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and also president of the PDP, the officials said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-s-waheed-parra-remanded-to-15-day-nia-custody-for-his-alleged-connections-with-hizbul-mujahideen-say-officials/story-34x8UlH54fTwIORCDHY9vO.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Only solution is...’ Haryana CM urges farmers to stop protests||After a gruelling day of fighting with police’s tear gas, water cannon amid freezing cold, as thousands of farmers are all set to enter the Capital on Friday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar urged the farmers to discontinue their protests as this is not the way to achieve any solution. “The central government is always ready for talks. I appeal to all the farming brothers to directly talk to the Centre for all their legitimate issues. The movement is not the way. The solution will come only through conversation,” Khattar wrote on Twitter.Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh urged the Centre to hold talks with farmers to diffuse the situation. “The voice of farmers cannot be muzzled indefinitely. Centre should immediately initiate talks with Kisan Union leaders to defuse the tense situation at the Delhi borders. Why wait till December 3 when the situation is getting out of hand now?” said Singh in a tweet.The Delhi Police on Friday used tear gas shells and water cannons to stop farmers from entering the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. It also sought permission from the Delhi government to convert nine stadiums into detention centres, which the AAP government refused. The farmers are demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-solution-is-haryana-cm-urges-farmers-to-stop-protests/story-VlCJkCL0zMxjaGrNBe1zcN.html
27-11-2020||India||Sikh ‘jatha’ from India to leave for Nankana Sahib in Pakistan on Friday||A Sikh Jatha from India is set to leave for Nankana Sahib in Pakistan on Friday on the occasion of Guru Nanak’s 551st birth anniversary.Guru Nanak Jayanti is on November 30.“We’ll pray to Guru Maharaj to end this #COVID19 pandemic so that we can also visit Kartarpur Sahib freely,” said Laxman Singh, a jatha (pilgrim) member.Earlier, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on November 19 had made the announcement regarding the Sikh jatha’s visit to Nankana Sahib from November 27 to December 1.“A Sikh jatha from India will visit Nankana Sahib from November 27 to December 1 on the occasion of 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev ji,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.Amid the threat posed by the virus, Pakistan has asked pilgrims to adhere to the coronavirus guidelines of their country. A Covid-19 negative report has been made mandatory for every visitor to gain entry to Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-jatha-from-india-to-leave-for-nankana-sahib-in-pakistan-on-friday/story-PLS9IjrVAhGVj4MseCrZWK.html
27-11-2020||India||PM Modi should implement ‘one nation, one behaviour’: Priyanka Gandhi targets Centre over farmers’ agitation||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday lashed out at the Central government over the farmers’ protest and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should implement “one nation, one behaviour”, apparently taking a jibe his suggestion for “one nation, one election”.“To suppress the voice of farmers- they are being drenched in water, roads are being dug up to stop them. But the government is not ready to show them and tell them where it is written that they have the legal right of MSP. The Prime Minister, who is concerned about one country, one election, should implement one nation, one behaviour,” read the Congress leader’s tweet (roughly translated from Hindi).Farmers from Haryana and Punjab are heading to the national capital as part of the protest march against the Centre’s farm laws. Police deployed on the Delhi border in view of the farmers’ movement and all vehicles heading towards the national capital are being checked.Apart from the presence of personnel, barricading laced with barbwires was placed to stop the approaching protestors.While the government said the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets, protestors fear that this could lead to the government not buying produce at guaranteed prices, thereby disrupting their timely payments.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested a single voters’ list for Lok Sabha, Assembly and local polls and reiterated the need for “one nation, one election” in the country.“One nation, one election isn’t just a matter of debate, this is the need for India. Elections are held at different places every few months, the effect it has on development work is known to all. This issue needs to be studied and presiding officers can be guiding force for it,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-implement-one-nation-one-behaviour-priyanka-gandhi-targets-centre-over-farmers-agitation/story-DMU4he7YzpNKv5qUFzhghL.html
27-11-2020||India||34 months or 42? Conflicting claims on Lalu’s jail stay adds twist to bail plea||The Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred hearing on RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s bail plea in connection with one of the fodder scam cases to December 11.The former Bihar chief minister has been languishing in jail since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession.Prasad has already secured bail in two cases. He moved bail application in the third and the last case on the ground that he had completed half (42 months & 28 days) of the seven years sentence awarded to him in the case.But, the CBI, in its reply, said that Prasad in this case had only completed 34 months and some days in custody, which is still about eight months short of the half-sentence mark.In order to clear the ambiguity, Prasad’s senior lawyer Kapil Sibal sought two weeks’ time to furnish a detailed computation of the period served by his client in custody.The bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh then posted the matter for further hearing on December 11.The case relates to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 3.76 crore from Dumka treasury during December 1995 to January 1996.A special CBI court, in 2018, had sentenced Prasad to 14 years of imprisonment--seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and another seven under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act-- in the said case.It had expressly said that both sentences would run consecutively.However, Prasad’s lawyers hope that the high court will strike down this decision, and let the two sentences run concurrently. If that happens, Prasad has to undergo seven-year imprisonment in this case. Also Read: Storm over bribe phone calls ends Lalu Prasad’s VIP bungalow stayThe RJD leader, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for over two years, pleaded that he had completed half of the seven year sentence awarded to him in this case.He argued that in earlier two cases he was granted bail on completing half of the sentences.Prasad’s Ranchi-based lawyer Prabhat Kumar said, “According to our calculation, Prasad has completed 42 months and 28 days in prison. This is more than half of the seven-year sentence.”Prasad had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from the Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.His troubles renewed in 2017-18 when he was convicted and sentenced to different terms of imprisonment in three separate fodder scam cases in quick succession. He is still facing trial in two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34-months-or-42-conflicting-claims-on-lalu-s-jail-stay-adds-twist-to-bail-plea/story-ZeHAAOzI9UsVin3ZH8zSxJ.html
27-11-2020||India||SC takes cognizance of fire incident at Covid-19 hospital in Rajkot||The Supreme Court Friday took cognizance of the fire incident in a Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot in which several patients have died and sought report from Gujarat government on the issue.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, assured the bench that the Union home secretary will convene a meeting latest by Saturday and issue directions on fire safety in government hospitals across India.Five coronavirus patients were killed after a fire broke out in the ICU of a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot in the early hours of Friday, state Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said.Twenty-six other patients undergoing treatment at the hospital were rescued and shifted to other facilities, he told reporters here.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah, while taking note of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, said that states have to rise to the occasion and be above politics to deal with the pandemic.It is high time that strict measures are taken to implement the policy, guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to contain the surge of coronavirus cases nationwide, the bench said. Mehta told the bench that the ongoing Covid-19 wave appears to be harsher than before and ten states are currently contributing 77 per cent of the total positive cases. The bench observed that strict measures are needed to deal with the situation and posted the matter for further hearing on December 1. The top court on November 23 had said that the Covid-19 pandemic has “worsened” in Delhi and gone “out of control” in Gujarat and had directed the Centre and all states to apprise it within two days of the steps taken to contain the situation nationwide. The situation is likely to worsen in December and all states have to be ready to “combat” it, the top court had said while expressing concern over the spurt in coronavirus cases across the country. It had said the court was of the view that immediate steps are required to be taken by all the states as well as by the Centre. The bench was hearing the matter in which it had taken cognizance regarding need for proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-takes-cognizance-of-fire-incident-at-covid-19-hospital-in-rajkot/story-DRSkxZ1w6Mz6p4K8BIlWmM.html
27-11-2020||India||BJP to renew farmer outreach to explain farm laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to step up its drive of reaching out to farmers across the country in a bid to dispel concerns about the farm legislation. In the wake of agitation intensifying against the farm laws that were passed in the monsoon session of Parliament amid severe protest from the Opposition, the party has decided to accelerate its outreach, said a person aware of the details. In September, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instruction to the party cadre to spread awareness about the farm legislation, the BJP carried out a 15-day campaign where senior leaders, ministers, MPs and party functionaries reached out to farmers explaining the intricacies of the new laws. “The Prime Minister had urged the BJP workers to reach out to the farmers on the ground and explain in simple language the importance and intricacies of reforms, which are aimed at empowering them. This exercise was carried out across the country. In villages, chaupals were held, pamphlets were distributed and farmers were explained the benefits they stand to gain from the new law. However, given the Opposition’s attempt to mislead the farmers, this exercise will be renewed,” said a functionary aware of the details. Also read | Amarinder Singh, Manohar Lal Khattar spar over police actionAs protesting farmers continued with the Dilli Chalo march on Friday and faced tear gas shells, water cannons and batons at the Haryana-Delhi border, the party is concerned by the impact that the tussle will have on the ground. Senior ministers have also been urged to initiate dialogue with farmers’ unions to call off the stir. Even as the Opposition claims that the new laws do not protect the rights of the farmers, the BJP has blamed the Congress for creating misapprehension. Congress-ruled states such as Punjab and Rajasthan have drafted their own laws to negate the central laws. The BJP however, refers to its recent win in Bihar, and a clutch of by-elections in states such as Madhya Pradesh, as evidence of its popularity and support for its policies. “The Opposition has been misleading the farmers. If the farmers were not convinced by the laws, then the party would not have won elections in Bihar, Gujarat and MP where farmers are in good numbers,” said Rajkumar Chahar, head of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha. Chahar cited a tweet by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as proof of Congress misleading the farmers. “She (Gandhi) said the laws take away the MSP, which is grossly incorrect. She says the laws will favour the big players, which is also incorrect. The laws empower farmers with small holdings, it seeks to increase farm income and the only ones who will not benefit are the middle men,” Chahar said. On Thursday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had tweeted that the government, instead of listening to the voice of the farmer protesting against the law which end minimum support price, is attacking them with water cannons. “Everything is being taken away from the farmers and banks, loan waivers, airport railway stations are being distributed to the capitalists,” she tweeted. On the police action against the farmers, Chahar said farmers need to be shown respect, but the Opposition has put their lives in danger. “Capt. Amarinder (Punjab CM) should have realised that Delhi is in the throes of the Covid-19 pandemic and by pushing the farmers to protest and come out in large numbers, violating social distancing norms, he has put their lives in danger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-renew-farmer-outreach-to-explain-farm-laws/story-HZDh1rLB5d7nnZWwByfwKL.html
27-11-2020||India||Aarogya Setu row: Show cause notice dropped after officials explain what caused ‘no information’ fiasco||The Central Public Information Officers of the ministry of electronics and information technology who apparently had said that there was no information on who created the Aarogya Setu app ha apologised for the mistake and said that it happened as information is scattered in different government departments. Following this, the Central Information commission has dropped the show cause notices it issued to the officers. There was no malafide intent on part of the CPIOs, the CIC has noted and, therefore, hasn’t imposed any penalty. The complaint was filed by one Saurav Das who claimed to have approached the NIC, National E-Governance Division (NeGD) and the ministry of electronics and information technology seeking to know about the creation of the application, which has been downloaded by millions of Indians during lockdown. “The Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna had ordered.The Centre intervened and clarified that the app was developed by the government in collaboration with private enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-row-show-cause-notice-dropped-after-officials-explain-what-caused-no-information-fiasco/story-fkVCb2myoVyULwZmpYLaTL.html
27-11-2020||India||Malegaon blast victim’s father allowed to contest Lt Col Purohit’s plea||The Bombay high court on Friday allowed Nisar Ahmed Haji Sayyed Bilal, father of a 2008 Malegaon bomb blast victim to intervene in and oppose the petition filed by Lt. Col. Prasad Purohit questioning his prosecution in the bomb blast case without a valid sanction for the purpose.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik on Friday allowed Bilal’s intervention application.Bilal lost his son in the powerful blast outside a shrine in Malegaon on September 29, 2008. In all, six persons were killed and 101 others were injured in the blast.On October 23, 2008, Maharashtra anti-terrorists squad made its first arrests in the case by apprehending Sadhvi and two of her associates. On January 20, 2009, the agency filed a charge-sheet in the case after completing its investigation. Two months later, on April 1, 2011, the case was transferred to the NIA.Purohit has moved the HC claiming that he was being prosecuted for actions while discharging his duty as an army officer, but there was no proper sanction to prosecute him, as mandated under provisions of the criminal procedure code.Purohit’s counsel claims that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had failed to get a prior sanction under section 197 of the CrPC to prosecute him and therefore it was illegal. During the first hearing of Purohit’s plea, his counsel and former attorney general, Mukul Rohtagi, had told the bench that Purohit had been working for the Indian Army’s military intelligence unit.Also Read: Lost vision in one eye, suffered ‘torture’ due to Congress: Pragya ThakurHe said Purohit had attended conspiracy meetings before the 2008 Malegaon blast as part of “discharging his duties” as a military intelligence officer.Bilal had filed an application seeking to intervene and oppose Purohit’s plea. It was, however, strenuously opposed by Purohit’s counsel, advocate Neela Gokhale. She pointed out that Bilal’s intervention in this matter was completely unwarranted as HC was only required to examine whether there is a valid sanction to prosecute Purohit in the case.Bilal’s counsel had argued that he had a right to be heard since he was not only an “aggrieved party” but also an intervening party in the trial in the case pending hearing before a special NIA court in Mumbai.HC, however, accepted Bilal’s contentions and allowed him to intervene in this petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malegaon-blast-victim-s-father-allowed-to-contest-lt-col-purohit-s-plea/story-3bigrIwBbqjqPYwsmumxjP.html
27-11-2020||India||Nepal will be beneficiary when India rolls out Covid-19 vaccine: Foreign secretary Shringla||Five promising Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of trials in India and Nepal will be among the beneficiaries when the vaccine is finally rolled out, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Shringla reiterated India’s commitment to help countries in the region in the fight against the pandemic on the second day of his two-day visit to Nepal aimed at restoring normalcy in the bilateral relationship after a border row earlier this year. During meetings with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and foreign secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal on Thursday, Shringla discussed ways to address the boundary issue through existing mechanisms. Both sides also focused on the need to respect each other’s sensitivities. Shringla talked about Covid-19-related cooperation while delivering a virtual lecture at the Asian Institute of Diplomacy and International Affairs (AIDIA) in Kathmandu, where he spoke briefly in Nepali. Also read | Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine“We are on the cusp of the availability of a vaccine for the novel Coronavirus. As the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, India is at the forefront of this effort. We have at least five promising vaccine candidates at advanced stages of trials, and dozens of sites across India are conducting vaccine trials on all ages and social groups,” he said. “I would like to assure the people of Nepal that once a vaccine is rolled out, meeting Nepal’s requirement would be a priority for us.” The similarity of the genetic profiles of both countries means that a vaccine which works in India is likely to work for Nepal as well, Shringla said. “Together we will recover from the pandemic and together will protect our people,” he added. Among the vaccines being tested in India are the AstraZeneca vaccine, Russia’s Sputnik V and another developed by Bharat BioTech. Shringla also said India is determined to emerge from the pandemic with a stronger economy and robust industrial capacities, and called on Nepal to share in the dreams of building a new India. “We cannot do it alone, we need each other,” he said. India’s market is open to Nepal’s companies and the neighbouring country’s hydropower potential could be a source of clean energy, he pointed out. In keeping with his visit’s objective to taking forward cooperation on connectivity and infrastructure projects, Shringla noted that Kathmandu had changed since his last visit about a decade ago but the “hearts and smiles of friends and interlocutors remain unchanged”. “For India, Nepal is fundamental to our neighbourhood first approach. India’s development and modernisation are incomplete and intrinsically and symbiotically linked to the development and modernisation of neighbouring countries such as Nepal,” he said. Shringla said his meetings with Nepal’s leadership had left him with no doubt that the two countries are on the same page and that the relationship rests on four pillars – development cooperation, stronger connectivity, expanded infrastructure and economic projects, and enhanced access to education in India. More than 100 high-impact community projects had been completed in all 77 districts of Nepal since 2014, and a cross-border fuel pipeline – the first of its kind in South Asia – was moving two million metric tonnes of petroleum products and had resulted in savings of more than Nepali Rs800 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-will-be-beneficiary-when-india-rolls-out-covid-19-vaccine-foreign-secretary-shringla/story-VQxWGZ42XW6qnpm6mCx2fM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘My then girlfriend wanted me to be a superstar like SRK’||Agra lad, actor Pearl V Puri, believes in taking up a character and making it his own. “Yes, that’s my method of working. I’m a trained actor who understands that until you add your own nuances to a character, it can never shape up the way it should for a story to look interesting,” said the ‘Phir Bhi Na Maane...Badtameez Dil,’ actor.Pearl’s journey to Mumbai was a rollercoaster ride. Recalling his early days, he said, “My reaching Mumbai for the first time after college was for a three-month acting course. And then I went back to Agra as my father said ‘bas ho gya… no Mumbai, stay in Agra and study further’. But my girlfriend at that time wanted me to reach Bollywood and become a superstar like SRK. Imagine, just to please her, I ran away to Mumbai on my own. I told my father ‘Chahe chane bechna paade…vapas nahin aaonga…’ (laughs)Then Pearl reached Mumbai and it was truly tough for him to reach where he is today. “Absolutely tough and I was very young and naive so kept saying no to TV offers just to keep my promise to my girlfriend that I’ll be a Bollywood star. But with time, I understood work is work, irrespective of the medium and then shows started happening and I never looked back. Playing central characters in shows like ‘Dil Ki Nazar Se Khoobsurat,’ ‘Naagarjuna – Ek Yoddha,’ ‘Naagin-3,’ ‘Bepanah Pyaar’ gave me a firm foothold in the industry,” said the good looking actor, who is currently playing the lead in the fantasy thriller ‘Brahmarakshas-2’.Pearl is also busy with his music. Last year he released a single ‘Peehr Meri,’ and this year too, the musician-actor is ready with another single ‘Zikr,’ that will be released soon, “I enjoy multitasking and can handle multiple projects at the same time. So, in future you can see me doing films, TV, music altogether because I believe in managing my time efficiently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-then-girlfriend-wanted-me-to-be-a-superstar-like-srk/story-zfrbS49mlAsNKnu4wjuVBM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Distressing’: Rahul Gandhi condoles death of Covid-19 patients in Rajkot hospital fire||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled the death of five Covid-19 patients who were killed in the early hours on Friday in a fire at a Rajkot hospital. “The news of fire in a Covid hospital in Rajkot is distressing. Similar fire broke out in August in Ahmedabad. The government must investigate seriously into these cases. My condolences to the family of the patients who lost their lives,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Five coronavirus patients were killed after a fire broke out in the ICU of a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot in the early hours of Friday, a fire brigade official said. “Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted quoting Modi.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu expressed shock over fire incident. “Distressed to learn about the loss of lives in a fire that broke out in a COVID hospital at Rajkot, Gujarat. My condolences to the bereaved families & prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured,” the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/distressing-rahul-gandhi-condoles-death-of-covid-19-patients-in-rajkot-hospital-fire/story-NnH4hjIEFGszFC9uYDGGSM.html
27-11-2020||India||Personal liberty is treated as favour by govt: Omar Abdullah after Mehbooba Mufti’s alleged detention||National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Friday said personal liberty is treated as a favour by the government, giving and withdrawing it at will, with no interference from the judiciary.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was reacting to the alleged house arrest of Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti.Also Read | Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest“Parking a truck in front of our gates is now standard operating procedure for this admin. They did the same to my father recently to stop him from praying. Personal liberty is treated as a favour by the govt, to give & withdraw at will, with no interference from the judiciary,” Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter.His father and NC president Farooq Abdullah was on October 30 prevented from leaving his residence to offer prayers at Hazratbal shrine on the occasion of Eid-Milad-un-Nabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personal-liberty-is-treated-as-favour-by-govt-omar-abdullah-after-mehbooba-mufti-s-alleged-detention/story-puhlhkXlnWizLdQMdWKZsI.html
27-11-2020||India||States must rise above politics, take vigorous steps to contain Covid-19: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday took suo moto cognizance of a fire that broke out in a Covid-19 hospital in Rajkot, Gujarat, on Thursday and led to the death of six patients in the ICU. The court called states to rise above politics and take vigorous measures against the Covid-19 wave in the country, which had gone from “bad to worse”.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan demanded a response from the Gujarat government by Tuesday when the matter will next be heard. The court said, “It is not the first such incident where a fire has occurred in a Covid-19 hospital. Earlier it has happened in Ahmedabad and Andhra Pradesh where patients died due to fire. No concrete steps have been taken by states nor any mechanism is there to prevent such fires.”Also Read: Covid-19: Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccineThe court said that it was not interested in a report; instead it wanted the Centre to find the root cause of such problems by inspecting Covid-19 hospitals. In addition, the bench asked the Centre to ensure strict enforcement of the Covid-19 guidelines.“We are watching everyday celebrations and processions being take out. Sixty per cent of people have no masks and 30% have their masks hanging... it’s high time to take some strict measures. From November, situation has gone from bad to worse. If no harsh steps are taken, all efforts taken by Centre will go in vain,” said the bench which also comprised justices RS Reddy and MR Shah.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta called the fire incidents serious and said that an urgent meeting shall be called to address concerns expressed by the court.He agreed states must increase their efforts to deal with the situation. According to him, 10 states must work even harder as they are reporting the highest number of cases. These include Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal, Karnataka, UP, Rajasthan, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.The bench said, “States must rise above politics. The Centre is issuing guidelines, but where is the implementation by states? The hard fact is there is no medicine yet, vaccine is in trial stage and social distancing is not followed. Officers must enforce that such gatherings are avoided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-must-rise-above-politics-take-vigorous-steps-to-contain-covid-19-supreme-court/story-983Rlb9ugLnUDlmpR1ZEGI.html
27-11-2020||India||From Covid-19 vaccine promise to heavyweight BJP campaign: Why all eyes are on Hyderabad civic body election||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls are scheduled to be held next week on December 1 and votes will be counted on December 4. Voting is scheduled to be held in 150 municipal constituencies or wards in the GHMC polls to elect a mayor for the corporation that has been allotted the budget of Rs 5380 crore this year.Past electionsTelangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) won the last civic polls by winning 99 wards, while BJP won only four. Other parties like Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) won 44, while Congress managed to pocket two wards and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) just one. BJP, after its unexpected victory in assembly by-elections, is all set to give a tough fight in the local polls.BJP entryThe ruling party is eyeing to fortify its presence in Telangana after winning the by-election in the Dubbaka assembly constituency earlier this month. It was an unexpected win as the seat was with the TRS. The seat had previously gone to TRS. Also Read | Top BJP leaders including Nadda, Amit Shah and Yogi to campaign for GHMC pollsThe party believes that this civic poll can be its entry ticket to the state. The party is leaving no stone unturned to win the municipal elections. BJP’s top leaders are flying in for campaigning. Party president JP Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah will visit the state this weekend while Union Ministers Smriti Irani and Prakash Javadekar have visited the state earlier this week and done their part.Manifestos and promisesThe civic poll has become noteworthy considering the promises that the BJP has made. After Bihar election, the BJP has promised free Covid-19 vaccines in Hyderabad as well apart from tests for all, free water, free power, free tablets and PCs, high-speed Wifi for economically backward children in the GHMC election. It has also promised the state a ‘Mukti Diwas’ as a state function on September 17, one lakh houses under PMAY scheme, rejuvenation of the Musi river etc.PoliticsThe BJP has alleged secret alliance between AIMIM and TRS that are known to have friendly relations. However, TRS has denied all such allegations.Also Read | PM Modi, Shah responsible if there are Pakistanis in old Hyderabad: Owaisithe BJP has also alleged that TRS hopes to win elections on the crutch of “illegal immigrants” whom the party has included in the voter list. Why the so-called “illegal immigrants” have been granted Aadhaar card, the TRS asked. The AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi had also dared the prime minister to come and campaign in the state for the local elections.The saffron party has presented itself as the best alternative to the TRS that has been severely criticized for its poor management of floods after heavy rains of October and irregular cash disbursement as part of the relief scheme. TRS leaders were also accused of distributing relief money to its party sympathizers.December 4 will reveal the results whether BJP’s high-voltage campaigning in a civic poll pays off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-covid-19-vaccine-promise-to-heavyweight-bjp-campaign-why-all-eyes-are-on-hyderabad-civic-body-election/story-vxj6vYNtE7hOeiihMrderN.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19: UP sero survey reveals 1 in 5 people developed antibodies||About one in five of the 16,000 people tested during a serological survey in Uttar Pradesh in September showed the prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19 disease, the state health department said on Thursday.“Of the total 16,000 samples, 3,536 tested positive for antibodies, which is 22.1% in terms of sero prevalence,” said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad.Samples were collected in 11 districts with the maximum Covid-19 cases on September 4, he said. From each district, 1,450 samples were collected for tests. These districts are Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra.Also read | Uttar Pradesh reports 2,237 fresh Covid-19 cases, Lucknow 348The samples were sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, for testing to determine the presence of antibodies, he said.Health experts said the sero survey indicated two things. “If 22.1% people had antibodies in September, it means the percentage will be even more than that today,” said Dr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at KGMU.Dr PK Gupta, former president of IMA, Lucknow, said, “This report is an indication of community spread in the state. Now, the state government should focus on a mass awareness campaign to break the chain of infection. People should follow the Covid-19 protocol strictly, covering their face with mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands at regular intervals,” he said.Dr Gupta said the state government should also increase sample tests by engaging private laboratories. The increase in sample tests would ensure that people testing positive for Covid-19 would immediately go into isolation or get admitted in hospital, he said. It would check the spread of the infection among the remaining population, he added.Medical practitioner Dr AK Singh said data of the sero-survey implied that 50 million people out of the 230 million population of Uttar Pradesh might have been exposed to the virus and become carriers of the antibodies by September. The number of the people exposed to the virus must have multiplied by November, he added.The state government had taken the correct decision to increase the sample tests and launch a mass awareness campaign across the state, he said.Dr Amresh Singh, head of the microbiology department at Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur, said the numbers showed that even after infection, a large population may not have developed antibodies due to co-morbidity or a weak immune system. There was a need for regular follow-up to get a clear picture of the extent of infection, he said.Antibodies are immune molecules produced by the body to fight pathogens. The presence of antibodies in the blood typically suggests that people infected with a virus would gain immunity for some period. The latest studies show that antibodies are not sustainable and begin to disappear within three to four months, Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-sero-survey-reveals-1-in-5-people-developed-antibodies/story-1gRi4Ly1QIyjTPo6oaHEeO.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi govt says no to converting 9 stadiums into detention centers||The Delhi government on Friday refused permission to the police to turn nine of the city’s stadiums into temporary detention centers for the protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana who enter the national Capital as part of their protest against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September.Click here for live updates on farmers’ protestThe Delhi police had sought the state government’s nod for the same earlier in the day. “Looking at the situation at borders we think we will required such kind of place to keep the detainees. We are yet to receive a confirmation,” a senior police official said on the condition on anonymity. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, on their way to the national Capital as part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ agitation, clashed with police on Thursday. The agitating farmers resumed their march and reached Delhi’s border on Friday morning.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: After Singhu border, Delhi Police close Tikri borderThe three laws the farmers are protesting against are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. According to the farmers, these would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s procurement system, as part of which the government buys staples from them, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-refuses-permission-to-convert-9-stadiums-into-temporary-detention-center/story-ziZjrRh4jmheGTAOSr1RSK.html
27-11-2020||India||2 soldiers killed J-K’s Rajouri district in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan army||Two army personnel were killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district after Pakistan troops opened heavy fire and shelled mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in a ceasefire violation on Friday, a defence spokesperson said. “The Pakistani army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of district Rajouri today (Friday),” the official added.The two soldiers - Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and Rifleman Sukhbir Singh - got critically injured and later succumbed to injuries, the official said, adding that the nation will always remain indebted to them for their supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.On Thursday, Subedar Swatantra Singh was killed and a civilian critically injured in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch district. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-army-personnel-killed-j-k-s-rajouri-district-in-a-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-army-reports-ani/story-JTuWcvgYzAb2uJ7iKrGMkI.html
27-11-2020||India||Graffiti in support of LeT, Taliban surfaces in Mangaluru on anniversary of Mumbai attack||An inflammatory graffiti hailing terror outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba surfaced here on the occasion of 12th anniversary of the 2008 Mumbai attack, prompting the police to launch an investigation to find out the culprits behind it.The (anonymous) graffiti that appeared on the wall of an apartment said international terror organisations would be brought to the country if ‘provoked’.“Do not force us to invite Lashkar-e Toiba and Taliban to deal with Sanghis and Manuvadi. #Lashkar Zindabad,” it read.Also Read | HTLS 2020: ‘Won’t allow unilateral action by PLA at LAC’, says Rajnath SinghOn being informed about it, police went to the spot and erased the graffiti. An investigation has also been launched.A case has been registered for allegedly promoting enmity between different communities and causing damage to property.On November 26, 2008, 10 Pakistani terrorists belonging to the LeT arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring over 300 during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graffiti-in-support-of-let-taliban-surfaces-in-mangaluru-on-anniversary-of-mumbai-attack/story-pu7EekEuqFQjQFUUET5sSM.html
27-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest in Kashmir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrestFormer Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti was detained by Jammu and Kashmir Police and was not allowed to visit South Kashmir’s Pulwama to meet the family of senior PDP leader Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the national investigating agency (NIA) earlier this week. Read more ‘Initiate talks with farmers immediately,’ Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh urges CentreFarmers from Punjab, who are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September, on Friday resumed their march to Delhi as a part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. Read moreNavy’s MiG-29K trainer jet crashes into Arabian Sea; 1 pilot rescued, search on for the otherA MiG-29K trainer aircraft of the Indian Navy operating from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya met with an accident over the Arabian sea on Thursday evening, said Indian Navy officials. Read moreNo prima facie case against Arnab Goswami in abetment to suicide case, says SCThe interim bail granted by Supreme Court to journalist Arnab Goswami in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case of a businessman will remain in force for a period of four weeks even after the Bombay high court decides on his plea for quashing of FIR. Read moreKia Carnival gets DC Design touch to transform from luxury to extravagant MPVKia Carnival was launched at the start of 2020 as the second product from the Korean car maker here in India. The biggest USP of the vehicle is the luxury quotient it seeks to offer passengers and the cabin of the Carnival found favour among many looking at a significantly more plush experience. Read moreNASA shares pic of nebula taken by Hubble telescope. Can you spot it something else in it?The vast universe is home to many nebulae of various shapes and sizes. One photograph of a nebula, captured by the Hubble telescope has been shared on Twitter. Posted by NASA Universe, the picture has grabbed the attention of netizens thanks to a fun question shared in it. Read more‘Only because you played a villain, I could be a hero’: Kangana Ranaut reacts after Bombay HC quashes demolition noticeActor Kangana Ranaut has responded after the Bombay High Court held that the action of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) to demolish a part of her bungalow in September was “actuated by malafide” and was in complete disregard of her rights. It also quashed the demolition order passed by a ward officer of the civic body. Read more India vs Australia: Two protesters barge into ground holding ‘No $1B Adani Loan’ signs during Sydney ODIAs good as it is to see live crowd back in cricket stadiums, it was always going to be risky business considering their ability to invade the pitch and halt play. A familiar sight unfolded during the first ODI between India and Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday. Read more Trump snaps at reporter; says he’ll leave WH if Electoral College seats BidenUS President Donald Trump said he would leave the White House if the Electoral College declares Joe Biden’s victory. However, Trump said it will be a mistake if the Electoral College were to elect Biden. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mehbooba-mufti-daughter-allegedly-put-under-house-arrest-in-kashmir-and-all-the-latest-news/story-T3zxL7MjvtrmX7aM2gUxLN.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine||India will produce over 100 million doses a year of Russia’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V beginning 2021 following an agreement between the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Hyderabad-based Hetero Biopharma.Sputnik V is based on a well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and has demonstrated a 91.4% efficacy rate, according to the second interim data analysis of the largest double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase III clinical trials in Russia’s history involving 40,000 volunteers. The results were announced by Gamaleya Center and RDIF on November 24.Phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine are approved and ongoing in Belarus, the UAE, Venezuela and other countries, and Phase 2/3 have been approved in India. India, along with Brazil, China, South Korea and others, will provide the vaccine to at least 50 countries that have requested over 1.2 billion doses.Also read | AstraZeneca plans new vaccine trial as efficacy questioned“An application has been submitted by RDIF to the World Health Organization (WHO) for accelerated registration (Emergency Use Listing, EUL) and prequalification of Sputnik V,” said Alexander Gintsburg, director general of The Gamaleya Research Institute, Moscow, in an email interview. WHO’s EUL procedure streamlines approvals for the global use of new or unlicensed products during public health emergencies.“There is now real hope that vaccines -- in combination with other tried and tested public health measures -- will help to end the pandemic. The urgency with which vaccines have been developed must be matched by the same urgency to distribute them fairly. While we work towards rolling out a safe and effective vaccine, we must continue the essential public health actions to suppress transmission and reduce mortality,” said DR Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO, South East Asia.The EUL procedure for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has begun. “WHO has had several discussions with AstraZeneca following the expression of interest that WHO issued for emergency use listing and prequalification of vaccines. We will receive more clinical data in the coming weeks. There are eight sites – some are manufacturing sites – and we will be analysing the data carefully. We expect to finalise assessments beginning of next year,” said Dr Khetrapal Singh.Sputnik V is a human adenovirus-based vaccine candidate and the only late-stage adenovirus-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate to use two different vectors for different injections, human adenovirus types Ad5 and Ad26. In vaccines that use the same vector in both injections, the immune system may launch defence mechanisms against the second one, making the vaccine less effective.The Sputnik V vaccine is based on a well-studied human adenoviral vector platform that has been proven safe and effective with no long-term side effects in more than 250 global clinical trials over the past two decades. It uses two different human adenoviral vectors that have been genetically modified not to cause infection to trigger stronger and longer-term immune response as compared to the vaccines using one or the same vector for two doses.“While we look forward to the clinical trial results in India, we believe that manufacturing the product locally is crucial to enable swift access to patients. This collaboration is another step towards our commitment in the battle against Covid-19 and realising the objective of ‘Make-in-India’ campaign as envisioned by our Hon’ble Prime Minister of India,” said B. Murali Krishna Reddy, director, international marketing, Hetero Labs Limited, in a statement.“The results follow on the encouraging results from the two earlier vaccine candidates from Pfizer and Moderna. Both of those are mRNA vaccines, while the AstraZeneca vaccine is a viral vector vaccine. It’s possible that we will have a number of different vaccine candidates that can be used in the fight against this disease. This is a good development as we would like to provide access to as many efficacious and safe vaccines as possible, so we can cover the population -- billions of people -- around the world,” said Dr Khetrapal Singh.“While there are many challenges in ending Covid-19 to come beyond vaccine introduction, vaccination is the best opportunity we have to halt the transmission of Covid-19 and minimise its associated morbidity and mortality. Based on the currently available evidence, Sputnik V can play a role in the global fight against Covid-19,” said Dr Gintsburg, on email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-beginning-2021-india-to-produce-100-million-doses-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine/story-ZuVlILfQbPIMvwUxKLpAgL.html
27-11-2020||India||Supreme Court extends Rajiv Gandhi case convict AG Perarivalan’s parole by a week||The Supreme Court on Friday extended by a week the parole granted to AG Perarivalan, convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, and made it clear that no further extension will be given.Also Read: Rajiv Gandhi case convict Perarivalan gets a week’s parole from SC for medical check-upA three- judge bench headed by Justice LN Rao granted the parole to the convict on November 23. The bench also directed the state to provide escort to Perarivalan who sought the extension for medical reason. Perarivalan is serving a life-term at Puzhal Central Prison near Chennai in Tamil Nadu. Also Read: TN Congress chief opposes release of convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination caseThe top court said that in view of the submissions of senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, appearing for the petitioner and advocate Balaji Srinivasan, representing Tamil Nadu, Perarivalan’s parole is extended by one week from Friday.Perarivalan was first granted parole from November 9 to November 23 by the Madras High Court on medical grounds, which was extended by the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-extends-rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-ag-perarivalan-s-parole-by-a-week/story-PE3XWgYWejxp9UlMUxaEgK.html
27-11-2020||India||Travel agents’ apex body directs members to refund airfares for flights booked during lockdown||In a relief to the travellers who had booked their air tickets during the lockdown and are yet to receive refunds, Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) has directed its members to refund airfares of their customers. The travel agents’ apex body has 3,000 members across the country.In a letter to its members on Thursday, TAAI said they have been in constant dialogue with the aviation ministry, International Air Transport Association (IATA) and airlines over the last eight months. While most airlines have released refunds of airfares to member travel agents, Air India, Go Air, SpiceJet, Thai Airways, Kenya Airways are yet to do so as per the directions of the Supreme Court and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).Also read | Covid-19 pushes tourism in Delhi to the edge“Our persuasion with said airlines is on and we are trying our level best through intervention of Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) for some prompt action. We have been receiving updates from various authorities, airlines, consumer bodies and passengers that, inspite of full refunds being processed by the airlines, member agents are not settling the account of the travellers,” read the letter. Requesting its members, TAAI stated, “With regards to the refunds already received by agents from the airlines, we would request our members to kindly settle their account with the customers/ travellers, who too are in despair.” TAAI allowed its members to charge a nominal fee, similar to a service charge for their efforts to undertake the procedure of processing the refunds through the Global Distribution Services System (GDS-system) on the IATA portal or with the low cost airlines.A GDS is a computer network system that allows travel agencies and websites to book tickets on any airline for a passenger. While all full-service airlines avail GDS system for selling their tickets, a few budget airlines also use this platform.On October 1, TAAI had said that it needed total cash refunds from the airlines for the cancelled flights, as its members and customers were struggling with liquidity issues and basic interest paid to banks was at higher rates.“We are receiving many complaints about passengers not receiving their refund. In some cases, passengers are being given credit shells after deducting money, which is against the SC order. We have written to DGCA over the non-compliance by airlines and agents. We are also suggesting passengers to write to airlines and DGCA, so that the regulatory body is kept in the loop. As per the order issued by the Apex court, passengers are suppose to receive full refund, including taxes. However, according to the complaints registered with us, this rule is largely being violated, “ said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman of consumers’ body Mumbai Grahak Panchayat and party to the plea on the issue of refunds for air tickets booked during the Covid-19 lockdown in SC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-agents-apex-body-directs-members-to-refund-airfares-for-flights-booked-during-lockdown/story-H5HRagHv9BeXPcPAjbZdIO.html
27-11-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate summons Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s son||Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s son Vihang Sarnaik on Friday, in connection with raid conducted at Pratap Sarnaik’s residence.He did not appear before the agency yesterday despite summons issued to him.ED on Tuesday raided the office and residence of Pratap Sarnaik, during which they also detained his son Vihang Sarnaik, in connection with an alleged money laundering case. Meanwhile, ED also arrested a close aide of Pratap Sarnaik named Amit Chandole, in an alleged money laundering case related to private company Tops Security. Also Read | Demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow actuated by malafide: Bombay high courtChandole, who is the promoter of Top Securities Group, was arrested after ED conducted searches at around 10 places in Mumbai and Thane on November 24 including Top Securities Group promoters and some politicians.ED has found some evidence of suspicious transactions between the Tops Group and Pratap Sarnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-summons-shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-s-son/story-v3iOoPjjZ7ablEniTX3IyO.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Metro stations near Delhi-Haryana border to remain closed, says DMRC||The Metro stations near Delhi-Haryana border will remain closed due to the farmers’ protest, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Friday. “Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed,” DMRC tweeted on Friday. On Thursday, DMRC had said that trains from NCR cities to Delhi will remain suspended on Friday. Farmers Protest LIVE Updates: Traffic jam as farmers block Yamuna Expressway in MathuraIn a statement issued on Thursday evening, DMRC said that on Friday, train services from NCR towards Delhi will not be available. “As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections (on November 27). However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice,” read the statement.The below mentioned sections on the seven corridors will be shut on Friday as well till further orders, said DMRC officials. On the Red line, no service will be available between Dilshad Garden and Major Mohit Sharma Rajender Nagar section.Similarly, on Yellow line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) train service will not be available between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations.Commuters from Noida and Vashali will not be able to use Metro as trains will not run between Noida City Centre and New Ashok Nagar and between Vaishali and Anand Vihar during the first part of the day.On the Inderlok to Mukdka corridor (Green line), services will not be available between Tikri Kalan and Brig. Hoshiar Singh section.Similarly, on the Violet line, there will be no trains between Badarpur Border and Mewala Maharajpur. DMRC officials said that regular service will be available on the Airport line and other corridors.On the Magenta line, no services will be available from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh to the Botanical Garden section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-metro-stations-near-delhi-haryana-border-to-remain-closed-says-dmrc/story-1Q7VTU3fpdmH59kLDdMAnL.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Farmers are not criminals or terrorists’: AAP on Delhi Police’s request to set temporary jails||After Delhi Police on Friday sought Delhi government’s permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary prisons in view of the ongoing farmers’ protest, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, whose party is in power in the city, urged the government to deny its nod.Also Read | Haryana, Punjab farmers jointly resume Dilli Chalo march from Panipat“I urge the Delhi Govt to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist. Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society,” party MLA Raghav Chadha tweeted. I urge the Delhi Govt to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist.Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society. https://t.co/cqMvEb181r“I think it’s a most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves- दिल वाली पुलिस.” tweeted Saurabh Bharadwaj. I think it's a most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves- दिल वाली पुलिस https://t.co/bqBH3MDcWBOn Thursday, Delhi chief minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal had also backed the farmers, tweeting, “All three agricultural laws are anti-farmers. Instead of allowing farmers to protest peacefully, water cannons are being used against them and the laws are also not being withdrawn. This is absolutely wrong. Protesting peacefully is their constitutional right.” केंद्र सरकार के तीनों खेती बिल किसान विरोधी हैं। ये बिल वापिस लेने की बजाय किसानों को शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन करने से रोका जा रहा है, उन पर वॉटर कैनन चलाई जा रही हैं। किसानों पर ये जुर्म बिलकुल ग़लत है। शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन उनका संवैधानिक अधिकार है।On Friday, the police’s request for permission came after a violent faceoff with the protesting farmers, who are adamant on reaching the national capital to stage protest against the three contentious agricultural laws by the Centre in September. In a repeat of scenes from Thursday, the farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, faced tear gas shells and water cannons from the police. Farmers, however, say they have enough ration and other essential items for the next 1-2 months and would stage a ‘dharna’ (sit-in) wherever stopped from by the police.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: After Singhu border, Delhi Police close Tikri borderHaryana Police’s crackdown on farmers on Thursday had sparked a war of words between the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government and its Congress counterpart in Punjab. While the BJP-led central government has passed the legislations, the Congress has been against the laws since the beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-are-not-criminals-or-terrorists-aap-on-delhi-police-s-request-for-temporary-jails/story-zTV7qhA9ZqLPlLksbljheP.html
27-11-2020||India||No fresh Covid-19 fatality in Puducherry; UT reports only 16 new cases||The union territory of Puducherry registered 16 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the overall tally to 36,856, a top Health department official said.In a welcome development, no fresh fatality was reported for the eighth day in succession on Friday, a release from the Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said.He said 46 patients were discharged after recovery from hospitals during the last 24 hours ending 10 AM.The 16 new cases were registered at the end of the examination of 1,609 samples.The Puducherry region accounted for nine fresh cases, while Karaikal and Yanam had one case each and Mahe reported five infections.The fatality and recovery rates were 1.65 per cent and 96.95 per cent respectively.Of the 3.95 lakh samples tested so far the Department of Health found 3.54 lakh samples to be negative.As many as 514 cases of the total 36,856 were active while 35,733 patients had recovered and were discharged from health facilities so far.The number of fatalities remained at 609 with Puducherry reporting no fresh death, the Health department Director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-covid-19-fatality-in-puducherry-ut-reports-only-16-new-cases/story-JSTpvzSYm1htJjqisde2GN.html
27-11-2020||India||Russia,Hetero agree to produce Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India||The Russian Sovereign Wealth Fund and India’s pharmaceutical company Hetero have agreed to produce over 100 million doses per year of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, according to a statement on Sputnik V Twitter account on Friday. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Hetero intend to start the production of Sputnik V in the beginning of 2021.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11.Sputnik V, named after Russia’s first satellite, is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology (GNRCEM) of the Russian Healthcare Ministry. On Tuesday, the GNRCEM and RDIF declared results obtained during the second interim data analysis of the largest double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled phase III clinical trials in Russia involving 40,000 volunteers.“It has shown a 91.4 per cent efficacy on day 28 after the first dose while preliminary data from volunteers obtained 42 days after the first dose(corresponds with 21 days after the second dose) indicates an efficacy of the vaccine above 95 per cent,” stated press statement issued by the RDIF.Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the RDIF, said that the agreement between the RDIF and Hetero will pave the way for the production of the safe and highly effective Sputnik V vaccine on Indian soil.“We are delighted to announce the agreement between RDIF and Hetero that will pave the way to the production of the safe and highly effective Sputnik V vaccine on Indian soil. The vaccine’s interim clinical trial results show 95 per cent efficacy on the 42nd day after the first dose,” he was quoted by the statement on Sputnik V Twitter account. “I am confident that Sputnik V should become an integral part of the national vaccine portfolio of every country willing to protect its population from the coronavirus. Thanks to our cooperation with Hetero, we will be able to significantly increase production capacity and provide people of India with an efficient solution in this challenging period of the pandemic,” he added.B. Murali Krishna Reddy, Director - International Marketing, Hetero Labs Limited, meanwhile said that the collaboration is another step towards their commitment in the battle against Covid-19 and realising the objective of ‘Make-in-India’ campaign.“We are pleased to collaborate with RDIF as a manufacturing partner for the most anticipated Sputnik V vaccine for the treatment of Covid-19. While we look forward to the clinical trial results in India, we believe that manufacturing the product locally is crucial to enable swift access to patients. This collaboration is another step towards our commitment in the battle against Covid-19 and realising the objective of the ‘Make-in-India’ campaign as envisioned by our Prime Minister of India (Narendra Modi),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-agrees-to-produce-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-in-india/story-jVYUajJa1ydw8f3tKKwmBO.html
27-11-2020||India||No prima facie case against Arnab Goswami in abetment to suicide case, says Supreme Court||The interim bail granted by Supreme Court to journalist Arnab Goswami in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case of a businessman will remain in force for a period of four weeks even after the Bombay high court decides on his plea for quashing of FIR. This was stated by a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee who gave a detailed judgment stating the reasons for granting interim bail to Goswami on November 11.The court said the interim bail will remain in force till Bombay HC decides the quashing petition and will remain in force for another four weeks in order to enable Goswami to approach this court. Also read | On liberty, the lack of judicial consistencyGoswami had approached the SC after the Bombay high court refused to grant him bail. The SC bench gave a prima facie view that the preliminary evaluation of FIR did not establish any abetment to suicide charge. The apex court was of the firm view that the HC ought to have taken a prima facie view of the FIR, nature of allegations and it erred in not granting bail. The court further held that in cases involving liberty of citizens who are targeted by state, the courts must ensure that state does not use “criminal law as a tool to harass or jeopardise liberty (of citizens)”. On November 11, the Bench had said that state cannot target any individual in this manner for keeping divergent ideology or views and that constitutional courts will be duty-bound to protect liberty of citizens.“We are dealing with a person’s liberty. Across the country, if this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty....you may dislike a person’s ideology and challenge it but if this is what our states will do to nail persons, we have to put across this message to all high courts to preserve the liberty of citizens,” the bench had said on November 11. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for Goswami, had on that day argued that his arrest was planned to target him for making unpalatable views against the Maharashtra government and state police in his TV debates. Salve stated the suicide note left by the deceased businessman Anvay Naik mentioned only Rs88 lakh as unpaid dues against Goswami while others named in suicide note left by Naik owed him larger sums. The bench even commented on the FIR involved in the case. The court had said, “in a matter of this nature where some amount is already paid and the person commits suicide due to financial stress, will you hold the head of the company for abetment to suicide? In most companies, work orders are given out as a labour contract.... Will it not be travesty of justice to deny bail to such a person when his quashing petition is pending.”Naik’s wife had approached the police with a complaint against Goswami and two others. The state police had filed a closure report but earlier this year, the police began probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-prima-facie-case-against-arnab-goswami-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-says-sc/story-NI996Bf8sQxWE3StAWg2yI.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Smacks of malice’: Bombay High Court sets aside BMC notices to Kangana Ranaut||The Bombay high court on Friday set aside the demolition notice sent to actor Kangana Ranaut by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation dated on September 7 and 9 — in what marked a victory for Ranaut. The high court said the demolition action at her office had malafide intent, passing an order for a valuer to be appointed to ascertain the damage caused in the demolition. However, the court has also asked the actor to exercise restraint. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla noted that the action undertaken by the civic body leaves hardly “any manner of doubt” that it was unauthorised. The BMC had alleged Ranaut of unauthorised construction in her office, a portion of which was razed. The high court said it has compared the photographs and found no unauthorised construction. The civic body has proceeded to act wrongfully and illegally against the rights of a citizen, the bench said.The court also commented on Kangana’s allegations that the action (partial demolition of her office) was a reaction to her opinions expressed on social media. “The notice issued by BMC officer, and pasting of that on her bungalow, the reply to the notice, order of demolition of property, arrangements made to demolition, commencement of demolition, attempt to delay hearing, ensuring 40% demolition, demolition of the bungalow.Raut’s statement that bungalow ukhaad Diya..supports petitioner’s case that the demolition was in reaction to that,” it said.Ranaut had filed the petition on September 9 when the demolition process was initiated by BMC. The court had in an interim order on September 9 stayed the demolition work||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-was-with-malafide-intent-bombay-hc-quashes-demotion-notice-to-kangana-ranaut/story-RRZxS3PNRDMmSAHBxwWNyH.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers protest: DMRC shuts 6 metro stations on Green line||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Friday closed the entry and exit gates of six metro stations – Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line as the farmers-led protests intensified. “Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed,” the DMRC tweeted.Anticipating stir, the metro officials had announced restricted services for commuters between Delhi and adjoining areas like Noida. “As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice. However, metro services will be available from Delhi towards the NCR sections,” DMRC had said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are headed to the national capital on Friday with their echoes for rollback of three farm laws enacted by Parliament in September growing stronger. Thursday witnessed high-voltage face-offs between police personnel and the protesting farmers, who forced their way and entered Delhi’s adjoining areas like Panipat, Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind.Farmers have assembled near the borders in tractor-trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march.Authorities in Haryana have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of the protesters.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-dmrc-shuts-6-metro-stations-on-green-line/story-nhJMMt1mKhAfetvFirzulJ.html
27-11-2020||India||Indian stocks head for best weekly streak since July ahead of GDP||India stocks headed for a fourth straight week of gains, the longest streak since July, as investors assess the pace of economic recovery.The S&P BSE Sensex was little changed at 44,269.34 as of 9:53 a.m. in Mumbai, while the NSE Nifty 50 Index was also flat. Both indexes are trading close to record highs set Tuesday.Surging inflows from foreign investors have helped drive Indian equities higher even with the economy probably in its first technical recession since at least 1996. While signs of a recovery are emerging, a report after markets close today will show gross domestic product contracted 8.2% in the quarter through September, according to economists’ estimates.“Our view is that portfolio inflows and local equities will hold up as investors’ appetite for risk increases amid a global economic recovery,” Shilan Shah, an economist at Capital Economics (Asia) Pte Ltd. wrote in a note.Net foreign equity purchases of $14.5 billion so far this year through Nov. 25 are already the most since 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The addition of 12 Indian stocks to MSCI Inc.’s global standard indexes in its quarterly review, effective from Nov. 30, may also help boost inflows.The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rose by two basis points to 5.89%, while the rupee strengthened 0.1% to 73.7988 per US dollar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-stocks-head-for-best-weekly-streak-since-july-ahead-of-gdp/story-jjny9yfji4itdH12scsEtK.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Don’t compel me to come after you’: Uddhav Thackeray’s veiled warning to Opposition||Slamming the Opposition, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said he should not be compelled to go after them. In an interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Thackeray’s word of caution comes in the wake of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) action against Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik.Thackeray, who completes a year in office on Friday, said he is keeping a “close eye” on political developments in the state. He said that central agencies are misused in the country and the manner in which families are being targeted shows “vindictive” politics of opposition (party in the state). The CM, in the interview to Sena leader and Saamana executive editor Sanjay Raut, spoke on a range of issues, from Mumbai civic polls, to his family being targeted in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, “love jihad”, Anvay Naik’s case, and the performance and plans of the state government.Also Watch | ‘I challenge Uddhav Thackeray to debate with me’: Arnab GoswamiAlso read | Maharashtra: MNS launches state-wide protests against inflated billsThackeray said he does not want to resort to vindictive politics. He said he gets “energised” when he is “challenged”. “We do not want to get into vindictive politics but if you force us, we will use Sudarshan chakra [mythological weapon] against your vindictiveness,” he said.“I am following all developments closely. If I am quiet or I am restrained it doesn’t mean that I am unmanly. The manner in which people’s families and children are targeted does not suit Maharashtra’s culture. The ones targeting families and children must remember that even they have families. They are not clean… Not only the government but the people of Maharashtra will definitely resist such vindictive politics,” he said.In a veiled reference to prime minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, Thackeray said others should remember the cases against them and how Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray supported [PM] Modi. “Practice politics like it should be. If you are going to misuse power then one must remember that power does not remain forever. Even they faced cases earlier, and they must remember how Shiv Sena chief saved them,” he said, adding that the “real power” is the people, which is with them.Responding to a question on the criticism of the Opposition that the CM is merely asking people to wash hands regularly, Thackeray said, “Right now, I am only asking to wash hands... if such attack continues, I will come after them.”Asked how he felt when his family was targeted in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the Shiv Sena chief said, “Those who have families and children should look into mirror once. Do not compel us to take that step. If I go after you… I do not want to stoop to that level.” Thackeray’s son and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray was indirectly linked to the SSR case by some members of the BJP and social media campaign was created to target him.Speaking on the death of Rajput and the controversy that followed, Thackeray said, “I look at the entire issue with pity. This is a tendency of profiting from the dead. Such people are not worthy. One young boy lost his life and they are politicising it. It is dirty and perverted politics.”Raut also asked about the Anvay Naik suicide abetment case in which Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami is one of the accused. Thackeray slammed the former BJP government for sweeping the case under the carpet. “One Marathi businessman was cheated by outsiders. He died by suicide and wrote a note. You push the case under the carpet and those who ask for reinvestigation, you make ED run behind them. You want us to turn a blind eye?” he said, referring to Sarnaik who demanded the reopening the case.Attacking the BJP over the issue of inter-faith marriages, Thackeray said that alliance of different political ideologies work for BJP, but not marriage between a Muslim boy and a Hindu girl. “Rather than politics of ‘love jihad’, why shouldn’t the concept be applicable in politics? They [BJP] are opposed to a Muslim boy marrying a Hindu girl. Then how did you [BJP] have an alliance with Mehbooba Mufti or Nitish Kumar or Chandrababu Naidu? Alliance with different political parties with different ideologies works for you, isn’t this ‘love jihad’?” he said.Responding to the demand that Maharashtra government should bring a law against inter-faith marriages, Thackeray said, “We can make a law on it but first tell us when you [central government] will bring in anti-cow slaughter law? Why don’t you make a law in Goa, you have a government there? Enforce it from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” he said.On the continuing criticism that Sena had abandoned Hindutva ideology by allying with NCP and Congress, Thackeray said that it is not loincloth to change. “Hindutva is not a dhoti (loincloth) to change. It is in our blood and veins. I follow my father’s and grandfather’s concept of Hindutva. They said we do not want a [temple] bell tolling Hindutva, we want a Hindutva that will finish off terrorists and my father proved it in 1992-93. When no one was coming forward to accept the demolition of Babri, he did it. Ram Mandir happened due to the court’s decision. No political party should take credit for it,” Thackeray said.Thackeray added that he does not consider the biggest political fight for Sena will be the BMC election in 2022. He said that nobody can uninstall the saffron flag of the party that is fluttering over the BMC for the last three decades. “I do not think so that it is possible for anybody to remove the saffron flag. I know my Mumbaikar they have stood behind us for the last 25-30 years and will continue to remain. They can try but Mumbaikars will not get anybody close to the saffron flag,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-compel-me-to-come-after-you-says-thackeray-in-veiled-warning-to-opposition/story-l4Hjjjlj8U4s0gisZsaffJ.html
27-11-2020||India||No flight risk, can’t tamper evidence: Supreme Court details why it granted bail to Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court of Friday said journalist Arnab Goswami’s interim bail in the abetment to suicide case, which was granted to Goswami on November 11, shall be operative for another four weeks. The bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee passed an order detailing the reasons why Goswami was granted bail on November 11 after he spent a week in judicial custody following his arrest in the abetment to suicide of architect Anvay Naik and his mother. Justice Chandrachud said it could not be said appellants had abetted the suicide of the head of the architectural firm. “If the HC was carrying a prima facie evaluation, then it could not have seen that there was no nexus between FIR and Section 306 IPC,” Justice Chandrachud said. “It needs to be sent whether the accused can tamper evidence, or whether accused can flee, or whether ingredients of offence is made out along with interests of state. These principles have emerged over time. Here the case is about liberty of a citizen,” he said.“The appellants are residents of India and don’t pose flight risk or can they tamper evidence. We have also added a section on Human liberty and role of Courts: Section 482 recognizes powers of the HC to give effect to other provisions of CrPC. Due enforcement of criminal law cannot be obstructed by accused opting strategies and the court must be circumspect in exercising powers under Section 482 CrPC,” he added. Quoting Justice Krishna Iyer that bail is rule and jail is exception, Justice Chandrachud said doors of courts cannot be closed in such cases and courts should remain open for all cases of deprivation of personal liberty and such deprivation cannot be even for one day.“Our courts should exhibit acute awareness to the need to dispense Justice in cases of personal liberty. The interim order shall remain in operation till further proceedings and it will be open to them to peruse further remedy,” Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doors-of-courts-cannot-be-closed-in-such-cases-supreme-court-gives-detailed-reason-why-it-granted-bail-to-arnab-goswami/story-TYimpiSpKFyg1ah9BB1xlM.html
27-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday claimed that she and her daughter, Iltija Mufti, were put under house arrest and not allowed to visit the Pulwama residence of party leader Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the NIA earlier this week.The former chief minister said that for the last two days, she has not been allowed to console the family of Parra, who was arrested on “baseless charges”.“I’ve been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, J&K admin has refused to allow me to visit  @parawahid’s family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers & their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case,” Mehbooba said in a tweet.She said her daughter has also been put under the house arrest. “Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges & I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she also wanted to visit Waheed’s family,” she said.The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief said she will address a press conference later in the day on “various issues”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-daughter-allegedly-put-under-house-arrest/story-pe74jAIbuOcJi9GYw04EiM.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers’ group cross hurdles to reach Delhi border, face off with cops looms||Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, have crossed Bahadurgarh in Haryana and reached the Tikri border near Delhi despite police using water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse them.Many farmers are yet to reach Bahadurgarh as they are busy preparing their meals on the roadside between Rohtak and Bahadurgarh, nearly 40 kilometers away from Tikri border.After a day of clashes, the farmers, who had entered Haryana from Ratia border, have been travelling since Thursday evening. They said the police had used barricades at Hansi and Hisar but they managed to cross them. However, the Rohtak police had stopped the second group of farmers at Rohad village by digging up holes on the Rohtak-Delhi national highway.Shamsher Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana, told HT that they will cross all hurdles to reach Delhi.“Ab Delhi dur nahi hai paji (Now Delhi is not far away brother). We had started our journey at 4 pm on Thursday and reached Haryana through Ratia border. The Haryana farmers have been clearing their fields to give us a path. Throughout the night, we have been marching and local farmers have been providing food, tea, warm clothes and guiding us through short routes to avert police nakaas,” he added.Another farmer, Gurmail Singh, who was busy preparing a meal for three dozen farmers at Rohad village, said the Haryana government behaved like an enemy but the local farmers have been welcoming them with open hearts.“Local farmers told us that a few people were instigating them not to cooperate with Punjab farmers as they had stopped their share of Satluj-Yamuna link canal but our brothers have now become intelligent. The elder and younger brothers will return back from Delhi after winning the battle against the Union government,” he added.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Tear gas shells fired at Singhu borderJagroop Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana’s Sheikh Daulat village, said that over 300 farmers from their village have been marching towards Delhi against the three farm laws.“We have asked for one member from each family to take part in the protest. We know this is a long battle but we have ration for three months. We are not caring about the ongoing wheat season because if the government will not roll back these laws, there will be no use of growing crops,” he added.Also Read: Dilli Chalo: Haryana, Punjab farmers unite in Panipat, move together towards Delhi Heavy security deployment has been done on the Singhu border at Sonepat and Tikri border at Bahadurgarh to prevent farmers from crossing over to Delhi.Delhi Metro entry and exit gates at Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on the Green Line have been closed. The police had installed 7 feet height wall on the Delhi-Rohtak highway at Rohad toll plaza in Haryana but farmers managed to cross it by breaking it from one half of the highway. Now long queue of vehicle is stranded at the toll plaza.The Delhi Police has stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons and used barbed wire for fencing at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana to prevent the protesters from entering the city. Police were also deployed on Delhi’s border with Faridabad and Gurgaon.One more group of farmers had reached near Delhi’s Tikri border after entering Haryana from Rohtak district. A farmer leader leading a group of protesters at Haryana’s border with Punjab in Dabwali, said they will break police barriers later in the day to march ahead.On Thursday, farmers from Punjab faced water cannons and broke police barriers at the state’s border with Haryana as they pushed towards the national capital on their march against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-cross-hurdles-to-reach-delhi-border-face-off-with-cops-looms/story-lSsBzBN2hgQNlIldT7jrdI.html
27-11-2020||India||India discusses opportunities to work with the Gulf in a ‘changing world’||Noting that the experiences from the Covid era hold lessons for both India and the United Arab Emirates, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has discussed further opportunities to work together with the Gulf kingdom in a “changing world” during a meeting with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Jaishankar paid a two-day visit to UAE on November 25-26. It was the second leg of his six-day three-nation tour to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, which began on Tuesday.The visit is seen as important as it comes in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic that has wreaked havoc across the world.Also Read | Rajiv Gandhi Hospital to have first vaccine storage; Entire Delhi can be vaccinated in just a month, says immunisation officer“Was so nice to meet FM @ABZayed again. Took stock of our growing cooperation. Discussed further opportunities to work together in a changing world. Experiences from the Covid era hold lessons for both of us. Thank him for his gracious hospitality,” Jaishankar tweeted on Friday.Jaishankar and Nahyan on Thursday held discussions on the entire range of bilateral issues, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).“Jaishankar briefed the UAE side on the progress made by India in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, both on the health and economic front,” it said. Both sides reviewed their cooperation on various facets of their comprehensive strategic partnership including trade, investment, infrastructure, energy, food security and defence. Jaishankar and Nahyan discussed recent regional and international developments and agreed to continue coordination on various multilateral issues, the MEA release said.The external affairs minister called on Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, on Wednesday and conveyed greetings from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his appreciation of the UAE leadership for taking great care of Indians during the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed regional and global issues of mutual interest, the release said.The novel coronavirus has infected over 163,000 people and claimed 563 lives in the UAE.Jaishankar also virtually met the representatives of the Indian community associations in Abu Dhabi.During the virtual meeting on Thursday, the minister appreciated the work of the Indian associations in taking care of the community during the Covid-19 pandemic. He assured them of the government’s responsiveness on issues pertaining to post-Covid normalcy, the release said.According to the website of the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi, the Indian expatriate community of approximately 30.4 lakh is reportedly the largest ethnic community in the UAE, constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country’s population.Also Read | National Digital Health Mission to be rolled out soon, says Health ministerAmong the Indian states, Kerala is the most represented, followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. However, Indians from the northern states, all put together, also form a significant portion of the UAE Indian population, it noted.The Indian government has organised several flights under the Vande Bharat Mission, allowing thousands of Indian expatriates to leave the UAE amidst the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-discusses-opportunities-to-work-with-the-gulf-in-a-changing-world/story-XnYCCSzoiohobnzl0VvK5J.html
27-11-2020||India||India records 43,082 fresh Covid-19 cases; Kerala, Delhi, Maharashtra continue to add maximum cases||India recorded 43,082 fresh Covid-19 infections and 492 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the overall Covid-19 tally to 93,09,787, according to the health ministry bulletin on Friday. The number of fresh cases dropped from Thursday’s as 44,489 new cases were recorded a day before. Since the last week of October, Delhi has been reporting a surge in the Covid-19 cases. But on Thursday, Kerala and Maharashtra reported over 6,000 fresh cases, pushing Delhi to the third spot. Overall, Kerala, Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh were the six states reporting the maximum number of new infections. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.45 per cent.There are 4,55,555 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-43-082-fresh-covid-19-cases-kerala-delhi-maharashtra-continue-to-add-maximum-cases/story-TkwuH0sdXg7PehgP9nx2TL.html
27-11-2020||India||Navy’s MiG-29K trainer jet crashes into Arabian Sea; 1 pilot rescued, search on for the other||A MiG-29K trainer aircraft of the Indian Navy operating from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya met with an accident over the Arabian sea on Thursday evening, said Indian Navy officials. “One pilot recovered, and search by air and surface units is in progress for the second pilot. An inquiry has been ordered to investigate the incident,” said an Indian Navy statement. This is the fourth crash in recent times involving MiG-29K aircraft. In February this year, a MiG29K aircraft which was on routine training sorties had crashed in Goa. However, the pilot was able to eject on time. In November last year, a twin-seater MiG29K had crashed because of a bird hit after taking off from Goa naval air base. However, both pilots had ejected safely. In January 2018, a MiG-29K crashed as it veered off the runaway at the INS Hansa base in Goa; the pilot escaped unharmed. INS Vikramaditya had just finished phase 2 of the Malabar exercises involving navies from US, Japan and Australia in the northern Arabian Sea. The exercises were centered around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarine and aircraft of the participating navies, had engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days from November 17 onwards. These exercises had included cross-deck flying operations and advanced air defence exercises by MIG 29K fighters of INS Vikramaditya and F-18 fighters and E2C Hawkeye from Nimitz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-s-mig-29k-trainer-jet-crashes-into-arabian-sea-1-pilot-rescued-search-on-for-the-other/story-VK4JhZPlO6c0GMCFSGyFaI.html
27-11-2020||India||Rajkot hospital fire: ‘Extremely pained,’ says PM Modi, assures all possible assistance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of five patients in a Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot in a fire that broke out in the ICU of the hospital in the early hours on Friday. “Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted. Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a hospital fire in Rajkot. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones in this unfortunate tragedy. Praying for a quick recovery of the injured. The administration is ensuring all possible assistance to those affected: PMFive patients have died in the fire while 30 others were rescued. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has ordered a probe into the incident.The fire broke out in the ICU of Uday Shivanand Hospital in Mavdi area around 1 am on Friday. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.“We rushed to the spot and rescued 30 patients after a call informing about the fire was received. Three patients died inside the ICU,” a fire brigade official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajkot-hospital-fire-extremely-pained-says-pm-modi-assures-all-possible-assistance/story-fO8pMxrG5NlW4oISimINmK.html
27-11-2020||India||JCO killed in Pak firing in another instance of ceasefire violation at LoC||A junior commissioned officer lost his life after Pakistan opened heavy fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu’s Poonch late Thursday in another incident of ceasefire violation.“Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Poonch Sector late Thursday . Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Subedar Swatantra Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries”, said a Defence spokesman..“Subedar Swatantra Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.The deceased soldier hailed from Odiyari village in Pauri Garhwal district of Uttarakhand.Also Read: HTLS 2020: ‘Won’t allow unilateral action by PLA at LAC’, says Rajnath SinghPakistan violated ceasefire along the LoC in the Qasba and Kirni sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district at about 1:30 pm on Thursday.According to a news agency, small arms were fired and there was intense shelling with mortars.A similar violation took place four days ago in Poonch in the Degwar, Malti and Dallan areas of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-killed-in-pak-firing-in-another-instance-of-ceasefire-violation-at-loc/story-3DEdgZycMYBfb2RxVyF3WO.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmer dies, 2 others injured as truck hits their tractor-trolley in Haryana’s Bhiwani||A 40-year-old farmer died while two others were injured after a speeding truck hit their tractor-trolley at Bhiwani’s Mundhal village in Haryana in the early hours of Friday, said police.The deceased has been identified as Tanna Singh of Mansa district. The injured are yet to be identified.A spokesman of Bhiwani police said the incident took place around 5.30am when the farmers were marching towards Delhi, to protest against three farm laws.“When they reached near Mundhal, a speeding truck hit their tractor-trolley. One farmer was killed on the spot while two others were injured. The injured have been sent to a hospital,” he added.Farmers have refused to hand over the victim’s body to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-dies-2-others-injured-as-truck-hits-their-tractor-trolley-in-haryana-s-bhiwani/story-bfnmGluKa17f5LyyiMfhnI.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: After Singhu border, Delhi Police close Tikri border||Even as the Singhu border near outer Delhi’s Narela has remained closed for traffic since Thursday evening because of thousands of agitating farmers marching towards Delhi, on Friday morning police also closed the Tikri border that leads from Delhi to Bahadurgarh. Traffic police alerted commuters that both the carriageways of the Tikri border have been closed and motorists could neither enter Delhi, nor go to Haryana via that route. The Singhu border that connects Narela and adjoining Delhi areas with Sonepat was closed around 4.30pm on Thursday as Delhi Police said they had inputs from their Haryana counterparts about farmers nearing the border.Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said on Thursday evening that the Singhu border would be open by 7pm, but that did not happen as the threat did not mitigate. Also read | Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiMotorists have been advised to avoid the Singhu border, the Tikri border, NH-44, Outer Ring Road, and Mukarba Chowk in view of the blockades and strict checking at the borders. While other border routes have remained open, police checking at all those points has slowed down traffic heavily since Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-after-singhu-border-delhi-police-close-tikri-border/story-xgYvnc4v5RhFYwM5W4FbOO.html
27-11-2020||India||Rajiv Gandhi Hospital to have first vaccine storage; Entire Delhi can be vaccinated in just a month, says immunisation officer||The Capital which is at present under the grip of the third and the most deadly phase of Covid-19 can be vaccinated in a month after vaccination begins, Delhi’s state immunisation officer Suresh Seth has said. The Capital has enough infrastructure to cover the entire population in a month if hospital staff and nurses are roped in, the officer has said. And the infrastructure is adequate to vaccinate all healthcare professionals in just three days. Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, meanwhile, has been chosen as the first vaccine storage facility.Here is how the Capital is gearing up for vaccination> There are 600 cold storage points and around 1,800 outreach sites which have been used for the immunisation for children.> While these will be used, according to Centre’s vaccination drive draft, school campuses will also be added to the existing vaccine infrastructure.> At present, Delhi government is collecting data of healthcare workers who will be vaccinated first.> The facilities in Delhi can store vaccines at two to eight degrees Celsius.> Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital will be converted into a Covid-19 vaccine storage centre, reports said. The centre will become functional by mid-December. Most vaccines in India need to be stored at a temperature of two to eight degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature at which vaccines can be kept to maintain the cold chain in most areas in the country is minus 25 degrees Celsius as there is only one vaccine in India — Bharat Biotech’s Rotavirus vaccine — which needs to be stored at minus 20 degrees Celsius. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-hospital-to-have-first-vaccine-storage-entire-delhi-can-be-vaccinated-in-just-a-month-says-immunisation-officer/story-7d0Hro5NmUM7sjOnQKPACK.html
27-11-2020||India||Dilli Chalo: Haryana, Punjab farmers unite in Panipat, move together towards Delhi||A gathering of thousands of farmers is likely to reach the Haryana-Delhi border by Friday afternoon as farmers from Punjab have also joined Haryana farmers in Panipat.They are jointly resuming their journey for Delhi in support of the Dilli Chalo call given by several farmer organisations of the country. The march of Punjab farmers has continued since they broke barricades at several locations on the borders with Haryana.Farmers from Haryana stopped their journey for the night at Panipat toll plaza where they were joined by those from Punjab. Several farmers from Punjab, who reached Panipat late on Thursday night, continued their onward journey and reached Sonepat district where the police have put up barricades to stop them.Also read | Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiFarmer leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal, and BKU leader from Haryana, Gurnam Singh Charuni, along with their supporters met at Panipat toll plaza. “It has now become a Jan-Andolan. Lakhs of farmers from Punjab are entering Haryana from 10 different routes, united against these anti-farmer laws,” said Rajewal.“Not just farmers, every section of society is with us and only the BJP is in favour of these laws,” he added. Police have put up barricades near Samalkha town of Panipat district and even dug holes on NH-44 to impede the farmers’ march.Haryana BKU president Charuni has urged state farmers to come out of their houses and join the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilli-chalo-haryana-punjab-farmers-unite-in-panipat-move-together-towards-delhi/story-vlrrvLlWeuAvY07Fi5KWEM.html
27-11-2020||India||Sensex rises 25 points in opening session, Nifty advances as well||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a tepid note on Friday, tracking subdued cues from global markets.The 30-share BSE index was trading 25.74 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 44,285.48.Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 17.60 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,004.60.NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finance.On the other hand, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries and TCS were among the laggards.In the previous session, Sensex ended 431.64 points or 0.98 per cent higher at 44,259.74, and Nifty surged 128.60 points or 1 per cent to 12,987.Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,027.31 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data.Domestic markets do not appear to be inspiring at the moment as most of Asian markets are trading in red, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities.“Continued buying in BFSIs has been driving markets with robust FPIs flow for November so far. Going ahead, considering better prospects of earnings rebound in banks and favourable valuations, further buying in banking and financials cannot be ruled out,” he noted.US markets were closed on Thursday due to Thanksgiving holiday. However, European stocks witnessed pressure as rising COVID-19 cases across Europe and extension of partial lockdown in Germany until December dented investor sentiment.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the positive territory.Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.02 per cent higher at USD 47.80 per barrel. PTI ANS DRR DRR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-rises-25-points-in-opening-session-nifty-advances-as-well/story-lKE5ne3YgI7bBm1pFsofyI.html
27-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Why angry farmers in ‘Dilli Chalo’ want to storm the national capital and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh clashed with police on Thursday, travelling toward the national Capital, where they plan to protest three farm laws enacted recently. Read moreFarmers march: Thousands headed to Delhi today amid heavy police deploymentIn a clarion call, thousands of farmers are headed to the national capital on Friday with their echoes for rollback of three farm laws enacted by Parliament in September growing stronger. Read moreWeather comes to Delhi’s rescue, winds flush out pollutionGood winds helped Delhi breathe relatively cleaner air on Thursday as the air quality index (AQI) improved to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ zone after remaining in the ‘severe’ zone for a day. Read moreFord compensates dozens of owners for SUV fires in this countryFord Motor Company has had to shell out big bucks as compensation to more than three dozen owners of its Kuga SUVs which caught fire due to a manufacturing defect, in South Africa. Read morePeninsula movie review: Train to Busan sequel is a bloated mess of CGI actionTrain to Busan Presents: Peninsula, besides challenging Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel for the worst sequel title ever, is an uncultured mutation of the original film, which became a runaway hit in the summer of 2016. Read moreAnushka Sharma serves another hot look from maternity fashion diaries, this time in a Rs 17k yellow dress by Anita DongreEveryday is another excuse to slay for Bollywood diva and mommy-to-be Anushka Sharma as the actor has kept fans hooked over her sartorial elegance, ever since she dropped the good news with husband Virat Kohli in August this year.  Read moreBull shark comes face-to-face with huge crocodile, guess who swims away firstIt’s thrilling, it’s amazing and it’s scary too. Wondering what we’re talking about? It’s a video that captured the moment a shark came face-to-face with a crocodile in Australia. Chelsea and Bryce recorded the incredible video while they went for fishing near Ivanhoe Crossing in Kununurra. Read moreVirat Kohli reacts to Rohit Sharma’s absence from Australia tourIndian skipper Virat Kohli responded to Rohit Sharma’s injury ahead of Australia tour. Kohli said there is a ‘lack of clarity’ and the ‘waiting game is not ideal’. BCCI on Thursday also ruled out Ishant Sharma from the upcoming test matches against Australia. BCCI will take a decision on Rohit Sharma on December 11. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-why-angry-farmers-in-dilli-chalo-want-to-storm-the-national-capital-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HdTe7lGp5TRIEwEjlWno2J.html
27-11-2020||India||Fodder scam case: Jharkhand HC to hear Lalu Yadav’s bail plea today||The Jharkhand high court on Friday would hear RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea in one of the fodder scam cases. On November 9, the bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh had sought CBI’s reply in the bail application. The former Bihar chief minister has been languishing in jail since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession.He has already secured bail in two cases and moved a bail application in this third and last case which relates to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs3.76 crore from Dumka treasury between December 1995 and January 1996.The trial court, in said case, sentenced Yadav to 14 years of imprisonment -- seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) and another seven under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. It had expressly said both the sentences would run consecutively.However, Yadav’s lawyers hope that the high court will strike down this decision, and let the two sentences run concurrently. If that happens, he would have to undergo seven-year imprisonment in this case. The RJD leader, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for over two years, has sought bail on the grounds that he had completed half of the seven years sentence awarded to him in this case.He argued that in the other two cases, he was granted bail on completing half the sentences.The bench, however, sought a reply from the CBI which took time filing a counter affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fodder-scam-case-jharkhand-hc-to-hear-lalu-yadav-s-bail-plea-today/story-5WdFpfd9zhErT85QJBHPGO.html
27-11-2020||India||Indian Navy’s MiG-29K trainer aircraft crashes into the Arabian sea; one pilot rescued, another missing||The Indian Navy’s MiG-29K trainer aircraft crashed into the sea on Thursday after which one pilot has gone missing and one pilot has been rescued, officials said. The naval force on Friday confirmed that the accident occurred at 5 pm on Thursday. “One pilot recovered and search by air and surface units in progress for the second pilot,” officials said. An inquiry has been ordered to investigate the incident, Navy officials said, adding that more details about the crash are awaited. The officials confirmed that the jet had taken off for a sortie from India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. MiG-29K - the Russian-origin fighter planes - operate from the deck of INS Vikramaditya, which had taken part in the recent Malabar naval drills involving the Quad navies of US, Australia, India and Japan in the northern Arabian sea. The Indian Navy also plans to deploy these fighters on the indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC), Vikrant, being built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-s-mig-29k-trainer-aircraft-crashes-over-arabian-sea-one-pilot-recovered-another-missing/story-RkKJkPFIVAd2qX0AoBWMRP.html
27-11-2020||India||S Jaishankar meets UAE counterpart; discusses Covid-19, strategic cooperation||External affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar on Friday met his United Arab Emirates (UAE) counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and took stock of India and UAE’s bilateral ties and growing cooperation.“Was so nice to meet FM @ABZayed again. Took stock of our growing cooperation. Discussed further opportunities to work together in a changing world. Experiences from the COVID era hold lessons for both of us. Thank him for his gracious hospitality,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.  Was so nice to meet FM @ABZayed again. Took stock of our growing cooperation. Discussed further opportunities to work together in a changing world. Experiences from the COVID era hold lessons for both of us. Thank him for his gracious hospitality. pic.twitter.com/oOjgqYyfH2Jaishankar, on the second leg of his six-day three-nation tour to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, is currently visiting the UAE. He arrived in Dubai on Wednesday night. On the second day of his tour, Jaishankar met the members of the Indian community in the UAE and assured them of the government’s responsiveness on issues pertaining to post-COVID normalcy.”“Welcomed the interaction with members of the Indian community in Abu Dhabi,” Jaishankar had said in a tweet.More than 3 million Indians live and work in the UAE, the MEA had said in a statement before the commencement of the minister’s visit. The coronavirus has infected over 163,000 people and claimed 563 lives in the UAE.After UAE, Jaishankar will visit Seychelles on November 27 and 28 in the last leg of his three-nation tour. The foreign affairs minister will present greetings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to newly-elected President Wavel Ramkalawan.Jaishankar’s visit is the first in-person visit to Seychelles since the Covid-19 pandemic and the first high-level interaction after the national elections in the country, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-meets-uae-counterpart-discusses-covid-19-strategic-cooperation/story-9imDZ2227qDOsIhKfvPZRL.html
27-11-2020||India||National Digital Health Mission to be rolled out soon, says Health minister||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) will soon be rolled out across the country, wherein patients will be able to store and share medical records, including test results, which can also be accessed by treating doctors with the consent of patients.The project is already being tests on pilot basis in six Union Territories.“I reviewed NDHM and I am happy to note that in just a little over three months, the mission has made notable progress in its pilot in six Union Territories of Andaman & Nicobar, Chandigarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, and will soon be ready for a national rollout,” said Harsh Vardhan.“From both the citizen and medical practitioner point of view, the mission is privacy- and security-led and will enable consent-based sharing of health information in the form of test reports, scans, prescriptions and diagnosis reports between patients and treating medicos, thereby making follow-up care seamless, secure and timely.”The digital health mission aims to digitalise healthcare by creating a country-wide digital health ecosystem that will enable patients to store, access and provide consent to share their health records with doctors and health facilities of their choice.The key segments of the mission include HealthID, DigiDoctor, Health Facility Registry, eHospital, Patient Health Records and Consent Manager.“One of the most remarkable aspects of NDHM is that it takes into account the lived realities of Indians spread across the digital divide. NDHM will empower millions of citizens without smart phones or those in remote tribal areas facing connectivity issues to still avail healthcare through its offline modules,” the minister said.The government is making use of technology to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of healthcare delivery in India, through better access to healthcare data.A national digital health ecosystem will be created through the provision of a wide-range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information.NDHM seeks to create a national digital health infrastructure starting with the building of Health IDs, Unique Identifiers for doctors and health facilities, Personal Health Records, and telemedicine and e-pharmacy, among other components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-digital-health-mission-to-be-rolled-out-soon-says-health-minister/story-z5uAF8HUneSSa1ZeWEvDSK.html
27-11-2020||India||Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New Delhi||Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh clashed with police on Thursday, travelling toward the national Capital, where they plan to protest three farm laws enacted recently. Cultivators on tractors and trucks flung police barricades into a river near Ambala district, as police stopped them with tear gas and water cannons. The farmers are set to resume their march on Friday. What’s stoking the farmers’ uprising? Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Also read | Ready to resolve differences: Union agriculture minister Tomar invites protesting farmers for talks on Dec 3How do the new laws change farm trade? Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Why do farmers oppose these new rules? Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. What is the MSP system? Farm unions fear the new rules could pave the way for the government to stop buying grains at guaranteed prices, officially called minimum support prices (MSP), leaving them at the mercy of private buyers. The government, on the other hand, has insisted it will continue to purchase farm produce at MSPs. An MSP is a federally determined floor price aimed at preventing distress sale. What’s the government’s argument? The government has said these new rules will bring big retailers, online grocers and exporters to farmers’ doorstep. The amended Essential Commodities Act will spur investment in supply chains. The contract farming law will allow farmers to tailor their production according to a corporate buyer’s requirement. Is the crisis going to be resolved anytime soon? Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations with farmers on November 13. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future. The next round of talks is slated for December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilli-chalo-why-angry-farmers-want-to-storm-new-delhi/story-jXPjzqOmTgxralskj1e7HI.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine review: PM Modi to visit Pune, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad tomorrow||With preparations for vaccine development and distribution reaching an advanced stage in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will embark on a three-city tour to take stock of the Covid-19 vaccine development work. According to reports, the visit will start from Zydus Biotech Park on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. Modi is expected to arrive at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Airport around 9am. From there, he will head towards Changodar in a helicopter. Zydus Cadila’s Vaccine Technology Centre is located at Changodar Park where the pharma company is developing its Covid-19 vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D.From Ahmedabad, Modi is expected to fly to Pune where he will review the status of the vaccine, including its launch, production and distribution mechanisms. “We have received confirmation about PM Modi’s visit to the Serum Institute of India on Saturday, but his minute-to-minute program is yet to be received,” Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao told PTI.From there, PM Modi will travel to Hyderabad to visit Bharat Biotech’s facility where the indigenous vaccine Covaxin is being developed. In a recent meeting with the chief ministers and other representatives of all states and union territories, PM Modi said governments at all levels will have to work together to ensure that the vaccination drive is smooth, systematic and sustained. “It is not yet decided whether there will be one, two or three doses of vaccine. Their prices are also not decided. We don’t have answers to such questions right now as there are different people in the world making it. The corporate world is involved, there is competition among them, countries have their diplomatic interests, have to wait for WHO also,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-review-pm-modi-to-visit-pune-hyderabad-ahmedabad-tomorrow/story-x44zAgvJtJyXzQIfM8SjvN.html
27-11-2020||India||Fire at Gujarat’s Covid-19 hospital, 5 killed||A total of five people died in a fire that broke out at Shivanand Covid Hospital in Rajkot district of Gujarat on Thursday night, reported ANI. The Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital was the first to catch the fire. The ICU dedicated to Covid-19 patients had a total of 11 patients at the time, out of which five died. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has ordered a probe.As of 1 am on Friday, a total of 33 patients were admitted to the hospital. The fire brigade team rushed to the spot to extinguish the fire, after which it could be controlled. “We rushed to the spot and rescued 30 patients after a call informing them about the fire was received. Three patients died inside the ICU,” fire brigade official J B Theva told PTI.All patients have been shifted to another Covid-19 hospital. Though the fire has been controlled, the cause of the fire is not ascertained yet.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-gujarat-s-covid-19-hospital-5-killed/story-FiczQ7veiwnPpx9Agh8d8H.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: PM Modi to visit vaccine development centres, AstraZeneca eyes second global trial||Various vaccine candidates for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in different stages of trials as a global search continues for a shot to treat a disease that more than 61 million people have contracted, as per a worldometers tally. The virus has also claimed more than 1.4 million lives, the tally shows.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest updates on the coronavirus vaccine development front, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday visit vaccine development centres in Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. Britain’s AstraZeneca, meanwhile, is under the scanner for an ‘error’ in the trial results of its vaccine candidate.Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine front:1. PM Modi’s visit to vaccine development centres will include Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech International Limited and Ahmedabad’s Zydus Cadila. While SII will manufacture the AstraZenecea-Oxford University vaccine, Bharat Biotech is working on the country’s first indigenous vaccine-COVAXIN. Zydus Cadila, meanwhile, is developing its vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D.2. AstraZeneca is planning a second global trial to clear the discrepancy between two separate trial results. The efficacy of its vaccine candidate, AZD1222, came out to be 90% in earlier trial, in which first a half dose and then a full dose were administered. However, a second trial, in which two full doses were administered, the vaccine was found to be 62% effective. Also Britain, where the firm expects four million doses to be available by December-end, has asked its medicine regulator to assess the vaccine candidate for a temporary supply.3. Russia’s Gamaleya research institute, has suggested that a shot of its Sputnik V vaccine candidate might boost the efficiacy of AstraZeneca’s AZD1222. “Current full dose AstraZeneca regimen resulted in 62% efficacy. If they go for a new clinical trial, we suggest trying a regimen of combining the AZ shot with the #SputnikV human adenoviral vector shot to boost efficacy. Combining vaccines may prove important for revaccinations,” the Gamaleya institute tweeted.4. Canada’s drug regulator, Health Canada, has said it could approve the Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE Covid-19 vaccine candidate “around December.” Supriya Sharma, senior medical adviser at Health Canada on Thursday said that the vaccine “is most advanced” in Health Canada’s reviews. Also in December, Canada’s neighbour, the United States, will decide if Pfizer’s vaccine is safe enough to be given emergency use authorisation (EUA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-pm-modi-to-visit-vaccine-development-centres-astrazeneca-eyes-second-global-trial/story-n1LC3OueOE8m1LeauVuC5J.html
27-11-2020||India||Storm over bribe phone calls ends Lalu Prasad’s VIP bungalow stay||Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad was on Thursday shifted from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) director’s bungalow to the paying ward of the medical institute, two days after BJP leaders in Bihar alleged that RJD chief phoned BJP legislators in an attempt to topple the NDA government and influence the Speaker’s election. With the Jharkhand BJP cornering the Hemant Soren-led JMM-Congress-RJD government alleging that the RJD chief was flouting jail manual and using mobile phones from the director’s bungalow, inspector general (IG) (prisons) Birendra Bhushan had ordered an inquiry into it. Bhushan though confirmed that the RJD chief has been shifted to the ward and added that only RIMS authorities could comment on it further.“The decision was not taken at our level. RIMs authorities could explain the reason better if any health condition required his shifting in the ward,” said Bhushan. On the inquiry he ordered on Wednesday, Bhushan said he was yet to receive a report from the jail authorities. RIMs authorities could not be reached immediately for their comment. The former Bihar chief minister has been languishing in jail since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession. He is currently under treatment in custody here at RIMS. In August, he was shifted to the hospital’s director’s bungalow due to covid-19 spread.Also Read: Jharkhand orders probe into Lalu Prasad Yadav’s phone call Prasad has already secured bail in two cases. He moved bail application in the third and last case in the Jharkhand high court, which has fixed November 27 to hear the case. The latest controversy surrounding Prasad arose after Bihar’s former deputy chief minister and BJP leader Sushil Modi alleged that Prasad was attempting to topple the elected Bihar government. On Wednesday, he also tweeted an audio clip, purportedly of Prasad talking to a BJP legislator on phone. “Lalu Yadav making telephone call (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLA & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed,” Modi said in his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/storm-over-bribe-phone-calls-ends-lalu-prasad-s-vip-bungalow-stay/story-X76O262c81S8tKFnMUmFEP.html
27-11-2020||India||Farmers march: Thousands headed to Delhi today amid heavy police deployment||In a clarion call, thousands of farmers are headed to the national capital on Friday with their echoes for rollback of three farm laws enacted by Parliament in September growing stronger. Thursday witnessed high-voltage face-offs between police personnel and the protesting farmers, who forced their way and entered Delhi’s adjoining areas like Panipat, Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind. The farmers, hailing from Punjab and Haryana, in their “Delhi Chalo” march are demanding the ruling dispensation agrees to hear their objections on the clearance of farm laws which, collectively, have paved way for agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Also read: Farmers force way into Haryana, head to DelhiIn the last 12-15 hours, farmers have moved closer to Delhi, prompting Delhi Police to scale up deployment of security personnel, stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons and using barbed wire for fencing at the Singhu Border to prevent the protesters from entering the city.Here is all you need to know about the farmer’s march:- Police said they will not allow the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws to enter Delhi if they reach the borders of the national capital. - Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava, who visited the bordering areas, said “Due to Covid-19 guidelines have been issued in which political gathering is not permitted here and for this, their (the farmers’) request was rejected. If they still make an attempt, we have deployed personnel at the borders to not let them enter the national capital. We are also in contact with Punjab and Haryana Police.”- Traffic movement is likely to be disrupted in the border areas. The traffic was also closed from Bahadurgarh towards Delhi on Thursday evening, officials said.- Delhi Metro services from neighbouring cities to the national capital will remain suspended on Friday in view of the ‘’Delhi chalo’’ protest march. However, metro services will be available from Delhi towards the NCR sections.Also read: Farmers brave water cannons, tear gas, push through Haryana barricades- Five sand-laden trucks and three water cannons have also been stationed at the Singhu Border to stop tractors being driven by the protesters, news agency PTI reported. Officials have stated that drones have been deployed to keep a tight vigil to maintain law and order. - Areas affected by the police deployment include - NH-24, DND, Chilla Border, Tigri border, Bahadurgarh border, Faridabad border, Kalindi Kunj border and Singhu border.- Authorities in Haryana have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of the protesters.- Reports of altercation surfaced from Ambala on Thursday where barricades erected by the police on an overbridge on the Ghaggar river were thrown into the river by the farmers after facing tear gas shells by law enforcement personnel. The police, on loudspeaker, asked farmers on the Punjab side to disperse, but that did not help. As smoke from tear gas clouded the skies and farmers outnumbered security personnel, they were allowed to enter Haryana around noon.- In political development, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were among those who criticised the Haryana Police’s action.- Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal too criticised attempts to thwart the protest. “Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-march-thousands-headed-to-delhi-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-bB8g84pW8yhuTJ9NjnMy8I.html
27-11-2020||India||No need to panic, says Serum Institute of India amid concerns over Oxford-Astrazeneca trial error||Amid concerns over the efficacy of Oxford vaccine after pharma major Astrazeneca admitted a dosing error, its India partner Serum Institute of India (SII) said the vaccine candidate is safe and effective and the Indian trials are progressing smoothly with strict adherence to all protocols.“The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine is safe and effective. Even the lowest efficacy results are at 60-70%, making it a viable vaccine against the virus. That said, varied age groups with different dosage forms will result in slight variations and efficacy. We must be patient and not panic,” Pune-based Serum Institute of India said in a statement.Also Read: AstraZeneca may run additional trial“The Indian trials are running smoothly with strict adherence to all the necessary processes and protocols. So far, there are no concerns. However, we are going through the data that is available and will make further statement, if needed,” SII said.Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine candidate became the third one after Moderna, Pfizer to announce promising results to fight Covid-19. It claimed 70.4 per cent efficacy overall — 90 per cent efficacy in one dosing regimen when the vaccine was given as a half dose, followed by a full dose at least a month later, while another dosing regimen showed 62 per cent efficacy when given as two full doses at least one month apart.Later, Astrazeneca admitted that the administration of half dose and then a full dose — which showed 90 per cent efficacy — has been actually a dosing error. As Astrazeneca is planning to run additional trials, Serum Institute of India has said there is yet no reason to worry as far as trials in India are going on.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visit the SII campus to review the mechanism of Covid-19 vaccine production and its distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-says-serum-institute-of-india-amid-concerns-over-oxford-astrazeneca-trial-error/story-RWZCZsmu5BvynBpjjdae5J.html
27-11-2020||India||14 foreign nationals arrested from train for illegally entering India||A total of 14 foreign nationals believed to be from the Rohingya community were arrested from the Agartala-New Delhi Special Rajdhani Express for illegally entering India from Bangladesh, a Northeast Frontier Railway spokesman said on Thursday. Railways’ Security Helpline 182 “proved to be effective, leading to their arrest”, he said. On November 24, the Alipurduar Security Control of the Railway Protection Force received a call from a passenger on the helpline regarding misbehaviour by a few, following which RPF officials informed the matter to their counterparts at New Jalpaiguri under Katihar Division, where the train had its next scheduled stoppage. Upon its arrival, the group was questioned and their ticket details revealed that all of them were travelling with fake names, he said. The spokesman said during interrogation, it was learnt that they fled from a “refugee camp at Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh” and entered India. A case has been registered under the Foreigner’s (Amendment) Act. The arrested persons were produced before the magistrate and later sent to judicial custody, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-foreign-nationals-arrested-from-train-for-illegally-entering-india/story-JmxrQv6SdP4P1nW4jOYNBM.html
27-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine may well be effective – as the developers claimed earlier this week – but enough questions have been asked about the trials and the reporting for drug regulators around the world to think long, and hard, and perhaps wait for more trial data – after all, trials are also on in the US and India – before approving the two-shot vaccine that offers protection from Covid-19.In September, amidst rising concerns that vaccine developers would rush through trials, ignoring safety concerns as well as detailed and nuanced analysis of efficacy, companies including AstraZeneca (it is developing its vaccine in collaboration with the University of Oxford and Vaccitech Ltd, the company that has licensed the adenovirus vector platform used in the vaccine from the university’s Jenner Institute), Moderna, and the Pfizer/BioNTech combine, released elaborate protocols for their Phase 3 trials – unprecedented in the annals of vaccine development.The coronavirus disease has resulted in huge public interest in a process that is usually restricted to the research departments of pharma companies, laboratories and research institutions, and peer-reviewed academic journals with readership in the thousands (or tens of thousands). Indeed, the results of clinical trials are usually announced in such journals, not in press releases and briefings with analysts at investment banks. But with cases exceeding 60 million, deaths nearing 1.5 million (and actual deaths being much higher), and lives and livelihoods disturbed by a virus that is airborne, it isn’t surprising that everyone is more interested in the results of vaccine trials than they are in, say, a royal wedding. Both Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech followed this approach while disclosing the results of the trials of their vaccines, both based on a hitherto untested mRNA (or messenger RNA platform). The results were good, 90% in one case, later updated to 95% based on more readings, and 95% in another. That’s very high for a vaccine. Even better, a close reading of the results by analysts, scientists, and experts – including many amateurs with the ability to convert complex scientific papers and research into language laypeople can understand, and built huge followings on social media in the process – didn’t turn up any gaps or unpleasant surprises. Both vaccines work.There was more riding on the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, though. It only required refrigeration, compared to the Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech ones that needed sub-zero temperatures, and it was going to be inexpensive (which meant it would end up being the vaccine of choice for low-income and poor countries). It was also going to be the first vaccine available in India – thanks to a deal between Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, and AstraZeneca/Oxford. There may also have been some pressure on company executives to announce the results of the trials following the success of the Moderna and the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines. Whatever the reason, AstraZeneca/Oxford seem to have hurried the announcement of the results – and it shows. Following the initial announcement of the results on Monday, it has emerged that what was reported as a trial involving an alternative approach to dosing was actually a mistake that was converted into an experiment; that the results announced combine those from two separate trials with two different protocols and demographic groups; and that the data used was from sub-groups within these groups. These are worrying lapses – and have rightly been called out by scientists, epidemiologists, and bio-statisticians. They are dodgy from the perspective of science, data, and clinical trial protocols.This is a pity – especially because the findings were also encouraging in terms of the vaccine candidate’s ability to prevent transmission (protecting infected people from developing Covid-19, and preventing transmission are two very different things) – something that is especially critical in the case of a disease that has been found to be transmitted significantly by infected people that are asymptomatic.More trial data may substantiate the efficacy of the vaccine (some experts believe that there is a high likelihood of this), but the episode once again highlights that unlike in the case of food and fashion, there is no such thing as fast science.PS: Late on Thursday, Bloomberg reported AstraZeneca’s CEO Pascal Soriot as saying that it may conduct an additional global trial to assess the efficacy of the vaccine after some studies raised questions over its level of protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-JIGFRQGGIekevQ4Q5RMsNI.html
27-11-2020||India||AstraZeneca may run additional trial||AstraZeneca said on Thursday it was likely to conduct an additional global trial to assess the efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine it was developing along with University of Oxford after some studies raised questions over its level of protection and a lack of transparency around the late-stage clinical trials.The new trial would be run instead of adding an arm to an ongoing US trial and would evaluate a lower dosage that performed better than a full amount in AstraZeneca’s studies, according to a Bloomberg report. “Now that we’ve found what looks like a better efficacy we have to validate this, so we need to do an additional study,” the pharma group’s chief executive officer Pascal Soriot told Bloomberg. It will probably be another “international study, but this one could be faster because we know the efficacy is high so we need smaller number of patients”.Also Read | Russia’s Sputnik V developers call on AstraZeneca to try combining vaccinesHealth experts are concerned about the data that showed the vaccine candidate was up to 90% effective, citing a lack of transparency around the late-stage clinical trials that could make or break the chances for billions of people to get early access to a cheap coronavirus inoculation.The questions surround the use of the half-strength initial dose, which the developers said had higher efficacy but also revealed as having been administered as a mistake, and the possible lack of uniformity in the way the trial was split and its findings reported from locations in two countries: the United Kingdom and Brazil.“AstraZeneca/Oxford get a poor grade for transparency and rigor when it comes to the vaccine trial results they have reported... AZN is evaluating their vaccine in multiple trials across the world, yet these are not embedded under a unified protocol. In fact, the trials seem to be quite different by country, in terms of populations, subgroups, etc...,” wrote Natalie Dean, assistant professor of biostatistics at University of Florida, in a series of tweets on Wednesday.Oxford and AstraZeneca announced that their trial findings were based on 131 infections among 20,260 people split across trial sites in the UK and Brazil. Among these, those that were given a half-strength initial shot appeared to be more protected than those who were given two full-strength shots, a difference that the university’s scientists as well as the pharma firm’s executives said were unexpected.The announcement of the vaccine’s efficacy raised hopes for countries like India, since AstraZeneca has committed a billion doses to the Covax Facility which aims to distribute vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. Among producers of the vaccine is Pune’s Serum Institute of India, which has committed to supplying half of the doses it makes to India, making it the first vaccine likely to be available in the country.According to a top expert, in India, where the vaccine is undergoing a separate late-stage trial, the approval process can be based on the lower-efficacy, two full-strength dose approach, which too exceeds the 50% efficacy bar set by regulators. “Since the Indian trial is with two full doses, we can bridge to two full doses of the vaccine in the UK and Brazil and should not bridge to a dosing that we have not evaluated in India. Perhaps after the application to DCGI is done, they could propose additional studies in India, based on which they could apply for a labelling change,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, former executive director, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, a Department of Science and Technology (DST) organisation.Kang said that the questions now being raised do not mean the trial results should be rubbished. “The results are good. Better than we hoped for when WHO, FDA and DCGI laid out the 50% efficacy point estimate criterion. All vaccine trials are different, and these are not head-to-head comparisons between vaccines that claim 90, 95 or 60 or 70% efficacy,” she added.However, the controversy could have an impact on the approval process itself, which could itself depend on what regulators in the UK decide. “…Reporting out a secondary analysis that was not pre-specified is not desirable. If they seek to get the half-dose approved, they should wait until they have a compelling result,” Dean wrote, seemingly referring to the trial protocol AstraZeneca released for the experiments in the US. Protocol for the UK and Brazil trials have not been disclosed but are expected to be the same.According to a report in the New York Times, AstraZeneca executive Menelas Pangalos said the error was made by a contractor and regulators were notified of it and signed off on continuing to test the vaccine at different doses.But experts added that there are now multiple questions that need to be addressed. “Isn’t the different efficacy a subgroup analysis, and couldn’t the differences be statistical variability,” said Paul Bleicher, a former Harvard Medical School resident who now works as a strategic adviser, in a series of tweets on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-may-run-additional-trial/story-Byhjrg56vr074cy34WLwFO.html
27-11-2020||India||Set up four courts of appeal, make SC constitutional court: KK Venugopal||Anticipating a pendency of cases when courts restart operations in full swing after the Covid-19 pandemic, Attorney General KK Venugopal Thursday said that the need of the hour is to set up a National Court of Appeal, which can have four benches with 15 judges each — who will be at par with Supreme Court judges and can decide all appeals arising from high courts, leaving only issues of national and constitutional importance to be decided by the apex court.Speaking on the occasion of the 71st anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution at an online event organised by the Supreme Court — with President Ram Nath Kovind, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in attendance — the top law officer said: “At present, the Supreme Court is hearing close to 400 categories of cases related to matrimonial disputes, bail petitions, land acquisition matters and so on, when the Supreme Court is supposed to be the constitutional court dealing with issues of national importance. The Supreme Court must regain its stature. This does not mean cases should end at the level of High Court. A Court of Appeal is to be constituted between apex court and High Courts that can give finality to all appeals.”Venugopal proposed four benches of Court of Appeal — north, south, east and west — having 15 judges each having same calibre as judges of the Supreme Court. He cited a Yale University research that most cases filed in Supreme Court are from north India. “This will require a constitutional amendment. This will leave Supreme Court with a pendency of only 2,000-3,000 cases a year as compared to present figure of 60-70,000. It will allow top court judges more time to patiently read and write judgments, as currently they sit till midnight reading case files listed for next day,” Venugopal said.CJI Bobde, in his speech on the occasion of the Constitution Day, which commemorates the adoption of the Constitution in 1949, acknowledged that huge pendency will arise when the pandemic ceases, but he felt that the judiciary displayed resilience in the face of the crisis as the Supreme Court did not lock down even for a single day.Speaking at another event by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), CJI Bobde said: “The biggest and the highest challenge the courts faced was delivery of unhampered justice in the midst of lockdown as it gives a sense of security and well-being to citizens…Closing physical hearing in courts was the first step, as otherwise the disease would have spread like wildfire.”President Kovind, who presided over the event by the Supreme Court, said: “Justice can be secured to the extent it can be accessed. Access to justice has two major hurdles – cost of litigation and language.” He reiterated his passion for rendering pro bono (without cost) services to poor litigants.Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad complimented the judiciary for administering justice despite all the odds and said the judiciary’s biggest asset was public trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-up-four-courts-of-appeal-make-sc-constitutional-court-kk-venugopal/story-bhm3CNoAyIGMIO1bT123AM.html
27-11-2020||India||CBI books former Congress minister in J&K land grab case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday booked former Congress minister Taj Mohiuddin in connection with alleged irregularities in securing proprietary rights to state land in Jammu and Kashmir under a two-decade-old law that the Union territory’s high court has described as unconstitutional and unsustainable.Mohiuddin denied having benefited from the now repealed Roshni Act, which the administration said was misused to cause a loss of ₹25,000 crore in revenue to the erstwhile state. The Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to annul all land dealing under the Roshni Act.“I have never deposited any money in the Roshni scheme, nor has any land been transferred to my name under the scheme. I am not able to understand which case is this. I had never applied for any transfer of land under the Roshni Act,” Mohiuddin said.The Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, popularly known as the Roshni (light) Act , was enacted in 2001 with the twin objective of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to the occupants of the state land in return for a payment. It was repealed in 2018 by then governor Satya Pal Malik. Mohiuddin is the second Kashmiri politician contesting District Development Council (DDC) polls in J&K to have been booked by a central investigative agency. On Wednesday, Waheed ur Rehman Parra, president of the youth wing of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was arrested after two days of interrogation at the National Investigation Agency’s headquarters in New Delhi in connection with a a case against a senior police officer who was caught in January while ferrying two alleged militants in his car. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party president, Mehbooba Mufti blamed Centre for using agencies to harass Kashmiri leadership.“Kashmiri leaders are being harassed by GOI’s pet agencies like CBI,NIA & ED. They are being hounded & punished for participating in DDC polls. BJPs designs of foisting puppets & proxies has been derailed much to their chagrin,” Mehbooba tweeted in response to a tweet from news agency ANI in which tge agency said Mohiuddin had been booked by the CBI.Mohiuddin, who served as minister in the PDP Congress and Congress-National Conference governments twice, has filed his nomination papers as a candidate for the Parenpilla Uri DDC. PDP has launched a social media campaign in support of Parra, who is contesting the DDC election from Pulwama. “Arrest of @parawahid on fabricated grounds is brazen show of jackboot approach to curb dissent. We can’t & won’t be forced into accepting the loot perpetrated on our rights and identity. #ReleaseWaheedParra,” tweeted Syed Suhail Bukhari, a PDP spokesman who is contesting the DDC election from Sangrama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-former-congress-minister-in-j-k-land-grab-case/story-LBW9ICqACSl9oP1yAeBouO.html
27-11-2020||India||Centre has not ruled out a law to guarantee MSP, hints Narendra Singh Tomar||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said he could neither say yes nor no to the demand by farmers for a law to guarantee minimum support prices (MSPs), hinting for the first time that the Union government is not ruling out such a possibility. “Abhi mein iske baare me haan bhi nehin keh sakta aur naa bhi nehin keh sakta (At this point, I can neither say yes nor no on this),” the farm minister said in an interview with HT at his office, when asked if the government would even consider the demand.Farmers’ representatives in their November 13 meeting with the farm minister and food minister Piyush Goyal demanded a repeal of three farm laws or amending them to outlaw the sale of farm commodities below federally fixed MSPs. “The recent laws have a different mandate. They are in the interest of farmers. They deal with marketing and contract farming, etc. MSP is outside their scope,” Tomar said. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states are protesting a set of laws approved by Parliament in September to open up agricultural markets in the country, throwing a political challenge to the Narendra Modi government. On Thursday, police detained hundreds of farmers in Haryana and security on the Delhi-Haryana border was tightened to stop cultivators from entering the national capital, where they plan to hold rallies. The government has defended the recent reforms, saying these changes will bring big buyers, supermarkets and exporters to farmers’ doorstep. Farm unions, however, say the new rules could pave the way for the government to stop buying grains at guaranteed prices, leaving them at the mercy of private buyers. The government, on the other hand, has insisted it will still purchase staples at guaranteed prices. Tomar said the Modi government had increased the MSP of rice by 43% between 2013-14 and 2020-21. He also said payments made to farmers for paddy procurement had doubled under the National Democratic Alliance government compared to those under the previous United Progressive Alliance government. Total MSP value paid to farmers for paddy had gone up to Rs 4.34 lakh crore during 2014-19, up from Rs 2.88 lakh crore paid during 2009-14, he said. “So, our commitment to MSP is clear. The procurement system will continue,” the minister added. “I want to appeal to our farmer brothers. We are ready to talk about all issues and resolve differences. That is why I have invited them again for talks on December 3.” The government fixes MSP for 23 crops, but buys mostly grains from farmers at these prices. This tends to benefit staple growers. For most other items, farmers get what markets dictate. Experts say a law barring sale of farm produce below MSP makes little economic sense. “If it is not profitable to buy at MSP, say, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the mandi (markets). On the other hand, it is not possible for the government to buy everything at MSP,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. “Support to farmers is not in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions, such as ‘whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” Sharma said. Analysts also say higher MSPs or procurement could raise greater scrutiny of India at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-not-ruled-out-a-law-to-guarantee-msp-hints-narendra-singh-tomar/story-L3zUZFEoCVlAAHPeuYFD0I.html
27-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Centre should clear its stand on vaccine pricing, says Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel asked the Centre on Thursday if it will provide Covid-19 vaccines free of cost, demanding clarity on the immunisation funding strategy at a time when the race for vaccines has entered the last lap and focus is shifting to regulatory approval and distribution logistics. Speaking at the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Baghel also criticised Congress leaders such as Kapil Sibal and Ghulam Nabi Azad for publicly attacking the party, and suggested that grievances should be laid out in the party’s internal forum. Also Read |No slowdown in Chhattisgarh during pandemic: CM Bhupesh Baghel at HTLS 2020Baghel, a five-time Congress legislator who swept to power in December 2018 with a two-thirds majority, referred to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) manifesto promise in Bihar of free vaccines and asked if the poll pledge hinted that the onus of funding immunisation would be on the states. “The Centre should clarify if it will make the vaccine free. How much will the states pay? How much will the Centre pay? How much subsidy will the Centre give?” he asked. He pointed out that his state was doing its bit to keep the economy running and following central guidelines on vaccine and distribution strategy, but added that central ministers should be asked if the Union government planned to subsidise the vaccine. “Does the Bihar election promise mean that the Centre won’t spend money and only issue guidelines? We will do our best but the Centre should clarify if it will provide states with the vaccine for free. If we have to spend money, then why should we follow central guidelines and not make our own guidelines?”Baghel’s comments came at a time when four vaccine candidates from Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech, Oxford-AstraZeneca and the Russian government have published encouraging late-stage clinical trial results. The Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate, called AZD1222, which has an efficacy of up to 90% according to data released this week by the company, and Russia’s Sputnik V with an efficacy of 95%, are considered India’s best hopes. The Oxford vaccine is being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).Baghel was one of eight chief ministers who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to discuss plans to arrest the spread of the virus and inoculation strategies. After the meet, Modi said the Centre was working with states and assured them that a detailed plan for vaccine distribution will be shared soon.But Baghel, 59, appeared dissatisfied with the Covid response, and blamed the Centre, and major metropolitan cities, for failing to quarantine international travellers to break the chain of infection that has claimed around 2,800 lives his state. “When it (Covid-19 pandemic) goes out of control, you put the responsibility of all failures on the states. The PM gave clear hints at uncertainty around the rate, dosage and timing of the vaccine’s availability. It will be good if the Centre bore this one cost,” said Baghel. In his session, Baghel – who has previously called for Rahul Gandhi to take over the Congress – also hit out at swirling controversy over the party’s internal functioning, especially after its dismal showing in the Bihar polls, where it won just 19 of the 70 seats it fought. In media interviews and articles, leaders such as Sibal and Azad have decried the lack of accountability and introspection within the party, drawing criticism from other sections of the Congress. The two were also part of 23 leaders who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi in August, asking for internal reforms.Baghel said Rahul Gandhi was best suited to lead the Congress because he had acceptability from the party cadre, and was unafraid to confront the government on a range of issues.“Who has stopped Kapil Sibal or Ghulam Nabi Azad from speaking [against the Union government]? If there are national issues or attacking the government, they never speak. They only attack the party in public,” Baghel said. “These leaders would tell us earlier that we should present our stand in the party forum. The same should apply to them,” said Baghel. The Chhattisgarh chief minister also detailed his government’s strategy to keep the state’s economy running, stopping the outflow of migrant labour and keep a lid on hunger and poverty during the pandemic, and elaborated on how the disease had transformed politics. “Earlier, politics couldn’t be done without road shows, rallies or meeting people. Now it’s confined to one room. I had never imagined it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-centre-should-clear-its-stand-on-vaccine-pricing-says-bhupesh-baghel/story-tYJV46pZp5KMTSaM5O5nrN.html
27-11-2020||India||PM again pitches ‘one nation, one election’ system||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, once again pitched his One Nation, One Election idea -- simultaneous parliamentary, state assembly, and local body polls -- saying this was not just a matter of debate, but a requirement for the country.Addressing presiding officers of legislatures from across India by video link, Modi also suggested a common voters list for all elections to prevent a waste of resources. The PM maintained that simultaneous elections at every level should be held using a common voter list. “Every few months, we see an election in some part of the country. You all know what is the impact of these polls on development. There is a need for a deeper study and discussion on the issue and I suggest that presiding officers may lead such discussions,” Modi said. The One Nation, One Election idea was first pitched by Modi in 2015. It is also on the agenda of his Bharatiya Janata Party. The idea, which entails one election every five years for the Lok Sabha, states, even corporations, has met stiff resistance from rival parties. Last year, the Congress skipped a meeting called by the PM on the issue and the Left parties called it a “back-door way of replacing our parliamentary democracy”.The issue has starkly divided India’s political parties. Its advocates have argued the move will help focus on governance, reduce expenditure, and help channel security forces more efficiently. Its critics, including the Congress, have alleged that the move will undermine democratic accountability, the federal structure and also pointed to its lack of feasibility within the constitutional scheme.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the Prime Minister has been pushing for simultaneous elections but any such measure requires structural changes in Constitution. “It is also against the very essence of democracy. So, we think it is just a rhetoric,” he added. Describing the presiding officers as a bridge between the public and the Constitution, Modi hit out indirectly at the Congress for imposing Emergency rule in the 1970s. The PM said that was an attempt to dilute the separation of power of the three wings of the state, but that the Constitution eventually provided a solution.“After the emergency, the system of checks and balances kept getting stronger as the legislature, executive and judiciary moved ahead, learning from the episode,” he said. On Constitution Day, which commemorates the adoption of the Constitution of India, the PM said the national charter had also helped India tackle the challenged posed by Covid-19 by enabling the passage of several laws to help the people. He praised parliamentarians for accepting pay cuts and working more to increase the productivity of Parliament. The Prime Minister cautioned against a tendency of keeping projects pending, citing the example of the Sardar Sarovar dam, which was stuck for years, delaying the benefits that accrued to the people of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan when it was finally constructed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-again-pitches-one-nation-one-election-system/story-XPwSN2CipS5KqlQs6x73aO.html
27-11-2020||India||Attachments up to Rs 40k-crore remain pending as key tribunal stays headless||The country’s top tribunal that hears cases under the money laundering law and other key laws has been without a head for the past 14 months, seriously affecting its functioning. Called just the Apellate Tribunal under SAFEMA Act, the forum hears appeals from individuals and businesses facing seizure and attachment of their properties under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA), and Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Worse still, it has only one member, out of a sanctioned strength of four members and a chairman . This member, GC Mishra, formerly a top bureaucrat in the law ministry is its acting chairman. People familiar with the functioning of the tribunal and lawyers who appear before it said that attachments worth approximately Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 crore , across hundreds of cases, are pending, significantly affecting the value of these assets. Banks, which expect to recover their money by disposing off properties attached by ED, are also suffering, the people added on condition of anonymity. Some high profile money laundering cases pending before the tribunal include ED’s attachment of properties of former finance minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram, Sandesara brothers of Sterling Biotech Group, former Haryana Chief Minister O P Chautala, the accused in the 2G scam and the coal block case, the AgustaWestland case, the Nirav Modi bank fraud, and a case involving Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad Yadav’s daughter Misa Bharti among others. Most appeals filed in the tribunal relate to the quashing of orders of the adjudicating authority confirming attachments by ED or banks . ED too often approaches the tribunal against any court order where its action to attach an asset is questioned. The appellate tribunal, the only body where individuals and companies, even banks, can appeal against any attachment of a property, usually comprises a Chairman (who is or has been a Judge of the high court or Supreme Court) and four members. The four members can be from the judiciary or Indian Revenue Service (IRS) and held the post of Commissioner/Joint Secretary or equivalent in the Indian Legal Service, Income Tax department, Indian Economy Service, Indian Customs and Central Excise Service or Indian Audit and Account Service. The previous Chairman Justice Manmohan Singh retired on September 21, 2019. Several people HT spoke to said Mishra has been deferring the finalization in majority of cases. “The Acting Chairman has, on days, 50-60 cases listed before him. Because he Acting Chairman, or maybe because his decisions can be challenged since he doesn’t have a judicial background, he isn’t going into the interpretation of law in PMLA or SAFEMA cases,” said a lawyer who didn’t want to be named.It isn’t clear why a new chairman is yet to be appointed. When contacted, a Ministry of Finance Spokesperson said - “There is a case in Supreme Court pertaining to appointments to Tribunals”. The ministry didn’t elaborate further.Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, who is defending several high profile accused including Chanda Kochhar, Ratul Puri, Nirav Modi, and Mehul Choksi said: “Men are fallible, judges are also men. The right of appeal is in accordance of principle of natural justice. When there is no appellate authority, this right of appeal is being denied”. “When there are so many retired judges already, why can’t government appoint them in tribunal”? he added. Samudra Sarangi, Partner at Panag and Babu, said:- “There are several cases with thousands of crores of attached property currently pending before the appellate tribunal. The tribunal is burdened with a voluminous caseload. In the absence of it operating in full strength, private parties, public and private sector banks and financial institutions potentially face delays in the matters being finally decided”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attachments-up-to-rs-40k-crore-remain-pending-as-key-tribunal-stays-headless/story-PhbMorXJZGDL6kj0uNeXUM.html
27-11-2020||India||Today’s India tackling terror with new policy and process: PM Modi||India is tackling terror attacks with new policy and process, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday on the anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, in an oblique reference to the 2016 surgical strike and the 2019 air strikes in Pakistan that demonstrated India’s hardened military stance.Addressing the conference of presiding officers held virtually to mark Constitution Day, the Prime Minister said, “This date is also associated with the biggest terror attack in our country. In 2008, terrorists sent by Pakistan launched an attack on Mumbai that left many Indians and foreigners dead. I pay my tribute to all of them.”“Today’s India is fighting terror attacks with new policies and process,” he said. Modi mentioned Pakistan as perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attack and emphasised that the attacks will never be forgotten.In 2016, the Modi government sent its forces across the Line of Control (LoC) to strike terrorist camps on Pakistani soil after a terror attack at an Indian Army camp in Jammu & Kashmir’s Uri left 19 soldiers dead. The political leadership took ownership of the surgical strike of September 2016 and announced India’s muscular military response to the world. Three years later, the decision to carry out air strikes was taken within 24 hours of the Pulwama attack, even as the government gave the Indian Air Force (IAF) two weeks to select terror targets and launch air strikes against them.The new security policy of the government had also been a talking point for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2019 general election.The Prime Minister also paid homage to the police personnel who died in the Mumbai attacks and to all the security forces who have “died while fighting and giving befitting replies to terrorists”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-s-india-tackling-terror-with-new-policy-and-process-pm-modi/story-nx5kTeFIjq5wTTcDRapy1L.html
27-11-2020||India||Trade unions’ strike affects life in Kerala, West Bengal, J’khand||The nationwide general strike called by trade unions in protest against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s economic policies was near complete in Left-ruled Kerala and some parts of West Bengal and in coal-rich areas of Jharkhand on Thursday. Elsewhere in the country, the strike had limited impact. Shops downed their shutters and most buses stayed off the roads.In Kerala, the lone state in the country ruled by a Marxist government, normal life was badly hit as the 24-hour protest, called by a central committee of trade unions, hit all major sectors, including government offices, banking and insurance .Pilgrims bound for the hill shrine of Sabarimala in Kerala were spared by the strikers. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses operated on the temple route, carrying pilgrims. In some districts, tiny store owners complained about the strike hurting their earnings at a time when they are already struggling in the aftermath of Covid-19.The strike has been called to protest against new farm and labour laws that the unions believe promote corporate interests at the expense of farmers and workers.Because of the pandemic , trade unions shunned mass rallies and instead organised limited protest meetings and human chains across Kerala. Marxist leaders and workers took part in the state-level inauguration of the protest by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) at Gandhi Park in Thiruvananthapuram, following social distancing norms.In West Bengal, trains services were disrupted and roads were blocked. Supporters of the general strike clashed with the police at multiple places in West Bengal. At some places, passengers were asked to get off buses by strike supporters who didn’t allow public transport to ply. Shops were damaged in central Kolkata where protestors hurled bricks. In Cooch Behar, they broke the windshields of buses.At Taratala in Kolkata, a scuffle broke out between the police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who organised a rally against the strike. The police caned the activists and arrested a few of them. Protests were staged outside Metro stations in Kolkata. “Some groups were protesting outside Dum Dum, Chandni Chowk and Central Metro stations. There were attempts to enter the metro stations but (they) failed. There was no disruption in metro services,” said a spokesperson for Kolkata Metro. Elsewhere in the state, protestors dumped banana leaves and tree branches on overhead wires and sat on railway tracks to block trains. “I had to go down to Kolkata for work but had to abandon the idea as train services were disrupted and bandh supporters were clashing with the police at many places,” said Arindam Das, a resident of Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. Police had to use force to disperse crowds and clear the traffic in many places such as Barasat, Kamarhati and Durgapur. In Jharkhand, the strike was complete in the coal-bearing areas of Bakora and Dhanbad, where unions held protest rallies and prevented buses from plying.. In other towns of the state such as Ranchi and Jameshdpur, the impact was partial, officials said. Trade unions such as Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC) and Self-Employed Women’’s Association (SEWA) joined the strike. BJP-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) did not participate in the strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-strike-affects-life-in-kerala-west-bengal-j-khand/story-n0PUz8cxYWRqvSuxH8z9VN.html
27-11-2020||India||Bhima Koregaon: Court pulls up prison officials for not replying to Dr Anand Teltumbde’s plea for home food||The special NIA court pulled up prison authorities for not sending a report on the application filed by activist Dr Anand Teltumbde for home food. Teltumbde had moved an application for home food on August 28 where he had also raised issues related to his health. The court had directed the superintendent of Taloja jail to submit a report and also take him for a medical check-up. The prison authorities were asked to submit a reply by September 4. The prison has still not filed a report on the plea before the special court. Annoyed with this the court observed, “In number of matters this court has observed that whenever a report is called for either from the Superintendent of Taloja, Central Prison or Mumbai Central Prison they do not bother to submit timely reports, resultantly it compels the court to keep such application pending for want of reports from the prison authorities. Hence the Superintendent of Taloja Central Prison and Mumbai Central Prison are directed to submit the reports on fixed dates, else this court will be constrained to initiate action for not following the orders of the court.” The court has informed the concerned commissioner of police for information and also to take necessary action. The court has now asked the prison authority to submit the report on the next hearing scheduled in December. Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management (IIM) graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur) and at the Goa Institute of Management, was arrested after the Supreme Court refused to grant him protection. On April 14, Teltumbde surrendered before NIA in Mumbai. NIA had said it needed to probe Teltumbde’s alleged links with the banned outfit, Communist Party of India (CPI, Maoist). According to the prosecution, Teltumbde delivered a “provocative presentation” and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada in Pune, which led to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, state-wide agitation and loss of life. NIA has alleged Teltumbde was the convener of the programme and his call data records show he was in touch with the other arrested accused present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-court-pulls-up-prison-officials-for-not-replying-to-dr-anand-teltumbde-s-plea-for-home-food/story-XrmuVeXvroMFHnD2smnwnI.html
27-11-2020||India||Assam reports no new Covid-19 deaths, tally rises to 2,12,171||Assam reported no Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, after a gap of eight days, while 150 fresh cases pushed the tally to 2,12,171, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The toll remained at 978 with a death rate of 0.46 per cent, he said.This is the fourth time during November when no coronavirus deaths were reported.The new cases were detected out of 20,778 tests conducted during the day at a positivity rate of 0.72 per cent. Altogether, 52,30,177 samples have been tested in Assam.Meanwhile, 142 patients were released from various hospitals during the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 2,07,905, the minister said.The recovery rate in the state stands at 97.98 per cent.Assam now has 3,285 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-no-new-covid-19-deaths-tally-rises-to-2-12-171/story-1A3TWvkjLEofm4FKh2zziM.html
27-11-2020||India||Couple sentenced to life for killing woman’s lover 2 years ago||A district court on Thursday sentenced a couple to life imprisonment for killing the woman’s lover two years ago. District judge Sadhana Rani Thakur also fined the convicts of Rs 25,000, which will be given to the bereaved family members. Tek Chand, 39, and his wife Rajani, 32, killed Harendra Singh in Kolana village here on February 24, 2018, district government counsel Shiv Ram said. Singh was beaten with a hard cane on his head, the prosecution said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-sentenced-to-life-for-killing-woman-s-lover-2-years-ago/story-X1HYLCtLNiIQy7eBYL5BYO.html
27-11-2020||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav shifted back to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences from hospital director’s bungalow||Former Chief Minister of Bihar and RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav was shifted back to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) from Kelly bungalow (RIMS Director’s bungalow) in Ranchi on Thursday.Yadav was shifted to Kelly bungalow in Ranchi on August 6, after the RIMS authorities had written to Birsa Munda Jail authority seeking his shifting, as the ward where he was receiving treatment was converted into COVID ward.The RJD leader was admitted to RIMS on August 30, 2018, after he surrendered at Birsa Munda Central Jail on Jharkhand court’s orders in the Fodder scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-yadav-shifted-back-to-rajendra-institute-of-medical-sciences-from-hospital-director-s-bungalow/story-dwLOoSlF7MyFlSfb7HbbQM.html
27-11-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari unveils 16 highway projects in Uttar Pradesh||Union minister for road transport, highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 16 highway projects worth Rs 7,477 crore in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Gadkari said new roads would pave the way for investment in Uttar Pradesh, increasing employment opportunities at the local level.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the 16 projects included road projects in the Gorakhpur-Basti division worth Rs 1,182 crore. The Union ministry of road transport deserved congratulations for the highways projects completed in the state in six years, he said.Gadkari participated in the programme though video conference from his office in New Delhi while Adityanath presided over the virtual function from the annexe auditorium in Gorakhpur.Road construction projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore are already under way in Uttar Pradesh. A new vision and drive towards development had been initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union minister said. The state was moving fast on the path of development under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Gadkari said.There would be no paucity of funds for the development of the state, he said. The minister of state for roads and highways, General (retd) VK Singh, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-unveils-16-highway-projects-in-uttar-pradesh/story-dqI6ecqUTkxmjqlqx3epUM.html
27-11-2020||India||‘Biggest ever catch’: Odisha IFS officer in vigilance net for ‘unaccounted riches’||A day after a team of around 150 vigilance officials started the raid on residential and other premises of 1987 batch Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak, senior officials said they were stunned by his alleged unaccounted riches. Since Wednesday, vigilance officials have been carrying out raids to ascertain Pathak wealth at several locations like Bhubaneswar, Pune, Mumbai, Khagaria and Udaipur.It is alleged that Pathak spent about Rs 3 crore on 20 chartered flights alone, mostly during lockdown. A flat and farmhouse in Pune was also allegedly taken on a monthly rent of Rs 5 lakh for his son while he owned many luxury cars.“He would be the biggest ever catch in the history of vigilance department. Though we are yet to arrive at a final figure, the amount would cross Rs 20 crore,” said a senior vigilance official who is part of the raid. Also Watch | ‘PM Modi never interfered in defence, home ministries’: Rajnath Singh #HTLS2020According to officials, Pathak and family have been detained and are being interrogated.His family and his lawyers could not be contacted for his comments despite several attempts.Also read: Astrazeneca likely to run additional global vaccine test, CEO saysPathak, who is working as additional PCCF of afforestation and planning in the state forest department since June 2018, was reportedly in charge of a huge budget for afforestation that included money from CAMPA fund, NREGS as well as plantation under state schemes. In 2019, Centre had released Rs 5,933 crore of CAMPA fund to Odisha, the highest among all states.Giving details of his trips by chartered flights, officials said Pathak visited Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Patna with his family using the services of a city-based company Kalinga Aero and Allied Services Pvt Ltd. He had last flown in a chartered flight on September 13 with his wife, son and other family members to Pune. After the September 13 visit, Pathak came under the radar of financial intelligence unit of a central agency.Officials wondered how the IFS officer with a monthly salary of Rs 2.7 lakh could afford a lavish 8,000 square feet apartment in Bhubaneswar allegedly laid with Italian marbles and an ivory-encrusted bed worth Rs 50 lakh as well as deer horns. During the raid, Rs 50 lakh cash was recovered from his dentist nephew and Rs 20 lakh from his driver. The vigilance sleuths also seized over half kilograms of gold and Rs 10 lakh cash from his house.Vigilance officials said cash deposits worth around Rs 9.4 crores were found to be made in the bank accounts of Pathak’s son of which about Rs 8.4 crores alone was in banks located in Bhubaneswar. The huge money deposits were mostly made through ATMs at Saheed Nagar and Nayapalli in Bhubaneswar. Expensive vehicles like Mercedes, BMW and Tata Harrier and three Yamaha FZS motorcycles were found registered in the name of his son, who also hired expensive vehicles like Mercedes on rent in Pune. In Pune, Pathak’s son had hired two Mercedes cars for Rs 25 lakh.Besides costly household articles and gold, ornaments weighing around 800 grams were also recovered.Also read: Two-thirds majority cannot be ruled out for BJP in Bengal next year - Rajnath Singh at HTLS 2020More than Rs 1 crore was paid towards house rent of the luxury flats and the farmhouse at Pune. Hotel bills of more than 90 lakhs at Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai, and a booking amount of Rs 20 lakhs at Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur in Rajasthan were also found during the search.During the raid, the vigilance officials found about Pathak’s son’s impending marriage with the daughter of a senior BJD politician in a palace hotel of Udaipur next month. Since last week, the family was hosting numerous pre-wedding receptions in top-end hotels of Bhubaneswar.Meanwhile, officials found that in May this year, Pathak’s son was accused of misrepresenting himself as the managing director of Tata Motors Passenger Car division and duped people after assuring of getting them jobs at the company. In the complaint (a copy of which has been accessed by HT) to Odisha CID, the deputy general manager(ethics) of Tata Motors accused Akash of forgery, misrepresentation and cheating as he had printed his visiting card with Tata Motors logo. The company cited Akash’s Facebook and Linkedin profiles, wherein he showed him to be working for Tata Administrative Service, as evidence of his forgery.In its FIR, the company said that there is no person in the name of Akash Kumar Pathak who worked as the MD for Tata Motor Pune Passenger Division or CEO designate. It also cited web articles to show how Pathak donated Rs 5 lakh to chief minister’s relief fund posing as managing director (in-charge) of Tata Motors.In the last 3 years, there have been at least 3 cases of forest officials getting caught over disproportionate assets. In 2016, divisional forest officer of Athagarh, Sudhansu Mishra was arrested for disproportionate assets worth Rs 5.5 crore worth including cash amounting to Rs 93 lakh.In February 2017, income tax officials had raided houses and office of deputy conservator of forests Sarat Chandra Panda after it was found that he had deposited large amount in bank accounts of his family members during demonetization. The Enforcement Directorate also lodged a case against Panda.In June 2018, vigilance officials had arrested Divisional Forest Officer Ghumusar (South), BK Acharya for allegedly amassing unaccounted assets, investments, cash and gold worth more than Rs 3.51 crore. Cash worth Rs 16.8 lakh and gold weighing over 1 kilograms were seized from his lockers.Noted environmental activist Biswajit Mohanty alleged that he had lodged several complaints to the state forest department secretary and suggested a list of measures to prevent corruption by officials.“Corruption is often linked with long tenures of officers/staff beyond the normal posting period of 3 years. Very often people in lucrative posts pay heavy bribes or get political influence to ensure that they are not transferred after the normal tenure of 3 years. This is one of the chief breeding grounds for corruption. It also leads to the breakdown of discipline as the Range Officers do not obey orders of the DFO due to political links. There is a dire need for utmost transparency in operations of the forest department so that corruption can be curbed with the help of citizens. I have been demanding increased disclosures to be made in the website of the PCCF, Odisha for transparency. Sadly no steps have been taken so far,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-ever-catch-odisha-ifs-officer-in-vigilance-net-for-unaccounted-riches/story-987x9GXvlCdonLV02bE7hN.html
27-11-2020||India||IIT, NIT students to get option to study in Hindi, local languages||The Union education ministry announced on Thursday that from the coming academic session students at elite institutions like some Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and National Institutes of Technology (NITs)will get a chance to study engineering and other courses Hindi and regional languages.The decision, which is in line with a key recommendation of the National Education Policy (NEP) was taken at a review meeting on various schemes chaired by Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in which Higher Education secretary Amit Khare and School Education secretary Anita Karwal were present.According to an official statement released by the ministry, in the meeting Pokhriyal directed UGC to ensure all scholarships, fellowships are disbursed in time and to start a helpline for the same. He also directed that all the grievances of the students be redressed immediately. “A seminal decision was made to start technical education, especially engineering courses imparting education in mother tongue will be opened from next academic year. A few IITs and NIT are being short listed for the same,” said a statement released by the ministry.The New Education Policy (NEP) released earlier this year emphasises on promoting Indian languages.When asked if the plan was only to begin with Hindi, or other languages would be included, a senior official said other languages would also be promoted. For Hindi, it is learnt that a pilot project is being considered at the IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-nit-students-to-get-option-to-study-in-hindi-local-languages/story-T7z2n7nclccTNWUJWeKtaK.html
27-11-2020||India||India, Nepal discuss boundary issue||India and Nepal on Thursday discussed ways to handle the boundary issue, which had recently hit bilateral ties, through existing mechanisms as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met the country’s top leadership to bolster cooperation in key areas such as connectivity and infrastructure. Shringla met Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and foreign secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal on the first day of his two-day visit aimed at putting the relationship on an even keel and enhancing joint efforts aimed at post-Covid-19 recovery. Ties took a hit when Nepal issued a new political map in May that laid claim to the Kalapani region, which is controlled by India, after New Delhi opened a new road to the strategic Lipulekh region. India rejected the map but said it was open to discussing the matter through appropriate mechanisms. A person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Shringla’s discussions with Oli included a “candid review of the state of the bilateral relationship”. The importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities was noted and both sides stressed on the positives in the special relationship, the person said. During the various meetings, the two sides “shared their perspectives on boundary matters and discussed ways to take it forward under the appropriate bilateral mechanisms”, the person added. A statement issued by Nepal’s foreign ministry said Shringla and Paudyal “discussed the boundary matters and exchanged views on completing the boundary work in the remaining segments”. Almost 98% of the 1,770-km India-Nepal border is demarcated and the two sides only have differences in the Kalapani and Susta regions. Much of Shringla’s discussions focused on bilateral development projects, including key connectivity schemes and post-earthquake reconstruction work, and ways to expedite their implementation. At the meeting with Oli, discussions were held on specific steps that could help finalise important projects at the earliest, including the Pancheshwar multipurpose project and the launch of new economic initiatives. Specific meetings to maintain high-level engagement and address issues of mutual interest were also discussed. The need to resume people-to-people contacts, including the launch of an air bubble between India and Nepal, also figured in the talks. At the meeting with foreign minister Gyawali, Shringla handed over 2,000 vials of Remdesivir injections as part of India’s support for efforts to combat Covid-19. Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said India will use its vaccine manufacturing capabilities for the world, Shringla said, “We will make this vaccine accessible and affordable and it goes without saying that the first priority will be for our closest neighbours, our friends like Nepal.” Shringla, who spoke to the media in Nepali, described India and Nepal as “close friends” and said his meetings were aimed at seeing how the two sides can take the relationship forward. Shringla also called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and met delegations of Nepali Congress and Madhesh leaders. On Friday, Shringla will deliver a virtual talk hosted by the Asian Institute of Diplomacy and International Affairs. He will visit Gorkha district to inaugurate three schools rebuilt with Indian assistance and remotely inaugurate an India-funded project to renovate the Tashop Gompa monastery in Manang district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-discuss-boundary-issue/story-DvHpr3vFB6oNCqk6CANYJK.html
