28-11-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh urges farmers to accept Amit Shah’s appeal||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged farmers to accept Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s appeal and shift to the designated place for their protest, thus paving the way for early talks to resolve their issues. Amid reports of Amit Shah’s offer to hold discussions with farmers at the earliest, Amarinder Singh said it is in the best interest of the farming community and the nation at large. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground in the national capital to stage their protest and said the Centre is ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place. Shah’s offer to advance talks with farmers from December 3 and his statement reflecting the Centre’s willingness to listen to the farmers is a welcome step, said the CM in a statement here. He said the only solution to the current stalemate over the farm laws issue is discussion. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s new farms laws stayed put at the Singhu and Tikri borders with the national capital for the third consecutive day on Saturday amid heavy police presence even after being offered the Sant Nirankari ground in Burari to hold peaceful demonstrations. Since the home minister has made it clear that the Centre is “ready to deliberate on every problem and demand” of the farmers and will hold talks the day after they shifted to the designated site in Delhi, the farmer leaders should also move forward, said the CM. Only by sitting across the table can both sides come to a solution to the problem, he added. Pointing out that the purpose of their protest was not to block highways and inconvenience people but to pressure the Union government to listen to their voice, said the CM. The farmers have already won half the battle by bringing the Union government to the negotiating table without further delay. In the circumstances, they should grab the Union home minister’s offer and make the most of the opportunity to resolve the crisis triggered by the Union laws, said Amarinder Singh. He and his government are prepared to extend their full support to these negotiations and were willing to mediate in the collective interest of all, Amarinder Singh reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-urges-farmers-to-accept-amit-shah-s-appeal/story-mqvfIrV37biTToheervVxM.html
28-11-2020||India||India, Maldives, Sri Lanka to step up intelligence-sharing to fight terror||India, the Maldives and Sri Lanka agreed on Saturday to enhance intelligence-sharing to tackle common threats such as terrorism, drug trafficking and money laundering as the three countries revived their maritime security cooperation dialogue after a gap of six years.The meeting in Colombo, attended by India’s National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Maldives’ defence minister Mariya Didi and Sri Lanka’s defence secretary Kamal Gunaratne, also decided that working groups at the level of deputy NSAs will meet twice a year to bolster cooperation at the operational level.The dialogue, which was suspended after India’s relations with the Maldives soured under the previous Abdulla Yameen regime, was held against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness in the Indian Ocean and the India-China border standoff. New Delhi has focused on shoring up security linkages with key neighbours in recent months. A joint statement issued after the dialogue said the three sides exchanged views on common security threats and “agreed to broad base cooperation by expanding the scope to improve intelligence-sharing and include issues like terrorism, radicalisation, extremism, drugs, arms and human trafficking, money laundering, cybersecurity and effect of climate change on the maritime environment”. Also read: SII to apply for emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine in 2 weeksThe discussions of the trilateral meeting among India, Sri Lanka and Maldives were formalized through signing of the minutes by NSA Ajit Doval, Defence Secretary Major General (Retd) Kamal Gunaratne and Minister @MariyaDidi @HCIMaldives @SLinIndia @MFA_SriLanka @MEAIndia pic.twitter.com/DGmM7IMnrjThe representatives of the three sides also agreed to meet regularly for discussions and to ensure timely implementation of decisions made at the meeting. They also decided to hold deputy NSA-level working group meetings “biannually for cooperation at the operational level”.The trilateral maritime security cooperation dialogue was launched with a meeting in Male in 2011. Two more meetings were held in Colombo in 2013 and New Delhi in 2014. Mauritius and Seychelles were represented virtually at Saturday’s meeting.While noting the forum’s significance in promoting cooperation in the Indian Ocean region on common issues related to maritime security, the three sides also reviewed the maritime security environment and discussed cooperation in areas such as maritime domain awareness, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, joint exercises, maritime threats and marine pollution. “They agreed to further strengthen cooperation in dealing with these challenges, to ensure peace and security in the region for common benefit,” the joint statement said.Doval also held bilateral meetings with the Maldives’ defence minister and Sri Lanka’s defence secretary. At his meeting with Gunaratne on Friday, Doval discussed a collaborative mechanism to enhance maritime cooperation, intelligence-sharing and capacity building, as well as ways to curb drug smuggling and responding to natural calamities. In September, India provided a Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft to the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF), which is expected to boost efforts to keep a closer watch on the movement of Chinese vessels in regional waters. During Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s visit to New Delhi in November last year, India offered Sri Lanka a line of credit of $50 million to fight terrorism and enhance intelligence gathering in the wake of the Easter Sunday suicide attacks by Islamic State-linked terrorists that killed 258 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-sri-lanka-to-step-up-intelligence-sharing-to-fight-terror/story-ETk9fwZxay4IlcPHqgGhVL.html
28-11-2020||India||Cold conditions prevail in north India, heavy rainfall likely in southern states from Dec 1||Gulmarg in Kashmir shivered at minus 5.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday as cold conditions prevailed in most parts of north India, while the IMD said the southern states are likely to receive heavy rainfall from December 1. Eight people were killed in in Chittoor and Kadapa districts of Andhra Pradesh in the last three days due to floods caused by heavy rainfall brought in by cyclone ‘Nivar’, officials said on Saturday. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. In Delhi, the minimum temperature was recorded at 10.1 degrees Celsius and the maximum was 26.4 degrees Celsius. The city’s air quality slipped back into the “poor” category, a day after favourable wind speed helped it improve significantly.With winds slowing down, government agencies said the air quality is likely to deteriorate further. The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 231 on Saturday. Stronger winds and a drastic reduction in the contribution of stubble burning were two major reasons for cleaner skies over Delhi on Friday. However, the winds slowed down at night allowing the pollutants to accumulate.Winds are predicted to slow down on Sunday and therefore, Delhi’s air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category over the next two days.Further north, cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir with Gulmarg in the Valley recorded as the coldest place at minus 5.6 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department has predicted dry weather in the union territory till December 4. Kashmir experienced sub-zero night temperatures as the mercury settled several degrees below the freezing point, with Srinagar recording the minimum temperature of minus 2.2 degrees Celsius, while Qazigund (Anantnag) and Kupwara experienced a low of minus 1.8 degrees Celsius and minus 1.0 degrees Celsius respectively. Temperatures in Himachal Pradesh increased by one to two notches as weather remained dry in the state in the last 24 hours. Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong was recorded as the coldest place in the state at minus 9.5 degrees Celsius.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Una at 28.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday.  in Rajasthan, night temperatures dipped by a few degrees in parts of the state with Mount Abu recorded as the coldest place with a minimum of 1 degree Celsius while in the plains, Churu was the coldest place with a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius. The weatherman has predicted a fall in night temperatures and cold waves in northern parts of the state during the next 24 hours.The minimum temperatures hovered slightly above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab, with Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recording a low of 8.7 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.5 degrees Celsius, up one notch against normal while Amritsar in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal.The weather remained dry across Uttar Pradesh with shallow to moderate fog occurring at isolated places. The day temperatures fell appreciably in Varanasi division and rose significantly in Bareilly division but there was no large change in the remaining divisions of the state.In the south, the IMD said a low pressure area over south Andaman Sea and adjoining Bay of Bengal was “very likely” to concentrate into a depression in the next 48 hours and intensify further before moving towards the Tamil Nadu coast, bringing heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in southern states starting December 1.It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and reach the south Tamil Nadu coast on December 2. The weather office predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy falls as “very likely” over south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala on December 2.Heavy to very heavy rainfall was also very likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe and Karaikal and north Kerala from Tuesday to Thursday, the IMD said, adding that south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema, south interior Karnataka and Lakshadweep is also likely to receive heavy showers during this period.Meanwhile, the IMD issued an ‘Orange’ alert for Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts in Kerala on December 1 and for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts on December 2 following the low pressure area. A yellow alert has been also been sounded for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kottayam districts on Tuesday and for Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and idukki districts on Wednesday.Orange alert indicates heavy to very heavy rainfall ranging from 6 cm to 20 cm of rain, while yellow alert is heavy rainfall ranging from 6 cm to 11 cm. In Andhra Pradesh, eight people were killed in floods caused by heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in Chittoor and Kadapa districts of the state in the last three days, the state government said on Saturday.Agricultural crops in 72,755 hectares in Kadapa, 33,269 hectares in SPS Nellore and 9,658 hectares in Chittoor district suffered damage in the deluge, caused by cyclonic storm Nivar, which had brought sharp rains in Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry recently .Hundreds of houses and roads stretching to hundreds of kilometres in these districts were also damaged, the Collectors told the chief minister during a review meeting chaired by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-conditions-prevail-in-north-india-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-southern-states-from-dec-1/story-dHvPJn0PGzbru8WJoGBbEL.html
28-11-2020||India||Schools to remain closed for 10 more days in Haryana, says Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that schools in the state will remain shut for 10 more days in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government had earlier decided to keep the schools shut till November 30. “We have instructed all the schools to remain closed for 10 more days as of now. We will provide them with all the necessary Covid-19 guidelines before reopening the premises for students,” Vij told the reporters here. The schools in Haryana had reopened earlier this month only for classes 9 to 12 and students were allowed to attend classes with the prior consent of their parents.Here, 11 students and eight teachers of nine schools in Jind tested positive for Covid-19, while 72 students of 12 government schools in Rewari were found infected with the coronavirus.The state currently has 20,400 active cases of the disease while 2,345 fatalities due to the pathogen have been reported till Saturday, as per the ministry of health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). Meanwhile, 2,06,001 people have recovered from the disease till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-remain-closed-for-10-more-days-in-haryana-says-anil-vij/story-rYSYSNRUsQ58Pft7nSbqoN.html
28-11-2020||India||Hyderabad under new Nizam, time to end it, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said Bharatiya Janata Party was the only party which had the capacity to transform Hyderabad into a “Bhagya Nagar (a wealthy city)”. Addressing the gathering during a road show at Kukatpally as part of the BJP campaign in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, Adityanath accused the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen of stalling the development of Hyderabad for their political gains. “The entire area on the banks of Musi river in the south of Hyderabad has been under encroachment of the MIM. We need to teach a fitting lesson to these descendants of the Nizam who have become obstacles for the development of the city,” the chief minister said. CM Adityanath reiterated that Hyderabad could be renamed as Bhagyanagar, which was the original name of the city. “Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can be renamed as Bhagyanagar. Why not? We renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came into power in Uttar Pradesh. Then, why can’t Hyderabad be renamed as Bhagyanagar?” he asked. He reminded that Hyderabad had been liberated from the clutches of autocratic Nizam rule thanks to Sardar Patel. “Now, the people of Hyderabad are witnessing the rule of Naya Nizam and time has come to get rid of it,” he said. Attacking the TRS government, Adityanath said every citizen, including businessmen, was upset with the present rule. “The people who have been in the government and corporation here have nothing to do with the development and basic amenities of the people,” he said. Stating that his government in Uttar Pradesh had constructed houses for 30 lakh people in the state, CM Adityanath sought to know how many houses the TRS government had constructed in Telangana in the last six years. “Though the TRS leaders have failed to fulfil the promises made in the last GHMC elections, they are making new promises to the voters to hoodwink them,” he alleged. The UP chief minister accused the KCR government of distributing the flood relief to the people in the form of cash only to help the TRS leaders make big money. “If the government has concern towards the victims, why didn’t it credit the amount to their accounts directly?” he asked. He said the BJP was bringing about changes across the country. “After the NDA came to power under the leadership of Narendra Modi, it had done away with Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The centuries old issue of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya was resolved peacefully and now, we are constructing the temple,” he reminded. Stating that he was very much delighted to see the response of the people to his rally, CM Adityanath appealed to the people to help the BJP transform Hyderabad into a Bhagyanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-under-new-nizam-time-to-end-it-says-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-3iIesQk8o5Tw2Gcj7a7EHM.html
28-11-2020||India||First phase of J-K DDC polls conclude, 51.76% polling recorded||The first phase of the polling for District Development Council polls concluded peacefully with 51.76 per cent polling recorded across Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday.This is the first poll held in J&K after the abrogation of Article 370. Pulwama in Kashmir division recorded the lowest polling with 6.70 per cent while Reasi in Jammu division registered the highest polling with 74.62 per cent.The 10 districts of Kashmir registered 40.65 per cent while 10 districts of Jammu witnessed 64.2 per cent polling.State election commissioner KK Sharma, while addressing a press conference, said that the first phase of District Development Council elections has been conducted successfully in UT of J&K and recorded 51.76 per cent polling.“Polling has been by-and-large peaceful across 43 constituencies of the DDC that went to polls today in which 3,62,766 voters, including 1,93,375 males and 1,69,391 females, of 7,00,842 voters voted to choose their representatives in their respective councils,” the SEC said.Also read: SII to apply for emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine in 2 weeksThe Reasi district recorded the highest polling at 74.62 per cent followed by Rajouri district at 70.52 per cent and Poonch with 68.69 per cent polling. In Kashmir division, Budgam district recorded highest polling at 56.96 per cent followed by Kupwara at 50.74 per cent and Ganderbal at 48.62 per cent.Giving the district-wise details about the DDC, the SEC informed that in Kashmir division, the polling percentage recorded in Bandipora was 43.57 per cent, Baramulla 32.51 per cent, Srinagar 33.76 per cent, Pulwama 6.70 per cent, Shopian 42.58 per cent, Kulgam 34.35 per cent, Anantnag 43.32 per cent.Similarly, in Jammu division, Kishtwar saw a voting percentage of 55.16 per cent, Doda 64.49 per cent, Ramban 64.21 per cent, Udhampur 57.13 per cent, Kathua 62.82 per cent, Samba 68.61 per cent and Jammu 61.49 per cent during the first phase of elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-of-j-k-ddc-polls-conclude-51-76-polling-recorded/story-GWjSc794GJgBeUSsFaj1sL.html
28-11-2020||India||Terrorists making ‘desperate attempts’ to infiltrate into J-K: Army chief||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane said on Saturday terrorists are finding out new ways to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir to “disrupt normal democratic processes”. Naravane, who did not name Pakistan, highlighted that despite continuous efforts being taken to ensure stability in the Union territory terrorism remains a serious threat.“With the ongoing situation on our western borders, terrorism continues to be a serious threat, and that is not abating in spite of all efforts made. Terrorists making desperate attempts to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir to disrupt normal democratic processes,” Gen Naravane said, according to news agency ANI.Army chief Naravane’s comments came at a time when Jammu and Kashmir is conducting its first polls after the abrogation of Article 370. The Union territory held the first phase of maiden elections to the District Development Councils (DDC) on Saturday where it recorded nearly 52% voter turnout. According to PTI, barring a small incident of stone pelting at Kulgam, the polls were held peacefully.The army chief also said that terrorists are finding new means to enter into India and due to the rising snow levels, they are finding it difficult to enter from the northern regions and are now attempting to enter into India from the southern regions of the western border. “With the onset of winters, attempts are being made to infiltrate before the passes close and snow levels rise. It’s because of this that they have started moving southwards and are now attempting to infiltrate through lower regions including tunnels across the International Border,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Security forces in the last three months have detected two sophisticated tunnels in Jammu’s Samba sector. The first tunnel was discovered on August 29 and the second one was discovered by the Border Security Force (BSF) last week after four terrorists were killed at Ban Toll Plaza during a gun battle near Nagrota town of Jammu. BSF has also undertaken an anti-tunnel drive across the 3,300-km-long international border to stop cross-border infiltration and smuggling of drugs and arms and ammunitions.A counter-insurgency officer told HT on Tuesday that despite there being an agreement between border security personnel of India and Pakistan to cut long grass on either side of the respective borders Pakistan border security personnel continue to use the long grass as a cover to send drugs, terror elements and arms and ammunition to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-making-desperate-attempts-to-infiltrate-into-j-k-army-chief/story-S0vILVJzxczQlOPcfQXoRM.html
28-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Yogi Adityanath says he’s not against renaming Hyderabad as BJP gears up for GHMC polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.GHMC polls: UP CM Adityanath says not averse to renaming Hyderabad to BhagyanagarUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday held a roadshow at Hyderabad to boost the BJP’s chances of winning the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Council elections due to be held next month. Read MoreIt’s never about the money spent on a product, it’s always about quality: Fujifilm India’s Arun Babu speaks about theirFujifilm India recently launched the Fujifilm X-S10 (X-S10), adding to its flagship X series range of mirrorless digital cameras. Read MoreApologised to KL Rahul while batting: Glenn Maxwell’s stunning reply to IPL memeGlenn Maxwell had faced a lot criticism after a poor performance in the recently-concluded Indian Premier League 2020. Read MoreSmriti Irani posts clip of artist playing Tu Hi Meri Shab Hai on guitar. It is mesmerizingThe intriguing content shared on Smriti Irani’s official Instagram account never fails to entertain netizens. Read More5 years of Tamasha: Deepika Padukone shares unseen behind-the-scene photos with Ranbir KapoorDeepika Padukone is celebrating five years of her film, Tamasha. It was directed by Imtiaz Ali and starred her ex-boyfriend Ranbir Kapooor. Read More‘Plot to end Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’: Farmers camp in Delhi, more at bordersProtests by farmers against 3 recent laws are continuing. The farmers who were allowed to enter the national capital on November 27 are camping at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yogi-adityanath-says-he-s-not-against-renaming-hyderabad-as-bjp-gears-up-for-ghmc-polls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SY7FRCcfXE15UrhNpBCPbN.html
28-11-2020||India||‘No power cuts, no communal riots’: KCR’s pitch ahead of Hyderabad civic polls||Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday charged the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders with waging a war against him, fearing that he might pose a threat to them in the coming days.“When there were heavy floods in Hyderabad, these leaders never bothered to come here to call on the people. But now, they are flooding the city to campaign in the local polls. Why are they coming in such large numbers and attacking this lanky man?” KCR asked, addressing a massive rally on the penultimate day of the campaigning for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections to be held on December 1.In violation of Covid-19 norms, the TRS mobilised nearly a lakh people for the rally and many of them were hardly wearing face masks leave alone maintaining social distance. Several leaders on the dais also did not wear any masks.The TRS chief said there was a need for a new political alternative in the country with new thoughts, new ideas and new policies. “The two national parties that ruled the country all these years have miserably failed to address the basic issues of the people. There is still poverty, illiteracy, hunger, inadequate healthcare, unemployment and agrarian crisis all over the country,” he said.The TRS president said the BJP was targeting him because he was questioning its policies. “They are targeting me because I question the privatisation of LIC and disinvestment in public sector undertakings like BHEL and railways. I strongly supported the nationwide strike of the trade unions and opposed the legislation on agriculture. That is why they are scared of me and my commitment to the people,” he said.He ridiculed the campaign by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the GHMC elections. “As a fellow chief minister, I welcome him. But what moral authority does he have to talk about development here? His state ranks 28th in terms of development, whereas Telangana is in fifth position,” he reminded.KCR said these so-called national leaders would disappear soon after the election campaign is over, whereas TRS would remain forever in Telangana. “We are going to be with you even after GHMC elections and take care of your needs,” he said.He called upon the people to save Hyderabad from communal and divisive forces, which were hell bent on disturbing the tranquillity of the city.“Hyderabad is a cosmopolitan city, where people from all parts of the country co-exist in peace, do their business and prosper. It is like a bouquet of flowers. It is attracting huge investments and creating lakhs of job opportunities only because there are no law and order issues here,” he pointed out.The TRS chief explained how his government had led the state on the path of progress in the last six and a half years. “There are no power cuts, no drinking water crisis, no industrial unrest and no communal riots. We have been displaying a lot of political maturity in developing the state and the city,” he said.He lashed out at the opposition parties for creating hurdles in the distribution of cash assistance of Rs 10,000 to the poor people affected by recent floods in Hyderabad. “While we spent Rs 650 crore on flood relief in the city, the Modi government has not given even a single paisa,” he criticised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-power-cuts-no-communal-riots-kcr-s-pitch-ahead-of-hyderabad-civic-polls/story-fclbmDvmKMtpN7xb7xaN7N.html
28-11-2020||India||Centre might buy 300-400 mn Covishield vaccine doses by 2021: Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday his company is in the process of applying for emergency use authorisation of Covishield in the next two weeks, adding the central government might purchase 300-400 million doses by July next year.“As of now, we don’t have anything in writing with the govt of India on how many doses they will purchase but the indication is that it would be 300-400 million doses by July, 2021,” Poonawalla said in an interview to news agency ANI.Pune-based Serum Institute, which is the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine Covishield developed by Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. They said on Monday said that their coronavirus disease vaccine was up to 90 per cent effective in late-stage clinical trials. Vaccine will be distributed initially in India, then we will look at the COVAX countries which are mainly in Africa. The UK & European markets are being taken care of by AstraZeneca & Oxford. Our priority is India & COVAX countries: Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India pic.twitter.com/yE9IAG3TyPTalking about the distribution of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Poonawalla reiterated that India and Covax countries would be on SII’s priority while the UK and European markets would be looked after by AstraZeneca and Oxford.Also Read| ‘Had good interaction’: PM Modi visits SII to review Covid-19 vaccine development“Vaccine will be distributed initially in India, then we will look at the COVAX countries which are mainly in Africa. The UK & European markets are being taken care of by AstraZeneca & Oxford. Our priority is India & COVAX countries,” he said. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Serum Institute of India to see Covid-19 vaccine production and proposed distribution plan. It was a part of the Prime Minister’s visit to two other cities where vaccines are being developed or their trials are being held.Poonawalla during the interview with ANI highlighted that PM Modi was extremely knowledgeable on vaccines and vaccine production adding there was very little to explain to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-apply-for-emergency-use-authorisation-of-covishield-in-next-2-weeks-poonawalla/story-zUiWKcrXQ0mlyZXZp6JoHP.html
28-11-2020||India||Not everything on OTT is great, says Manish Wadhwa||Actor Manish Wadhwa, best known for his historical and mythological roles, said that he truly believes in the characters he played to make them look real and powerful on screen. “I’m from theatre and love stage. Someone once said to me, ‘whatever you do — film, theatre, documentary, web or street play — you are good as long you entertain the audience.’ Following that, I just try to do my best be it for any medium or role. I have to convince myself to believe in the character to make the role of Kansa or Ravan convincing to viewers,” said Manish. He agrees that such shows have given him more recognition, “Surely Chanakya, Ravan, Kans or Peshwa gave me a lot of recognition as they are part of our history and mythology. I have done saas-bahu shows too — ‘Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon...’ was a super hit daily but people me remember me like any other character nothing out of the ordinary.” In his next, Manish plays a scientist. “It’s a sci-fi show ‘Hero Gayab Mode On,’ in which we will be seen searching for a mythological story that has gone missing. It’s about the scientist and his son. I have done sci-fi shows before too — ‘Time Machine’ and ‘Maha Kumbh’. Both are very contradictory yet had a link.” Comparing OTT and TV he said, “Not everything on OTT is great. So, whatever be the medium if you have a powerful content it will work everywhere. On TV too lot of good shows are happening.” Manish shot for ‘Mahakumbh’ and ‘Mitwa’ in UP. “I did a play in Lucknow, ‘Ma Retire Hoti Hai’ where I played Jaya Bachchan’s son.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/not-everything-on-ott-is-great-says-manish-wadhwa/story-2KzJT7SdrIbJRAsAFet8ZP.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Doing the bus scene sent shivers down my spine’||Actor Sanjay Bishnoi is on cloud nine with his debut series ‘Delhi Crime’ winning the Best Drama Series at the 48th International Emmy Awards. “It’s an overwhelming moment for the entire team. We always knew the series will be powerful and will be nominated at big fests but winning an award this big did come as a super surprise for us all. We all owe this to our director Richie Mehta,” said the young actor. He played Akash, the victim’s friend in the series, who was the only witness to the horrific incident (2012 Delhi gang rape case).Talking about his earlier days, Sanjay said, “I come from non-filmi background and was a MBBS aspirant till my theatre inclination took me Barry John Acting Studio in Mumbai. And then, I along with my friends we form a theatre group and started doing plays till I was auditioned for ‘Delhi Crime’.”Sanjay shared how tough it was for them to relive the incident. “When I read the script, it left me aghast and when we were doing the bus and the road scene near the Delhi airport it send shivers down my spine. Imagine what those people must have gone through in reality! If in a national capital, on one the busiest route at eight in the evening, if a girl is not safe then imagine the situation in village and small towns. Hopefully, our series has left an impact and can bring a small change,” he said. Last year, he also shot for another issue-based OTT film ‘Ashok Vatika’ in Varanasi, UP. Sanjay is currently busy wrapping an untitled film and will start shooting for another from January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/doing-the-bus-scene-sent-shivers-down-my-spine/story-uuRo8BIUlIqufdbNrAosFJ.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Had good interaction’: PM Modi visits SII to review Covid-19 vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday he had a good interaction with the team at the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune, which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). SII was the Prime Minister’s third stop in the day after he reviewed the vaccine development at the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad and Bharat Biotech Hyderabad’s facility.“Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also took a look at their manufacturing facility,” Modi wrote on Twitter.The Prime Minister’s visit came days after he had held review meetings with the chief ministers of states and Union Territories (UTs) on the country’s vaccine distribution mechanism.SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla also took to the social networking site and thanked Modi for his visit to discuss in detail the complex challenges yet to come and review the status of vaccine production. Speaking to news agency ANI, he added there is nothing in writing with the Centre on how many doses will it purchase but the indication is that it would be 300-400 million doses by July next year.  Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also took a look at their manufacturing facility. pic.twitter.com/PvL22uq0nl“As of now, we don’t have anything in writing with the govt of India on how many doses they will purchase but the indication is that it would be 300-400 million doses by July, 2021,” the SII CEO said. Poonawalla, who was a guest speaker on November 19 at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) 2020 had said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine could be available for the general public by April-May next year and is likely to cost around Rs 500-600 for a dose.Also Read: PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccine progress in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune“The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is proving to work very well, even in the elderly which was a concern early on. It elicits a good T-cell response and a good antibody response as well,” he added.University of Oxford and AstraZeneca said earlier in the week that their vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for its arrival in India by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-good-interaction-pm-modi-visits-sii-to-review-covid-19-vaccine-development/story-pvSycETGUuI4hN5nkdzIOI.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccine progress in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review coronavirus vaccine development work there.The Prime Minister’s Office said the day-long visit was aimed at getting a first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and road map in India’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens.Modi began by visiting pharma major Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, he reviewed the vaccine development process at the company’s research centre, located over 20 km from Ahmedabad.Modi was extensively briefed about the vaccine work at the plant by the company officials. He was briefed about the vaccine production procedure. He interacted with scientists and vaccine developers, an official said.“Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey,” Modi tweeted after the visit.Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company is aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021, and could produce up to 100 million doses a year.Modi, who landed at Ahmedabad at 9.10 am, spent over an hour at the plant, before leaving for the airport, from where he left for Hyderabad at 11.40 am.Modi landed at Hakimpet Air Force station near Hyderabad around 1 pm and proceeded to pharma major Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley, located around 20 km from the air station, by road.At the facility, he reviewed the progress of Covaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by the company. He also interacted with Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella, scientists and senior management.“At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,” Modi tweeted after his hour-long visit there.After leaving the facility, Modi got down from his vehicle at the main gate and waved to media persons and the cheering crowd standing nearby.Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology, is undergoing phase-3 trials.At 3.20 pm, Modi took off for Pune, where he landed at 4.30 pm on the last leg of his three-city vaccine work review visit. Modi then proceeded by helicopter to the campus of the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Manjari, located 17 km from the airport.At the Serum Institute of India, Modi reviewed the progress of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine being made there.Modi interacted with scientists at the Serum Institute and had a walkabout of the facility, taking stock of vaccine development work being carried out there.At the facility, Modi was received by Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, chairman of Poonwalla Group, and his son and SII CEO Adar Poonawalla. They briefed Modi about the work being carried out at SII.Modi interacted with the Poonawallas, scientists and other executives, who briefed him on the vaccine’s progress.“Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also took a look at their manufacturing facility,” Modi tweeted after his SII visit.Serum Institute of India has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University for the vaccine.Modi left from SII for Pune airport around 6 pm and took off for Delhi at 6.25 pm, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-vaccine-progress-in-ahmedabad-hyderabad-and-pune/story-UDyOtOlXUXo4qE06zKBTgK.html
28-11-2020||India||Govt ready to deliberate on every problem, demand of farmers: Union home minister Amit Shah||Union minister Amit Shah on Saturday requested agitating farmers on Saturday to halt their protests against the recently passed farm bills and assured them that the Centre will discuss every issue that has been troubling farmers. According to news agency ANI, Shah said, “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands.”Earlier union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar had also requested farmers to halt their protests against the recently passed farm bills and asked opposition parties not to politicise the issue. Protesting farmers also relented after assurances were made by the union minister. Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary Harinder Singh told ANI on Saturday that they will halt their protests at Singhu in Delhi-Haryana border and will conduct meetings every day at 11 am to discuss the course of the protest. Singh said, “It has been decided that we will continue our protest here and will not go anywhere else. We will meet at 11am every day to discuss our strategy.”Agitating farmers had taken out a Delhi Chalo march demanding rollback of the three recently passed farm bills. Farmers on Friday broke barricades at several checkpoints across the Delhi-Haryana border. Earlier on Thursday, farmers and Haryana police personnel clashed with each other at Sambhu and Karnal border points following which police fired water cannons and lobbed tear gas shells. Farmers are agitating against the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The farmers groups believe that these three bills will affect the MSP system and allow private and multinational companies to make profits off farm yields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ready-to-deliberate-on-every-problem-demand-of-farmers-union-home-minister-amit-shah/story-s7aVWjDk1tMbAaEfUvigzL.html
28-11-2020||India||Govt can’t change farmers’ strong intentions: Rahul Gandhi hits back at Centre again||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday targeted the Centre for a second time in the day over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and said that raising a voice against injustice is not a crime. Referring to a report published by the Punjab Kesari about 10,000 farmers being booked by the police, Gandhi said that the Modi government cannot change the strong intentions of farmers with the help of fake first information reports (FIRs).“Raising voice against injustice is a duty, not a crime. The Modi government cannot change the strong intentions of the farmers with the help of the police’s fake FIR. This fight will continue till the end of the anti-agricultural black laws. Jai Kisan was and will remain for us!” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.The Congress leader had shared a photo on Twitter earlier in the day where a security personnel was seen aiming his baton at a farmer and said the slogan was ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ but Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s arrogance made the jawan or a soldier stand against the kisan or a farmer. The former Congress president has been a vocal critic of the three newly-introduced agricultural reforms and has hit out at the Prime Minister and the central government on several occasions. अन्याय के ख़िलाफ़ आवाज़ उठाना अपराध नहीं, कर्तव्य है।मोदी सरकार पुलिस की फ़र्ज़ी FIR से किसानों के मज़बूत इरादे नहीं बदल सकती।कृषि विरोधी काले क़ानूनों के ख़त्म होने तक ये लड़ाई जारी रहेगी।हमारे लिए ‘जय किसान’ था, है और रहेगा! pic.twitter.com/EZWxMpIoJcOn Friday, Gandhi had said that no government in the world could stop farmers fighting the battle of truth adding that the Modi government has to accept their demands and the black laws would have to be withdrawn.The Congress, meanwhile, said that it would have been better if PM Modi talked to the farmers instead of getting “himself photographed in corporate offices.”Also Read: Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’The ‘Dilli Chalo’ march which started on Wednesday has been seeing thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana moving towards the national capital to protest against the three farm reforms passed by Parliament in September. The demonstrations, which sought to be peaceful, turned violent several times with farmers trying to break barricades and police resorting to water cannons, tear gas shells to disperse them.Even though the Delhi Police allowed the farmers to carry out peaceful demonstrations at the Samagam Ground in Burari, some of the farmers’ groups decided they would not go to the national capital and continue their agitation at the Singhu border. Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar assured farmers on Saturday the government was ready for talks on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-can-t-change-farmers-strong-intentions-rahul-gandhi-hits-back-at-centre-again/story-7CDqjLAE8ggOkcoVvqvOwL.html
28-11-2020||India||Pilot missing for 2 days after MiG-29K crash, navy intensifies search ops||Search and rescue teams of the Indian Navy on Saturday continued with their efforts to locate a pilot who went missing after a MiG-29K trainer aircraft crashed into the Arabian Sea two days ago but the teams failed to make any headway, officials familiar with developments said on Saturday. The Russian-origin twin-seat trainer jet went down off India’s west coast on Thursday after taking off from the deck of India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. While rescue teams were able to recover one of the pilots on Thursday, the second pilot - identified by the navy as Commander Nishant Singh - is still not traceable.“Additional warships, planes and helicopters were pressed into action on Saturday to intensify the search. There’s been no luck yet,” the officials said.Thursday’s crash was the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet. While the cause of the crash is not known yet, India’s top auditor had in 2016 found deficiencies in the deck-based fighter. These included engine trouble, airframe problems and shortcomings in its fly-by-wire system.Meanwhile, a witty letter written by the missing pilot to his commanding officer on his decision to get married that had gone viral earlier this year surfaced again on social media after the news of the crash broke. Singh wrote to his CO, “I regret to be dropping this bomb on you at such a short notice, but as you would agree, I intend to drop a nuclear one on myself and I realise that just like all the split-second decisions we take up in the air in the heat of combat, I cannot afford to allow myself the luxury of time to re-evaluate my decision.” The letter written by the accomplished naval aviator on May 9 was widely circulated on social media platforms. The letter was peppered with military parlance. Referring to the courtship period, Singh wrote that on the successful completion of three years of extensive SCTT (Survivability and Compatibility Testing Trials), he and his fiancée had come to a mutual agreement that they may be able to get through the rest of their lives without killing each other.“I officially seek your approval to willingly sacrifice myself in absolute peacetime, completely outside of the line of duty and follow you and many other brave men into this graveyard spiral of matrimony,” he wrote. The navy commissioned its first squadron of MiG-29K fighters at Goa in May 2013, ahead of the induction of INS Vikramaditya.India has so far bought 45 MiG-29K fighters from Russia. The navy also plans to deploy the fighters on the indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) being built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-missing-for-2-days-after-mig-29k-crash-navy-intensifies-search-ops/story-HUPbAr4XWTi4bFnvMSQL4N.html
28-11-2020||India||Chirag Paswan downplays BJP fielding Sushil Modi for seat won by Ram Vilas Paswan||Cold-shouldered by the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) in the by-election to a Rajya Sabha seat in Bihar, the Lok Janshakti Party(LJP) president Chirag Paswan said on Saturday that it belonged to the saffron party and it was free to take a decision about whom to field.The seat had fallen vacant following the death of Chirag Paswan’s father and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan. The BJP has nominated former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi for the seat.Sushil Modi is likely to win uncontested unless the opposition Grand Alliance fields a candidate to challenge him.In that event, the polling will take place on December 14.A union minister, Ram Vilas Paswan was elected from the seat last year after it fell vacant following his cabinet colleague Ravi Shankar Prasad’s election to the Lok Sabha from Patna Sahib.“The seat belonged to the BJP and it is for the party to decide which candidate from which party to field in the by-election,” the 37-year-old leader told reporters at a function held to celebrate his party’s 20th foundation day.Chastened by the drubbing in the recent Bihar elections, Chirag Paswan asked the party rank and file to gear up for the next assembly polls which could take place “any time”.He reiterated it in a letter addressed to LJP workers and shared with the media.Responding to questions, Paswan maintained that he saw “fresh elections taking place any time in Bihar, given the way the new government is functioning”.In a written message to party workers, Paswan defended his decision to go solo in the assembly polls, saying, “We had to make a choice between accepting the National Democratic Alliance’s(NDA)offer of only 15 seats despite being a party with six members in the Lok Sabha and one in the Rajya Sabha, or engage in a friendly fight to preserve our honour”.In the one-page letter, Paswan refrained from making any remark against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the JD(U) boss whom he had targeted all through the elections and repeatedly accused of being unfair and brusque towards his late father while he was alive.The letter contained no reference to the BJP or Prime Minister Narendra Modi to whom Paswan has proclaimed loyalty despite his steadfast support to Nitish Kumar.The Jamui MP also deplored the heated exchanges between the chief minister and Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav on the floor of the assembly on Friday and said both shared the blame for the unsavoury turn of events.“I would not like to take sides in this matter. From both sides many personal attacks were made. I do not think the discourse in Bihar assembly has ever touched such depths,” said Paswan.The LJP chief, under whose stewardship the party fought more than half of the seats in the 243-strong assembly but won only one, tried to perk up his supporters and asked them to focus on the bright side.“We could win only two seats in the previous assembly elections even though we had contested as part of the NDA.This time, we were alone, without an army of star campaigners to canvass in our favour. But we secured 28 lakh votes and now our party is being talked about across the state,” Paswan said in his letter.“It was the dream of the LJP founder, my late father, to help the party come of its own. We have taken a step in that direction. Let’s keep marching,” Paswan, who took over the party mantle from his father a year ago, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-downplays-bjp-fielding-sushil-modi-for-seat-won-by-ram-vilas-paswan/story-4J8oSWA31W51vsgpTmTSRK.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Samajwadi Party will oppose bill on religious conversion’: Akhilesh Yadav||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said his party will oppose the state government’s bill on religious conversions when placed in the assembly for passage. The state cabinet earlier this week gave nod to the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to curb forcible or “dishonest” religious conversions including those for the sake of marriage, which could land violators in jail for up to 10 years. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to the ordinance on Saturday. Now, it will be presented in the state legislature for passage.  Commenting on it, Akhilesh Yadav told reporters, “The Samajwadi Party is not in favour of any such law. We will oppose it (when it comes to the assembly).” He also sought to know its relevance when the state has schemes to encourage inter-caste and inter-faith marriages. The government does not want to debate on more important issues due to which it brought the ordinance, he said, alleging that it is creating hatred and chasm in society. The SP president also extended support to the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. “The betterment of farmers cannot be ensured through laws. It will happen only when the government comes forward and provides them with the right price of their produce,” he said. Akhilesh alleged, “No other government has committed as many atrocities on farmers as this government is doing. This treatment is being meted out by those who had promised to double their income.” He also asked when the Centre is going to bring a law to double farmers’ income and provide employment to the youth. Questioning investment claims of the UP government, Akhilesh said it should also tell how it has fared in corruption and fake encounters. “Fake cases are being lodged against political leaders,” he alleged. To a question on corruption charges against his party leader Azam Khan, Akhilesh Yadav said he has been targeted as he had done some good work. Only time will tell about the corruption and loot taking place under the BJP rule, he said. The former chief minister once again said the BJP government is copying the schemes and programmes of the previous SP regime led by him and hoped that people will give his party another chance in the 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-will-oppose-bill-on-religious-conversion-akhilesh-yadav/story-2sywRULTMnoxLkZ16DiVuI.html
28-11-2020||India||Almost 65% of domestic air travel back to pre-Covid level: Civil aviation secy||Nearly 65 per cent of the domestic air travel has returned to the pre-Covid-19 level and now there is a need to evolve a strategy to bring back the tourism industry on its feet, civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said on Saturday. He was addressing a webinar on ‘Aviation and Tourism-the Road Ahead’ hosted by the Federation of Association of Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH). Kharola also said in the times of Covid-19 air travel has become a preferred mode of travel for being a safe means of transportation. “On the first day of resumption of domestic air services (May 25) there were 79,000 people who would travel and we were worried. But gradually it started improving,” he said. Kharola said, on Friday total 2.50 lakh passengers travelled on domestic flights and considering that the average per day passenger number was around 3.70-3.75 lakh before the pandemic hit the country, almost 65 per cent of the domestic travel is back to the pre-Covid-19 level. He said that as more business activities and colleges open up, this may go up to 80-90 per cent in the next 2-3 months or almost to the level of normalcy. Kharola also said as business travel demand will take time to come back, it will be segments like VFR (Visiting Friends and Relatives) driving the demand in aviation going forward. On the opening of scheduled international commercial passengers flights, he said,” international aviation depends not only on us but other side also.” Kharola said with domestic air travel returning to normalcy, the tourism industry too should be brought back on its feet. “Aviation is going towards normal. This normalcy ought to be brought in tourism industry also. Tourist destinations have already opened up, the ASI has opened up the monuments.  Now is the time to convince people that it is safe to travel,” Kharola said. “So we all  have to work together and evolve a strategy to motivate that domestic tourism also picks up,” he said, adding that at the same time other countries should also consider issuing tourist visas again. Kharola also urged the tourism industry to promote domestic airlines as it would help in revival of the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-65-of-domestic-air-travel-back-to-pre-covid-level-civil-aviation-secy/story-3Cu7hhTIIolCMazXbBGcTN.html
28-11-2020||India||India-China faceoff: Indian Navy’s MARCOS deployed near Ladakh’s Pangong lake||Amid the ongoing stand-off between India and China, the Marine Commandos (MARCOS) of the Indian Navy have been deployed in the Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh.The idea behind the deployment of the MARCOS in Eastern Ladakh where Indian Air Force’s Garud operatives and Indian Army’s Para Special Forces, which have been there since day one of the conflicts, is to enhance the integration of the three services and provide the naval commandos exposure to extreme cold weather conditions, government sources told ANI.Also Read: Gen Rawat asks tri-services to curb peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops in Ladakh“The MARCOS have been deployed in the Pangong lake area where the Indian and Chinese forces have been engaged in a conflict situation since April-May timeframe this year,” the sources said.The Navy commandos are also soon going to get new boats for operations in the lake are along with the existing infrastructure for operations in the lake, they said.Also Read: India sending high-powered boats to match heavier Chinese vessels while patrolling Ladakh lakeIndian Army’s Special Forces including the Para Special Forces and Cabinet Secretariat’s Special Frontier Force have been operating in Eastern Ladakh for carrying out special operations for a long time.The Indian Air Force’s Garud Special Forces moved to hilltops on the strategic heights on the Line of Actual Control (LAC)along with their Igla shoulder-fired air defence systems in the early days of the conflict to take care of any fighter or other aircraft of the enemy which may have tried to violate Indian air space.The special troops belonging to both the Army and Air Force have been there for more than six months now.Also Read: Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: IntelOn August 29-30 also, the Indian side had used the special forces to occupy strategic heights along the LAC to preempt the Chinese from doing so. The Chinese have also maintained special troops on their side of the LAC.The Indian Navy has deployed teams of its MARCOS in the Wular lake area of Jammu and Kashmir to tackle terrorism there. The Indian Air Force started deploying Garuds in Kashmir valley after the 2016 Pathankot operations to give them the feel of real operations as part of plans of the then Army chief and now Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat.Also Read: ‘Getting difficult to supply items’: Jaish’s No. 2 tells terrorists in KashmirSoon after their deployment, the Garuds proved their mettle and earned one Ashok Chakra, three Shaurya Chakras, and many other gallantry awards for eliminating a team of terrorists led by the nephew of 26/11 terrorist Zaki Ur Rehman Lakhvi.After that operation, the Air Force has been sending regular Garud teams for forward deployment in Kashmir valley.The Indian Army has many of its special forces battalions deployed in the Kashmir valley for counter-terrorist operations including the ones which carried out surgical strikes in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-faceoff-indian-navy-s-marcos-deployed-near-ladakh-s-pangong-lake/story-UHg6IOBjuYfEGNqZ5EaZYM.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers’ groups to continue protest at Delhi border, to discuss strategy later||Farmers’ groups on Saturday decided they will not go to Delhi and have decided to continue their protests against the three farm bills at the Singhu border even after they were allocated a place in the Capital’s Burari to hold their agitation. “It has been decided that we will continue our protest here and will not go anywhere else. We will meet at 11am every day to discuss our strategy,” Harinder Singh, the general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, told ANI.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their march towards Delhi on November 25 demanding that the Centre repeal the three farm bills that were passed during Parliament’s monsoon session. They broke barricades and clashed with the police at the border on Friday and vowed to march towards Delhi. Delhi Police on Friday allowed them to hold peaceful demonstrations at a ground in Burari.‘Plot to end Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’: Farmers camp in Delhi, more at borders“Permission for conducting a peaceful protest has already been granted. Delhi Police is all set for facilitating protestors to proceed to Burari ground. We request protestors to behave responsibly,” Gaurav Sharma, Delhi Police’s deputy commissioner of Outer North District, was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier on Saturday, Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar requested farmers to halt their agitations and discuss issues they are facing with the Centre of December 3. He said, “The government is ready for talks with farmer unions to resolve their issues. We have invited them for talks on December 3. I hope that they will come to the meeting. I urge political parties not to play politics in the name of farmers.”Haryana CM Khattar suspects ‘unwanted elements’ among protesting farmers, cites slogans raised against PM ModiFarmers’ bodies across India have lashed out at the Centre for bringing in the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Farmers believe that these three bills will affect MSP procurement and allow multinational companies to earn huge profits.‘Why no ordinance for farmers, jobless youth?’ Akhilesh reacts to UP’s ‘love jihad’ lawThe Centre continues to assure farmers that these bills will pave the way for increasing income of the farmers and promote a level-playing field where farmers can sell their yields for higher prices. It has also assured farmers on numerous occasions that the system of MSP will not be affected by the passage of these three bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-groups-to-continue-protest-at-delhi-border-to-discuss-strategy-later/story-ov7oK7aAeO2GGf3QE8fnUO.html
28-11-2020||India||PM congratulates scientists at Bharat Biotech for progress in Covaxin trials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the scientists at Bharat Biotech facility at Hyderabad for the progress made by them in manufacturing Covaxin vaccine trials.“At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,” the Prime Minister tweeted after visiting the facility at Genome Valley, on the outskirts of Hyderabad.The Prime Minister landed at Hakimpet Air Force Station at around 12.55 pm. He was received by Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar, Medchal-Malkajgiri collector Swetha Mohanty, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjannar and two other officials on behalf of the state government.He later drove straightaway to Bharat Biotech International Ltd facility at Genome Valley, about 10 kilometres from there. After visiting the premises, he returned to Air Force Station by 2.40 pm and left for Pune.“We are humbled by the visit of the Prime Minister to our manufacturing facility today. We are truly honoured by this recognition,” a statement from the Bharat Biotech said.Also read: PM Modi pushes refrigerated vaccine transport boxes tie up with Luxembourg company in Gujarat At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress. pic.twitter.com/C6kkfKQlblIt said the Prime Minister’s visit serves as a great inspiration to the team of scientists, and further reinforces their commitment towards scientific discovery, solving public health issues, and the nation’s fight against Covid-19.“Covaxin, India’s first indigenous vaccine with the Phase 3 clinical trial underway, is the first largest and the only efficacy trial in the developing world involving a large number of volunteers across 25 sites,” the company claimed.It said the phase 3 trial is being conducted across India on 26,000 participants. The vaccine will be produced in the only-of-its-kind Biosafety Level 3 production facility in the world.“We take this opportunity to thank the Central government, regulators, our vaccine development partners, medical fraternity, medical investigators, including hospitals, for their relentless assistance and cooperation in the development of vaccines, also phase 3 clinical trials for Covaxin,” the statement said.“The company also appreciated every volunteer who had come forward for the trial thus far and thanked them for their service to the nation. “Bharat Biotech reiterates its commitment towards developing a safe and efficacious vaccine for all,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-congratulates-scientists-at-bharat-biotech-for-progress-in-covaxin-trials/story-SUzAQiGQFIEbSc8oiEwSjK.html
28-11-2020||India||Rajasthan woman tortured with pliers to ‘free her from evil spirit’||An alleged case of witchcraft has surfaced from Bhilwara district where a 35-year-old woman was beaten with grills and cauterised with pliers in the name of freeing her from an evil spirit, police said on Saturday. A police official from Bhilwara said the incident happened on November 21. An FIR was registered under section 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing heart) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Rajasthan Prevention of Witch-hunting Act. In her statement to police, the victim said that she, along with her relatives, had gone to visit a sorcerer in Chalaniya village of the district. “When I reached the spot, my sister-in-law and other people forcibly pulled me towards the sorcerer. I opposed it, but I failed. Later, along with the accused and his aides, I was beaten with grills, cauterised with pliers in the name of freeing spirit from my body and brutally tortured,” the statement of the victim reads. She added that the accused also took Rs 5,000 from her in the name of worshipping a local deity and freeing the spirit. “The aides of the accused threatened me with repercussions if I inform the police,” she said. “Because of the beating I was horrified and fainted. Next day my relatives who had taken me to the sorcerer took me home. I wanted to inform my husband, who was out of town, about the incident but the sorcerer had snatched the phone from me. My husband reached home after a few days. When he had called on my number, he got a reply from the sorcerer that I am sleeping and will come home in a few days,” the victim said. Shahpura additional superintendent of police Vimal Singh said the police have registered a case against the brother-in-law, sister-in-law of the victim and others. “We are investigating the case sensitively and trying our best to nab the absconding accused,” added Singh. Further investigation is on. According to the Rajasthan Prevention of Witch-hunting Act, 2015, “witch” - locally known as “dayan”, “dakan”, “dakin” - means a woman, who has been identified by any person or persons believing her to be in possession of, or as having, any evil power for causing any harm to any person or property. Occult practices involve pulling women’s hair, beating up them with a broom, iron rod and pliers and dancing in front of them with the chanting of unintelligible phrases to “liberate” them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-woman-tortured-with-pliers-to-free-her-from-evil-spirit/story-1ndHumL5VbDsdxtbBshPrM.html
28-11-2020||India||Man tortured over sexual assault, forced to eat faeces||A 20-year-old man accused of trying to sexually assault a minor girl was allegedly tortured and forced to eat human faeces in Rajasthan’s Dholpur district, police said on Saturday. A video the incident went viral on social media. Counter First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered in the case. The minor’s family has said the 20-year-old was assaulted after he attempted to sexually assault the girl, said Banay Singh, a local station house officer. He added they have registered the complaints and started an investigation..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-tortured-over-sexual-assault-forced-to-eat-faeces/story-8T42DkP93QU2LiIchtHDqK.html
28-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Devendra Fadnavis says Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra govt achieved nothing in one year and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra govt achieved nothing in one year: FadnavisBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday attacked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government as it completed its first year in office, saying it has failed on all counts. Read more‘Vague, misconceived’: Allahabad high court junks plea for direction to teach Bhagavad Gita in schoolAllahabad High Court has dismissed a plea filed “in public interest” seeking a direction that the Bhagavad Gita should be a part of the school curriculum and asked the petitioner to make a representation before the Uttar Pradesh education board instead, reports have said. Read moreCurious case of sea spewing ‘gold’ in Andhra’s Kakinada and the spirited rushHundreds of fishermen, including women and children, have been on a “gold rush” on the beaches of Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district for the last two days. Read moreGreat-grandma set to make 100 dolls for children who lost theirs in Beirut blastThe explosion which shook the capital city of Lebanon, Beirut, on August 4 led to enormous loss of life as well as infrastructure. Since then, many have offered aid and support to those affected by the incident. Read moreAlia Bhatt and Soni Razdan celebrate Shaheen’s birthday with drinks and throwback picsActor Alia Bhatt is celebrating her elder sister Shaheen Bhatt’s birthday on Saturday. She took to her Instagram Stories to share some boomerang videos from the special day. One video showed Shaheen in a car with Alia, smiling for the camera. “Let the best day ever begin,” she wrote. Read more ‘Good skills mate’: Virat Kohli replies to Harry Kane, says he can be RCB’s ‘counter-attacking batsman’India and Royal Challengers Bangalore captain replied back to England star footballer Harry Kane on Saturday and applauded his batting skills. Read moreWatch: PM Modi reviews development of Covid vaccine candidate ZyCoV-DPrime Minister Narendra Modi began his three-city visit to review coronavirus vaccine development work by going to pharma major Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, PM Modi reviewed the vaccine development process of Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-devendra-fadnavis-says-shiv-sena-led-maharashtra-govt-achieved-nothing-in-one-year-and-all-the-latest-news/story-D2H2qtDOurAusg5PRxQqkI.html
28-11-2020||India||DDC polls are for local issues, not for ‘bigger’ political problems, say voters in J&K’s Ganderbal||Several voters in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ganderbal district on Saturday said that the District Development Council (DDC) polls are to elect people who can solve basic problems and “bigger issues” like restoration of special status should be left for assembly and parliamentary elections.The eight phase DDC polls are the first elections in Jammu and Kashmir since it was reorganised as a union territory last year after the abrogation of its special status, and it is being held along with bypolls to panchayats.The first phase was held across Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday and over 22 per cent of the seven lakh voters had exercised their franchise till 11 am. Two DDC seats -- Gund-A and Gund-B -- went to polls in the central Kashmir district, which recorded a polling percentage of 23.14 till 11 am.“Political issues are for bigger platforms like the assembly or the Parliament. What role do the DDCs or for that matter panches and sarpanches have in framing laws. This is a small platform to address the developmental issues of the people at the local level,” 67-year-old Shareef-ud-Din said after voting at a polling booth in the district’s Thune area.Zahida Begum, a voter at the Government Higher Secondary School in Hariganiwan, said she came out to vote to support a local candidate who could address day-to-day issues.“We have many issues that need attention. I do not know anything about Article 370, but I want the issues of our locality to be resolved,” she said.The Centre on August 5 last year had announced abrogation of Article 370, which gave the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir special status, and divided it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.Juma Koswal, another voter, said that “bigger issues are for bigger parties to discuss”.“Yes, our identity has been snatched from us (after abrogation of special status), but this election is not for that,” he said, adding that people are voting for candidates who can solve local issues and problems.Some, including first-time voters, however said that this election was a “small fight” for restoration of special status of the erstwhile state.“This election is also important as through this we can keep those parties and people away who took away our special status,” Yaseen Ahmad said, adding that though the DDC polls had nothing to do with the issue, but “this would send a message how the people feel about last year’s decision”.The eight-phase elections are seen as a triangular contest among the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari.The PAGD -- an amalgam of several mainstream political parties, including NC and PDP, seeking the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status which was revoked by the Centre last year -- has been accusing the Bukhari-led party of being a B-Team of the BJP.Of the 1,475 candidates in the fray for 280 DDC seats, 296 candidates are in the first phase, according to officials. Many voters in the district also said that the elections should not have started at 7 am in view of the chilly weather. But as the day progressed, several turned up at polling booths to exercise their franchise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddc-polls-are-for-local-issues-not-for-bigger-political-problems-say-voters-in-j-k-s-ganderbal/story-0VXIZI8k8D9hkHfB1kX1pI.html
28-11-2020||India||Haryana CM Khattar suspects ‘unwanted elements’ among protesting farmers, cites slogans raised against PM Modi||As thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued their protest against the central government’s three agricultural reforms, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday there were inputs that there were some unwanted elements among the agitating crowds.“We have inputs of some such unwanted elements in the crowd. We have reports and will disclose once we have concrete evidence. They raised such slogans. In videos, they said ‘jab Indira Gandhi ko ye kar sakte hain, to Modi ko kyu nahi kar sakte,” Khattar said after he was asked by a reporter whether there was a Khalistani connection.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that a Khalistani agenda was being orchestrated during the ongoing protests in Punjab. The BJP’s I-T cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted a video on Friday where a man could be heard threatening Prime Minister Narendra Modi by referring to Indira Gandhi’s assassination if the talks on December 3 failed to resolve the issues of farmers. #WATCH We've inputs of some such unwanted elements in crowd. We've reports, will disclose once it's concrete. They raised such slogans. In videos they said 'jab Indira Gandhi ko ye kar sakte hain, to Modi ko kyu nahi kar sakte': Haryana CM on Khalistan elements in #FarmerProtest pic.twitter.com/ZZQrDTfDA0Meanwhile, Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar assured the protesting farmers that the Centre is ready for talks with farm unions on December 3 and urged all political parties to ‘playing politics in the name of farmers’.The Haryana chief minister had earlier appealed to the farmers to discontinue their protests adding they should directly talk to the Centre for all their legitimate issues and that solution will only come through conversation.Also Read: Farmers from Punjab, Haryana hold up supplies to Delhi by blocking its borders“The central government is always ready for talks. I appeal to all the farming brothers to directly talk to the Centre for all their legitimate issues. The movement is not its way - the solution will come out of the conversation,” Khattar’s tweet on Friday roughly translated from Hindi read.Multiple clashes have been reported in the past few days between the agitating farmers and the police in Delhi, Haryana and other adjoining states with the latter resorting to tear gas, water cannons and barricades to disperse the protesting farmers. On Friday evening, the Delhi Police allowed these farmers to enter the national capital and carry out peaceful demonstrations at the Samagam Ground in Burari.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’The farmers have been asking for the removal of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The laws were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament in September.While the Narendra Modi-led government has said these laws would eliminate middlemen and enable farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, farmers fear that big corporations would exercise control over them. Farmers also fear they would be denied the right to the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce, thereby disrupting timely payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-khattar-suspects-unwanted-elements-among-protesting-farmers-cites-slogans-raised-against-pm-modi/story-lBE6KSTv3nrjfrxA1DfXFO.html
28-11-2020||India||Tripura Hindu outfit seeks nationwide law to curb ‘Love Jihad’||The Hindu Jagaran Mancha in Tripura is demanding an effective law to curb alleged ‘love jihad’ across the country and nearly 300 members of the outfit blocked the National Highway at Subhash bridge in Udaipur of Gomati district on Friday in support of their demand. Citing instances of alleged ‘love jihad’ across the country and claiming that incidents like the recent abduction and rape of a Hindu minor girl at Boxanagar-- a border village in Sepahijala district— by a youth from a minority community were on the rise, the agitators demanded a stringent law to curb forced interfaith relationships. A case was registered on October 27 against the youth under Section 366 (A), 376 and 4 of POCSO Act. Within a few days after her abduction during the Durga puja festivities, the minor girl was recovered from Durlabhnarayan area in the district, but the accused is yet to be arrested. “The protesters demanded a strict law to check love jihad. The prime accused in the abduction and rape of the minor is absconding and police investigation is on to trace the accused,” said Dhrubha Nath, Udaipur sub divisional police officer.“Around nine cases of Love Jihad were lodged at different police stations in Tripura during the Covid-19 pandemic. No accused has been arrested in any of these cases. A law can act as a safeguard for such cases,” said Uttam Dey, Jagaran Mancha president.Also Read: ‘Love jihad’ funded by foreign nations, conspiracy against India: MP MinisterHowever the police rejected the claim and said no such case related to purported ‘love jihad’ was lodged in the state in past three-four months. The protest comes on a day when Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories.Also Read: Ordinance against forcible religious conversions gets UP Governor’s nodUttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 has been brought in by the Yogi Adityanath government to curb religious conversions only for the sake of marriage. According to the ordinance, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate.Madhya Pradesh government has also indicated that it would double the duration of sentence to 10-years of rigorous imprisonment from a 5 year sentence for cases of forceful religious conversions and marriages by enticement or fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hindu-outfit-seeks-nationwide-law-to-curb-love-jihad/story-hdXgAEZOBXS29YLO38ImzO.html
28-11-2020||India||Cosmos Malabaricus: India, Netherlands to release ‘treasure trove’ of Dutch archival records on Kerala||A project highlighting Kerala’s history based on 17th-century Dutch records and aimed at making records of already digitised archival material from the government in the Netherlands accessible to a larger base of readers, including scholars from India and the world, is soon going to be launched. The Cosmos Malabaricus project is currently under consideration of authorities from India and the Netherlands.The Indian embassy in the Netherlands, in a tweet, said the Cosmos Malabaricus project was a seven-year-old collaboration and initiatives have been taken to discuss the project with various stakeholders. “Cosmos Malabaricus a 7-year collaboration to shed light into history of Kerala using archival material pertaining to Dutch East India Company available in India & the Netherlands was discussed between various stakeholders in online discussion at the initiative of Indian Embassy,” the Indian embassy tweeted on Friday. Cosmos Malabaricus a 7-year collaboration to shed light into history of Kerala using archival material pertaining to Dutch East India Company available in India & the Netherlands was discussed between various stakeholders in online discussion at the initiative of Indian Embassy pic.twitter.com/PvdUNx7UCYDutch historical archives from the 17th century will be translated and summaries published in English for the people of Kerala and others, a statement from the Indian embassy in the Netherlands said, according to news agency PTI.The statement hailed the information, written in the classic 17th-century Dutch language, as a “treasure trove” having descriptions of political and military organisations, dynastic developments, economic matters, social and religious aspects of Kerala between 1643 and 1852. It is available for audiences in the Netherlands, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in India, the statement said.In October 2019, King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands visited India on their first official state visit to the country, during which an agreement was signed between National Archives of the Netherlands and Kerala State Archives for the digitalisation of Dutch records in Kerala, the statement said.Venu Rajamony, the outgoing Indian ambassador to the Netherlands, was thanked by the participants in Friday’s online discussion regarding the Cosmos Malabaricus project for his efforts in facilitating it. Arjen Uijterlinde, the ambassador for International Cultural Cooperation from the Dutch ministry of foreign affairs, tweeted “Virtual gathering this morning discussed “Cosmos Malabaricus” - a joint collaboration #research project into the history of #Kerala using Dutch #archivesindia. Thank you, Ambassador @venurajamony for bringing stakeholders together & hosting this meeting! #sharedheritage.” Virtual gathering this morning discussed "Cosmos Malabaricus" - a joint collaboration #research project into the history of #Kerala using Dutch #archivesindia. Thank you, Ambassador @venurajamony for bringing stakeholders together & hosting this meeting! #sharedheritage 🇳🇱🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/qSbW6cFhD6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cosmos-malabaricus-india-netherlands-to-release-treasure-trove-of-dutch-archival-records-on-kerala/story-TWFBrDy47MVhaqsigdlKWJ.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Government thrives on publicity and advertisement’, says Congress as it targets AAP over state of healthcare in Delhi||Seeking to corner the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP )government over the situation of health services in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress on Saturday accused it of thriving only on publicity despite failing to do ground-level work.Addressing a press conference at the Delhi Congress office, party spokesperson Pawan Khera cited data to claim that in the last five years, the AAP government has failed to open even one new hospital in the city.“This is a government which thrives on publicity and advertisement. But the ground reality is exposed at the time of a crisis like the Corona pandemic faced by us,” Khera said.No immediate reaction was available immediately from the ruling AAP.Khera also took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to three cities to take stock of the development of vaccines against Covid-19, claiming everything has been turned into “event management”.“The government of India should have a clear policy over how and when it will allocate the vaccine among different categories as Rahul Gandhi has sought to know. Work should be done first, publicity can wait,” he said.Sharpening his attack on the ruling AAP dispensation, Khera alleged that it has added only 776 beds in government hospitals in its over five years in power despite promising 30,000 beds in its election manifesto. He also claimed that the Kejriwal government could not start and finish even a single new hospital.“This year, when Covid-19 pandemic is being faced by the people, the Delhi government has managed to spend only 25 per cent of its allocation on health services. It has also reduced the expenditure on the health sector that was 0.84 per cent of the GSDP,” he alleged, citing data.Khera also claimed that even though the AAP government promised construction of 1,000 Mohalla Clinics, just over 200 were functioning currently.“The Delhi government has failed to do ground level work, and Delhi people are facing the consequences of its mistakes,” he said.The All India Congress Committee(AICC) spokesperson also accused the Delhi government of indulging in blame games with the Centre and other states over crop stubble burning.Experts claim crop stubble burning contributes only 10 per cent to air pollution, he said. So, the Delhi government is accountable for the remaining 90 per cent, Khera added, alleging it has failed to show “seriousness” on addressing the problem of pollution in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-thrives-on-publicity-and-advertisement-says-congress-as-it-targets-aap-over-state-of-healthcare-in-delhi/story-ySWw3rc12sH3zAqiMAGpWN.html
28-11-2020||India||China sending defence minister to Nepal days after Indian foreign secretary’s visit||China is sending defence minister Wei Fenghe to Nepal for a day-long visit on Sunday, just days after India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla wrapped up a trip to Kathmandu aimed at boosting bilateral ties affected by a border row. Nepal’s foreign ministry announced the visit by Wei, a general in the People’s Liberation Army who also holds the rank of state councillor in the Chinese cabinet, on Saturday. A brief statement issued by the foreign ministry in Kathmandu said Wei will make a one-day working visit to Nepal on November 29. Wei will meet President Bidya Devi Bhandari, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio, and the army chief, Gen Purna Chandra Thapa, during his day-long trip, the statement said. There was no official word from Beijing on the visit. Wei will be the senior-most Chinese leader to visit Nepal since a trip to Kathmandu by President Xi Jinping in September last year. He will be in Nepal barely two days after Shringla concluded his two-day trip to Nepal. Shringla, who travelled to Nepal after back-to-back visits by Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) head Samant Goel, had focused on ways to take forward the bilateral relationship, especially cooperation on connectivity and cross-border infrastructure, during his high-level meetings in Kathmandu. People familiar with developments had said the two sides also focused on the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities in the discussions during Shringla’s visit. India-Nepal ties had taken a hit when Kathmandu issued a new political map in May that laid claim to Kalapani region, which is controlled by India, after New Delhi opened a new road to the strategic Lipulekh region. India rejected the map and Shringla, during his meetings, discussed ways to take forward the border issue through appropriate bilateral mechanisms. China has stepped up efforts to increase its influence in Nepal in recent years, including investments in major projects and an outreach to the leadership of the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP). Reports have suggested that Beijing played a key role in the unification of two leftist parties to create NCP. China’s ambassador to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, frequently meets leaders of NCP, including co-chairs Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal. When differences between the two leaders spilled into the open in July, Hou had reportedly played a key role in keeping the party united. The Chinese defence minister will be presented a guard of honour at the Nepal Army headquarters and discussions between the two sides are expected to look at the resumption of Chinese military aid, Nepal Army spokesperson Brig Gen Santosh Ballav Paudyal was quoted as saying by The Kathmandu Post. Nepal and China had signed an agreement for a 150-million RMB military assistance package during former Nepalese defence minister Ishwor Pokharel’s visit to Beijing last year and a protocol to this deal is expected to be signed during Wei’s visit, The Post reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sending-defence-minister-to-nepal-days-after-indian-foreign-secretary-s-visit/story-b29wUefPSAWdW4Fe3QaaXI.html
28-11-2020||India||UP bans unlawful religious conversions with immediate effect||The Uttar Pradesh government has banned “unlawful religious conversions” with immediate effect as governor Anandiben Patel promulgated the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance on Saturday. The ordinance has stricter provisions to check religious conversions carried out by allurement, coercion, use of force or fraudulent means, and for marrying women with the objective of converting them to other religions.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet approved on Tuesday the draft ordinance that prescribes up to 10 years imprisonment for those found guilty of such conversions. The promulgation comes a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term the Hindu right uses to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.“…the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance has been promulgated,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi.The ordinance makes violations of its provisions cognisable and non-bailable offences. It authorises “aggrieved parents, siblings or close relatives” to file first information reports over the violations.“If any person reconverts to his/her immediate previous religion, the same shall not be deemed to be a religious conversion,” says the ordinance.An official spokesman said those violating the provisions may be punished with imprisonment of one to five years with a fine of not less than Rs 15,000. In cases of conversions of minors or those belonging to the scheduled castes or the scheduled tribes, the imprisonment will be for two to 10 years and a fine up to Rs 25,000. In cases of mass conversions, the ordinance provides for imprisonment of three to 10 years and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000. It provides for courts to award appropriate compensation with a maximum of Rs 5 lakh payable by the accused to the victim. If an accused, already convicted of an offence under the ordinance, is convicted again he/she shall face double the punishment.Any person, who counsels or convinces the other person to commit an offence under the ordinance, will also invite punishment. The burden of proof will lie on the accused.Any person willing to convert to another religion would have to give a declaration at least 60 days in advance to the respective district magistrate/additional district magistrate. Any violation will lead to a punishment of six months to three years in prison with a fine of Rs 10,000. Any religious converter, who performs the conversion ceremony, will have to give a month’s notice about such proposed ceremony and violation will result in one to five years imprisonment with a fine of Rs 25,000.An inquiry will thereafter be conducted about the intention/purpose of conversion and the violation of this provision will have the effect of rendering such conversion null and void. A converted person will have to make another declaration on the prescribed format within six months after conversion.The ordinance also provides for cancellation of registration of institutions/organisations violating its provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bans-unlawful-religious-conversions-with-immediate-effect/story-pdh8flvrLcHUHc25vUwxqN.html
28-11-2020||India||Will immunise Delhi within 3-4 weeks after Covid-19 vaccine becomes available, says Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said on Saturday that the coronavirus vaccine will be administered to all residents of the national capital within 3-4 weeks of its availability. The government will make use of polyclinics to administer vaccines in the national capital. “Whenever the vaccine is available in Delhi, within 3-4 weeks it will be administered all over the national capital with the help of our health facilities such as polyclinics” Jain said to ANI. Jain’s statement comes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits three cities to review the vaccine development process on Saturday. Narendra Modi visited Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and Bharat Biotech’s vaccine facility in Hyderabad and is scheduled to visit the Serum Institute of India(SII) in Pune, which has partnered with AstraZeneca and Oxford University for the coronavirus vaccine. Bharat Biotech has partnered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for an India-made Covid-19 vaccine, by using the virus strain isolated by ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The indigenous Covaxin is currently undergoing phase-3 trials at several locations.As of Saturday, India had 4,54,940 active coronavirus cases, with 87,59,969 discharged after treatment and 1,36,200 deaths, according to the data published by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Mohfw).Delhi has been battling a surge in infection and currently has 5,56,744 total cases out of which 38,181 are active cases, 5,09,654 have recovered, and 8,909 have lost their lives, according to the data published by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-immunise-delhi-within-3-4-weeks-after-covid-19-vaccine-becomes-available-says-satyendra-jain/story-OmbjYHDCJnQOQSLGHrddIO.html
28-11-2020||India||Govt revises safety standards for two-wheeler helmets: Here’s what you need to know||The government has said only helmets certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) would be manufactured and sold in India for drivers of two-wheelers in order to help protect citizens from fatal injuries.“Only BIS certified two-wheeler helmets would be manufactured and sold in the country. This would help in avoiding the sale of low-quality helmets in the country, which would, in turn, help in protecting citizens involved in two-wheeler accidents from fatal injuries,” the Union ministry of road transport and highways said a release.The International Road Federation, a Geneva-based global road safety body working for better and safer roads worldwide, has welcomed the road transport ministry’s move to bring helmets for two-wheeler riders under the mandatory BIS regime.Here is what you need to know:1. Compulsory BIS certification and publication of the Quality Control Order is necessary for the sale of protective helmets, according to the road transport ministry’s Helmet for riders of two-wheelers motor vehicles (quality control) order, 2020.2. The release has said a committee on road safety was formulated for considering lighter helmets in India suiting the country’s climatic conditions, according to the directions of the Supreme Court, and for ensuring compliance amongst citizen to wear the helmets.3. The committee had experts from different fields, including expert doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and BIS. In March 2018, after a detailed analysis, the committee, in its report, recommended lighter helmets in the country, and the ministry it.4. BIS has revised specifications for making lighter helmets as per the recommendations of the committee.5. “With good competition in the Indian markets and with numerous helmet manufacturers, now it is expected that the competition would enable demand for good quality and lighter helmets,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-revises-safety-standards-for-two-wheeler-helmets-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-iGgYoNDA5D9xXbE4wi342N.html
28-11-2020||India||Traffic movement hit in key roads of Delhi as police keep Singhu, Tikri borders closed||Traffic movement was affected on key roads in Delhi on Saturday as police kept the Singhu and the Tikri borders closed for vehicles.The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted that traffic movement was not allowed from Azadpur and Outer Ring Road towards the Singhu border.“We appeal to commuters to avoid travelling towards the Singhu and Tikri borders, Mukarba Chowk, NH-44, GT-Karnal Road and Outer Ring Road,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chaudhary said.Also Read |  Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’Saturday being a holiday for most office goers, the traffic situation in other parts is better than Friday, she said.On Friday, the Delhi Police had curtailed movement at several places, including Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurugram, Singhu and Chilla, to prevent protesting farmers from entering Delhi.Sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road, NH-44 were also closed.The restrictions led to chaos and confusion among commuters who were stuck for hours.Some of the chaos eased out later in the day after police allowed the farmers to enter the national capital.Also Read | Farmers protest: Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon, charged with ‘attempt to murder’Farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have called a ‘Delhi Chalo’ march through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.They have been demanding that the central government repeal the new farm laws, which, they say, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-movement-hit-in-key-roads-of-delhi-as-police-keep-singhu-tikri-borders-closed/story-bUGlGMkDY9meR186JSdufK.html
28-11-2020||India||Curious case of sea spewing ‘gold’ in Andhra’s Kakinada and the spirited rush||Hundreds of fishermen, including women and children, have been on a “gold rush” on the beaches of Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district for the last two days.Braving heavy rain and cold weather, these people, mostly from Uppada and Suradapeta villages of U Kothapalli block, have been sieving the beach sand hoping to find grains and beads of gold that could have washed ashore due to high tidal waves caused by recent Cyclone Nivar.“According to our information, four or five fishermen who came to the seaside on Friday morning happened to find some golden beads on the sand and that fetched them a few hundred rupees. Within no time, the news spread like wildfire and the villagers have started flocking the beach in search of gold beads and grains,” U Kothapalli sub-inspector of police B Lova Raju told Hindustan Times.Holding umbrellas, the villagers searched all along the Uppada beach and sieved the sand using fishing nets, combs and even clothes. “However, hardly a few people were lucky to find them. But the villagers have not lost their hope,” the SI said.Asked how the golden beads or grains were washed ashore, Raju said a few houses and a couple of old temples on the coast had been washed away during the last month’s heavy rain and some of them might have lost small pieces of gold.“It is also common that people who come to pilgrim centres in the nearby areas leave some small gold pieces in the sea while taking holy baths. During the latest Cyclone Nivar, some of these small gold objects might have washed ashore in tidal waves,” Raju said.He said had there been big pieces of gold, the revenue authorities would have plunged into action by now. “It is not exactly sea spewing gold on the shore. They are minute pieces that would hardly fetch them a couple of thousands of rupees. However, the police have kept a vigil,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curious-case-of-sea-spewing-gold-in-andhra-s-kakinada-and-the-spirited-rush/story-9FwWkChjzNvMdO6qYt0jtI.html
28-11-2020||India||Are diamonds really being found in Nagaland? All you need to know||Nagaland has been in news after photos and videos of diamonds being found in Wanching, a village in Mon district of the state, went viral on social media. The video clips and photographs showed villagers gathered in large numbers, digging soil on a hillock and displaying small crystalline finds on their palms. But are those crystallines really diamonds? Not quite.Here is all you need to know about Nagaland’s diamond rush1. The rush started early this week. The district administration is trying to solve the mystery as the stones were found near the surface and not deep underground. 2. The state government had also deployed a team of geologists to look into the issue. 3. The team of four geologists constituted by the geology and mining department on Saturday has reportedly affirmed that the glittering rocks are not diamonds but just quartz crystals. The team that was supposed to reach the district by November 30 or December 1 reached early to investigate after all the media buzz around the rocks.4. The state is known to have latent gold and diamond store due to the ‘ophiolite’ rocks on its crust. According to geologists, ‘ophiolite’ refers to slices of what used to be ocean floors before thrusting with the continental crust more than 65 million years ago to form Himalayan peaks of today.5. As per an Indo-German study published in an issue of journal ‘Current Science’ three years ago, the Indo-Myanmar ranges contain a manganese-consisiting mineral called “manganilmenite” which is found in the ophiolite rocks and hence can potentially be a site for micro diamonds. Micro diamonds are minuscule-sized diamonds with size less than one millimeter.6. Bibhuranjan Nayak of the CSIR-Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology in Bhubaneswar, one of the authors of the study said that manganese-rich manganilmenite is a rare element and is known to be diamond indicators.Also Read | CBI raids 45 premises in 3 states, including Bengal over ‘coal mafia’, bribery cases7. Professor GT Thong from Nagaland University’s department of geology had disputed the diamond claim and asserted that the glittering stones are not diamonds. They are just quartz crystals that are commonly found in Nagaland, he said adding that some people were trying to misguide poor villagers by spreading this false narrative in the district.8. The village council too doubted the diamond claim and had prohibited the villagers from posting any photos or videos relating to the stones on the internet. The council has also restricted the entry of outsiders in the village, especially of the diamond hunters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-diamonds-really-being-found-in-nagaland-all-you-need-to-know/story-rY2KkAohF5F79y90CS8IyH.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Vague, misconceived’: Allahabad high court junks plea for direction to teach Bhagavad Gita in school||Allahabad High Court has dismissed a plea filed “in public interest” seeking a direction that the Bhagavad Gita should be a part of the school curriculum and asked the petitioner to make a representation before the Uttar Pradesh education board instead, reports have said. The petitioner, Brahma Shanker Shashtri, wanted the Gita to be taught as one of the subjects to students of all classes “in the overall interest of the society”.A bench of justice Pankaj Mithal and justice Saurabh Lavania said on Wednesday that Shashtri’s petition was “vague and misconceived” while observing that he may approach an appropriate authority such as Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Uttar Pradesh or any other concerned board or university in the state.“The writ petition as filed is completely vague and misconceived and is dismissed...” the high court bench said. “In case, the petitioner wants to include Bhagavad Geeta as one of the subjects in the syllabus of intermediate, he may approach the appropriate authority such as Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Uttar Pradesh or any other board or university concerned, which he considers proper for including it as a subject or as a part of the syllabus of one of the subjects,” it observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vague-misconceived-allahabad-high-court-junks-plea-for-direction-to-teach-bhagavad-gita-in-school/story-cJNdOEoIGhI1RLCEI0R0EP.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi pushes refrigerated vaccine transport boxes tie up with Luxembourg company in Gujarat||With a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) round the corner, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken up the offer of his counterpart in Luxembourg, Xavier Bettel, for setting up of a specialised refrigerated vaccine transportation plant in Gujarat to ensure last mile drug delivery to villages all over the country.According to official sources based in Delhi and Ahmedabad, Luxembourg firm B Medical Systems is sending a high-level team to Gujarat next week to set up a vaccine cold chain including solar vaccine refrigerators, freezers and transport boxes. As the setting up of a full-fledged plant will require nearly two years, the company has decided to start by getting only the refrigeration boxes from Luxembourg and source the best content from the domestic market under the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” programme. The refrigerated transport boxes will be able to deliver vaccine between four degrees Celsius to 20 below zero even though the Luxembourg-based company has the technology to transport vaccine 80 below zero degrees Celsius.Also Read: EU seeks early meeting of mechanism to discuss trade agreement with IndiaSantosh Jha, India’s ambassador to the European Union, virtually met CEO and deputy CEO of the company on November 20 to finalise the arrangements with Gujarat. While the refrigerated boxes, powered by solar, kerosene, gas and electricity, are expected to be ready for delivery by March 2021, the B Medical Systems company will set up a full-fledged plant in Gujarat in phase II for not only supplying to Indian requirement but also exporting it to other countries.Also Read: Fresh Covid-19 infection 4% lower than yesterday, total tally crosses 9.3 million-markOfficial sources said the proposal was made by Bettel to PM Modi during the first bilateral summit on November 19. Given the concerns over last-mile delivery of vaccines in India, PM Modi immediately grabbed at the opportunity and the proposal was pushed at both ends with the company establishing contact with Gujarat government.B Medical Systems is a Luxembourg based pioneer in the medical equipment industry. It was founded in 1979 when the World Health Organization (WHO) approached the mother company Electrolux in Vianden to provide a solution for safely storing and transporting vaccines all over the world. The company is also a world leader in blood bank and plasma storage refrigerators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pushes-refrigerated-vaccine-transport-boxes-tie-up-with-luxembourg-company-in-gujarat/story-wxo9l18Ne9Yse16cNXrtcN.html
28-11-2020||India||All that glitters isn’t diamond but quartz, say geologists about Nagaland stones||A day after the Nagaland government ordered an investigation to verify claims of diamonds being found in Wanching village in Nagaland’s Mon district, a team of geologists on Saturday confirmed that the glittering rocks dug out by villagers are not diamonds but quartz crystal, district officials said.A set of photographs and video clips showing villagers gathered in large numbers digging a small hill in the village looking for purported diamonds had gone viral on social media this week.It all started after some villagers found several crystals while working in the forest and informed others in the village on the presumption that they were diamonds.Geologists were unconvinced that the small crystals were actual diamonds right from the word go, since there were no records of diamonds being present in the region.A professor from Nagaland University’s department of geology on Friday said the shiny stones were ordinary quartz crystals and were found in different parts of Nagaland.The team of geologists from the state geology and mining department, who were tasked to investigate the claims, had also apparently drawn similar conclusions.Although the team was initially stated to reach the village on November 30, since the issue became a hot topic of discussion, the team of experts arrived early, an official said.Also Read: ‘Diamond rush’ in Nagaland village, govt deputes geologists to investigateHe said the team took samples for analysis on Friday evening. The team will be submitting its official report in the ensuing week.Meanwhile, a village development board member Shijong said it was good that the team of geologists had arrived early and shed light on the confusion. On being queried if the villagers were disappointed with the finding of the experts, he replied in the negative.“Just by seeing the glittery stones, for which we don’t have a name, the villagers started calling them diamonds. And some ignorant people circulated pictures of it on social media. When we don’t know what actual diamonds are, there is no reason for us to feel disappointed,” Shijong said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-that-glitters-isn-t-diamond-but-quartz-say-geologists-about-nagaland-stones/story-R5pSt6prsxbX62mxhUsXZP.html
28-11-2020||India||Disability rights organization to send sipper to Taloja jail for Stan Swamy||Tribal activist Stan Swamy’s painful wait for a sipper cannot be tolerated any longer, said a prominent disability rights organisation that is planning to send the drinking aid to the jailed octogenarian, who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease.The 83-year-old was arrested from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case and is lodged at the Taloja Jail in Mumbai.The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled’s(NPRD) reaction came after a special court in Mumbai on Thursday again rejected Swamy’s application for a straw and sipper, and sought a response from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on his request.The court will hear the matter on December 4.The agency had earlier this month sought 20 days time to respond to the activist’s request for a straw and sipper, and had said it did not take these items from Swamy during his arrest, as claimed by the activist.“The painful wait that Swamy will have to endure for a sipper cannot be tolerated any longer. December 4, when the very same court decides again, is seven days away. Stan cannot be refused fluids for such a long period. The NPRD and its affiliating units have therefore decided to send sippers to the jailor of Taloja Jail, Maharashtra, to be given to Stan Swamy,” the NPRD said in a statement.It also appealed to all disability rights organisations, activists and all those who seek justice for the activist and stand in defence of his rights to join this campaign and send sippers to Swamy.“It took 20 long days for the NIA to come up with a claim that they did not seize these items from Stan’s possession. Even if we accept the NIA’s contention, the special court should have taken a humanitarian view and ordered that he be provided with an utensil that would assist him in intaking fluids including water. The refusal to do so is atrocious to say the least,” the NPRD said.Swamy is a person living with Parkinson’s disease, which is a condition recognised as disabling as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, it said and expressed outrage at the continued denial of a sipper and straw to the activist.The NPRD said that “as per various laws and international conventions to which India is a signatory, it is obligatory that Stan Swamy be provided with requisite age and disability appropriate requirements, assistive aids including straws and sippers as also human care assistance”.“Denial of the same constitutes a violation of his basic rights,” it said.Swamy, was arrested for his alleged role inciting mob violence in Koregaon Bhima near Pune in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disability-rights-organization-to-send-sipper-to-taloja-jail-for-stan-swamy/story-a22YPI17l1lV30IA0xyQ3O.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Why no ordinance for farmers, jobless youth?’ Akhilesh reacts to UP’s ‘love jihad’ law||Soon after Uttar Pradesh became the first state to bring law prohibiting forced religious conversions as Governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to the ordinance, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav said his party will oppose the ordinance in the assembly. “Instead of this, bring an ordinance for the procurement of farmers’ produce. bring an ordinance that will give employment to jobless youth,” Akhilesh said clarifying that his party is against the ordinance.The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 has been promulgated with the approval of the governor.The state cabinet presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier this week approved the draft ordinance to curb forcible or “dishonest” religious conversions including those for the sake of marriage, which could land violators in jail for up to 10 years.According to it, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-ordinance-for-farmers-jobless-youth-akhilesh-reacts-to-up-s-love-jihad-law/story-czC1gDcr3UGQwIassmot7I.html
28-11-2020||India||Yediyurappa’s political secy in hospital, suicide attempt suspected||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary, NR Santhosh, was hospitalised on Friday night after he consumed sleeping pills, people aware of the matter said. His condition was said to be stable, they added. Santhosh consumed the pills after some videos of Yediyurappa were apparently leaked and purportedly showed him discussing whom to drop and to induct into his cabinet.Yediyurappa’s son and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader, BY Vijayendra, rubbished suggestions that Santhosh was blamed or asked to quit over the videos.Santhosh’s wife, Jahnavi, said they have no family issues but her husband was worried about work-related matters. “The chief minister visited my husband and reassured me that they would stand by my family,” she said. The Bengaluru police have registered a First Information Report under Indian Penal Code’s Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) in the case and said further investigations were on. Congress leader DK Shivakumar said he has also heard about the video leaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-s-political-secy-in-hospital-suicide-attempt-suspected/story-tFYiVRQdqLVQ0Eu6n8FdUO.html
28-11-2020||India||India, Maldives, Sri Lanka trilateral meet on maritime security begins||A trilateral meeting on maritime security cooperation between India, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives began on Saturday, the Indian High Commission said.Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena was the chief guest at the event.India is represented by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, who arrived here yesterday. While Maldives foreign minister Mariya Didi and Sri Lankan Defence Secretary Major General (Retd.) Kamal Gunaratne represented their countries during the talks.“The tri-lateral meeting among India, Sri Lanka and Maldives on maritime and security cooperation gets underway. Minister @DCRGunawardena was the chief guest at the event,” the high commission tweeted.This will be the first NSA level meeting on Trilateral Maritime Security Cooperation. Besides Doval, Sri Lankan Defence Secretary Major General (Retd).The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that the NSA-level trilateral meeting has served as an effective platform for cooperation among Indian Ocean countries.The mechanism is being revived after six years as earlier meetings were held in 2011 in the Maldives, in 2013 in Sri Lanka, and in 2014 in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-sri-lanka-trilateral-meet-on-maritime-security-begins/story-4Ryjfw8mTe1rieX40N38TN.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi hails Zydus Biotech Park team’s work after visit, to visit Bharat Biotech facility next||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the Covid-19 vaccine development at Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and appreciated the team for work done on Zydus Cadila’s candidate before starting for Bharat Biotech’s facility in Telangana.“Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey,” he tweeted.Also Read: AstraZeneca manufacturing error clouds vaccine study resultsIn his interaction with scientists and company officials, PM Modi was briefed about the vaccine development work and the vaccine production procedure at the plant, according to PTI. Also Watch | PM Modi reviews development of Covid vaccine candidate ZyCoV-DPhase-I clinical trial of Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D is over and it has commenced phase-II clinical trials from August, the company had announced.Also Read: No complaint from volunteers given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin: Ahmedabad doctorThe PM, who is on a three-city tour to take stock of the Covid-19 vaccine development work, has arrived in Hyderabad to visit Bharat Biotech’s facility. Biotech has partnered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for a country-made Covid-19 vaccine using the virus strain isolated by ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) based in Pune.After assessing the progress made in manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, which is undergoing phase-3 trials, the prime minister will fly to Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII). The SII has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-zydus-biotech-park-team-s-work-after-visit-next-stop-bharat-biotech-facility/story-EpVWK0d8eNI8DJKuxFo0AK.html
28-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI raids 40 premises in 3 states, including Bengal, over ‘coal mafia’, bribery cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CBI raids 40 premises in three states, including Bengal over ‘coal mafia’, bribery casesThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday carried out raids at around 40 premises in three states, including West Bengal, as part of an ongoing investigation over alleged coal mafia and bribery cases. Read more‘Jawan versus Kisan’: Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo, says ‘this is very dangerous’Several photos of farmers reaching the Capital braving Police’s tear gas, water cannon have gone viral on social media. Sharing one of them in which a jawan can be seen aiming his baton at a protesting farmer, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said it is a very sad photo. Read moreFarmers protest: Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon, charged with ‘attempt to murder’The video of a young Ambala farmer jumping on the water cannon from his tractor trolley and turning it off during farmers’ agitation in on National Highway 44 had gone viral on social media. Read moreYogi Adityanath reviews Dev Deepawali preparationsUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday reviewed preparations for the Dev Deepawali celebrations to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on November 30. Read moreMaharashtra surgeon held for patient’s ‘unnecessary’ examination gets bailNagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail to a surgeon from Maharashtra’s Akola, who was earlier booked and arrested for alleged rape and sodomy while conducting ‘unnecessary’ clinical examination of a patient. Read moreBIS-certified helmets made compulsory for two-wheelersThe government on Friday said only Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)-certified helmets would be manufactured and sold in India for two-wheelers. Read moreHarsh Goenka lists 6 things people should do in their youth. Do you practice these?Harsh Goenka often shares posts that are simultaneously exciting and educational from his official Twitter account. His latest share is no exception to the rule. The tweet, which lists six things people should do in their youth, may fascinate you. Read moreFabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives review: All bark no bite, this desi Netflix show fails to get even trash TV rightWhat was supposed to be a collective exercise for us to laugh with (and mostly at) the real housewives of Juhu, has been turned into yet another panegyric in the glory of Bollywood superstars, this time Shah Rukh and his wife Gauri Khan. Read more‘There is one sitting at home’: Hardik suggests India can ‘look in the Pandya family’ for next all-rounderHardik Pandya, who scored a career-best 90 against Australia in the first ODI at the Sydney Cricket Ground, which unfortunately went in vain, reckons India need to groom their next all-rounder. Read more‘All I know is Kangana Ranaut called Mumbai ‘PoK’: Sanjay Raut on HC rulingShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Bombay High Court’s verdict on Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow demolition case was Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) legal matter. He said, “All I know is this actress called Mumbai Police mafia and Mumbai ‘PoK’. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-raids-40-premises-in-3-states-including-bengal-over-coal-mafia-bribery-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ne4rnpSXFnW3B8FjhAhj8H.html
28-11-2020||India||Gold worth Rs 81.2 lakh seized from Kozhikode Airport||The Air Intelligence Unit on Friday seized over 1.6 kilograms of gold valued approximately at Rs 81.2 lakhs from two passengers in two separate instances at the Kozhikode International Airport in Kerala. According to the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive), in the first instance, about 1.6 kg gold worth approximately Rs 77 lakh was seized from inside a battery case of a Bluetooth speaker from a passenger travelling from Jeddah in Saudi Arabia. In the second incident, 87 grams of gold worth Rs 4.2 lakh was seized from a passenger travelling from Dubai. The gold was brought in liquid form mixed with chemicals and concealed in perfume bottles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-worth-rs-81-2-lakh-seized-from-kozhikode-airport/story-nikW0lgnw1rlfNyqiiv4NJ.html
28-11-2020||India||TMC MLAs have lost faith in Mamata govt: Dilip Ghosh||Trinamool Congress MLAs and ministers have lost faith in the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday.Speaking to reporters, he asked that if TMC MLAs are unable to trust the party then how the common people will.“Didi has failed in disaster management of the state and now is busy with the disaster management of the party.Now, such meetings will be more frequent as many have lined up to join BJP,” Ghosh said, referring to an emergency meeting at the chief minister’s residence after TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation.He said party president JP Nadda is expected to arrive in the state on December 8 or 9.“TMC’s days are over. They have the police in their control, even then people are joining us, which means the party is now finished,” Ghosh said.On Friday, TMC MLA Mihir Goswami quit the party and joined the BJP, saying he looked forward to a “new political era” in the state in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision.“Goswami’s joining is just the beginning, more will follow in the coming months,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mlas-have-lost-faith-in-mamata-govt-dilip-ghosh/story-pdJamPx8n478kNVR4ZD0AK.html
28-11-2020||India||Gauhati HC stays Nagaland government’s ban on dog meat||The Kohima Bench of Gauhati high court has stayed the Nagaland government’s order to ban the commercial import and trade of dog meat in markets and restaurants.The court issued the interim stay on November 25 after the state government failed to file a reply.A bench headed by justice S Hukato Swu pronounced the order stating that the impugned order dated July 4, 2020 may be stayed until the next returnable date. It directed the state respondents to file their affidavit-in-reply and the matter is to be listed after the winter vacation.The ban on the sale of dogs for meat in Nagaland came into effect on July 4 after the state cabinet decided to impose a ban on the commercial import and trading of dogs, dog markets and the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked.Also Read: Assam organisations continue blockade at Nagaland border, residents restiveThe move had evoked mixed reactions from the Naga people. Although, there are many Nagas who do not consume dog meat, it is considered more than a delicacy for Nagas and certain other communities in the region. The meat is believed to have medicinal values as well.On September 2, a petition was filed by traders licensed under the Kohima Municipal Council for importing dogs and selling dog meat, challenging the legal basis and jurisdiction regarding the ban. The petitioners are of the view that the notification wrongly interpreted and relied on the Food Safety Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-nagaland-government-s-ban-on-dog-meat/story-B19J2jV5cf5zGJHq3LYENN.html
28-11-2020||India||Three charred to death as vehicle catches fire after collision||Three persons were charred to death when their four-wheeler caught fire after hitting a dumper in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh early on Saturday, a police official said.The accident took place at Bhauransa on Bhopal-Indore highway, about 14 kms from the district headquarters, he said.“The mishap occurred around 1.30 am when a tempo traveller collided head-on with a dumper that was coming from the wrong side,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Kiran Sharma said.After the accident, both the vehicles caught fire, he said.“The driver of the dumper fled from the spot, but three persons in the tempo traveller got trapped inside the vehicle and were charred to death,” he added.Their vehicle was completely gutted before fire tenders could reach the spot. The front portion of the dumper also got burnt, Sharma said.The deceased were identified as Shyam Mali (45), Pappu Thakur (32) and Shivnarayan Namdeo (50), all residents of Ujjain.The bodies of the deceased have been sent for post- mortem and investigation is underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-charred-to-death-as-vehicle-catches-fire-after-collision/story-lx69e0MQ3vCFhVpprOB9YI.html
28-11-2020||India||CBI raids 45 premises in 3 states, including Bengal over ‘coal mafia’, bribery cases||In a mass-scale search operation, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday is carrying out searches at 45 locations in four states – West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar- in connection with illegal mining and theft of coal from Kunustoria and Kajoria coal fields of Eastern Coalfield Limited, officials said.The search operation stems from an FIR in the alleged irregularities on Friday against two senior officials of ECL, unknown officials of railways and others after which several teams are currently searching premises of several accused persons and companies.It is alleged that mass scale theft of coal was taking place at the ECL lines in connivance with the officials and security in-charge, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-40-premises-in-three-states-including-bengal-over-coal-mafia-bribery-cases/story-NRu8wBADBYOCqz9BYa6JPK.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Don’t threaten,’ says Fadnavis after Thackeray’s ‘don’t compel me to come after you’ jibe||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray warned the opposition to stay away from vindictive politics, former CM Devendra Fadnavis asked Thackeray to stop threatening. “Show governance instead,” the BJP leader said, slamming the Maha Vikas Agadhi government for the Covid-19 situation in the state. “It’s by Gods grace that second wave hasn’t reached in Maharashtra yet,” Fadnavis said.“We have never made personal attacks. if we are talking about personal attacks, Shiv Sena leaders have attacked my wife but i have never made a fuss over it,” Fadnavis said referring to the recent Twitter fight between Amruta Fadnavis and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi.Also Read: ‘Don’t compel me to come after you’: Uddhav Thackeray’s veiled warning to OppositionTalking about the government’s fallout with journalist Arnab Goswami and Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, Fadnavis distanced the party’s stand from the opinions of both Goswami and Ranaut and said, “We do not subscribe to the thoughts of Arnab Goswami and Kangana Ranaut but we are against the attitude of suppressing those who speak against the government.”“They remember the promise given [by BJP] for the CM post, but they have forgotten promises they gave to the farmers. Government has not helped the farmers,” Fadnavis said.“We are not demanding President’s rule but the two decisions [each by Supreme Court and High Court against Maharashtra govt ] is an example of a breakdown of constitution machinery,” Fadnavis added.On the occasion of completing a year in the office, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana published an interview of the chief minister where he said he and his family has been targetted by the opposition. “We do not want to get into vindictive politics but if you force us, we will use Sudarshan chakra [mythological weapon] against your vindictiveness,” he said.“I am following all developments closely. If I am quiet or I am restrained it doesn’t mean that I am unmanly. The manner in which people’s families and children are targeted does not suit Maharashtra’s culture. The ones targeting families and children must remember that even they have families. They are not clean… Not only the government but the people of Maharashtra will definitely resist such vindictive politics,” Uddhav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-threaten-says-fadnavis-after-thackeray-s-don-t-compel-me-to-come-after-you-jibe/story-K0BIRGbF0hnJiH5qdkhX9J.html
28-11-2020||India||Man sentenced to life in prison for sexually assaulting 7-year-old||A special court in Jaipur on Friday sentenced a 35-year-old serial rapist to life imprisonment after convicting him of raping a seven-year-old minor in July last year. Sikandar Khan, the convict, is facing trial for raping another four-year-old girl and has confessed to sexually assaulting dozens of children, men and transgender people, police said.Special public prosecutor Mahaveer Krishnawat said judge LD Kiradu sentenced the convict to life in prison till his last breath.Additional police commissioner Ajay Pal Lamba said the seven-year-old girl’s case was a priority for them. “Because of the combined and coherent efforts of our police team and special public prosecutor Krishnawat, the judgment has come in the victim and police’s favour. For every hearing, we ensured that the witness reached the court and his statement was recorded on time,” Lamba said.Investigators said Khan, who was arrested after remaining on the run for six days, appears to have abused other children as well. “If he is set free, he will commit these crimes again,” a police officer familiar with the case said.The convict faces three rape, one attempt to murder, two sexual harassment, two theft and three cases of burglary. Laxman Gaur, a police officer who was earlier involved in the probe into the seven-year-old girl’s rape, said Khan’s wife abandoned him months after getting married over his bad character in 2017. Khan is a drug addict as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-for-sexually-assaulting-7-year-old/story-Fjzj7NSdLc5sI3Eg46ElHM.html
28-11-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh plans MSP for vegetables and fruits||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to fix Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for vegetables like tomatoes and potatoes and fruits to help farmers who fail to recover even their costs of cultivation, officials aware of the matter said.“We held a round of meetings with farmers before preparing a draft on how to stop hoarding and middlemen interference in deciding the market prices of vegetables and fruits,” said a horticulture department official, who did not want to be named. He said they plan to initially provide MSP for 12 vegetables including cauliflower, tomatoes, potatoes, cabbage, onions, carrots. The list of fruits is yet to finalised. “A team of horticulture and agriculture experts are calculating cultivation cost. MSP will be fixed by including at least a 50% profit margin.”There are 76 fruit and vegetable mandis in Madhya Pradesh. The official said farmers can sell their vegetables and fruits at these mandis at the MSP.The Madhya Pradesh government fixed Rs eight per kg MSP for onions after six farmers were killed in protests in Mandsaur in June 2017.Bhagwan Meena, a farmer leader, said it is good that the government is going to fix MSP for vegetables but it needs to improve infrastructure too. “The farmers sell the vegetables at a lower than the production cost because they do not have any storage facilities... after few months, businessmen sell the same vegetables at 100-200% profit margin as they have cold storages.”Madhya Pradesh has a cold storage capacity of nine lakh metric ton. Meena said the state needs a capacity of at least 18 lakh metric ton.GS Kaushal, an agricultural expert, said he has his doubts about the implementation of MSP for fruits and vegetables. “Vegetables and fruits are perishable items. How will the government compel businessmen to purchase vegetables and fruits at MSP? If businessmen refuse to purchase it at MSP, will the government purchase it or farmers have to bear 100% loss?” He added if the government agrees to purchase the vegetables and fruits from farmers, where will it store them. “The government fixed the MSP for onions. [But] in absence of proper storage and transportation facility, the government had a bear loss of crore of rupees.”Horticulture minister Bharat Singh Kushwaha said the MSP will also control the fluctuation in the costs of vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-plans-msp-for-vegetables-and-fruits/story-fYJKYMGMLWZi9wY14iFEEO.html
28-11-2020||India||Ordinance against forcible religious conversions gets UP Governor’s nod||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or “dishonest” religious conversions, an official said.The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 has been promulgated with the approval of the Governor, the official said.The state cabinet presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier this week approved the draft ordinance to curb forcible or “dishonest” religious conversions including those for the sake of marriage, which could land violators in jail for up to 10 years.According to it, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate.In recent weeks, BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have revealed plans to enact laws to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which party leaders often refer to as “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordinance-against-forcible-religious-conversions-gets-up-governor-s-nod-official/story-DG76vMlS2xagVbSqCZzo8I.html
28-11-2020||India||Adityanath reviews Dev Deepawali preparations||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday reviewed preparations for the Dev Deepawali celebrations to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on November 30.He said the celebrations will be grand. “This time, the presence of Modi will grace the celebrations.”Adityanath also inspected the venue in Khajuri village, where Modi will address around 10,000 Bharatiya Janata Party workers. Chief development officer Madhusudan said officers have been deployed to look after the arrangements and ensure that at least 500,000 earthen lamps are lit on the eastern bank of the Ganga on Dev Deepawali. Over 600,000 lamps will be lit on the ghats on the western bank of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-reviews-dev-deepawali-preparations/story-PKm0rvc4cbsqmcY29yWYNK.html
28-11-2020||India||Covid-19 caseload in India climbs to 93,51,109||India’s Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 93.51 lakh with 41,322 new infections being reported in a day, while 87,59,969 people have recovered so far pushing the national recovery rate to 93.68 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday.The total coronavirus cases increased to 93,51,109 and the death toll climbed to 1,36,200 with the virus claiming 485 more lives, the data updated at 8 am showed. After showing an upward trend for three days in a row, the active Covid-19 caseload decreased to 4,54,940, remaining below 5 lakh for the 18th consecutive day. It comprises 4.87 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), more than 13.82 crore samples have been tested till November 27 with 11,57,605 samples being tested on Friday.The 485 new fatalities include 98 from Delhi, 85 from Maharashtra 46 from West Bengal, 29 from Haryana, 27 from Punjab, and 23 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala among others.Of the total 1,36,200 deaths reported so far in the country, 46,898 were from Maharashtra followed by 11,738 from Karnataka, 11,681 from Tamil Nadu, 8,909 from Delhi, 8,270 from West Bengal, 7,697 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,976 from Andhra Pradesh,   4,737 from Punjab, 3,938 from Gujarat and 3,224 from Madhya Pradesh among others.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-caseload-in-india-climbs-to-93-51-109/story-5lXfNuLKkaCr3HsejDKIBN.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers protest: Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon, charged with ‘attempt to murder’||The video of a young Ambala farmer jumping on the water cannon from his tractor trolley and turning it off during farmers’ agitation in on National Highway 44 had gone viral on social media. The incident took place on November 25 as farmers were marching towards the Capital braving water cannon, tear gas in their protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament recently.While the treatment meted out to the farmers on their way to Delhi drew severe criticism on social media, including from politicians like Arvind Kejriwal, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Amarinder Singh, the act of the young farmer of jumping from his tractor to the police vehicle with water cannon fitted on it won hearts. How a young farmer from Ambala Navdeep Singh braved police lathis to climb and turn off the water cannon tap and jump back on to a tractor trolley #farmersprotest pic.twitter.com/Kzr1WJggQI सत्ताधारियों इनके जज़्बे को लाठी और पानी की बौछार रोक नहीं सकती *Young #Farmer from Ambala, Navdeep Singh faced Police lathis *Climbed & Turned off Water Canon *Jumped on Tractor #FarmerProtest #FarmersDelhiProtest pic.twitter.com/wmxsMRBN7jAmbala’s 26-year-old Navdeep was hailed as a ‘hero’ on social media as the video went viral amid intensifying protest. Meanwhile, Navdeep has been booked for attempt to murder along with Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The police have accused them of breaking police barricade and attempting to run over policemen with a speeding tractor trolley. Charges of violating Covid-19 norms have also been brought against Navdeep in a case registered at Parao police station. On a complaint from head constable Pardeep Kumar, charges under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) have been brought against the protesters. The FIR said Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar, who was leading the police team at the spot, asked BKU chief Chaduni not to proceed further but he refused. Some of the police officials had a narrow escape and could have been run over by the tractors heading towards Delhi, the FIR mentioned.Navdeep’s brave act which has been caught on camera didn’t escape the notice of the policement deployed there to stop the protesters from proceeding. After he turned the tap off, he was chased by a policeman who struck him with a cane but Navdeep jumped back to the tractor which was brought near the police vehicle by his brother. Navdeep has joined farming with his father after completing graduation from Kurukshetra University in 2015 and has said that he believes in the cause of the protest and that the farmers have rights to organise peaceful protests. Navdeep’s father Jai Singh Jalbera is a local farmer activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-navdeep-singh-hailed-as-hero-for-turning-off-water-cannon-charged-with-attempt-to-murder/story-IvHaAEra72C7d7xElLzf8M.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi visits Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to review developments of Covid vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday arrived in Ahmedabad and proceeded to Zydus Biotech Park of the pharma major Zydus Cadila to review the vaccine development.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The visit is the first of his three-city tour to personally review the vaccine development and manufacturing process in the country.After inspecting the progress at Zydus Biotech Park, the Prime Minister will also visit Serum Institute of India in Pune and Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad.Zydus Cadila’s plant is in Changodar industrial area near Ahmedabad city.The company had earlier announced that the phase-I clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, has been completed and it has commenced phase 2 clinical trials from August.Post that, the Prime Minister will visit the Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine.The SII is the largest producer of vaccines in the world by volume.The prime minister is also scheduled to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility in Hyderabad.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is undergoing phase-3 trials.Besides SII, Bharat Biotech has partnered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for a country-made Covid-19 vaccine using the virus strain isolated by ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) based in Pune.“As India enters a decisive phase of the fight against Covid-19, PM Narendra Modi’s visit to these facilities and discussions with the scientists will help him get a first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in India’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens,” the Prime Minister’s Office had said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-zydus-biotech-park-in-ahmedabad-to-review-developments-of-covid-vaccine/story-Vz3jRYCZRqpyKp4Nd7BAcK.html
28-11-2020||India||Assam organisations continue blockade at Nagaland border, residents restive||The total blockade at Nagaland border on the vital Mariani to Mokokchung (Nagaland) National Highway-702D by neighbouring Assam’s Mariani-based organisations in Jorhat district continued on Friday amid tensions on both sides, officials said.The blockade is in force since November 15 after Assam organisations accused Nagaland of encroachment by setting up a police camp inside Dissoi Valley reserved forest. Assam police was deployed to the area and they have now reportedly erected a temporary camp near the disputed area.The blockade was suspended on November 25 in view of the meeting of district administrations of Mokokchung and Jorhat to resolve the issue, but was re-enforced after no middle ground could be reached at the DC-SP level meet.Deputy commissioner (DC) Mokokchung, Limawabang Jamir said that although the situation was under control, the people living on either side of the border belt were getting restive.On the meeting with his Jorhat counterpart, Jamir said progress was made but the Assam side had put up a proposal which needed the approval of higher authorities. The official said that they have submitted a report to higher authorities citing the proposal by Jorhat administration and a response is being awaited.Meanwhile, travellers from Longleng district of Nagaland were reportedly stopped between Mariani and Amguri in Assam en route to Dimapur on Thursday. However, they were later allowed to pass after the Jorhat authorities intervened.Also Read: ‘Diamond rush’ in Nagaland village, govt deputes geologists to investigateFollowing this incident, the district administration of Mon district in Nagaland issued fresh travel advisory to all the commuters from Mon to different parts of the state to avoid travelling through the generally travelled highway on Jorhat and Sivsagar districts till the situation is normalised.Nagaland and Assam share a 512-kilometre boundary and a dispute that has been going on for over five decades. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by the Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court since 1988. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-organisations-continues-blockade-of-nagaland-border-residents-restive/story-DqJWS48nvp1mz72kbK6EMJ.html
28-11-2020||India||Fresh Covid-19 infection 4% lower than yesterday, total tally crosses 9.3 million-mark||Registering a four per cent decrease from Friday’s number of fresh Covid-19 infections, India on Saturday reported 41,322 new covid-19 infections taking the total tally to 93,51,110. In the last 24 hours, there have been 485 new death cases and 41,452 recoveries, according to the ministry’s bulletin. On Friday, India recorded 43,082 fresh Covid-19 infections and 492 deaths.The number of active cases stands at 4,54,940.As vaccine development gathers speed with the latest announcement of Oxford-Astrazeneca’s vaccine, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday embarked on a three-city tour to review the vaccine sites. Starting with Zydus Cadila’s plant at Ahemedabad, PM Modi will visit the Bharat Biotech’s facility in Hyderabad and the facility of Serum Institute of India in Pune later in the day. Though there is no country-wise rise in the Covid-19 cases, several areas are opting for fresh local restrictions to contain Covid-19 cases locally. From Saturday, assembly of more than four people are banned in Leh district of Ladakh union territory. All vehicles, private as well as commercial ones, shall be permitted to ply with a maximum of 50 per cent of the seating capacity, an order said. There will be a strict night curfew from 8pm to 5am in Leh, the district magistrate has said. All schools in Mizoram will remain closed till the year end to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection, as per a decision taken by the state government on Friday, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-covid-19-infection-4-lower-than-yesterday-total-tally-crosses-9-3-million/story-g9Qgd2jE87kfbxZ5ARuwDM.html
28-11-2020||India||‘Consider all Hindu girls as sisters’: SP leader’s advice to Muslim boys||Reacting to Uttar Pradesh government’s order prescribing up to 10 years imprisonment for those found guilty of religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement, Samajwadi Party (SP) MP from Moradabad ST Hasan advised Muslim boys to consider Hindu girls their ‘sisters’. “Consider all Hindu girls as your sisters. Save yourself, do not give in to any temptation,” Hasan said, adding that Love Jihad was nothing but a political stunt. Also Read: UP makes ‘love jihad’ a punishable offence“Love jihad is a political stunt. In our country, people choose their life partners irrespective of religion. Hindus marry Muslims and vice versa. However, the numbers are very low. But if you dig deep into ‘love jihad’ cases, you would find that girls know that boys are Muslims. But due to societal pressure or internal issues in the family, they lie and it becomes a case of Love Jihad,” he said.Also Read: Haryana ‘love jihad’ panel will study what other states did, says Anil Vij The MP was reacting to Yogi Adityanath cabinet’s approval to draft an ordinance outlawing religious conversions by marriage and deceit. The cabinet’s approval makes UP the first state to propose a law for regulating interfaith relationships.The state government’s order came on November 24, roughly a month after Yogi vowed to end ‘love jihad’, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. However, the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise the term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-all-hindu-girls-as-sisters-sp-leader-s-advise-to-muslim-boys/story-cvKusSXrBFH3dqhUeVVHeI.html
28-11-2020||India||NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke dies due to post-Covid complications||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Bharat Bhalke passed away on Saturday at Pune’s Ruby Hospital.He was admitted for post-Covid complications and was kept on a ventilator since Friday. Bhalke was the MLA from Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency.Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope expressed grief over Bhalke’s demise. “The news of the death of Bharat Bhalke, MLA of NCP’s Pandharpur-Mangalvedha assembly constituency is very shocking. With his demise, an influential orator and dedicated leader passed away. I share the grief of the Bhalke family. A heartfelt tribute,” the Maharashtra Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-mla-bharat-bhalke-dies-due-to-post-covid-complications/story-lTLn77XRCg9jmnF0IUkKdI.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi reaches Ahmedabad to review coronavirus vaccine development by Zydus Cadila||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed here on Saturday as part of his three-city visit to review coronavirus vaccine development work at facilities there, an official said.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19From the airport, Modi proceeded to pharma major Zydus Cadila’s plant near Ahmedabad to get information about its vaccine development, the official said.The plant is located in the Changodar industrial area, over 20 km from Ahmedabad. Modi will be at the plant for an hour, beginning 9.30 am, the official said.Zydus Cadila has announced that the phase-I clinical trial of its vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D was over and it has commenced phase-II clinical trials from August.From Ahmedabad, Modi will fly to Hyderabad where he is scheduled to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility.After landing at Hakimpet Air Force station, Modi will reach Bharat Biotech’s facility at Genome Valley at 1.30 pm.The facility is around 50 km from Hyderabad.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is undergoing phase-3 trials.Also Read | PM Modi to visit 3 drug development centres today to review Covid-19 vaccine progressAfter his hour-long visit to the facility, the PM will proceed to Pune, where he will visit the Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine.The prime minister will reach Serum Institute campus around 4.30 pm, an official said.Modi’s hour-long visit to SII is aimed at reviewing the status of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus infection and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanism, he said.The PM will fly back to Delhi in the evening, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-ahmedabad-to-review-coronavirus-vaccine-development-by-zydus-cadila/story-vC4HHM2RroxgtSjOCAZSgK.html
28-11-2020||India||Cotton farmers suffer damages due to cyclone Nivar||Cotton crops in the Nandigama mandal of Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district suffered severe damage in the last few days as cyclone Nivam wreaked havoc in the southern parts of the country.Some of the farmers said that the crops were discoloured and hence unusable, others said the cyclone caused a delay in procurement, drenching cotton bales in the market yard itself. “Our cotton plants are all damaged. They are all discoloured now and can no longer be used. Procurement of cotton bales was delayed in the market yard due to the cyclone and many were drenched in rainwater,” a farmer told ANI. “We appeal to the government to procure our cotton and give us proper remuneration for the losses that we have suffered,” another farmer said. According to state minister Kurasala Kannababu, about 30,000 hectares of agricultural crops and 1,300 hectares of horticultural crops suffered damages due to the cyclone. Meanwhile, other parts of the state witnessed heavy rains and waterlogging. In another incident, a massive tree fell on an animal shelter hut in the Pulakuntapalli village of Ramasamudram Mandal due to heavy winds. Paddy, tomato, cauliflower and other horticultural fields have also been damaged in the mandal, causing heavy loss to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cotton-farmers-suffer-damages-due-to-cyclone-nivar/story-Ckfi3Hdw9g9XKtRm1GOgOO.html
28-11-2020||India||Hyderabad civic polls: Yogi Adityanath to campaign for BJP today, polls on December 1||As the poll pitch gathers steam ahead of the Hyderabad city civic polls, BJP is set to parachute Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for a campaign trail on Saturday. Union home minister Amit Shah is also expected to campaign in the city, news agency PTI reported. The party, attempting to wrestle the municipal power from Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, has actively campaigned in the city ahead of the polls slated for December 1. BJP chief JP Nadda on Friday held a roadshow seeking removal of the TRS regime. In his campaign, Nadda said “it is time for KCR and the TRS regime to go.”Addressing the party cadres at Kothapet, Nadda said, “You have come in such large numbers in spite of the rain. This is sending out a message, on its own, to KCR and TRS...that your time to go has come and it is time for the BJP to come. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar had recently released a “charge sheet” against the TRS government, while his ministerial colleague Smriti Irani had slammed the ruling TRS over the recent floods, asking how 75,000 ‘encroachments’ thrived in the state capital.The GHMC elections will be held on December 1 and results will be declared on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-civic-polls-yogi-adityanath-to-campaign-for-bjp-today-polls-on-december-1/story-cHOCu36vTLCcxCu6oSFpxJ.html
28-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: Delhi can be inoculated in weeks, PM Modi’s 3-city tour today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will visit three vaccine developments sites in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune in what is being considered as the latest fillip to India’s vaccine production. Recently, PM Modi had held discussions with states and union territories on vaccine distribution. The development comes as vaccine development moves ahead with three global candidates claiming promising results.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has said that the Capital has adequate infrastructure to vaccinate its entire population in a few weeks once a vaccine is available. “Once a vaccine is available, we can vaccinate the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks,” he said.Here are the latest development from across the world > US health authorities will hold an emergency meeting next week to recommend that a coronavirus vaccine awaiting approval be given first to healthcare professionals and people in long-term care facilities> Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he expects more than half of Canadians to receive a vaccine by next September. Earlier, he had come under fire after he said Canada will have to wait for vaccine and Canada does not have mass vaccine-production facilities like the US, the UK and Germany.> Only press release won’t suffice, the World Health Organization said on the efficacy of vaccine candidates. It needs to evaluate coronavirus vaccines and their immune responses based on more than just a press release, Kate O’Brien, WHO’s director of immunisation vaccines and biologicals.> Ten Covid-19 vaccines could be available by the middle of next year if they win regulatory approval, but their inventors need patent protection, the head of the global pharmaceutical industry group has said.> Russia, which has seen a sudden surge in infections since September, plans to vaccinate more than 400,000 military personnel first.> Indian pharmaceutical company Hetero will manufacture more than 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine per year.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-delhi-can-be-inoculated-in-few-weeks-pm-modi-s-3-city-tour-today/story-eezLioASWRePpZtSsxnTTJ.html
28-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Protest may intensify, farmers from 4 states look to join stir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Protest may intensify, farmers from 4 states look to join stirPunjab and Haryana farmers protesting in Delhi on Friday got support from their counterparts in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, who will join the stir in the next few days, farmer leaders from these states said. Read moreFiscal deficit for Apr-Oct at 119.7% of budget targetThe fiscal deficit for April-October touched a massive Rs 9.53 lakh crore, accounting for 119.7% of the full year’s budgeted target as tax collections remained under pressure because of the Covid-19 crisis. Read more‘I am neither in Sehwag’s shoes, nor in Gambhir’s, franchise should decide on it’: RCB’s Parthiv Patel on persisting with Virat Kohli as skipperRoyal Challengers Bangalore qualified for the Indian Premier League playoffs this season after 3 years. The much-maligned side impressed initially as they won 7 of their first 10 matches. But a slump in the latter games resulted in the side narrowly qualifying for the playoffs in fourth place. Read moreHema Malini, Dharmendra become grandparents again as daughter Ahana gives birth to twin girlsActors Dharmendra and Hema Malini’s younger daughter Ahana Deol has given birth to twin daughters. She took to her Instagram account to share the news. Read moreHyundai, Kia to pay record $210 million after failing to recall 1.6 million carsHyundai Motor Co and Kia Motors’ US units on Friday agreed to a record $210 million civil penalty after US auto safety regulators said they failed to recall 1.6 million vehicles for engine issues in a timely fashion. Read moreCruise chef starts biryani stall after losing job due to pandemic, netizens laud his spiritFor the past few months, life has changed drastically for many across the globe. Among them is Akshay Parkar who felt the brunt of the pandemic. Once a chef for 7 star hotels and cruises, Parkar lost his job due to Covid-19. Read more‘Congress ends up opposing country while opposing PM Modi’: JP Nadda||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-protest-may-intensify-farmers-from-4-states-look-to-join-stir-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Hi8s9hBRCmaHy4T2EyQquO.html
28-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit 3 drug development centres today to review Covid-19 vaccine progress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit drug makers in three cities on Saturday to personally review the Covid-19 vaccine development and manufacturing process. He will visit Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park, Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech and Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII). Also Read: AstraZeneca manufacturing error clouds vaccine study results“As India enters a decisive phase of the fight against Covid-19, PM @narendramodis visit to these facilities & discussions with the scientists will help him get a first hand perspective of the preparations, challenges & roadmap in India’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted on Saturday.According to reports, the PM will first visit pharma major Zydus Cadila’s plant around 9.30am. Zydus Cadila had announced that the phase-I clinical trial of its vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D was over and it has commenced phase-II clinical trials from August.From Ahmedabad, he will fly to Hyderabad to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility where he is expected to spend an hour. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is undergoing phase-3 trials.Also Read: No complaint from volunteers given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin: Ahmedabad doctorThe PM will arrive at Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), his last destination for the day, around 4.30pm. He will review the status of the vaccine candidate that is being manufactured by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.Both University of Oxford and AstraZeneca on Monday said that their vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for its arrival in India by the end of the year.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-3-covid-19-vaccine-sites-to-review-progress/story-M7erWFRZ1eCmcbCeFD1UtN.html
28-11-2020||India||BSF and Bangladesh border guards agree to resolve pending issues, strengthen ties||The Border Security Force (BSF) and Bangladesh Border Guards (BGB) have agreed to initiate pre-emptive measures to maintain peace and tranquillity along the Indo-Bangla international border by acting against cross border crimes among others. “Various ideas and concepts related to border issues were discussed. We have decided to act against the cross-border crimes and agreed to solve all the pending issues and strengthen the friendship bond between the two countries,” said BSF IG Sushanta Kumar Nath on Friday at BSF headquarters at Shalbagan, not far from Agartala. Both the BSF and BGB discussed trans-border crimes and preventive measures, construction of a single row fence along the Indo-Bangla international border during a two days long Inspector General-level border coordination conference that began on November 25. Also Read: 14 foreign nationals arrested from train for illegally entering IndiaTripura shares 856 kilometres long border with Bangladesh and some parts of it are yet to be fenced. “We have agreed to maintain vigilance in the vulnerable areas and act to curtail border crimes including human trafficking, smuggling etc. The outcomes of the conference will further make our bond strong,” said BGB additional director general Khondoker Farid Hassan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-and-bangladesh-border-guards-agree-to-resolve-pending-issues-strengthen-ties/story-78oMSFPqhrOVog5SLEcp3J.html
28-11-2020||India||India has practically achieved pre-2020 climate action targets, says Prakash Javadekar||Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on Friday launched the “India Climate Change Knowledge Portal” through a virtual event where he said that India has practically achieved its pre-2020 climate action targets.“Happy to inform that India has practically achieved its Pre-2020 #ClimateAction targets. Although India is not responsible for historical emissions, India, under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, is leading the world on ClimateAction @moefcc,” Javadekar tweeted. Happy to inform that India has practically achieved its Pre-2020 #ClimateAction targets. Although India is not responsible for historical emissions, India, under the dynamic leadership of PM @narendramodi ji, is leading the world on #ClimateAction @moefcc pic.twitter.com/05JN8e5JlaExpressing happiness over the web portal launch, Javadekar said the portal will be a “single point information resource” which provides information on the different climate initiatives taken by various line ministries enabling users to access updated status on these initiatives.According to a release issued by the ministry of environment, the portal captures sector-wise adaptation and mitigation actions that are being taken by the various line ministries in one place including updated information on their implementation. The knowledge portal will help in disseminating knowledge among citizens about all the major steps government is taking at both national and international levels to address climate change issues.Also Read |  HTLS 2020: ‘No real Covid impact on highway projects’, says Nitin GadkariThe eight major components included in the knowledge portal are - India’s Climate Profile, National Policy Framework, India’s NDC goals, Adaptation Actions, Mitigation Actions, Bilateral and Multilateral Cooperation, International Climate Negotiations and Reports & Publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-practically-achieved-pre-2020-climate-action-targets-says-prakash-javadekar/story-1jbJV4ZcEmfyx8ajq8sdnN.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers March LIVE updates: Avoid NH-44 due to protest, Sonipat cops advise commuters||Several high-voltage stand-offs later, farmers protesting three contentious farm bills passed by the government in September entered the national capital on late Friday, marking a headway in their Delhi Chalo march. Thousands in count, these farmers faced multiple flashpoints with the police in riot gear using tear gas, water cannon, barricades and barbed wires upon entering Delhi from adjoining states like Haryana as they insisted to protest the three laws cleared by the Parliament, alleging that these laws will reduce their earnings in the market and give more power to corporations. Also read: Farmers let into Delhi after clashes at borderUnion agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar assured farmers on Saturday the government was ready for talks on December 3.On the other hand, Union minister Amit Shah on requested farmers to halt their protests and assured them that the Centre will discuss every issue that has been troubling them. Here are the latest updates:Haryana BKU chief, farmers booked for attempt to murder, riotingBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni was booked by the Haryana Police for attempting to murder and rioting during the ongoing farmers protest, officials told news agency PTI. UP farmers reach Delhi border to support ongoing protestsFarmers from Uttar Pradesh arrived at Ghaziabad - Delhi border expressing their support to the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march. Demands for guarantee in Minimum Support Price (MSP) were made and they said that further plans to be decided after discussion with other farmers, reports news agency ANI.Farmer union meeting ends, decides to halt protests at Delhi Haryana borderGeneral secretary of Punjab’s Bharatiya Kisan Union Harinder Singh has said that the protests will continue at the Delhi Haryana border, after farmers’ meeting. He also said that meetings would be held everyday at 11am to discuss further strategies, reports news agency ANI. Narendra Singh Tomar assures talks with farmers on December 3Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has assured that government is ready for talks with the farmer unions on December 3. He also asked all political parties to avoid ‘playing politics in the name of farmers’ and said that he hopes to meet the farmers during the meet, as reported by news agency ANI.Randeep Singh Surjewala calls out Haryana government In his latest tweet, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala has accused that the Haryana government has ‘gone mad with ego.’ He said that the government had no problem using water cannons on famers, but when a young man tries to stop it, he is charged with ‘attempt to murder.’ अहंकार में पागल हो गई है ‘खट्टर सरकार’ !खट्टर-दुष्यंत चौटाला किसान पर सर्दी के मौसम में ‘वॉटर केनन’ चलाएँ, वो ठीक,और...एक नौजवान उन ‘वॉटर केनन’ को बंद करे, वो ‘हत्या के प्रयास’ का आरोपी।डूब मरो, शर्म करो भाजपा-जजपा सरकार !https://t.co/zqQHYziPtWThousands of protesting Indian farmers and police face-off at New Delhi borderA day after clashes ended with an agreement that the farmers could demonstrate in the capital, tensions rose again in the protests over laws that farmers fear could rob them of minimum guaranteed prices for their produce.Centre fails to address farmers’ issues, says Bharatiya Kisan UnionRakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the Central government has failed to address the issues of the farmers.“The government has failed to address the issues of the farmers. We are proceeding to Delhi now. We demand that there should a provision stating that there will be no sale of produce below the Minimum Support Price (MSP),” Tikait told PTI. . After night halt, Punjab farmers resume march towards DelhiPunjab farmers resumed their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Centre’s new farm laws on Saturday morning after halting for the night to join thousands who have already reached the national capital’s borders.Rahul Gandhi blames ‘PM Modi’s arrogance’ behind viral photo of farmer getting beaten बड़ी ही दुखद फ़ोटो है। हमारा नारा तो ‘जय जवान जय किसान’ का था लेकिन आज PM मोदी के अहंकार ने जवान को किसान के ख़िलाफ़ खड़ा कर दिया। यह बहुत ख़तरनाक है। pic.twitter.com/1pArTEECsUFarmers gathered at Singhu, Tikri border points refuse to head to north Delhi protest siteThousands of farmers gathered at the Singhu border held a meeting on Saturday morning amid heavy security presence and decided to continue demonstrating there even after being offered a site in north Delhi to hold their protest.Those gathered at the Tikri border continued to hold ground as well. A decision on whether they would head to the designated protest site is expected soon.Farmers start gathering at Delhi’s Burari GroundFarmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday morning began arriving at the Nirankari Samagam Ground on the outskirts of the national capital for a protest against the new farm laws.After days of a standoff with police and after facing teargas shells, water cannons and barricading on various points on the Delhi-Haryana border by police, the farmers ‘Dilli Chalo’ march was allowed to enter Delhi on Friday and proceed to the ground in Burari situated in its north-west. The Tikri border was opened up for them.Security deployment at Tikri border Protesting farmers gathered at Tikri border despite being given permission to hold their demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari area.Delhi: Security deployment at Tikri border as protesting farmers are gathered here despite being given permission to hold their demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari area pic.twitter.com/mpYSvyQU5xFarmers from Fatehgarh Sahib on their way to Delhi to protest against Centre’s farm laws Punjab: Farmers from Fatehgarh Sahib on their way to Delhi to protest against Centre's Farm laws pic.twitter.com/0scMjWS6rlFarmers reach Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari Some farmers who managed to cross the border and enter Delhi yesterday have reached at the approved protest site -Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. A farmer says, “Our protest will continue till the Farm laws are not withdrawn. We are here for the long haul.”Delhi: Farmers at the approved protest site -Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari A farmer says, "Our protest will continue till the Farm laws are not withdrawn. We are here for the long haul." pic.twitter.com/lkOSHDllZISecurity measures scaled up at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu borderHeavy security deployment is seen at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana) where protesting farmers are gathered. Heavy security deployment at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana) where protesting farmers are gatheredDelhi Police yesterday gave permission to farmers to hold their demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Delhi's Burari area pic.twitter.com/AN9tVbMKyWProtest may intensify, farmers from 4 states look to join stirPunjab and Haryana farmers protesting in Delhi on Friday got support from their counterparts in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, who will join the stir in the next few days, farmer leaders from these states said.Protests were observed on Friday in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh as well. There could be a possible stand-off on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh interstate border on Saturday as farmers from UP, Uttarakhand and MP will try to enter the Capital from there.Read more hereProtesting farmers retire for the night at Singhu border, set up langarFarmers from Punjab who were part of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ movement retired for the night at the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border on Friday, after a gruelling day of confrontation with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-march-live-updates-delhi-chalo-protests-against-three-farm-laws-today/story-ugU9yEufiSwbJpZOhDoseO.html
28-11-2020||India||J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to know||For the first time after the abrogation of Article 370 and the reorganisation of erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir, the union territory is going to the polls on Saturday. Apart from being the first election since August 5, 2019, what makes these elections stand out is the formation of the Gupkar alliance ahead of the elections and the exchange of barbs between Gupkar leaders and BJP leaders ahead of the election. National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, Communist Party of India (M), Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference, Peoples Movement, Awami National Conference came together to form an alliance with Farooq Abdullah as the president and Mehbooba Mufti the vice president of the coalition. The BJP has slammed the coalition as anti-national and questioned the Congress on its stand regarding the agenda of the alliance. The Congress distanced itself from the alliance and said it is not part of it. Here is all you need to know about the District Development Council election:1. The election will be held in eight phases starting from today. It will go on till December 19. 2. The counting will take place on December 22.3. As many as 1,427 candidates are in the fray and over seven lakh voters are eligible for voting.4. Out of 7 lakh voters, more than 3.72 lakh are from the Kashmir division and 3.28 lakh are from the Jammu division.5. 2,146 polling stations have been set up.6. In phase 1, there are 296 candidates in he fray including 207 men and 89 women.7. The contest is among the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari.8. There are 280 DDC seats in the union territory - 140 each in Jammu and Kashmir regions. 43 constituencies will go to polls in the first phase -- 25 in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu.7. For the by-elections to panchayats, 899 candidates were in the fray for the Panch seats and 280 for the sarpanch seats.8. 145 companies of central armed police forces have been deployed in the UT for smooth conduction of the elections.9. These elections are to be held using ballot papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddc-elections-live-updates-j-k-goes-to-polls-first-time-after-article-370-abrogation-all-you-need-to-know/story-wpY7hUJlZQ9XuQJ47OmHHI.html
28-11-2020||India||States must rise above politics to check Covid spread, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday highlighted the utter disregard for social distancing norms across the country looking to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, and warned the state governments that if they do not rise above politics and take harsher measures, the efforts taken so far to curb the spread of the virus will go in vain.A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by justice Ashok Bhushan said, “We are watching celebrations and processions across the country. Around 60% people have no masks, 30% have their masks hanging. What implementation is this? There are guidelines but who is there to enforce. Since the beginning of this month, the situation has gone from bad to worse. This calls for harsher measures (from states). They must rise above politics or else all efforts taken by them (Centre and states) will go in vain.”The observations came during the hearing of a suo moto petition on proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals.The bench was shocked to note that a fire at a Covid-19 hospital in Rajkot, Gujarat, on Thursday led to the death of five patients in the intensive care unit (ICU). “It is not the first incident in a Covid hospital where due to fire, patients have died. These incidents are being repeated from state to state and from hospital to hospital. We notice that neither concrete steps have been taken by the states in this regard nor any mechanism to prevent or ameliorate the situation is in place,” said the bench, also comprising justices RS Reddy and MR Shah. The court took cognisance of the Rajkot incident and called for a report from the Gujarat government pointing to action taken with regard to a similar fire that took place at a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad in August in which eight people died. “Some directions are necessary to be passed throughout the country. Centre has to take a lead in this matter. States must put necessary infrastructure (fire-fighting equipment) in place. There should be round-the-clock monitoring,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-must-rise-above-politics-to-check-covid-spread-says-sc/story-lv577KhMiOV5BN1AQsq1bO.html
28-11-2020||India||India to manufacture 100mn doses a year of Sputnik: Moscow institute||India will produce over 100 million doses a year of Russia’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V beginning 2021 following an agreement between the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Hyderabad-based Hetero Biopharma, according to Dr Alexander Gintsburg, director general of the Gamaleya Research Institute, Moscow.Sputnik V is based on a well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and has demonstrated a 91.4% efficacy rate, according to the second interim data analysis of the largest double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials in Russia’s history involving 40,000 volunteers. The results were announced by the Gamaleya Institute and RDIF on November 24.Phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine are approved and ongoing in Belarus, the UAE, Venezuela and other countries, and Phase 2/3 have been approved in India. India, along with Brazil, China, South Korea and others, will provide the vaccine to at least 50 countries that have requested over 1.2 billion doses.“An application has been submitted by RDIF to the World Health Organization (WHO) for accelerated registration (Emergency Use Listing, EUL) and prequalification of Sputnik V,” Dr Gintsburg said in an email interview with HT. The WHO’s EUL procedure streamlines approvals for the global use of new or unlicensed products during public health emergencies.“There is now real hope that vaccines – in combination with other tried and tested public health measures – will help to end the pandemic. The urgency with which vaccines have been developed must be matched by the same urgency to distribute them fairly. While we work towards rolling out a safe vaccine, we must continue the essential public health actions to suppress transmission and reduce mortality,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South East Asia.The EUL procedure for the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine has begun. “WHO has had several discussions with Astra following the expression of interest that WHO issued for emergency use listing and prequalification of vaccines. We will receive more clinical data in the coming weeks. There are eight sites – some are manufacturing sites – and we will be analysing the data carefully. We expect to finalise assessments beginning of next year,” said Dr Singh.Sputnik V is a human adenovirus-based vaccine candidate and the only late-stage adenovirus-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate to use two different vectors for different injections, human adenovirus types Ad5 and Ad26. In vaccines that use the same vector in both injections, the immune system may launch defence mechanisms against the second one making the vaccine less effective.The Sputnik V vaccine is based on a well-studied human adenoviral vector platform that has been proven safe and effective with no long-term side effects in more than 250 global clinical trials over the past two decades. Sputnik V uses two different human adenoviral vectors that have been genetically modified not to cause infection to trigger a stronger and longer-term immune response as compared to the vaccines using one or the same vector for two doses.“While we look forward to the clinical trial results in India, we believe that manufacturing the product locally is crucial to enable swift access to patients. This collaboration is another step towards our commitment in the battle against Covid-19,” said B Murali Krishna Reddy, director, international marketing, Hetero Labs Limited, in a statement.“While there are many challenges to come beyond vaccine introduction, vaccination is the best opportunity we have to halt the transmission of Covid-19 and minimise its associated morbidity and mortality. Based on the currently available evidence, Sputnik V can play a role in the global fight against Covid-19,” said Dr Gintsburg, on email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-manufacture-100mn-doses-a-year-of-sputnik-moscow-institute/story-r8gKAfJehQuLsECI8zp9wO.html
28-11-2020||India||Law should not be used to selectively harass people: SC||Courts have to ensure that criminal law should not be used to selectively harass citizens, the Supreme Court said on Friday, explaining the reasoning behind its November 11 judgment granting interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case.Delivering the verdict, justice DY Chandrachud also explained that its decision was influenced by a prima facie reading of the FIR, which did not establish his role in the suicide, and also a chain of events that resulted in the suspicion that the state was targeting a citizen. Justice Indira Banerjee was the other judge on the bench. Both the promptness with which the top court heard the case, and the judgment itself, came in for some criticism when it was delivered, with several senior lawyers and experts saying the same benchmark isn’t being applied to other cases.In its judgment, the bench was also harsh on the Bombay high court and said that it was “clearly of the view that in failing to make even a prima facie evaluation of the FIR, the high court abdicated its constitutional duty as a protector of liberty.” It added that “the doors of this court cannot be closed to a citizen who is able to establish prima facie that the instrumentality of the state is being weaponised for using the force of criminal law. Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many”.The decision came on an appeal filed by Goswami and two others against a November 9 order of the Bombay HC declining bail. On November 11, this bench ordered release of all accused on bail and recorded the reasons in a 55-page judgment issued on Friday.The allegation against the trio was that they owed sums of money ranging from ₹55 lakh to ₹4 crore to designer Anvay Naik for professional services. Naik died by suicide in May 2018 and left a suicide note naming the three persons. Goswami’s company owed Naik ₹83 lakh. The Bombay high court had previously refused Goswami and the others interim bail. The SC said in its judgment that “the appellants are residents of India and do not pose a flight risk.... There is no apprehension of tampering of evidence or witnesses. Taking these factors into consideration, the order dated November 11 envisaged the release of the appellants on bail”.The observations come ahead of a crucial hearing in the Bombay high court which will take up Goswami’s petition seeking quashing of FIR on December 10. Legal experts said that the SC’s observation on the FIR in its judgment are bound to weigh on the high court. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said, “Courts normally do not make such observations. But this was a matter where detailed arguments were made. The observation by the Court will certainly have a substantial bearing on the high court although the judges have been careful in saying that this view is prima facie. The high court may not necessarily be guided by this view if prosecution is able to produce evidence. However, I prefer to see this judgment in the larger context where bail is seen as a matter of right and not indulgence by courts.”Goswami through his lawyer, senior advocate Harish Salve, contended that the state was targeting him for criticising the Maharashtra government and state police in his television debates. Salve said that Goswami was arrested on November 4 despite the fact that the investigation in this case ended in April 2019 when a closure report was submitted to the trial judge. It was on October 15 that the police communicated its decision to reinvestigate the FIR before the concerned court, he said.The Bombay HC on November 9 refused to grant bail to Goswami. Linking bail to personal liberty, the SC bench said that high courts should not foreclose itself from exercising power under Article 226 when a citizen has been arbitrarily deprived of personal liberty in an excess of state power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-should-not-be-used-to-selectively-harass-people-sc/story-tdw6UvbE3PM6uvI50CJ17L.html
28-11-2020||India||Protest may intensify, farmers from 4 states look to join stir||Punjab and Haryana farmers protesting in Delhi on Friday got support from their counterparts in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, who will join the stir in the next few days, farmer leaders from these states said. Protests were observed on Friday in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh as well. There could be a possible stand-off on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh interstate border on Saturday as farmers from UP, Uttarakhand and MP will try to enter the Capital from there.After battling teargas shells and water cannons for hours on Friday at the Delhi-Haryana border in Sonipat and Jhajjar, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana were allowed in the evening to enter through the Tikri border and hold their protest at Burari in north-west Delhi against the three newly enacted farm laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- passed by Parliament in its monsoon session. At Singhu border, which falls on the Grand Trunk road, where thousands of tracker trolleys are stranded with farmers, police did not allow entry till late in the evening. Haryana police officials said there were many farmers in cars, buses and tracker trolleys headed towards Delhi from different highways in the state. Farmers’ organisations have been demanding that the laws be repealed and replaced with a new act assuring minimum support price (MSP) for all agriculture produce in the country. Farmer bodies in at least 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh held protests and blocked traffic on highways in the state on Friday, with leaders calling the farmers to start a march towards Delhi from Saturday. Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the union decided that farmers would start marching towards Delhi in their tractor trolleys.“Five lakh farmers had staged a protest in Delhi for seven days in 1988 under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, compelling the then Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre to accept their demands. Farmers would force the Modi government to withdraw the bills,” he said.A large number of farmers from Madhya Pradesh, who were trying to join the protest of farmers from Punjab and Haryana in Delhi, staged a protest near Agra at national highway-3 on Friday as UP police didn’t allow them to go further towards the Capital.Madhya Pradesh Kisan Sangh general secretary Akhilesh Singh said, “The farmers from MP had been trying to reach Delhi to join the peaceful protest since Wednesday night but UP police were stopping them. On Friday morning, they sat on a dharna near Agra on national highway-3 and halted traffic for more than five hours.” Later in the evening, they were allowed to proceed towards the Capital on the Delhi-Mathura-Agra highway.All India Kisan Sabha members from Rajasthan mobilised farmers from Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and Sikar districts to join the stir. “The farmers from Rajasthan will be joining the Delhi Chalo movement in the next few days. We have held solidarity protests in various parts of the state on Friday,” said Amra Ram, a former lawmaker and general secretary of the Kisan Sabha.Farmers in tractor trolleys from the paddy bowl of Uttarakhand, Uddham Singh Nagar, were stopped in UP’s Rampur from proceeding to Delhi. They started an indefinite sit-in at Rampur national highway and blocked traffic. They were joined by local farmers from UP.Tajendra Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sangathan, Uddham Singh Nagar, said, “UP police are not allowing us to head to Delhi on the pretext of the Covid-19 outbreak. We have decided that we will continue our sit-in and camp here till the police allow us to go to Delhi.” UP police deployed heavy force on the Rampur highway to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. “Farmers are already in a pathetic condition due to the government’s policies. These farm bills will further aggravate our problems. So we’re left with no other option but to raise our voice in Delhi,” Virk said.There were protests in several places in Maharashtra such as Thane, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli and Wardha with farm leaders saying they would decide in a few days whether to join the stir in Delhi. Ashok Dhawale, national president of the All India Kisan Sabha, said, “Thursday’s was a countrywide protest. Punjab and Haryana are not the only states affected.” In the meantime, farmers have decided to organise sit-ins over the next 4-5 days in Maharashtra.Farmers in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city held a solidarity protest under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. The protesters were detained by police after they had a minor clash with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-may-intensify-farmers-from-4-states-look-to-join-stir/story-faK6qZad7HGKb1aeugU7jM.html
28-11-2020||India||BJP plans to step up outreach on new laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to step up its drive to reach out to farmers across the country in a bid to dispel concerns about the newly enacted farm laws even as protests against the legislations reached the Capital on Friday, a person familiar with the matter said.The party carried out a 15-day campaign wherein senior leaders, ministers, MPs and party functionaries reached out to farmers explaining the intricacies of the new laws in September, following Prime Minister, Narendra Modi’s instructions to BJP cadres to spread awareness.“The Prime Minister urged BJP workers to reach out to farmers on the ground and explain the importance of the laws. This exercise was carried out across the country...and farmers were explained the benefits they stand to get from the new laws. However, given the Opposition’s attempt to mislead the farmers, this exercise will be renewed,” said another party functionary aware of the details.As protesting farmers continued with the Dilli Chalo march on Friday and faced teargas shells, water cannons and police batons at the Haryana-Delhi interstate border, the party is concerned about the impact that the tussle will have on the ground. The BJP does not want the protests to cast a shadow over its claims of drafting pro-farmer policies. Senior ministers have been urged to initiate dialogue with farmers’ unions to get them to call off the stir. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told ANI that the government was ready to discuss all issues with farmers. “We have invited farmers’ organisations for another round of talks on December 3. I appeal to them to leave the agitation in view of Covid-19 and the winter,” he said.Even as the Opposition has said the new laws do not protect farmers’ rights and are meant to favour select corporate entities, the BJP has blamed the Congress for creating such misapprehensions. Congress-ruled states such as Punjab and Rajasthan have drafted their own laws to circumvent the central laws.The BJP refers to its recent electoral victory in the Bihar assembly elections and the Madhya Pradesh bypolls as evidence of support for its policies. “The Opposition has been misleading farmers. If the farmers were not convinced by the laws then the party would not have won elections in Bihar, Gujarat and MP where farmers are in good numbers,” said Rajkumar Chahar, head of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha. Chahar cited a tweet by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as proof of the party misleading the farmers. “She (Gandhi) said the laws take away the MSP, which is grossly incorrect. She says the laws will favour the big players, which is also incorrect. The laws empower farmers with small holdings; they seek to increase farm incomes, and the only ones who will not benefit are the middlemen,” Chahar said. On Thursday, Gandhi tweeted that the government instead of listening to the voice of the farmers was attacking them with water cannons. “Everything is being taken away from the farmers and banks, loan waivers, airport railway stations are being distributed to the capitalists,” she tweeted. On the police action, Chahar said, “Capt Amarinder (Punjab CM) should have realised that Delhi is in the throes of the coronavirus pandemic and by pushing the farmers to protest and come out in large numbers, violating social distancing norms, he has put their lives in danger.” The protesting farmers, however, questioned the urgency behind enacting the laws in the middle of the pandemic (the bills were passed in Parliament’s monsoon session) and the said the government should have waited if it was serious about controlling the spread of the virus.The Congress has come out in support of the farmers. It sent senior leader Randeep Singh Surjewala to Panipat before daybreak on Friday where he assured protesting groups of the party’s support. Surjewala tweeted, “The Congress party stands firmly with farmers. Is Delhi made only for those who protect the vault of a handful of capitalists? Is the capital of India not the right of the farmer to Delhi? Why did the farmers become so hated today?’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-to-step-up-outreach-on-new-laws/story-VZA6jA7IkJ6hlRCxQjUKKO.html
28-11-2020||India||After Baghjan blowout, no redressal||Oil India Limited (OIL) is in the process of abandoning a gas well that blew out and caught fire in the Baghjan Oilfield in Assam’s Tinsukia district after “killing” the well and dousing the blaze that raged for almost six months, but little has been done to address the environmental impact of the disaster that has ravaged one of India’s finest wetlands .Gas well number 5, which blew out on May 27, spewed copious amounts of condensed oil and gas into the Maguri Motapung wetland and surrounding river tributaries of Dibru and Lohit. Abandoning the well involves plugging the well for good and stopping production from it. The blowout was plugged and fire doused on November 15.Evidence has emerged from a multidisciplinary committee, appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), and headed by Prof Bhagawat Pran Duarah of the department of geological sciences at Gauhati University, that fish and mollusc diversity has declined alarmingly in the Maguri Motapung wetland. The fish have been found to have high levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), a toxic group of chemicals.Fishermen have had to stop fishing for three months, and surrounding villages have been soaked by water laced with oil and chemicals, which are likely to leave an impact on the ecologically fragile region in the long term. The wetland is also home to several species of birds, including some found only here, and the rare Gangetic dolphin. Other species have been impacted as well. A dead hoolock gibbon baby, believed to be a case of stillbirth, was found on September 28 in Purani Motapung village near the wetland. Investigators found that the mother was compelled to feed on contaminated leaves and plants apart from being directly exposed to xenobiotic pollutants (synthetic chemicals). The mother also died on October 27, but test results on her viscera are still awaited.After the Baghjan blow-up, investigators also found that four of nine calves born to domestic cows in neighbouring villages perished; of the four, two were still-born. Investigators also found that important fish species such as Ompok pabo, Nundus nundus, Ailia coilia, Pseudeutopius atherinodes, Channa aurantimaculata and Danio rerio have been completely wiped out from the Maguri-Motapung wetland. The findings suggest a long-term impact of the oil well blowout. The Wildlife Institute of India warned in a July report to the Union environment ministry: “The impact is significant and will have long-term effects, as many of these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate groundwater. Long-term restorative efforts are needed for cleaning up these pollutants.”Investigators have underlined that the monitoring of migratory birds will be crucial for gathering more evidence on the environmental impact of the oil well disaster. Their numbers, behaviour and foraging habits could signal what lies ahead.Locals said migratory bird diversity and arrivals have definitely been affected. “By November, this area is full of migratory birds. This time not even half of them have arrived. The diversity is also less,” said Imon Abedin, a zoology student.His father Jonyal Abedin, who runs an eco-tourism facility, said: “We saw only one or two (Gangetic) dolphins till now. We have to study how migratory birds have been impacted by the blowout. The impact will be long-term but can gradually be offset if there is no more disturbance.”A seismological and geophysical investigation by the Geosciences and Technology Division of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s North East Institute of Science and Technology also found that the blowout site was the source of the high frequency disturbances observed at seismic stations nearby. Some may be very disturbing to local people, the report added.NGT’s intermediate report, dated October 31, pointed to several illegalities surrounding OIL’s Baghjan gas well and called on the Assam Pollution Control Board to take legal action against OIL and its officials for violations of the mandatory requirements under the Air and Water Acts. OIL has also been unable to carry out the Biodiversity Impact Assessment Study through the Assam State Biodiversity Board, as mandated by the Supreme Court.OIL violated provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 1994 under which it is mandatory to obtain environmental clearances for any onshore drilling projects that commenced before 2006, the multidisciplinary committee said in its report.“We have started implementing the well abandonment policy which means we will never again produce gas from the well. A number of safety and technical issues need to be addressed before the abandonment is complete and till then the location will be a hazard zone. Cement plugs will have to be installed at various locations and depths,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika, claiming that the company has cleaned up the oil condensate in the area. “Nature also helped us. The heavy monsoon rains helped wash away some of the oil. We are also undertaking bio-remediation (use of microorganisms to control pollution) in water bodies. About ₹37 crore worth of compensation to local people has also been disbursed through the DC’s (deputy commissioner’s) office. An evaluation by the DC’s office and NGT’s final verdict is awaited,” he added.“Environmental disasters will continue to be normalised and not accounted for if we do not pin clear liability, allow projects to only safeguard their profits and offer small change in the name of compensation,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-baghjan-blowout-no-redressal/story-NWeQgtXohRFArkYItrjFZN.html
28-11-2020||India||Five killed in fire at Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot||At least five people were charred to death and several others injured in a big blaze past midnight on Friday at a private hospital designated for Covid-19 patients in Rajkot, officials said, in what was the seventh such incident in Gujarat in the last three months.The fire broke out at 1am in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Uday Shivanand Hospital, which was designated a Covid-19 facility in September, following a short-circuit in equipment, an official said.While three people died on the spot, two others succumbed to burn injuries later. Six other patients in the ICU were rescued by the hospital staff and fire brigade personnel. Around 33 patients were admitted in the hospital. The Supreme Court took cognisance of the incident, calling it “shocking”. The court said this is a “very serious thing” and sought a report from Gujarat government.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted their condolences to the bereaved families, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called for an investigation into such hospital fires.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani ordered an inquiry into the incident, and announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh to the kin of the deceased. Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said: “The fire was caused by a spark in the ICU and we are waiting for the forensic [reports].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-in-fire-at-covid-19-hospital-in-gujarat-s-rajkot/story-tQ1dcmAtyhSwkDGLGVjrPP.html
28-11-2020||India||Pilot missing after MiG jet crashes into Arabian Sea||A MiG-29K fighter of the Indian Navy crashed into the Arabian Sea on Thursday, with search and rescue teams recovering one of the pilots while the other was still missing even as efforts to locate him have been intensified, navy officials said a day after the Russian-origin jet went down off India’s west coast. The twin-seat trainer jet crashed at 5 pm after taking off from the deck of India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the officials said. Both pilots ejected from the aircraft before it went down, they added.Thursday’s crash is the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet. Scores of warships and aircraft are scouring the Arabian Sea to locate the missing pilot identified by the navy as Commander Nishant Singh. “A MiG-29K trainer aircraft operating at sea ditched at about 1700 hrs on 26 Nov 20. One pilot (the trainee) has been recovered and search by air and surface units is in progress for the second pilot,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said on Friday. The navy has ordered an inquiry into the accident. While the cause of the crash is yet to be ascertained, India’s top auditor had to pointed to some deficiencies in the deck-based fighter, including engine troubles, airframe problems, deficiencies in its fly-by-wire system and poor serviceability, in a report tabled in Parliament four years ago. The MiG-29K is riddled with problems relating to airframe, RD MK-33 engine and its fly-by-wire system, Comptroller and Auditor General said in the July 2016 report. The CAG report revealed that the serviceability of the single-seat fighter ranged from an unimpressive 15.93% to 37.63 % while that of the twin-seat trainer hovered between 21.3% and 47.14%. The navy commissioned its first squadron of MiG-29K fighters at Goa in May 2013, ahead of the induction of INS Vikramaditya. India has so for bought 45 MiG-29K fighters from Russia. The navy plans to also deploy the fighters on the indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) being built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard. The 44,500-tonne Vikramaditya and its embarked MiG-29K fighters had taken part in the recently concluded Malabar exercise involving the navies of India, the United States, Australia and Japan. The second phase of the exercise was held in Arabian Sea from November 17-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-missing-after-mig-jet-crashes-into-arabian-sea/story-3BfvuVj2rvoMUfWrqZZv0M.html
28-11-2020||India||Nadda hits campaign trail, attacks CM KCR||Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda on Friday hit the campaign trail for the December 1 Hyderabad civic polls, with a roadshow, saying “it is time for KCR (Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao) and the TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) regime to go”. “You have come in such large numbers in spite of the rain. This is sending out a message, on its own, to KCR and TRS...that your time to go has come and it is time for the BJP to come,” he told party cadres at Kothapet here.On criticism from some quarters over the BJP president coming to campaign for a local body elections, Nadda said that he was ready to go wherever required to put an end to corruption, for the sake of development and towards expansion of the party.Several senior BJP leaders are campaigning in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections.Union minister Prakash Javadekar had recently released a “charge sheet” against the TRS government, while his ministerial colleague Smriti Irani had slammed the ruling TRS over the recent floods, asking how 75,000 ‘encroachments’ thrived in the state capital.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is scheduled to campaign on Saturday. Union home minister Amit Shah may also undertake campaigning, BJP functionaries said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-hits-campaign-trail-attacks-cm-kcr/story-p40G8TLEcTVZiihfcyNsPI.html
28-11-2020||India||Covid-19 cases cross 73,000-mark in Uttarakhand, death toll over 1200||Uttarakhand on Friday reported 530 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 73,527. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1201. Out of 73,527who have tested positive so far, a total of 66,855 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.93%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.65%. On Friday, 391 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts with a maximum of 103 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Friday, a maximum number of cases were reported from Dehradun district. With eight positive cases each, Uttarkashi and Bageshwar reported the least number of cases on Friday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 20,879 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (11,985), US Nagar (10,233) and Nainital (8,465). The state health department has so far tested 13.01 lakh people of which results of over 18,000 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-cross-73-000-mark-in-uttarakhand-death-toll-over-1200/story-pMUD8UL2lPbf16U6VyzEFN.html
28-11-2020||India||Detained again, not allowed to visit Pulwama, says Mufti||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti said on Friday morning that she was detained by Jammu & Kashmir Police, and prevented from visiting Pulwama in South Kashmir to meet the family of senior PDP leader Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the national investigating agency (NIA) earlier this week. Later on Friday, she was not allowed to address a press conference at her residence at Gupkar. “I’ve been illegally detained yet again. For two days, the J&K admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid ’s family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers & their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case,” Mufti tweeted on Friday morning. Parra was arrested by NIA on Wednesday in connection with a terror case in which a senior police officer was arrested along with two militants in January.Mufti said that her daughter Iltija Mufti has also been placed under house arrest. “Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges & I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she wanted to visit Waheed’s family.” However in the afternoon when media persons arrived at her home, the police didn’t allow them to enter. “The Press has been barred from entering my residence in Srinagar. This despite no written orders explaining my arbitrary detention. Kashmir is an open air prison where no one has the right to express their opinion,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.Police denied that Mehbooba Mufti is under house arrest. “PDP leader Ms Mehbooba Mufti is not under house arrest. She was requested to postpone her visit to Pulwama purely due to security reasons,” police spokesman said.Mufti further said that her administration is using fear and intimidation.“We are one day away from DDC polling & its evident that the admin here is using fear & intimidation in tandem to muffle any form of opposition.”Jammu and Kashmir is set for its maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls and by-elections to the panchayat and urban local bodies, scheduled to be held in eight phases beginning November 28. National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of treating personal liberty as a favour.“Parking a truck in front of our gates is now standard operating procedure for this admin. They did the same to my father recently to stop him from praying. Personal liberty is treated as a favour by the govt, to give & withdraw at will, with no interference from the judiciary,” he wrote on Twitter.His father and NC president Farooq Abdullah was on October 30 prevented from leaving his residence to offer prayers at Hazratbal shrine on the occasion of Eid-Milad-un-NabiMeanwhile, PDP youth president Waheed ur Rehman Parra was produced before a NIA court in Jammu and sent to 15 days police custody by the court. Parra was arrested by NIA in New Delhi on Wednesday.He s also contesting DDC polls from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-again-not-allowed-to-visit-pulwama-says-mufti/story-zvRA2GQCCj8XnuS52hQOhK.html
28-11-2020||India||Riding tractor trolleys, farmers from 4 states to join protest in Delhi||Farmers in tractor trolleys from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will head to Delhi to join those from Punjab and Haryana staging a protest against the new agricultural laws, said farm leaders, lending a boost to them. They are expected to enter Delhi through UP.Earlier today, after battling tear gas shells and water cannons for hours at the Delhi-Haryana border in Sonipat and Jhajjar, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana were allowed in the evening to enter through Tikri border and hold their protest at Burari in north-west Delhi against the three agricultural bills - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- passed by Parliament in its monsoon session.At Singhu border, which falls on Grand Trunk road, where thousands of tractor trolleys are stranded with farmers, the police did not allow entry till late in the evening. Haryana police officials said that there were many farmers in cars, buses and tractor trolleys heading towards Delhi from different highways in the state. The farmers’ bodies have been demanding repealing of these laws and bringing a new law ensuring minimum support price (MSP) for all agriculture produce in the country. Watch | Farmers enter Delhi, allowed to protest in Burari; AAP welcomes | Key details As the visuals of the protests on Delhi-Haryana border being stopped went viral, farmer bodies in at least 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh held protests and blocked traffic on highways with leaders calling the farmers to start a march towards Delhi from Saturday. Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the union has decided that farmers would start marching towards Delhi from tomorrow in their tractor trolleys.“Five lakh farmers had staged a protest in Delhi for seven days in 1988 under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, compelling the then Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre to accept their demands. Farmers would force the Modi government to withdraw the bills,” he said.A large number of farmers from Madhya Pradesh, who were trying to join the protest of farmers from Punjab and Haryana in Delhi, staged a protest near Agra at National Highway 3 on Friday as the UP police didn’t allow them to move forward.MP Kisan Sangh general secretary Akhilesh Singh said, “The farmers from MP had been trying to reach Delhi to join a peaceful protest since Wednesday night but the UP police were stopping them. On Friday morning, they sat on dharna at Saiyan toll near Agra on National Highway 3 and halted the traffic for more than five hours. Later, they were allowed to proceed towards Delhi on Delhi-Mathura-Agra highway.”The All India Kisan Sabha members from Rajasthan have mobilised farmers from Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and Sikar districts to join the stir. “The farmers from Rajasthan will be joining the Delhi Chalo movement in the next few days. We have held solidarity protests in various parts of the state on Friday,” said Amra Ram, former law-maker and general secretary of the Kisan Sabha.Farmers in tractor trolleys from the paddy bowl of Uttarakhand, Uddham Singh Nagar, were stopped in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur from proceeding to Delhi. They have started an indefinite sit-in protest at Rampur national highway and blocked traffic for some time. They were joined by local farmers from UP.Tajendra Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sanghtan, US Nagar, said, “UP police are not allowing us to head to Delhi in the name of Covid-19. We too have decided that we will continue our sit in and camp here till police allow us to go to Delhi.” The Uttar Pradesh police had deployed heavy force on the Rampur highway to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. When the UP police didn’t allow the farmers, despite several efforts, they started to sit near the barricade on the highway. “Farmers are already in pathetic condition due to the government’s policies. These farm bills will further aggravate our problems. So we’re left with no other option but to raise our voice in Delhi,” Virk said.There were protests in several places in Maharashtra such as Thane, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli and Wardha with farm leaders saying they would decide in the few days whether they would join the farmer stir in Delhi or not. Although the three farm bills do not impact the farmers in Maharashtra much, Ashok Dhawale, National President of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “Thursday’s was a country-wide protest on the same issue. Punjab and Haryana are not the only states affected. We will soon take a call on joining the agitation in Delhi.” In the meantime, the farmers bodies have decided to organise protests over the next 4-5 days. “Protests will be held for the next four-five days,” he said. While there were no protests by farmers’ associations in Telangana, farmers in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city held a solidarity protest under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The protesters were detained by the police after they had a minor clash with them. AIKSCC leader, Vadde Sobhanadreeshwar Rao, lashed out at the NDA government for enacting a draconian law that would severely affect the farmers’ interests. It is unfortunate that even the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh had supported the legislation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riding-tractor-trolleys-farmers-from-4-states-to-join-protest-in-delhi/story-98diw5fLjUc74L663ZPfzM.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers Protest Highlights: More Punjab farmers enter Haryana for protest||Farmers from Punjab, who are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September, on Friday resumed their march to Delhi as a part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. On Thursday, the protesting farmers were able to cross into neighbouring Haryana despite violent clashes with the Haryana Police. The police’s action sparked a war of words between the two states.Also Read | Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiHowever, in a major development, the Delhi Police commissioner said farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital adding they will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area. Protesting farmers have now entered the national capital through the Tikri border. Earlier, the Delhi government turned down Delhi Police’s request to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails. Several MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which governs Delhi, had urged the govt to deny police’s request.Amid the ongoing agitation, farmer Dhanna Singh from Khiali Chahlan Wali village in Mansa district, who was on his way to Delhi was killed in an accident near Bhiwani. The Haryana Police registered a case against a truck driver who hit the tractor-trolley in which Singh was seated. Two others were injured in the incident. Here are the highlights from day 2 of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march:- National highway at Singhu border turns into mega kitchen at eveningA stretch of the national highway at Singhu border turned into a mega kitchen on Friday evening as exhausted farmers camped on the road along with their tractors and cooked dinner following a long day of protest. The tractors driven by farmers were loaded with ration and other food items, reports PTI. - Centre ready to discuss all issues with farmers: TomarUnion agricultural minister Narendra Tomar on Friday said that the central government is ready ti discuss all issues with the protesting farmers. He added that the government was already engaging with various farmer bodies and they have been called for discussions on December 3.- Will make all necessary arrangements: AAP welcomes farmers to DelhiWelcoming the protesting farmers, who were allowed to enter the national capital through the Tikri border to hold peaceful demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari, the AAP said that it will make all necessary arrangements for them. - AAP supports, stands with farmers; ‘dark’ farm laws must be withdrawn, say party MLAsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators on Friday extended their support towards the protesting farmers and said the new farm laws must be withdrawn. The farmers, mainly from Punjab, reached the national capital after “much struggle”, facing teargas shells, water canons and lathicharge by police at various border points, they added, reports PTI. - Kisan Cong accuses BJP ruled states of using repressive measures against farmersNational coordinator of Kisan Congress Rakesh Kumar Singh accused the BJP ruled states of using repressive measures against farmers. Singh went on to warn that attempts to quell farmers’ protests will only intensify them. “If the new farm laws are in the interest of farmers as claimed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi why does he shy away from meeting them?” Singh added. - Northern Railway cancels 2 trains, short terminates 5 trains and diverts 5 otherIn view of the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab, two trains have been cancelled, five have been short terminated and five others have been diverted, the Northern Railway said.  In view of farmers protest in Punjab, two trains cancelled, five trains short terminated and five others diverted: Northern Railway- Peaceful protests hallmark of democratic society, says AAP’s Raghav ChadhaAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha came out in support of the farmers’ protests and said the right to peacefully protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society. “The right to peacefully protest is enshrined in Indian constituion, which gives a right to protest to every individual. Above all, the right to peacefully protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society,” Chadha told news agency ANI. - Farmers enter Delhi through Tikri borderProtesting farmers have entered the national capital through the Tikri border after they were allowed to hold their demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area, reports ANI. - Centre always ready for talks, dialogue would fetch solution: KhattarWith the central government allowing protesting farmers to enter the national capital, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday assured farmers that the Centre is always ready for talks and a solution can come out through dialogue. He appealed to farmers to directly talk to the Centre regarding their legitimate issues, reports PTI. - Welcome Centre’s decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their right to protest: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the central government’s decision to allow farmers to enter the national capital to protest adding that talks to address farmers concerns should initiate immediately. “I welcome Centre’s decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue”, Singh said, reports ANI. -Protesting farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital: Delhi Police commissionerDelhi police commissioner on Friday said that protesting farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital adding they will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area. The commissioner has further appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order and demonstrate peacefully, reports ANI. -PM Modi should implement ‘one nation, one behaviour’: Priyanka Gandhi targets CentreCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the central government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should implement ‘one nation, one behaviour’, which is apparently a jibe to Modi’s ‘one nation, one election’, reports ANI. -Police fire tear gas shells on protesters at Singhu border Haryana: Police use tear gas to try to disperse farmers as they take part in protests against Centre's Farm laws, at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) pic.twitter.com/gVxsvulHhx-Farmers try to remove cemented blocks put by police on Shambhu border-Delhi govt denies police permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails.-Water cannon and tear gas shells used to disperse protesting farmers at Shambu border #WATCH Water cannon and tear gas shells used to disperse protesting farmers at Shambu border, near Ambala pic.twitter.com/EaqmJLhAZI-Centre should initiate talks with farm unions; Congress not instigating farmers, says Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh Those claiming it's @INCIndia that's instigating the farmers are blind not to see the lakhs of farmers trying to enter Delhi from across the country. It's a fight for their lives & livelihoods & they don't need any backing or provocation.-Farmers stopped at Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab-While at least 105 farmers were detained on Thursday, numbers are expected to rise on Friday-Farmers’ unions write to PM Modi, urge him to let farmers enter Delhi and gather at Ramlila Maidan to hold talks with central govt-Farmers block Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura Mathura: Traffic jam at Yamuna Expressway as agitating farmers block the road. Police personnel present at the spot. pic.twitter.com/2fXDZ7uCLJ-Tear gas shells fired at protesters at Singhu border Heavy security deployment, tear gas used as farmers headed for Delhi protest at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border). https://t.co/PovJdCgsRE pic.twitter.com/fwKYd6rMRn-Delhi Police should stop calling itself ‘Dil Wali Police, tweets AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj I think it's a most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves- दिल वाली पुलिस https://t.co/bqBH3MDcWB-Urge Delhi govt to deny police permission for setting temporary prisons, tweets AAP MLA Raghav Chadha I urge the Delhi Govt to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist.Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society. https://t.co/cqMvEb181r-Security deployed, barriers placed at the Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab, near Ambala to stop the protesting farmers. Security deployed, barriers placed at the Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab, near Ambala, to stop the protesting farmers from proceeding to Delhi"We will ensure law and order is maintained," says SP Ambala pic.twitter.com/qBlXZ5r98J-Delhi Police seeks Delhi govt’s permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary prisons-Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed, tweets Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).-Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) prepare in Amritsar for their tractor rally towards Delhi Punjab: Members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee prepare in Amritsar for their tractor rally towards Delhi by stocking up essentials in trolleys."We have loaded food material for a month & cooking utensils in our trolleys. We're all headed towards Delhi now," says a farmer. pic.twitter.com/INJX58AoJB-After Singhu border, Delhi Police close the Tikri border that leads from Delhi to Haryana’s Bahadurgarh.-Traffic jam at Delhi-Gurugram border, CISF personnel deployed at border Delhi: Traffic jam at Delhi-Gurugram border, due to checking of vehicles by police, in view of farmers' protest march.CISF personnel also deployed on Delhi-Gurugram border. pic.twitter.com/VBPxwYoL1Q-Commuters headed to Delhi from other states stuck on Delhi-Panipat highway due to road blockade Haryana: Commuters headed towards Delhi from other states say they're facing problems after getting stuck on Delhi-Panipat Highway due to road blockade."I'm coming from Jammu & was suppose to reach Delhi yesterday evening. We have no updates so far," says Shivangi, a commuter. pic.twitter.com/kUvChySE74-No matter what, we’ll proceed to Delhi with ration for six months, say protesting farmers in Panipat -Vehicles are not allowed towards Singhu Border, interstate vehicles may take Western/Eastern Perpipheral Expressway, says Delhi Police-Earlier today, a farmer, who was a part of a group headed towards Delhi, after a truck hit the tractor -trolley at Mundhal in Bhiwani-Police fire tear gas shells at protesting farmers at Haryana-Delhi Singhu border #WATCH Police use tear gas shells to disperse protesting farmers at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border).Farmers are headed to Delhi as part of their protest march against Centre's Farm laws. pic.twitter.com/Z0yzjX85J5-Earlier, farmers gathered at Rohtak-Jhajjar border in Haryana to resume their ‘Dilli Chalo’ anti farm-laws march Rohtak: Farmers gathered at Rohtak-Jhajjar border, for 'Delhi Chalo' protest march against Centre's farm laws#Haryana pic.twitter.com/47rtOcYmOv-Heavy contingent of security personnel deployed at Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-punjab-farmers-to-resume-dilli-chalo-march/story-tG2IZgUDNfo4xSLPjvMAxI.html
