29-11-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir reports 471 fresh cases of Covid-19||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded five deaths and 471 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1,09,854 and death toll 1,685.Officials said 211 people tested positive in Kashmir and 260 in Jammu. While three persons succumbed to the diseases in Jammu, two died in Kashmir. They also said that 103,082 people so far have recovered in the union territory after 491 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the recovery rate to 93.83%, the highest so far. There are 5,087 active cases. A total of 1,101 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 584 in Jammu. Covid-19 fatalities have reached 207 in November. As many as 293 people died in October, 478 in September and 326 succumbed to the infection in August.The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1,000-mark on September 20 and 1,500-mark on November 03.With 15,064 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 519 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average seven deaths a day have been reported in November so far, 10 were reported in October on an average per day against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 29.95 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 86 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla with 31 cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 122, followed by 26 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 22,975 cases and 416 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 20,596 cases and 298 deaths.Till date, 7.86 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 20,673 in home quarantine, 5,087 in isolation, and 39,874 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.19 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-471-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/story-RjgP1alVjqVqyuymqAEvcM.html
29-11-2020||India||Bimal Gurung’s faction GJM targets ex-ally BJP in first hill rally in Bengal||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) faction headed by Bimal Gurung on Sunday held its first rally in the Darjeeling region after three and a half years and targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Gurung’s former ally. Faction’s general secretary Roshan Giri, and other speakers, tried to explain at the well-attended rally why they severed ties with the BJP and joined hands with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) against which it had carried out a movement till 2017. Though wanted by the state in connection with several criminal cases and charged under anti-terror law, Gurung surfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and offered an olive branch to Mamata Banerjee. He plans to address a rally in Siliguri on December 6. Also read: India rejects Pak-sponsored references to Kashmir issue in OIC resolutionsGiri said the BJP governments had assured the Gorkhas before three successive Lok Sabha polls that political crisis in the hills would be solved but nothing was done. “Actually they don’t have the political will to find a permanent political solution. Why does the Centre make tripartite talks a prerequisite when it comes to the Gorkhas? The creation of Telangana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand did not require tripartite talks,” Giri said. The Gorkhas lost 15 years because of the BJP, he added. The BJP has been winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat since 2009 with support from the GJM. The BJP promised to find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue and accord scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. Giri said the hill people have to understand the circumstances under which the GJM joined hands with the TMC. The state government suppressed the Gorkhaland movement in 2017 after Binoy Tamang and Anit Thapa, the two senior leaders of the party, became allies of the TMC. They floated another faction of the party while Gurung, the founder president, and his aides went into hiding to evade arrest. Thousands of Gurung’s supporters, who had been maintaining a low profile all these years, hit the streets on Sunday. Giri and the other speakers alleged that the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) run by the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction is involved in corruption. GJM leaders Dipen Maley and Yogendra Rai claimed that there have been rampant corruption in the appointment of primary school teachers and 70 per cent of the fund allocated for development have been siphoned. Giri demanded a special audit. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction, is the chairman of the GTA board of administrators. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson of the Tamang faction said, “Gurung and his men are a private limited company that supports anyone to serve its vested interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimal-gurung-faction-gjm-targets-ex-ally-bjp-in-first-hill-rally-in-bengal/story-TKHJBVG2D4EGUxE0LXkwzL.html
29-11-2020||India||Abhishek Banerjee targets Suvendu Adhikari, TMC flexes muscle on ex-minister’s turf||Two days after rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the cabinet, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday targeted the heavyweight leader at his first election rally even as TMC held two rallies in Adhikari’s turf in East Midnapore. Assembly election is due in West Bengal in the first half of next year.“Mamata Banerjee was not made in a day. Do not belittle her. A lot of people laid down their lives for the TMC. No TMC worker went up in an elevator or descend in a parachute,” Banerjee said during an aggressive speech in his constituency Diamond Harbour. “Had I descended in a parachute I would have held 35 portfolios. I would have contested the polls from south Kolkata, where I live. The party sent me to Diamond Harbour, where I had to start from scratch,” he said.Though Banerjee did not name anyone it was apparent who his target was since it was Adhikari who, while addressing a rally in East Midnapore on November 10, said, “I am known to all as someone who worked on the ground. Neither did I go up in an elevator nor did I descend in a parachute.”Incidentally, Adhikari is known for holding important positions. On Thursday night, he resigned from the post of chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners and on Friday he quit the Haldia Development Authority where he was the chairman. Apart from transport, Adhikari was also in charge of water resources investigation and development and irrigation and waterways. Sunday’s rally was held at Satgachhia which is part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha segment. This was Banerjee’s first public meeting in eight months. “Will you spare someone who betrays the mother of the party? Will you spare someone who pursues personal ambition and betrays the party? Will you accept it if someone spreads canards and becomes the stooge of a rival party,” Banerjee shouted at the TMC workers amid loud applause. Senior TMC leaders had earlier this month told this correspondent that Adhikari is particularly unhappy with organizational decisions taken by the Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw a veiled challenge at the leadership. “I am not afraid of anyone. We will meet in the battlefield,” he said without naming anyone or even the TMC. Differences between Adhikari and the TMC leadership widened after he wanted the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. The TMC held two back-to-back rallies at Haldia and Kanthi in East Midnapore on Sunday in a bid to send a strong message to Adhikari and local party workers. Incidentally, the TMC rallies were led by ministers who are younger than most members of the cabinet. “An attempt is being made to divide Bengal. But we will not let that happen. Mamata Banerjee grew up through peoples’ movements,” minister Sujit Bose said at the rally in Haldia. Another minister, Rajib Banerjee, said, “This rally could not have been so successful had people not been with us. Mamata Banerjee has stood the test of time and people have faith in her.” The TMC rally at Kanthi was addressed by minister Bratya Basu. “I do not want to comment on Adhikari as he is there in the party,” Basu said on the sidelines of the rally. Adhikari was in Mahishadal in the East Midnapore on Sunday. He addressed a public meeting held in the memory of freedom fighter Ranajit Kumar Boyal who died on November 13 at the age of 94. Though he did not make any political statement, Adhikari ended his speech saying, “People have the last word. I will work for the people and always remain accountable to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-targets-suvendu-adhikari-tmc-flexes-muscle-on-ex-minister-s-turf/story-DCT71xN0CTn6ntwQlhlRwM.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah at JP Nadda’s residence as BJP brass meets to discuss farmers’ protest||The BJP brass went into a huddle on Sunday night at party president JP Nadda’s residence over the issue of farmers’ protest. According to a person aware of the developments Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and defence minister Rajnath Rajnath Singh are also present in the meeting. The meeting comes a day after Shah reached out to the farmers and said that talks can be held ahead of the scheduled date of December 3 if the farmers moved to the site in Burari that had been prepared for them. On Sunday, Shah who was campaigning for the party in Hyderabad, said that the new laws are meant for the welfare of the farmers and those who are critical of the laws are politicising the issue.“I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say that,” he said as he appealed to the farmers to call off their agitation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hailed the new laws for improving the lot of the farmers. In his radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister said new dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India and the agriculture reforms have opened up new doors of possibilities for the farmers. The Prime Minister praised the new legislations and said the reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-at-jp-nadda-s-residence-as-bjp-brass-meets-to-discuss-farmers-protest/story-RxFufHTulyZ8NA0aurPM5H.html
29-11-2020||India||AAP will stand by protesting farmers, says Raghav Chadha | Top developments||The Aam Aadmi Party will support the protesting farmers and will arrange for their food, water, electricity as directed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said on Sunday. “Wherever farmers want to protest in Delhi, they should be given permission. As per Delhi CM directives, AAP govt will play the role of Sewadar for protesting farmers. We’ll arrange langar, water, electricity etc. for them. We will stand by the farmers,” he said.The protest spearheaded by 32 farmers’ organisations against the three recently passed agricultural laws entered its fourth day on Sunday with signs of intensifying as the protesters have threatened to block all entry points to the Capital. The organisations have also rejected centre’s “conditional’ dialogue proposal.Here are the top 10 developments:1. Protesters who reached Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground, the designated place for the agitation, on Saturday held protests on Sunday.2. Those who are protesting at Delhi’s borders said they would not move to Burari ground. “The condition put for talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to Burari. It is not a park but an open jail,” Surjeet S Phul, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Punjab president, said. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, in a letter to the organisations, said that as soon as all protesters shift to Burari, a high-level committee of Union ministers will hold talks at Vigyan Bhavan with the representatives of all farmers’ unions.3. The border blockade will not end, the president said adding that the protesters will block all five entry points to Delhi.4. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. They demanded a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for discussion.5. The protesters have also decided to not let anyone speak at their protests6. Several Khaps or caste councils from Haryana have extended support to the farmers’ ongoing protest and will march towards the national capital.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat address said the farm reforms will free farmers from various shackles and will give them new rights and opportunities. 8. Union home minister Amit Shah said he never alleged that the protest ws political. “Whoever wants to oppose it politically let them do it. I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say (that it is political,” he said.9. BJP chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar held a meeting over farmers protest at the BJP chief’s residence.10. Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed, according to Delhi Traffic Police’s latest updates. “Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu borders. Tikri border is closed for any traffic movement. Available open borders to Haryana are Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala Jhatikera,Badusari,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera borders,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-will-stand-by-protesting-farmers-says-raghav-chadha-top-developments/story-53cxPfxz0xUgJFIz6i9daP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Unwarranted’: India rejects Pak-sponsored references to Kashmir issue in OIC resolutions||India on Sunday rejected references to the country and the Kashmir issue in resolutions adopted at a meeting of foreign ministers of member states of the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC), describing them as “factually incorrect, gratuitous and unwarranted”.As first reported by Hindustan Times, the Kashmir issue wasn’t on the official agenda for the meeting of the OIC’s council of foreign ministers (CFM) held in Niger during November 27-28. Pakistan proposed a resolution on the Kashmir issue to compensate for OIC’s decision not to include the matter in the agenda, and this referred to matters such as the scrapping of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and alleged human rights abuses in the region.“We strongly and categorically reject the factually incorrect, gratuitous and unwarranted references to India in resolutions adopted by the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC) at the 47th CFM session in Niamey, Republic of Niger, held on November 27-28, 2020,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.“We have always maintained that OIC has no locus standi in matters strictly internal to India, including that of union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India,” the statement said.Also read: Search teams locate debris of Navy’s MiG-29K, pilot still missing“It is regrettable that OIC continues to allow itself to be used by a certain country, which has an abominable record on religious tolerance, radicalism and persecution of minorities, to indulge in anti-India propaganda. We strongly advise the OIC to refrain from making such references in future,” the statement added, in a reference to Pakistan.The Niamey Declaration issued at the conclusion of the OIC meeting also included a reference to the Kashmir issue that people familiar with developments said was included due to the insistence of Pakistan. The declaration reiterated “OIC’s principled position on the Jammu and Kashmir dispute for a peaceful settlement in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions”.The people cited above said New Delhi wasn’t surprised that the OIC documents contained customary references to Jammu and Kashmir but made it clear it was significant that the Kashmir issue wasn’t discussed as a separate agenda item at the meeting of the council of foreign ministers despite the pressure mounted by Pakistan.These developments come at a time when Pakistan’s relations with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), both key players in the 56-member OIC, are strained.Saudi Arabia has sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018 after it was irked by Islamabad’s efforts to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries along with Turkey and Malaysia. The UAE last week temporarily suspended issuing visas to citizens of Pakistan over security concerns. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi raised this matter with his UAE counterpart during the OIC meet in Niger but didn’t get any positive response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unwarranted-india-rejects-pak-sponsored-references-to-kashmir-issue-in-oic-resolutions/story-TcArQ0JAYhylk8G6WpUk5N.html
29-11-2020||India||EAM Jaishankar calls on UAE’s PM, discusses post-Covid economic cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on UAE’s Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on Sunday and discussed with him the prospects for economic cooperation between India and the Gulf country in the post-Covid-19 era. Jaishankar thanked Sheikh Mohammed for taking care of the Indian community and underlined that India had been a reliable partner to the UAE in all respects during this difficult period. “Called on HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, VP & PM of UAE and the Ruler of Dubai. Handed over a personal communication from Prime Minister @narendramodi. Thanked him for taking care of the Indian community,” Jiashankar tweeted. “Underlined that India had been a reliable partner in all respects during this difficult period. Discussed prospects for our economic cooperation in the post-Covid era,” he said in another tweet. The External Affairs Minister visited the India pavilion at Expo 2020 site and reviewed the progress of the pavilion which promises to showcase India’s strength in innovation and technology in addition to arts and culture. He also addressed the Indian community of Dubai and Northern Emirates through a virtual meet on November 29 and expressed his appreciation to the community for the support to fellow Indians during the pandemic, the Indian Consulate in Dubai said in a tweet. Earlier, Jaishankar visited Abu Dhabi on Wednesday night on the second leg of his six-day three-nation visit to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, which began on Tuesday. He left for Seychelles on November 27 from the UAE. During his two-day visit to Abu Dhabi on November 25-26, he called on Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and held talks with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan. He also virtually met the representatives of the Indian community associations in Abu Dhabi. According to the website of the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi, the Indian expatriate community of approximately 30.4 lakh is reportedly the largest ethnic community in the UAE, constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-calls-on-uae-s-prime-minister-discusses-post-c-economic-cooperation/story-rQ6qOiyZrr0nGOmaxLUGlN.html
29-11-2020||India||As Covid-19 surges, Uttarakhand limits wedding guests to 100||With Covid-19 cases continuing to surge in the state, the Uttarakhand government on Sunday issued new orders slashing the number of guests allowed in weddings to 100 from 200.Laying down guidelines for surveillance in containment zones, the government in an order said that only essential activities will be allowed in containment zone, with strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people except for medical emergencies.“Testing shall be carried out as per prescribed protocol. Listing of contacts shall be carried out in respect of all persons found positive, along with their tracking, identification, quarantine and follow up of contacts for 14 days,” it said.It also said that 80% of contacts would be traced in 72 hours. Outside containment zones, places like cinema halls and theatres will function at 50% capacity, swimming pools will be used only for training of sportspersons and exhibition halls will be used only for business-to-business purposes.“Social/religious/sports/entertainment/educational/cultural/religious gatherings, with up to a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 100 persons in closed spaces: and keeping of the size of the ground/space in view, in open spaces,” it said.District administrations have been allowed to impose local restrictions like night curfew depending on the pandemic situation in their particular areas. However, local lockdown outside containment zones cannot be imposed without prior consultation with the state government.All district administrations have been asked to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behavior, like compulsory wearing of masks, maintaining social distance, sanitization.Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 389 fresh Covid-19 cases to take the tally to 74,340. Eight more casualties took the death toll in the pandemic to 1,222. Out of tally of 74,340, a total of 67,475 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.77%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.6%. On Sunday, 278 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with maximum, 205 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, maximum of 146 cases were reported from Dehradun district. With two positive cases, Bageshwar district reported the least number of cases on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 21,188 Cocid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (12,064), US Nagar (10,278) and Nainital (8,482). The state health department has so far tested 13.27 lakh people of which results of over 13,800 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-surges-uttarakhand-limits-wedding-guests-to-100/story-dbLKoZquFZr9irJQSYqEpJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protests: Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Narendra Singh Tomar meet at BJP chief Nadda’s residence||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday held a meeting at BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda’s residence to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protests at the Delhi-Haryana border. Home minister Amit Shah who was on a visit to Hyderabad to boost BJP’s chances ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Polls returned to Delhi on Sunday evening. He had earlier on Saturday requested protesting farmers to withdraw their protests and hold talks with the Centre regarding their grievances. Farmers have rejected the governments offer and said that they will only speak to the government if there are no pre-conditions. The government on Saturday told the agitating farmers that they will hold discussions if they move their protest to a DDA ground in Burari. Farmers group rejected the proposal highlighting that the home ministry should not hold discussions regarding agricultural issues. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee leader Darshan Pal told HT that the home ministry has no role to play in the talks regarding the issues faced by farmers. He said, “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture.”Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari-wing’s president Surjeet S Phul also told ANI that they will continue to block the five entry points to the capital city and termed the protest site earmarked by the Centre as an ‘open-air’ prison. Phul said, “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve 4 months ration with us, so nothing to worry about.”The agitation began on November 25 when farmer groups began their Delhi Chalo march demanding that the government repeals the three farm bills - the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - passed during the monsoon session in the Parliament. Farmer groups broke through barricades at Sambhu and Karnal at the Punjab-Haryana border on Thursday after Haryana police denied them entry. Following clashes between Haryana Police and protesters tear gas shells were lobbed and water cannons were sprayed at the protesters. Farmers believe that these three laws will allow private players to gain profits from the agricultural sector and will adversely impact the procurement of foodgrains under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-union-ministers-amit-shah-rajnath-singh-narendra-singh-tomar-meet-at-bjp-chief-nadda-s-residence/story-VnHQ02TWBDLm3D9ZAuIOwI.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Listen to annadata, reconsider farm laws’, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday demanded the central government to reconsider the three farm laws that have sparked a furore among the country’s farmers. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he stated that even when the GDP growth rate has been -7.5% in the second quarter of the current fiscal, the agriculture sector has grown 3.4%. “In these difficult times, the Annadata (providers) are making positive contributions to the economy and they should not be given such a reward,” he said. Gehlot demanded that Modi reconsider these laws to protect the interests of farmers and democratic values. “On 26 November, when the country was celebrating Constitution Day, the farmers were hit with sticks and water cannons. To prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to highlight their demands, roads were dug and barriers were set up. The central government tried to take away the right to protest of the farmers which is not justified,” said Gehlot. He went on to say, “The farmers have irrigated the land of the country with their blood and sweat. The central government should immediately resolve their problems by listening to their demands.”The CM said the three bills were brought by the central government without any discussion with farmers and experts. The government also ignored the demand by opposition parties in Parliament to send these bills to the select committee. These laws do not mention the minimum support price, which has led to distrust among farmers. Gehlot said that if these laws are implemented, the farmers will become dependent on private players. Also, with the formation of private mandis, the existence of long-standing agricultural mandis will also end. Due to this, farmers will not get the right price for their produce. Gehlot also informed the PM of the amendments made by the state in the three laws to protect the interest of farmers in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-annadata-reconsider-farm-laws-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-1jjRL807EVbZnHPQPI92lJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmer groups say no political parties will be allowed to speak at protests, term Burari site as ‘open jail’||Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari-wing’s president Surjeet S Phul on Sunday said that no political party will be allowed to speak at the protest site on behalf or for the farmers. The farmers also said that they will not move to the designated protest site at Burari and termed the ground an open-air prison.Phul, while speaking to ANI, said, “We’ve decided that we won’t allow any political party leader to speak on our stage, be it Congress, BJP, AAP or other parties. Our Committee will allow other organisations, who are supporting us, to speak if they follow our rules.”Phul reiterated the demands of the farmer bodies and said that talks with Centre will be held unconditionally and said that farmer groups protesting at Singhu border will not move to the DDA ground in north Delhi’s Burari which has been earmarked for the protests by the Centre.Watch | Farmers reject Amit Shah’s proposal for early talks, set new demands Terming the protest site an open jail, he said, “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve 4 months ration with us, so nothing to worry about. Our Operations Committee will decide everything.”The agitation staged by more than 30 farmer bodies has entered its fourth day. The farmers began their Delhi Chalo march on Thursday night. The protesters clashed with the police across several border checkpoints in the Punjab-Haryana border. Police on Thursday also fired tear gas shells and sprayed gusts of water at the protesting farmers using water cannons.The farmers have also rejected the Centre’s proposal to speak to the Home ministry. They have demanded that the Union government set up a high-profile cabinet committee to address the grievances of the farmers. Home minister Amit Shah who on Sunday said that he does not consider the protests to be political had invited farmers to discuss issues concerning the three farm bills passed in Parliament during the monsoon session.Farmers are demanding a rollback of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Farmers fear that these bills will help large corporations to earn more profits and affect the procurement of farm yields under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-groups-say-no-political-parties-will-be-allowed-to-speak-at-protests-term-burari-site-as-open-jail/story-vCqqiK0Hr9mj504OoZxQoN.html
29-11-2020||India||Search teams locate debris of Navy’s MiG-29K in Arabian Sea, pilot still missing||Search and rescue teams of the Indian Navy on Sunday located some debris of the MiG-29K trainer aircraft that crashed into the Arabian Sea three days ago even as efforts to locate the missing pilot continued, officials said on Sunday.The debris located includes the landing gear, turbo charger and some other parts of the aircraft, they said.Multiple naval aircraft and warships have been deployed off the country’s west coast to locate the missing pilot“In addition to nine warships and 14 aircraft engaged in the search efforts, Indian Navy’s fast interceptor craft are also deployed to search waters along the coast. Further, the marine/coastal police are on the lookout and nearby fishing villages have been sensitised,” a Navy spokesperson said. The Russian-origin twin-seat trainer jet went down on Thursday after taking off from India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. While rescue teams were able to recover one of the pilots on Thursday, the second pilot - Commander Nishant Singh - is still missing.Thursday’s crash was the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet.While the cause of the crash is not known yet, India’s top auditor had in 2016 found deficiencies in the deck-based fighter. These included engine trouble, airframe problems and shortcomings in its fly-by-wire system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-teams-locate-debris-of-navy-s-mig-29k-in-arabian-sea-pilot-still-missing/story-f2OrlkaCBA1Ti6ZohCqsVN.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee attacks PM Modi, BJP over border row with China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Abhishek Banerjee takes on PM Modi and BJP on national security, personal remarksThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used the Pulwama terror attack as an election issue to retain power in 2019 but has done nothing to free the territory China captured in Ladakh six months ago, Lok Sabha member and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee alleged at a huge public rally at his constituency, Diamond Harbour, on Sunday afternoon. Read morePM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teamsPrime minister Narendra Modi will interact with three teams involved in developing a vaccine to prevent the coronavirus on Monday. The prime minister’s office in a tweet said that the PM will speak to teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. Read moreFarmers’ protest: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’ says ML Khattar, backs Haryana PoliceAmid severe criticism of how Haryana Police used ‘force’ on farmers as they were marching towards Delhi protesting against three recently passed farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he doesn’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force. Read more‘I just asked him’: Virat Kohli and Aaron Finch say Hardik Pandya showed how to bowl on SCG wicketIt was a difficult day for the bowlers in the second One Day International between India and Australia on Friday. It was a field day for bowlers from both the sides as they took a pounding on a batting pitch at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The second ODI saw the most run scored in an ODI in Australia as 727 runs were hit on Friday. Read moreAashiqui star Rahul Roy suffers brain stroke while shooting in Kargil, moved to ICU in MumbaiAashiqui star Rahul Roy has reportedly suffered a brain stoke while shooting for a film in Kargil. The actor has been admitted to the Nanavati hospital in Mumbai. Rahul was shooting for his film LAC - Live the Battle. He suffered the brain stroke due to extreme weather condition in Kargil. His brother Romeer Sen confirmed the news and said that the actor is recovering. Read moreMysterious metal monolith found in remote Utah desert area has disappearedThe Utah Department of Public Safety and Division of Wildlife Resources came across a shiny metal monolith on November 18. The mysterious monolith had taken the Internet by storm as there is no official information available regarding who put it in the state’s red-rock desert. Now, the three-sided stainless-steel object, which is estimated to be about as tall as two men put together, has disappeared as bizarrely as it had initially appeared. Read more‘Never called farmers’ protest politically motivated’: Amit Shah; Cong slamsA day after assuring agitating farmers that the central government was ready to hold talks on their “every problem and demand,” Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said he never called the farmers’ protest politically motivated and neither was he calling it now. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-attacks-pm-modi-bjp-over-border-row-with-china-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LcMQaO0K3JAxJYSgWqUS4N.html
29-11-2020||India||Wife of scribe in UP who died of burns threatens to immolate self, demands arrest of killers||The wife of a local Hindi daily journalist, Rakesh Singh (45), in Balrampur who died in a mysterious fire on Friday, has threatened to immolate herself in front of the district magistrate’s office if the alleged killers were not arrested by Tuesday.The Uttar Pradesh police are yet to arrive at any conclusion in the case.Vibha Singh, the journalist’s wife had alleged criminal conspiracy behind the incident and said that her husband and his friend Pintu Sahu, 36, were burnt to death by some local muscleman. The journalist and his friend had died when a mysterious fire broke out in his village house under Kotwali Dehat police area in Balrampur district on Friday night. Sahu had died on the spot while Singh succumbed to his injuries in a Lucknow hospital after suffering 90% burn injuries.The wife of the deceased, along with her two daughters, family members and local residents staged a protest and refused to cremate the body on Sunday until her husband’s alleged killers were arrested. She gave the deadline of 48 hours to the police and the district administration after which she said she would immolate herself. She finally agreed to cremate the body after an assurance by local MLA Paltu Ram.A local police official said journalist’s father Munna Singh had earlier lodged a complaint against 4-5 unidentified people for allegedly setting his son and his friend ablaze after locking them inside the house. “Seconds before his death, the journalist had said that he was targeted as he was working on some big news. He, however, did not mention any person behind the incident,” he added.The official said the police had interrogated five people in the matter but had failed to reach any conclusion so far.Balrampur superintendent of police (SP) Dev Ranjan Verma did not respond to calls. Earlier on Saturday, he had told media persons that the door of the house was found locked from outside, which has raised a suspicion. He said three suspects of the same village, including former village pradhan Ram Surat, Ravi Chauhan and Babu Mishra, were detained for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-scribe-in-up-who-died-of-burns-threatens-to-immolate-self-demands-arrest-of-killers/story-pBzY5nLBBSyLntVv9McNFI.html
29-11-2020||India||Assistant commandant killed in IED blast in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma||An Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and eight others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district on Saturday night. Inspector-General of Police (IG) Bastar, Sunderaj P, told Hindustan Times that a team of 206 CoBRA, along with a team of district police, was out for anti-naxal operation on Saturday night when nine personnel, including two senior officials, were injured in an IED blast planted by the Maoists. The IG said that the incident took place near Arabraj Metta hills, which is nine kilometres Northwest of Chitagufa police station and six kilometres west of Burkapal base camp. “All nine injured were airlifted to Raipur at around 12.45 am and were admitted in a hospital. On Sunday morning, an Assistant Commandant, Nitin Bhalerao, who sustained serious injured died in the hospital,” said the IG. Also read: Farmers’ protest - Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concernsAnother officer, second in command Dinesh Kumar Singh, and other CoBRA personnel are admitted in hospital. Assistant Commandant Bhalerao, who succumbed to his injuries and breathed his last at 3:30 am on Sunday in Raipur, was a native of Nasik in Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has condemned the incident and paid tributes to the Bhalerao. The CM attended the wreath-laying ceremony along with senior officers of CRPF and state police. “The condition of eight others admitted in a hospital is said to be stable,” added IG Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assistant-commandant-killed-in-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma/story-pfCQJ0KVgLUSFYUT7JhknI.html
29-11-2020||India||Dogs roam freely, tug at unattended dead body in Uttar Pradesh hospital||A stray dog tugged at an unattended body on a stretcher at the District Hospital in Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, according to officials on Sunday. The incident took place on November 26.The father of the person who had died witnessed the incident and said, “The body was left unattended for 1.5 hrs. It’s the negligence of the hospital.”The hospital authorities have suspended two ward boys.One of the suspended ward boys said, “I got a job in this hospital during COVID-19. I was not supposed to be on duty at that time. The authorities have suspended me. I will question the authorities.”Dr Sunil Verma of the district hospital said, “Some board members of the hospital have also been suspended. We are looking into the matter closely. An investigation committee has been formed to find out details of the issue.”“It is true that dogs enter the hospital premises frequently,” he added. Dogs were seen entering the hospital premises and creating a menace in the hospital. Many people who were visiting the hospital felt uncomfortable in the presence of dogs in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dogs-roam-freely-tug-at-unattended-dead-body-in-uttar-pradesh-hospital/story-N9OrvoFBQCjf2xsfr1xdtN.html
29-11-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021 prep is changing face of Haridwar, here’s how||Mahakumbh melas, the biggest religious congregations on the planet, help people seek spiritual upliftment. The preparation of the Mahakumbh 2021 in Haridwar is in full swing and is also changing the face of the sacred city. The upcoming Mahakumbh, scheduled from January till April 2021, is being keenly awaited by pilgrims, seers and people, given it is being held after twelve years. It is also ushering in development, infrastructural projects, amenities and facilities both on a permanent and temporary basis. Almost 70-85 per cent specific Kumbh budget allocated by the Central government is spent on permanent nature works like construction of bridges, Ganga ghats, roads, flyovers, expansion of Kumbh mela zone area and so on. While temporary works include setting up of temporary mela base camp at Bairagi Camp, restricted Kumbh land for seers, Akhadas, religious organisation pontiffs and also for Kumbh mela administration personnel, particularly for Kumbh Force comprising Uttarakhand police and central para-military forces personnel. How Kumbh prep is changing the face of Haridwar Digging work across the city for laying piped natural gas pipeline, underground electricity cable, sewer lines, broadening of national highway-58, construction of bridges over Ganga, flyovers, underpasses, railway line broadening is going on at present. Authorities says all works will be completed by December end. Every six years, Haridwar gets a facelift due to Mahakumbh and Ardh Kumbh fairs which are being held for centuries. During the previous Ardh Kumbh in 2016, a budget of Rs 258 crores was earmarked for various development works. Prominent among them was the construction of four new bridges at Har-Ki-Pauri, Chintamani Ashram, Laltarau and Jwalapur, providing easier connectivity of the city to both sides of the Ganga canal. Also read: ‘A man is not great by his caste, but by his talent’ - Nitin GadkariSewer connectivity has strengthened and this time it is being taken up across municipal corporation wards and suburban Jwalapur to saint dominated clusters of Bhoopatwala-Khadkhadi-Neel Dhara-Saptsarovar where temples, ashrams, maths and dharamshalas are in abundance. Haridwar, during Mahakumbh, will be the first city in Uttarakhand to be free of hanging electric wires and poles as the underground power cable project is also in its last phase. Also, over a thousand odd households have been connected with piped natural gas (PNG) making LPG cylinders a thing of the past for them. Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) has been carrying out the project in Haridwar city and its expected to get completed in the coming months. 2010 vs 2021 Initial assistance of Rs 365 crores from the Central government for Mahakumbh fair led to the start of multiple construction related works with major focus on permanent nature works. During 2010 Mahakumbh, 3,310 metre of new Ganga ghats were constructed while this time five new Ganga ghats are being developed. Similarly, one single major steel girder span bridge was built in 2010 Mahakumbh near British era Damkoti guesthouse on Mayapur regulator for Rs 4.34 crore. This time, three major bridges are being built on the Ganga river and canal. New Dhanauri bridge, for Rs 6.8 crores, will replace more than 150-year-old British era bridge which is in dilapidated condition and provides easier access and exit to Haridwar city from Bhagwanpur-Kaliyar-Roorkee side. The 2010 Kumbh also saw the construction of a two-storey parking lot opposite to Har-Ki-Pauri with a capacity of 800 vehicles. At Jagjeetpur village near Matri Sadan ashram, a new bridge is being constructed at a cost of Rs 5.52 crore, providing connectivity to Bairagi Kumbh camp area with Kankhal. Within a kilometre, the third bridge is being built at Dakshdeep-Bairagi camp stretch on Ganga canal by Public Work Department (PWD). Also read: PM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teamsTemporary nature works - like setting up of tents for akhadas, seers and in particular for mela force, state police and personnel of paramilitary forces - will begin by next month. Also, in a first, this Mahakumbh will witness temples, ashrams, dharamshalas, hotels in Haridwar coloured in saffron and yellow colors. “Single colour code will give a unique and spiritual aura to Har-Ki-Pauri and core mela zone in Haridwar in sync with the religious aura of the pilgrim city during Mahakumbh,” said additional district magistrate Kumbh mela Harbeer Singh. Covid dampener When Kumbh mela related works commenced a year ago, it was expected the budget would cross the previous Rs 655 crore sanctioned for 2010 Mahakumbh. But with the Covid-19 pandemic, both the budget and spread of multiple infrastructure-related works were affected. While before the Covid-19 epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims and tourists were expected to participate in the Mahakumbh, now the state government will take final a decision on the number of pilgrims for the first Shahi Snaan (royal bath) on Maha Shivratri in February, which drew nearly four to five million devotees in 2010. In all, 8.5 crore pilgrims had arrived in 2010 Mahakumbh in Haridwar. The apex body of akhadas, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has also agreed for a restrictive or mild Mahakumbh fair if the epidemic continues till February. “We want preparations to be done at a grand scale but simultaneously we have apprised the Uttarakhand government and Kumbh mela administration that, if need be, only two or five seers from each of thirteen akhadas will take the sacred Ganga dip during three Shahi Snaan in Mahakumbh. But we are hopeful, Covid containment will be done and the fair will be open for all,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Should Kumbh be “restrictive”? With permanent nature works in the last phase, mela officials, saints, akhada office-bearers, local priests are discussing whether Mahakumbh 2021 will be grander affair than 2010 or due to Covid-19 restrictions, it will be curtailed to a normal event. Urban development cabinet Minister Madan Kaushik, who is Haridwar city legislator, pointed that the state government will take a final call on Kumbh mela guidelines in February-March taking into consideration Covid-19 spread, containment in Uttarakhand and other states, as well as standard operating guidelines for mass religious events of Central government. “As of now, mela administration is carrying out works keeping in mind a full-fledged Kumbh fair and there is some time before three Shahi Snaan near when actual picture will get clearer,” said Madan Kaushik, who was in-charge cabinet minister in 2010 Mahakumbh. “Currently, we are focusing on completing the Kumbh preparations that are of a permanent nature. Without proper infrastructure, the fair can’t be held properly. We have to utilise the Kumbh budget being allocated by the government to the fullest. Later, after assessing the situation and government guidelines, we’ll formulate ways to hold the event in a manner that is safe for pilgrims and visitors,” said Lalit Narayan Mishra, additional district magistrate, Kumbh mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-prep-is-changing-face-of-haridwar-here-s-how/story-tFYYkepLNsslF3uga65ZiL.html
29-11-2020||India||Serum Institute rejects charges levelled by vaccine trial participant, threatens to seek damages||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India on Sunday rejected charges that AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate has serious side effects and said it will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for “malicious” allegations.A 40-year-old Chennai-based business consultant, who was a volunteer for the third phase of the vaccine trial conducted by Serum Institute of India (SII), has alleged serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions and has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to SII and others, besides seeking a halt to the trial.He was administered the shot at Chennai’s Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites.“The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer,” Serum Institute of India said in a statement.The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the Covid vaccine trial, it added.“The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent. In-spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company,” Serum Institute said.It is evident that the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive, it added. “The Serum Institute of India, will seek damages in excess of (Rs) 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims,” the statement said.The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating if the adverse event as claimed to have been suffered by an Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial participant in Chennai are related to the shot administered to him.A law firm on his behalf has sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO AstraZeneca UK, CEO Serum Institute of India, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research.Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said the causal link, if any, of the serious adverse events with the investigational product is objectively assessed in any clinical trial following a pre-defined scientific pathway and within a stipulated period.“Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine,” Panda said.The notice given on November 21 by the law firm said, “Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future.””He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crores within two weeks from the receipt of this notice,” it added. The notice also said that testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, “failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/serum-institute-rejects-charges-levelled-by-vaccine-trial-participant-threatens-to-seek-damages/story-7aV533hxU4e8eD7LYRQ3eO.html
29-11-2020||India||Drugs worth Rs 35 lakh seized in Goa; 3 arrested||Three persons were arrested after drugs worth nearly Rs 35 lakh were seized in simultaneous raids on Saturday night, including one at the famous Arambol banyan tree - a hermitage-like hideaway that is a haven for tourists seeking a spiritual experience that sometimes involves smoking marijuana.The overnight raids were all conducted in Arambol village in North Goa that is a big draw among tourists.In the raid at the Arambol banyan tree, Chandan, 35, a native of Barmer in Rajasthan, was found in illegal possession of 2.390 Kg of charas worth Rs 11.95-lakh.In another raid between 5.20 and 10:50 pm on Saturday evening at a rented room also at Arambol, one Chhatra Singh alias Shiva, 36, a native of Haldwani in Uttarakhand, was arrested with 2.100 kg of charas totalling Rs10.50-lakh, while Raju Lama, 35, a native of Manali in Himachal Pradesh was arrested with 2.500 kg of charas worth Rs 12.50-lakh.“These raids were conducted after tracking the peddlers for quite some days,” Superintendent of Police Mahesh Gaonkar said.The Goa police say it has seized narcotics worth Rs 6.8 crore this year compared to the Rs 5.5 crore last year.“We have given instructions to reach the source, we have reached the source in some cases. Our focus is on the source,” Goa’s Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena, while speaking late last week, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-worth-rs-35-lakh-seized-in-goa-3-arrested/story-4nZ7sGTIroYlSuHnyFGebK.html
29-11-2020||India||Hours after Nitish Kumar reviews law and order, robbers kill woman in Patna||Hours after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reviewed the law and order situation in the state at a high-level meeting and directed the police to contain crime on Saturday, unidentified criminals shot dead a woman during a robbery post midnight.The CM had instructed to intensify police patrolling during night to curb crime.The 40-year-old woman was killed while resisting a robbery bid near Patna’s Chiraiyatand bridge.The incident took place around 1.30 am when Imran Alam, an employee of a private bank posted at Siwan, and his wife Shahika Pravin reached Patna from Siwan by a bus. The duo had to catch a train for Dehri-on-Sone at Patna Junction but they missed it.Imran told the police as they missed the train, they left the railway station and went to search for a hotel to spend the night. “When we were unable to find a room, we hired an auto-rickshaw to return to Patna Junction railway station. As the auto-rickshaw reached near Chiraiyatand bridge, unidentified criminals suddenly waylaid us and demanded cash at gunpoint. We handed over all cash and valuables but one of the criminals shot my wife in the eye when she tried to protest,” Imran said.A police team which rushed to the spot sent the woman’s body to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for autopsy. Station House Officer (SHO) of Jannakpur police station, Mukesh Verma, said following the statement of deceased’s husband, a case has been registered. Police are investigating the matter and the accused would be arrested soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-nitish-kumar-reviews-law-and-order-robbers-kill-woman-in-patna/story-PKIfCreD4KiL8ISJbHFIIL.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Why did you try to stop them in Haryana,’ Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concerns||The fiery exchange between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar went a notch higher on Sunday after Khattar claimed that he didn’t allow the farmers’ protest in his state in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. He also questioned why Amarinder Singh allowed such a congregation in his state amid the ongoing pandemic. “If he was so concerned about farmers spreading Covid-19 in Haryana whose track record in the pandemic remains extremely poor, he should not have stopped them within the state, but should have allowed them to move quickly to Delhi,” Singh said.Also Read: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana PoliceThe verbal fight between the two neighbouring states began after Amarinder Singh denounced Haryana’s action of using “force” on farmers, which Khattar defended and said using water cannon and tear gas, according to him, was not using “force”. “A man who can disown his own farmers and even go so far as to call them Khalistanis instead of standing by them in this hour of crisis clearly has no moral scruples about spreading lies,” the Punjab CM said after Khattar claimed that he wanted to talk to Amarinder on farmers’ issues but the Punjab chief minister was not available.The farmers’ organisations, a majority of which have entered Delhi by Saturday, have refused to hold protest in Burari ground which they have termed as “an open jail”. “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve got four months ration with us, so nothing to worry. Our Operations Committee will decide everything,” Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari (Punjab) president Surjeet S Phul told ANI.Meanwhile, all Khaps of Haryana on Sunday decided to support the protesting farmers. “Khaps will gather tomorrow and proceed towards Delhi. We request the Centre to re-consider the farm laws. Everyone has a right to express themselves,” Sombir Sangwan, Haryana Khap Pradhan and Dadri MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-why-did-you-try-to-stop-them-in-haryana-amarinder-singh-questions-khattar-s-covid-19-concerns/story-JZJxJu1DcgsxGTDPYQ54MI.html
29-11-2020||India||Chambal river’s gharials migrate to Kuno as sand mining disturbs habitat||Rampant illegal sand mining in the Chambal river that has allegedly disturbed the habitat of gharials is suspected to be the reason that forced a female gharial to travel 15 km to lay eggs on the banks of Kuno river, a forest official said Sunday. The Kuno is a tributary of the Chambal.The radio-collared gharial chose the banks of the Kuno river for nesting this year, recording the state’s first case of the crocodile species migrating to Kuno river. In 2017, another radio-collared gharial was found nesting in Parbati river, another tributary of the Chambal. In 2017, the scientists associated with Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology (MCBTCH) fitted radio collars in some gharials under telemetry research to know about their movements and lifestyle.MCBTCH scientist Zailabdeen Sheikh said, “During telemetry research, we have found that a female gharial went to Kuno but didn’t return. When we traced it, a nest and the gharial were found in Kuno for the first time. This suggests that gharials are looking for a safer habitat. They have found one in Kuno.”According to the forest department data the gharial population in Chambal river had fallen to 1,255 in 2017 from close to 1,800 in 2015. For the 2019 census, the department decided to include Parbati river also, and therefore, the number of gharials in Chambal river basin increased to 1,681. Although the exact reason for migration is yet to be ascertained, experts said a number of factors including illegal sand mining is responsible for the migration. The illegal mining disturbs the gharials’ nesting sites, said the scientist.A forest officer who did not wish to be named, said the migration is happening due to rampant illegal sand mining in the area. “The colonies and pools of gharials are being destroyed by the illegal sand mining mafia. The gharials are not finding sandbanks to lay eggs as illegal sand miners have installed heavy machines on the banks to excavate sand from the river. Gharials are not finding safe habitat and that’s why they are moving up towards Kuno and Parbati,” he said. A retired scientist of Deori Eco Center in Morena and Chambal sanctuary, RK Sharma warned that illegal sand mining was damaging the environment.“This is good that gharials are finding safe habitat for nesting but at the same time it is a cause of concern for Chambal river. The authorities should understand that illegal sand mining is causing loss to the environment and also affecting the quality of water. If it continues, it will disturb the ecological balance.” According to South Asia SANDRP, Madhya Pradeshw had emerged at third place in illegal sand mining activities with 16,405 cases in 2018-19. Most of the cases were from Chambal and Narmada river basins. Locals are also not happy with the migration of gharials as they feel that it will affect the footfall of tourists. A resident of Tikri Rithora village of Morena district, Virendra Singh said, “In our village, a sighting of 20-25 gharials on the banks of Chambal was common till a few years back. It used to attract local and foreign tourists and researchers but now it is hard to even see 2-3 gharials on the banks.” According to Deori Gharial Eco Park chief scientist Jyoti Dandotiya said at least 50-80 tourists visit Chambal sanctuary and park daily to see gharials in the winter season and the numbers falls to 30 per day in the summer. Morena, divisional forest officer (DFO), Amit Basant Nikam said, “There are multiple factors behind the migration of gharials to Kuno and Parvati rivers and I can’t deny that illegal sand mining is one of the major reasons.” “We are taking multiple steps to curb illegal sand mining. Forest officials do patrol in the sensitive area and also registered cases. But now we have sent a proposal of legalized sand mining in some area of Chambal river, which is not ecologically sensitive,” said Nikam. Additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) (wildlife) JS Chauhan said, “There is a problem of sand mining in Chambal river but it doesn’t mean that gharials are migrating from the river for this reason only. The shifting of gharials in Kuno river which happened recently and Parbati River is a result of the expansion of safe habitat and increase in population.” “Now, the MP forest department is also going to develop it as a safe habitat and will release as many as 25 adult gharials - 20 female and five males for breeding in Kuno, ‘’ said Chauhan. (With inputs from Shivpratap Singh Jadon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chambal-river-s-gharials-migrate-to-kuno-as-sand-mining-disturbs-habitat/story-dnjvmN6DnAzggKRXNFQISL.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teams||Prime minister Narendra Modi will interact with three teams involved in developing a vaccine to prevent the coronavirus on Monday. The prime minister’s office in a tweet said that the PM will speak to teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. The prime minister’s office said, “Tomorrow, on 30th November 2020, PM @narendramodi will interact, via video conferencing, with three teams that are involved in developing a COVID-19 vaccine. The teams he will interact with are from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s.”According to its website, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, a Pune-based biotechnology company, is developing an mRNA vaccine to curb the spread of Covid-19, in collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation which is based in Seattle. They are conducting trials of the vaccine named, HGCO19, on rodents and non-human primate models.Biological E. Limited (BE) is also preparing a vaccine in collaboration with US based Dynavax Technologies Corporation (Dynavax) and Baylor College of Medicine. The results of BE’s vaccine trials are expected to be released in February 2021. Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on November 16 had given the Pune-based pharmaceutical company the permission to conduct Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials.Dr Reddy’s, one of the largest global pharmaceutical companies, has partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine developed by the Gamaleya Institute in Russia. RDIF and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd have agreed to supply 100 million doses of Sputnik V, conduct clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine.PM Modi had earlier visited Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley at Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) campus at Pune on Saturday to review India’s vaccine delivery system and preparedness.India has recorded 9,392,919 cases of Covid-19 and the death toll has crossed 136,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-three-covid-19-vaccine-development-teams/story-ZvwLmHoOK2bEscj5F91TXN.html
29-11-2020||India||3 of family from Telangana killed in US road accident||Three members of a family from Telangana’s Narayanpet district were killed and three others were injured in a road accident near Lubbock in Texas in the US on Saturday afternoon (Indian Standard Time), his family members said. The deceased were identified as G Narayana Reddy (56), who was working as a bus conductor of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) in Hyderabad, his wife Lakshmi alias Venamma (49), a homemaker and their son Bharat Reddy (27), a software engineer in Dallas. Reddy’s daughter Mounika (29), also a software engineer in Dallas, sustained injuries and was undergoing treatment at a local hospital at Lubbock. She is said to be out of danger. The family hails from Pedda Chinthakunta village of Marikal block in Narayanpet district. “There were two other members of another Telugu family, – Sai Praneeth and another girl, both in their 20s, in the car, when the accident took place. The condition of Sai Praneeth is said to be critical, while the other girl is recovering,” Reddy’s nephew G Yugandhar Reddy, told Hindustan Times. The news about the accident reached Narasimha Reddy’s brothers late on Saturday night. “According to the information, the accident occurred late on Friday night (local time in Texas) near a hill closer to Lubbock city. “We do not know exactly where they were going or coming from. My uncle has two children – son and daughter. Now, only the daughter is alive. Unless she gains consciousness, the details of the accident will not be known,” Yugandhar Reddy said. “Since there are stringent restrictions for Covid-19 there, others are not being allowed. My two other cousins (of a different family), who are also working in the US, are reaching the hospital to get the first-hand information,” he said. Narasimha Reddy and his wife left for the US in July this year in Vande Bharat flights, following the request from their children who were forced to work from home because of the pandemic. “In the US, they were in search of good alliances for Mounika. Very recently, Bharat constructed a new house in Dallas,” Yugandhar Reddy said. He said there was no possibility of the bodies of Narasimha Reddy, Lakshmi and Bharat being brought to India for last rites, nor any relative going to the US for the last rites. “In any case, it all depends on the decision of Mounika, who is still unconscious with multiple injuries,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-of-family-from-telangana-killed-in-us-road-accident/story-GModX3FXoiBQTOuIgA5Q1J.html
29-11-2020||India||8 states, UTs reported nearly 71% of new Covid-19 deaths in 24-hour span||Nearly 71 per cent of the 496 new Covid-19 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours were from eight states and union territories with Delhi recording the highest number of 89 deaths followed by Maharashtra with 88 and West Bengal with 52, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.It said 22 states and UTs have recorded case fatality rates lower than the national average of 1.46 per cent.The current active Covid-19 caseload of the country stands at 4,53,956, which comprises 4.83 per cent of the total coronavirus infections reported so far.Maharashtra recorded the highest positive change with the addition of 1,940 cases, whereas Delhi recorded the highest negative change with a decrease of 1,603 active cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.A total 41,810 new confirmed Covid-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country, according to the data updated at 8 am on Sunday.The ministry said 70.43 per cent of the daily new cases were contributed by eight states and UTs -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.Kerala leads the tally with 6,250 new Covid cases. Maharashtra recorded 5,965 new cases, while Delhi follows with 4,998 new infections.The number of Covid-19 recoveries in India stands at 88,02,267 with 42,298 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours in the country.The ministry said 68.73 per cent of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in eight states and UTs.Delhi has reported the highest number of 6,512 single-day recoveries followed by 5,275 in Kerala and 3,937 in Maharashtra, it said.The Covid-19 infection tally in the country mounted to 93,92,919 on Sunday, while the death toll climbed to 1,36,696, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-uts-reported-nearly-71-of-new-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hour-span/story-javTBd3zYusYwcEwOw2KxO.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Hold talks with farmers immediately, unconditionally’: Arvind Kejriwal to Centre||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked the Centre to immediately and unconditionally hold talks with the farmers who continued to protest against the new agri laws for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital.The Aam Aadmi Party has supported the farmer’s protest and its national convenor Kejriwal asked the Centre to immediately meet the farmers.“The central government should talk to farmers immediately (and) unconditionally,” he said in a tweet.At a press conference on Sunday, senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said his party believes that Home Minister Amit Shah has shown “utter irresponsibility” by leaving Delhi to campaign for Hyderabad municipal elections when lakhs of farmers were waiting at the Delhi border to talk to him.Bhardwaj said that on one hand, Amit Shah was telling farmers that coronavirus cases might increase due to their protest and on the other, he was claiming that in his Hyderabad roadshow there was massive public participation which shows “no social distancing was maintained”.“The Aam Aadmi Party believes that this is the utter hypocrisy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and we condemn such irresponsible act. The Aam Aadmi Party believes that such a home minister is very dangerous for India,” he said.“In this serious situation, the Home Minister of our country is not in Delhi but in Hyderabad and he is holding a press conference regarding the issues related to Hyderabad municipality. The Home Minister of our country is doing an election campaign for the councillors of Hyderabad and taking out massive roadshows. He is talking about Hyderabad city’s waterlogging problem and the problems of potholes,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-talks-with-farmers-immediately-unconditionally-arvind-kejriwal-to-centre/story-uQgp3kLK7C7BDnw0lgw5GL.html
29-11-2020||India||Delhi Covid-19 cases decline but deaths cross 9K-mark: 10 key statistics you need to know||Delhi on Sunday reported 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative toll of positive cases reported so far this year to 5,66,648. In the last 24 hour, the national capital witnessed 68 deaths, adding to the total deaths which have reached past the 9,000-mark. Here are the ten important statistics you need to know about Covid-19 spread in Delhi:- Delhi’s positivity rate on Sunday increased by a small margin and rose to 7.64 %. A day earlier, it was recorded at 7.24 %. Exactly two weeks earlier, the positivity rate - total positive Covid-19 cases out of population tested - for the national capital hovered almost double the mark. On November 15, Delhi had recorded 15.33 per cent positivity rate.- Delhi’s positivity rate is lowest since October 23. - Delhi’s death toll crossed the 9,000-mark on Sunday after 68 deaths were recorded due to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours. It is the lowest death toll in almost 23 days, as Delhi witnessed a surge in fatalities at an unprecedented rate. -This is the second consecutive day in Delhi that the number of deaths has remained below 5,000 and the positivity rate below eight per cent. - Recoveries in Delhi reached 5,22,491 after a total of 6,325 people who recovered from the illness were recorded on Sunday. - The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11.- Active cases in the national capital stand at 35,091, out of which 21,337 people are recovering in home isolation. It has dipped from 36,578 from a day before. - Delhi’s case fatality rate - total deaths recorded from the total cases reported - is at 1.6 %. - A total of 64,186 tests, including 29,839 RT-PCR ones and 34,347 rapid antigen tests, were conducted by the authorities, according to the Delhi health bulletin. Delhi, which has actively conducted high number of tests across the country, carried out 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR ones -- the highest till date -- on Friday.- As many as 131 Covid-related deaths were recorded on November 18, the highest till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-decline-but-deaths-cross-9k-mark-10-key-statistics-you-need-to-know/story-QN4CTKcqUlcmDwqJuBX20N.html
29-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports maximum weekly Covid-19 deaths and cases in past one and half months||Uttarakhand recorded the highest spike in weekly cases of Covid-19 and casualties in the past week in the last one and half months, according to data from the state health department.In the past week (November 22-28), 68 Covid-19 patients died while 3,161 new cases were reported. Uttarakhand currently has 4,876 active Covid-19 cases. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state, said, “Cases and fatalities have been continuously increasing in the state, especially in the past one and half months. Weddings and festivals turn out to be spreader events. People need to take maximum possible precaution and be safe.” He further said that between November 19-25, every third Covid-19 case in the state,has been reported from Dehradun district (36% cases). “While the state has 29 cases per lakh population, Dehradun has over double with 59 cases per lakh population. The district of Dehradun is in the most vulnerable position. Remote hilly districts like Chamoli and Pithoragarh are vulnerable too with 56 and 51 cases per lakh respectively. The districts of Udham Singh Nagar, Almora and Haridwar have the least per lakh cases,” added Nautiyal. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 73,000 cases of Covid-19 out of which over 67,000 have recovered. The recovery rate in the state stands at 91.87% while the positivity is 5.62%. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 21,045 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (12,015), US Nagar (10,245) and Nainital (8,476). The state health department has so far tested 13.15 lakh people of which results of over 18,300 are pending. Meanwhile, all markets except essential services remained closed in Dehradun on Sunday as part of the weekly shutdown to curb further spread of Covid-19 cases in the district. Ashish Kumar Srivastava, district magistrate Dehradun said, “All markets remained closed on Sunday. Only essential services like groceries, milk and dairy shops, medical services, home-deliveries were exempted from the shutdown. Marriages and other ceremonies which were fixed from before are being allowed with special permission but the situation is being strictly monitored to ensure all safety protocols are followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-maximum-weekly-covid-19-deaths-and-cases-in-past-one-and-half-months/story-DIepo0xIRC85rDxHwZGzoJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Mufti alleges BJP developing ecosystem not conducive for democracy||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said that the BJP wants to build an ecosystem where there is no democracy.Mufti, who claimed to have been detained on Friday after she was restricted from visiting Pulwama in South Kashmir to meet with the family of Waheed Parra, a senior PDP leader, on Sunday said that the ruling party wants to ban her party because she raises her voice against them. They are trying to get to me. They want to ban my party. Because I raise my voice. I am repeatedly told that Article 370 is being talked about since my release. But what can I do about that: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti pic.twitter.com/OIiPHUOcSuOn the ongoing eight-phase District Development Council (DDC) elections, she also claimed that the elections are no solutions to the problems of Kashmir. She said simply conducting polls would not solve the problem of Kashmir, which in turn would persist as long as the Centre’s 2019 decision was not revoked and dialogue was not held with Pakistan. Also Read | J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to know“After we decided to participate in the DDC election, the degree of oppression has increased in Jammu & Kashmir. Candidates of PAGD are confined & are not allowed to go out for campaigning. How candidates will contest if they are not allowed to canvass,” she added.Mufti also said that the ruling party calls Muslims as Pakistani, Sardars as Khalistani, activists as Urban Naxal and students as members of Tukde Tukde gang and anti-national.  They call Muslims as 'Pakistani', Sardars as 'Khalistani', activists as 'Urban Naxal' & students as members of 'Tukde Tukde gang' & 'anti-national'. I fail to understand if everyone is terrorist & anti-national, then who is 'Hindustani' in this country?Only BJP workers?:PDP chief https://t.co/gT07YLMQg5This is the first election that is happening in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, after the abrogation of Article 370 and its reorganization as a Union Territory. The elections that began on Saturday are scheduled to happen in eight phases and continue till December 19. The counting will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-does-not-want-an-ecosystem-for-democracy-mehbooba-mufti-on-ddc-elections/story-TY8eSMTu6XL8OszxJgv2EM.html
29-11-2020||India||Business relations with India will continue to grow stronger, says Swedish official||Trade relations with India will continue to grow stronger and deeper, and also create new employment opportunities, Ambassador of Sweden to India Klas Molin has said. Speaking at ‘India Sweden Innovation Day 2020’, Molin said the innovation partnership between the two countries has strengthened since its announcement in 2018. The ambassador termed innovation as one of the absolute cornerstones of relations between Sweden and India. “Both our governments have allocated funding for multi-million calls under our partnership. As a consequence, business links between our countries will continue to grow stronger and deeper, drawing us closer together and creating jobs and prosperity,” Molin was quoted as in a statement.  In his address, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways Nitin Gadkari, who also participated in the virtual conference said, when it comes to innovation, both Sweden and India have a lot in common to share for their mutual good. There are immense opportunities that exist on the two sides and which needs to be identified and promoted. “The mutual cooperation, coordination and communication among the stakeholders in India and Sweden will strengthen, survive and grow in new normal. Innovation, entrepreneurship, science and technology, R&D, skills, knowledge, and conversation of knowledge into wealth is the future,” he said. The one-day virtual event was jointly organised by India Unlimited in Sweden, in association with Embassy of India in Sweden, Sweden India Business Council and CII on Friday.Attended by about 500 participants, the event brought together the stakeholders from governments to other key organisations who spoke about energy partnership, safe transport, innovation collaboration, sustainable business models, civil and cyber security, health tech, skilling and tech start-ups, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/business-relations-with-india-will-continue-to-grow-stronger-says-swedish-official/story-3GWyHDj4iD1v2p1ejxyspL.html
29-11-2020||India||Priority to maintain law and order: Bihar Deputy CM on Tejashwi’s ‘Maha jungle raj’ remark||Responding to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s ‘maha jungle raj’ remark, Bihar deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad on Sunday said the maintenance of law and order in the state is his government’s priority. “It is not a hidden fact, everyone knows what was the law and order situation under the previous government in Bihar, and BJP has successfully transformed the state. It is our government’s priority to maintain the law and order situation in the state” Prasad said.“All the MLAs of BJP are standing with the party and Tejashwi Yadav should first fix his own house and avoid giving such statements,” he added.Prasad’s reaction came after Tejashwi Yadav slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar by terming the law and order situation in the state as “maha jungle raj”.“In Bihar, ‘maha jungle raj’ is going wild with the outpouring of criminals, gunfire, and havoc on businessmen. There is a chaotic and scary environment everywhere. Law and order have vanished. The Chief Minister sitting in his double-engine train is lethargic and helpless. Why is ‘maharaja’ of the maha jungle raj silent?” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.He said this after an aide of Janata Dal-United legislator Amarendra Pandey died on Saturday in Gopalganj after unidentified miscreants opened fire at him and two others.Those who sustained injuries in the incident were admitted to a hospital. A case has been registered and two persons have been arrested in the matter and are being questioned about their involvement in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priority-to-maintain-law-and-order-bihar-deputy-cm-on-tejashwi-s-maha-jungle-raj-remark/story-ptxkhlVwFBecC3WAarXkzO.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Varanasi tomorrow, will take part in Dev Deepawali||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on November 30 to inaugurate a six-lane widening project on National Highway 19 between Varanasi and Prayagraj. He will also inaugurate Deep Deepawali festival and is scheduled to visit the site of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project followed by a visit to the Sarnath Archaeological site. The 73-Km stretch of the newly widened and six-laned NH19, made with a total outlay of Rs 2,447 crore, is expected to reduce the travel time between Prayagraj and Varanasi by one hour, said a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. Dev Deepawali, which has become a world famous festival of light and fervour in Varanasi, is celebrated on every Poornima of the Kartik month. The festival will be started by the Prime Minister by lighting a diya on the Raj Ghat of Varanasi, which will be followed by lighting of 11 lakh diyas on both sides of River Ganges.Dev Deepawali falls on the full moon of the Hindu calendar month Kartika — 15 days after Diwali.During the visit, the Prime Minister will also undertake a site visit of the under construction Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project to review its progress. He will also see the light and sound show at the archaeological site of Sarnath, which had been inaugurated by him earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-varanasi-tomorrow-will-take-part-in-dev-deepawali/story-dVcwcLncBgKmUNTSHdOnWO.html
29-11-2020||India||4 killed as vehicle carrying wedding party collides with truck in Rajasthan||Four people were killed and 10 injured when a pick-up truck carrying a wedding party collided head on with a truck in Bharatpur early Sunday, police said. The accident took place on the Bharatpur-Alwar state highway near Panhori village under Deeg police station when 13 members of a family were going from Jhansi of Uttar Pradesh to Mahendragarh in Haryana for a wedding. Three family members and the driver were killed in the collision.Police reached the spot and rescued all injured from the vehicle with help of villagers. Harvir Singh, head constable of Deeg police station, said the bodies will be handed over to the families after post-mortem examination. Six critically injured were referred to Raj Bahadur Memorial district hospital from Deeg community health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-killed-as-vehicle-carrying-wedding-party-collides-with-truck-in-rajasthan/story-9j9z360EGcgkaq33699ATP.html
29-11-2020||India||Artificial potato crisis created in Bengal, TMC govt to blame: Dilip Ghosh||Hitting out at the TMC government in West Bengal, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday alleged that an “artificial potato crisis” has been created in the state by those patronised by the ruling party.Expressing concern over the “sudden spurt in the price of the kitchen staple, now available at Rs 40 per kg, if not more”, Ghosh said this has hurt common man and pinched their pockets hard.“Why is the price of potato so high? The crisis has been created artificially by those patronised by the ruling party. It has been created by those who take cut money for everything,” Ghosh told reporters here.The BJP leader also said that a section of TMC members are unhappy with the way the leadership has been functioning, and claimed that the “revolting” cadres are raising slogans such as ‘PK Hatao TMC Bnachao’ to protest against the ruling party’s decision to hire election strategist Prashant Kishores services before 2021 Assembly polls.Asked if the saffron party will be able to recover from the jolt it faced in the Hills, with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung severing ties with the NDA and joining the TMC camp, Ghosh said the turncoat has “betrayed” the people of Darjeeling.“Gurung has betrayed the people in the Hills and the Binoy Tamang faction has no acceptability. The BJP, however, has all along stood by the people there. Our MP enjoys great popularity in the Hills,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-potato-crisis-created-in-bengal-tmc-govt-to-blame-dilip-ghosh/story-hBpsqxRE66xypCSqxZdwII.html
29-11-2020||India||MVA govt is ‘anti-Vidarbha’: BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday accused the MVA government in Maharashtra of being “anti-Vidarbha” and neglecting the region by not providing funds for its development.The only development works underway in the Vidarbha region are those approved by Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Fadnavis claimed while addressing BJP workers ahead of the December 1 MLC poll for the East Vidarbha graduates’ constituency where the party has fielded Sandip Joshi.“This government is completely anti-Vidarbha and its approach is the same towards Marathwada and other backward regions,” alleged Fadnavis, who hails from Nagpur in Vidarbha.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has “contempt and anger” towards Vidarbha, the former chief minister further charged.That is why it has discontinued the Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (the term of which expired in April this year) and other projects and did not provide any funds for Vidarbha, he said.The farmers of Vidarbha affected by floods and other natural disasters are also left in the lurch, he said.The works pertaining to roads, flyovers, railway over-bridges and other projects in Vidarbha are initiated by Union minister Gadkari, he claimed.“There is not even one work underway in Vidarbha which can be attributed to this government,” the leader of opposition in state Assembly claimed and accused the ruling dispensation of not fulfilling its promises made to people.“Is this a government or a drama?” he asked.Fadnavis also said the previous BJP-led government had initiated the ‘MahaJyoti’ scheme (a training and career guidance institute) for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), but the MVA government has stopped all various welfare measures under it.Similarly, the Rs 500 crore fund which had been granted to the ‘OBC Mahamandal’ under the BJP rule has not being spent by the MVA government for welfare of the community, he claimed.“When we passed the law on reservation for the Maratha community, we had included a section which clearly mentioned that no one can touch the OBC community reservation,” he said.Some people in the current government are creating confusion on the issue of OBC reservation for “political purpose”, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-govt-is-anti-vidarbha-bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis/story-Hsj30x19kcebc2jtEmmGcP.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ demands are justified and I support them, says former Haryana CM Bhupinder S Hooda||Former chief minister of Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday came out in support of the farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre and said that their demands are justified. Hooda also urged the Centre to find a solution to protesting farmers’ agitation and invite them for talks to negotiate. “The centre should let go of their stubbornness by inviting farmers for negotiations. The way Haryana government tried to stop farmers, it has hurt their sentiments. Farmers’ demands are justified & I support them. I urge the centre to find solution,” Bhupinder S Hooda said, as quoted by news agency ANI.Thousands of protesting farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states have gathered at borders of the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against Centre’s recently passed farm laws.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has invited the farmers for talks on December 3 to resolves differences, assuring that the talk will have a positive outcome.Earlier on Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah also informed the farmers that the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them. “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands,” Shah told ANI. However, in their reply, the farmers’ representatives have set new conditions for the next round of discussions and have asked for involvement at the highest political level. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Sunday said the home ministry should not lead the talks as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction.The farmers have been protesting against the three agriculture laws since November 25 and want the Centre to rollback the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-demands-are-justified-and-i-support-them-says-former-haryana-cm-bhupinder-s-hooda/story-FbD97t6UY7c8xtlN77lO2H.html
29-11-2020||India||NIA rejects reports of seizing Stan Swamy’s sipper as ‘false and mischievous’||The NIA on Sunday dismissed as “false, incorrect and mischievous” reports which alleged the premier investigation agency has seized human rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper, and that it has sought 20 days from a court to respond to his plea for the drinking aid.The 83-year-old was arrested from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case and is lodged at the Taloja Jail in Mumbai.A National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said Swamy is a hard-core activist of the banned CPI(Maoist) and was charge-sheeted on October 9 along with seven other accused for his involvement in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case.The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017 organised at Shaniwarwada in Pune where alleged provocative speeches were made, leading to violence resulting in the loss of life and property and a statewide agitation in Maharashtra.The NIA never took his police custody, and all the necessary legal formalities such as his medical examination were duly observed, the spokesperson said, adding that since then, he has been in judicial custody at the Taloja Central Jail.Nearly after a month on November 6, Swamy filed an application at the NIA court in Mumbai for getting back his straw and sipper, which he falsely claimed to have been kept by the NIA, the official said.The court asked the NIA to file its reply on the next date on November 26.The NIA duly filed its reply in the court on the scheduled date, stating that it had conducted his personal search in the presence of independent witnesses and no such straw and sipper were found, the spokesperson said.The court then rejected Swamy’s application and issued necessary direction to the jail authorities on November 26 to provide him straw and sipper.As the accused was in judicial custody, the matter was between him and the jail authorities, which come under the Maharashtra state administration, the NIA official said.“The reports claiming that the NIA recovered straw and sipper from accused Swamy and sought 20 days’ time from the court to respond to his plea to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail are false, incorrect and mischievous as the NIA neither recovered any straw and sipper from the accused nor sought 20 days’ time to file reply in the said application,” the official added.According to the NIA, Swamy was propagating among other cadres that the arrest of the urban CPI(Maoist) cadres from different parts of country, particularly in Maharashtra, has caused an irrevocable damage to the outlawed organisation.It has alleged that he received funds from other Maoist cadres for furtherance of the activities of the CPI(Maoist).Swamy is the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the official said.Incriminating documents related to communications for furthering the activities of the CPI(Maoist) were seized from his possession, the NIA official added.The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad a day before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-rejects-reports-of-seizing-stan-swamy-s-sipper-as-false-and-mischievous/story-QDFFk65sCNcWm1f6YdVzKL.html
29-11-2020||India||Heavy rains likely in Kerala over next few days due to low-pressure area formed in Bay of Bengal||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has directed the public to be vigilant as the impact of the low-pressure area formed in the Bay of Bengal may cause extremely heavy rainfall and strong winds in parts of Kerala.“Going to sea from the coast of Kerala will be completely banned from midnight on November 30 as the sea is likely to be very rough from December 1. Those who are currently out fishing should reach the nearest safe shore by midnight on November 30th. These warnings should be strictly followed as there is a slight risk of low pressure turning into a hurricane,” said Kerala Chief Minister.He said according to weather forecast heavy rains and strong winds are likely in southern Kerala as the impact of low pressure is expected in Kerala as well.“Currently, extreme caution is required in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts as per the weather models. However, from Thiruvananthapuram to Ernakulam, caution is advised and further warnings should be followed,” he added. Chief Minister said that Revenue and Local Government Departments have been directed to prepare for starting relief camps by December 2 in case of strong winds.“Those who live in unoccupied houses and those whose houses do not have strong roofs should be prepared to relocate for safety in the light of warnings of the coming days,” he added.The State Disaster Management Authority and the Indian Meteorological Department are closely monitoring the development and trajectory of the low-pressure area.As per the weather forecast, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts will receive very heavy rain on December 1. On December 2, very heavy rainfall is predicted for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-likely-in-kerala-over-next-few-days-due-to-low-pressure-area-formed-in-bay-of-bengal/story-zSBiYJaQOjVillKeDrEQDO.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest hijacked by extremists, Cong wants to incite riots: BJP leader||BJP national general secretary and Uttarakhand state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam on Sunday alleged that the farmers’ protest has been hijacked by extremist elements and claimed that pro-Khalistan and pro-Pakistan slogans were proof of it.He made the claims while addressing media persons in Dehradun during his first visit to Uttarakhand after being appointed the state’s unit in-charge along with newly appointed state unit co- in-charge Rekha Verma.“The agricultural laws are for the whole country, but why are the protests only in Punjab? Slogans of Khalistan Zindabad and Pakistan Zindabad have been raised by people in the protests. How can it be called a protest then?” said Gautam. “Extremist elements have hijacked the protest and are raising slogans for those who are anti-national forces.” Asked where the pro-Khalistan and pro-Pakistan slogans were raised, he said, “It can be seen in the videos making rounds on social media.” Gautam also said that the law enforcement agencies will soon arrest those raising such slogans. “It will happen at an appropriate time after a thorough investigation.” He also attacked Congress and accused it of instigating the farmers’ protest to “incite riots.” “There are Congress workers in the protest and not farmers. They are doing so to incite riots as it is the party that evolved after the 1947 riots and then made its government after the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Now also it wants to do the same as it feeds on riots,” said Gautam. He then hailed the new farm laws saying that they are for the development of the farmers. “The laws are to increase their income and free them from the clutches of middlemen. We will never go against the farmers as they are our brothers. It was our government which solved the issue of urea supply and procured maximum produce at MSP in Punjab,” said Gautam. The Congress has refuted Gautam’s allegations and accused the BJP of “painting any protest against it with anti-national or terrorism colours.” “Whenever there is a mass protest against their government, they call the protestors anti-national, terrorists or Naxals. They have done the same in this farmers’ protest also by calling the farmers from Punjab as Khalistani terrorists which is shameful,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress vice-president in Uttarakhand. He said, “When our brothers from Punjab fight for the country in the army and lay down their lives, the BJP hails them as martyrs and when they fight for their own rights, they call them terrorists. How is this justifiable?” Dhasmana also rubbished Gautam’s charges that the Congress is involved in the protests.“Congress is supporting the protesting farmers but not involved in it. There is not a single flag of Congress among the protestors. It is the farmers who are raising their voice against the black agricultural laws which they never asked for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-hijacked-by-extremists-cong-wants-to-incite-riots-bjp-leader/story-N7j2RQk6Ajs6qS5mnhkPvM.html
29-11-2020||India||Pandemic calls off Christmas markets in Europe||The European plazas where people would usually gather at crowded stalls to partake in hot mulled wine, gingerbread, sausages and other delicacies are just empty squares.Christmas markets, a cherished tradition in Germany and neighbouring countries, have joined the long list of annual traditions that were cancelled or diminished this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. November saw many European countries impose partial or tougher lockdowns as new virus cases soared. The restrictions are either being retained or only partially loosened as Advent begins Sunday.Nuremberg’s sprawling, bustling Christkindlesmarkt, one of Germany’s best known holiday markets and traditionally a big tourist draw, was called off a month ago. Markets across the country — including in Frankfurt, Dortmund and many in Berlin — have suffered the same fate, with authorities canceling the events or organizers concluding that it didn’t make sense to push ahead with their plans.Over the border in France, the roughly 300 stalls of Strasbourg’s popular Christmas market won’t go up this year. And it’s the same story in the Belgian capital, Brussels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/pandemic-calls-off-christmas-markets-in-europe/story-r86j2eBSZrwBs6UMXWUKcO.html
29-11-2020||India||Flight departs from Bahrain to Chennai under Vande Bharat mission||Under the Vande Bharat mission, an Air India flight from Bahrain to Chennai departed from Bahrain International Airport on Sunday, informed the Indian Embassy in Bahrain.The Embassy informed in a tweet that the flight carries 142 passengers including four infants, under the air bubble arrangement between India and Bahrain.“#VandeBharatMission Air India Flight AI 1986 from Bahrain to Chennai departed today from Bahrain International Airport with 142 passengers including 4 infants onboard. Wishing safe journey to all the passengers. #AirBubbleIndiaBahrain,” tweeted India in Bahrain. #VandeBharatMission Air India Flight AI 1986 from Bahrain to Chennai departed today from Bahrain International Airport with 142 passengers including 4 infants onboard. Wishing safe journey to all the passengers. #AirBubbleIndiaBahrain pic.twitter.com/tXBlVzoHjQThe Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has entered into air bubble arrangements with multiple countries even though regular international flights remain banned owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.The eighth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission was initiated earlier this month.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus-induced travel restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-departs-from-bahrain-to-chennai-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-LAuGNS1G6GJjjB3dXOy0HN.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Will rid Hyderabad of Nizami culture, turn it into Mini Bharat’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday vowed to get Hyderabad rid of the culture of Nizam, who had once sought to merge the city with Pakistan. Shah, who held an hour-long road show at Warasiguda in Secunderabad as part of campaign for Bharatiya Janata Party for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections to be held on December 1, said Hyderabad had become an integral part of India, thanks to first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. “Give one chance to the BJP in the GHMC elections. We shall transform from dynasty rule to democratic rule, from corruption to good governance, from secrecy to transparency. We shall transform Hyderabad into a Mini Bharat and not be stuck in Nawabi and Nizami culture,” Shah said, while speaking to reporters at the BJP at the party state headquarters after the roadshow. Watch | Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad, dares KCR to admit ‘alliance’ with AIMIM Reacting to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s comment that several BJP leaders were flooding Hyderabad to campaign for the gully elections only to attack him, the Union home minister said they had come to improve the conditions in Hyderabad, not to attack somebody. “The BJP will not undermine any election, whether they are gully or national elections. We have come to Hyderabad because you don’t come out of your farmhouse and your government has not cleaned up even a single gully,” he said. Referring to the allegations that the BJP ministers had not come to call on people when Hyderabad was in floods and the Modi government had not given a single rupee towards flood relief, Shah sought to know whether KCR or All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leaders had visited any flood-affected areas. “The chief minister did not come out of his bungalow, when the adjacent colonies were reeling under flood water,” he said. He reminded that the Centre had given Rs 500 crore to Telangana under state and central disaster relief funds. The Centre had also given Rs 4,500 crore for various infrastructure development works in Hyderabad. “Perhaps he doesn’t know about this, because he doesn’t go to the Secretariat,” Shah said. The Union minister alleged that in the last six years, AIMIM leaders had indulged in large scale encroachment of nalas, lakes and other water fronts, that resulted in the recent deluge in the city. “But the TRS government has remained silent as it sought to appease the MIM. Not even one storm water drain was constructed in the last six years. If BJP is voted to power in the GHMC, we shall demolish all illegal structures,” he asserted. Shah also questioned the Telangana government as to what happened to its 100-day plan of developing Hyderabad announced during the last GHMC elections in 2016. “They promised one lakh double bedroom houses for the poor, but not even 11,000 were built. What happened to drinking water connections, dump yards, Hussain Sagar cleaning, new hospitals and Musi river development?” he asked. The Central minister challenged KCR to come clean on the alliance with MIM. “We have no problem if the TRS has an alliance with the MIM. Why is KCR afraid of explicitly accepting it? Why is he hiding the fact from the public that both are working together since 2014?” he asked. Only the BJP, said the minister, has the track record and competence to ensure Hyderabad transforms into a global IT hub. “It was because of PM Modi’s policies that the city has been receiving huge foreign direct investments,” he said. Reacting to MIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s question as to what the Centre was doing when Rohingyas were staying illegally in the country, Shah said everybody had watched on television sets as to who had made a hue and cry in Parliament, when the Centre was bringing a bill to repatriate Rohigyas. “Let Owaisi give it in writing. We shall drive away Rohingyas immediately,” he said. On the allegations that the TRS that the BJP were playing divisive politics, the Union minister said the allegation should be directed at the MIM. “Owaisi knows who wanted to merge Hyderabad with Pakistan. We don’t appease anybody, but serve everybody. All our welfare schemes are meant for Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, irrespective of whether they are Hindus or Muslims,” he said. Shah said the BJP was not contesting the GHMC election to increase its vote share or seat share, but with an aim of winning the Mayor’s seat. “Our goal is to come to power in the next Telangana elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-rid-hyderabad-of-nizami-culture-turn-it-into-mini-bharat-amit-shah/story-hTMBmcw9PPu5QNRiwodwoM.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ahead of GHMC polls, Amit Shah says mayor of Hyderabad will be from BJP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.GHMC polls: Mayor of Hyderabad will be from BJP, says Amit ShahHome minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that people of Hyderabad will elect a Bharatiya Janata Party candidate as their mayor in the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections. Read more‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday lashed at the Centre for preventing farmers from entering Delhi and said that it was regrettable that farmers were being treated like “terrorists”. Read moreFarmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm lawsA joint forum of about 30 farmer unions rejected the Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws on Sunday. These farmer bodies said that the protesting farmers will only engage the government in the absence of any pre-condition. Read moreLa Liga: Covid-19 has exposed us and other clubs who were overspending, says Valencia President Anil MurthyAt a virtual press conference earlier this month, La Liga President Javier Tebas named Valencia as one of the clubs who would be taking the biggest financial hit in terms of salary due to the pandemic. Read moreKrushna Abhishek left red-faced after Chandan’s barb on The Kapil Sharma Show: ‘I can perform on all Govinda episodes, can you?’Actor-comedian Krushna Abhishek had to eat his words on the latest episode of The Kapil Sharma Show. During a funny sketch, co-star Chandan Prabhakar poked fun at his recent controversy with actor Govinda and Krushna was left stunned. Read more Special edition Bugatti Chiron Sport ‘Les Légendes du Ciel’ honours past driversBugatti is honouring its racing drivers from the Grand Prix days with a special edition Chiron Sport ‘Les Légendes du Ciel’. The car maker will produce only 20 units of the vehicle. Read morePolar bear Juno rises through the ranks in Canadian Army on 5th birthdayJuno, a female polar bear, at the Toronto Zoo got more than just well wishes from her carers and fans this birthday. The now five-year-old bear also got a promotion. Wow, an extra reason for celebration! Read more‘Agriculture reforms brought new rights to farmers: PM Modi amid protestsIn the latest episode of Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ahead-of-ghmc-polls-amit-shah-says-mayor-of-hyderabad-will-be-from-bjp-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DImtaQKU1hRRySDfetSbZM.html
29-11-2020||India||US surpasses 100,000 new Covid-19 daily cases for 26th consecutive day||At least 100,000 new cases were added to the total number of coronavirus cases in the United States on Saturday (local time) marking the 26th consecutive day the country has topped that benchmark, CNN reported citing the data from Johns Hopkins University.So far today the US has reported 114,397 new cases and 862 deaths, CNN further reported.The exact number of people diagnosed with Covid-19 in the United States stood at 13,047,202 as of 22:15 GMT on Friday. More than 264,000 people have died of the disease in the country since the start of the pandemic, Sputnik reported.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11.The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the US has reached 13,244,417, Johns Hopkins University and Medicine reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/us-surpasses-100-000-new-covid-19-daily-cases-for-26th-consecutive-day/story-PwLnsUY1bSQWT83uTdn6QO.html
29-11-2020||India||Man, his brother and minor nephew killed over land dispute: Police||A man, his brother and his nephew were murdered in full public view in a village in Hoshangabad district, 70 km south of Bhopal, on Saturday, officials in Madhya Pradesh said. Seven of the accused, including the main suspect who is a cousin of the two brothers, were arrested. According to the police, a land dispute between the two sides is said to be the reason behind the crime. The deceased were identified as Rajendra Kumar Singh, 42, his brother Kunwar Singh, 35, and Kunwar’s son Ayush, 12, all residents of Ayapa village in Seoni-Malwa area, said Hoshangabad superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Singh. According to the police, Rajendra Kumar and Kunwar Singh were dragged from their residence to main accused Anwar Yaduvanshi’s house after being tied to a tractor on Saturday. At Yaduvanshi’s house, the accused attacked the two brothers with iron rods and canes. When Kunwar’s son came to their rescue, he too was fatally beaten up. The accused then ran them over using a tractor.After committing the crime, the main accused drove to the police station along with three of his accomplices and surrendered before the police. Later, the police arrested three others. Three other accused are absconding. According to the police, the two brothers purchased land near a plot owned by Yaduvanshi one and a half years back. Both sides used to often clash on several issues such as outlet of water. The SP said, “A heavy police force has been deployed at the village to avert any further untoward incident. The situation is under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-his-brother-and-minor-nephew-killed-over-land-dispute-police/story-Aff7ZYB47ilcXkqwdSPmlO.html
29-11-2020||India||Farm leaders reject Amit Shah’s offer of talks, set new terms||Leaders spearheading the farmers’ agitation have set fresh terms for talks with the Union government, demanding the Centre name and authorise a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for future discussions, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said on Sunday. Nearly 30 leaders of various farmers’ organisations met on Sunday to discuss home minister Amit Shah’s offer to advance the date for the next round of talks scheduled for December 3. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla had on November 28 written a letter addressed to Darshan Pal Singh, the Punjab chief of the Krantikari Kisan Union, along with 31 organisations, reiterating the home minister’s offer for early talks. The AIKSCC said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture,” said Darshan Pal. In a reply to the home secretary’s invitation, the farmers’ representatives set new conditions for the next round of talks, calling for involvement at the “highest political level”. “The Prime Minister takes all decisions in the country. Although Union ministers have participated in the last round of talks, we are not sure if they are empowered to take any decisions. We want a Cabinet committee or a ministers’ group duly authorised or notified by the highest political level for further discussions,” said Avik Saha, the AIKSCC’s national secretary. Sunday is the fourth day since farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states set off on their “Dilli chalo” (march to Delhi) campaign to protest a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets in the country. Saha said during the anti-corruption agitation led by Anna Hazare in 2013, a Cabinet panel had been named to carry out negotiations with those leading the protests. “We want a similar mechanism for talks, because sometimes talks are led by the food and agriculture ministers and sometimes they seem to be led by the home ministry,” Saha said. The latest stand of the farmers could delay the next round of talks with the government to resolve the politically challenging agitation. “The AIKSCC has demanded that the government should stop dealing with the issue from the prism of intelligence agencies and home ministry. The government got these statutes rammed through Parliament and farmers expect a response that is political, from the highest levels of the government. Its attempt to invoke the Home Ministry only acts as a threat to farmers, rather than arouse confidence in its sincerity,” the AIKCC said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have clashed with police, travelling toward the national Capital, where they are holding protests against three farm laws approved by Parliament in September. Cultivators on tractors and trucks, flung police barricades into a river near Ambala district as they advanced to the national capital, as police stopped them with tear gas and water cannons. The Union home ministry on Friday allowed farmers to assemble at the capital’s Burari grounds and made a fresh offer for talks. “The farmers clearly want to be sure that ministers who would be negotiating with them should be authorised to take decisions. That seems to be the message,” said political analyst Sanjay Kukreti of the Osmania University. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations with farmers on November 13. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-reject-amit-shah-s-offer-of-talks-set-new-terms/story-hRrdePNGfhGZaYB9MVRscP.html
29-11-2020||India||8-year-old raped, killed: Police||An eight-year-old minor has been allegedly raped and then killed in Rajasthan’s Pratapgarh district, police said. According to a police official, the incident has been reported within the limits of Choti Sadri police station area. “The girl’s father had reported her missing on Saturday afternoon at 2.24pm. According to the report, the girl’s father had gone with the family to a farm. During this time, her daughter was alone at home. When he returned to home around 11am in the morning, his daughter was missing,” said Ravindra Pratap Singh, station house officer (SHO), Choti Sadri police station area. After registering the report, the police reached the victim’s village and started searching for the girl with help from the villagers. After searching for about more than two hours, her body was found in a dry well in the village. The police, with the help of the villagers, took the child’s body out of the well and took her to a local hospital around 5.15pm. “Marks of bruised and scars were also found on the body of the victim...Prima facie investigation reveals that the girl was killed after being raped.,” the SHO added. The post-mortem report confirmed that she was raped and then dumped into the well. The body has been handed over to the family members of the victim and special teams have been formed to nab the accused. The team has started registering the statements of the neighbours and family members. A case of murder and rape has been registered on the complaint of father. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-year-old-raped-killed-police/story-IN68AENuC8P69eN2Wqp06H.html
29-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik sacks MLA for alleged involvement with tainted forest officer||The arrest of Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak and his son in a disproportionate assets case took its toll on BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahi with the party on Sunday expelling three-time MLA and former minister Pradeep Panigrahi accusing him of indulging in anti-people activities.The 56-year-old Panigrahi, MLA from Gopalpur in Ganjam district came under the scanner of the vigilance department for his alleged links with 1987-batch Odisha cadre IFS officer Abhay Pathak. Vigilance department officials who raided Pathak’s premises three days ago discovered that he had disproportionate assets worth Rs 9.3 crore. Pathak and his son Akash were arrested on November 27 and remanded in judicial custody till December 9.Panigrahi, whose links with Pathak and his son were revealed during the raid, has been summoned by the vigilance department under section 160 of Criminal Procedure Code to join the probe, people familiar with the probe said.Embarrassed by the developments, chief minister and BJD president Naveen Patnaik on Sunday served a terse expulsion order on Panigrahi with immediate effect making it the first time that a sitting party MLA has been sacked. In May 2012 and October 2014, BJD MLAs Prabhat Biswal and Pravat Tripathy respectively were suspended from the party after they were arrested by CBI in multi-crore rupee chit fund scam.“I have not done any anti-people activity. BJD should clarify what anti-people activity is. Journalists should unearth what kind of anti-people activities I am involved in. I have not taken a single penny from sand mafias and 80 liquor shop owners in the district. I challenge anyone to prove me wrong,” said Panigrahi in his reaction. Not long ago Panigrahi was the CM’s blue-eyed boy when he asked him to after the affairs of his assembly constituency Hinjilikatu. As a reward of his work, Panigrahi was given a party ticket in 2009 from Gopalpur assembly constituency and made minister in 2014. He was also made president of the district unit of the BJD for Ganjam.BJP leader Bishnu Sethi said the expulsion of Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi from BJD is a ploy of the ruling party to divert public attention from the murder case of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh district.Panigrahi’s daughter was set to get married to Pathak’s son Akash next month in a ceremony at a palace hotel in Rajasthan’s Udaipur. During the raid on Pathak’s properties, vigilance officials came to know of Panigrahi’s involvement in Pathak’s dealings, investigators said.Panigrahi’s trouble began after Tata Motors lodged a complaint with the crime investigation department (CID) of Odisha Police in September against Akash Kumar Pathak accusing him of cheating, forgery and impersonating as the managing director of the company. At least 60 jobseekers in Ganjam district had received fake appointment letters purportedly issued by Tata Motors Limited in which Akash Pathak reportedly played a major role, said officials of the special investigating team (SIT) probing the case. Many of the youths in Gopalpur, Panigrahi’s assembly constituency, had allegedly paid huge amounts of money to Pathak for jobs.Tata Motors in its FIR said that Akash had taken huge amounts of money fraudulently from unemployed youth by promising them in the company. Akash allegedly projected himself as the MD of Tata Motor Pune Passenger Division and CEO designate.Ganjam district BJD president Ramesh Chyau Patnaik said Pathak’s son had cheated people on false promise of giving them jobs. “Such fraud is not possible without any political patronage. Panigrahi’s role in it is very clear,” he said.Earlier, the vigilance department’s raid uncovered the opulent lifestyle of Pathak who worked as additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) in the state forest department. It was found that Pathak made cash deposits of about Rs 9.4 crore in the bank accounts of his son, out of which about Rs 8.4 crore was deposited in Bhubaneswar through ATMs. During the house search and subsequent inquiry, Rs 60 lakh in cash was found along with gold ornaments weighing 800 grams from his nephew and driver.His son owned expensive vehicles like Mercedes, BMW and Tata Harrier as well as high-end bikes was also arrested. The vigilance sleuths found hotel bills of more than Rs 90 lakhs of Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai and a booking amount of Rs 20 lakhs at Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur in Rajasthan for the upcoming marriage of his son.During the search in the last two days at his Bhubanesewar home, investigators found that Pathak and his family had made at least 20 trips to different cities across the country through chartered planes at an expenditure of over Rs 3 crore during the lockdown. He was found to own an 8,000 sq ft luxurious apartment with an ivory-crusted bed.Investigators say this is the biggest-ever disproportionate assets case in Odisha. The case has come to light at a time when the Naveen Patnaik government is stressing on transparency in government works through a fancy slogan of 5T( Teamwork, Transparency, Technology leading to Transformation in Time). It also started Mo Sarkar programme on Gandhi Jayanti last year to bridge the trust deficit between government officials and common people due to large scale corruption in government offices over the last decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-sacks-mla-for-alleged-involvement-with-tainted-forest-officer/story-ZF9Q6fzgg2MHK7QeZdpDlM.html
29-11-2020||India||Centre treating protesting farmers like ‘terrorists’, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws are being treated as if they are “terrorists”, and it is sad that they are not being allowed to enter Delhi.The government should consider the farmers’ demands sympathetically, Raut told reporters here.Thousands of farmers, protesting against three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre, have gathered at border points of the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march.“It is sad they are not being allowed to come to Delhi and are being treated as if they are terrorists and have come from outside the country. The government should consider the demands of farmers sympathetically,” Raut said.“Farm laws is one issue. Consider all other demands sympathetically. Different states are not doing well. It is up to the Centre to step in and help them,” the Rajya Sabha member said.Replying to a query, Raut claimed farmers were being dubbed as “divisive” because they come from Punjab.“Do you want to create instability by reminding the Punjab farmers of the Khalistan movement period?” he asked the Centre.Thousands of farmers continued their protest for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points, with farmer leaders deliberating upon their future course of action about proposed talks with the government.With many roads and entry points of Delhi being blocked, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground, and said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-treating-protesting-farmers-like-terrorists-says-sanjay-raut/story-t5QLekqhdXRQC8vaudmwWM.html
29-11-2020||India||IAF carries out special rescue mission to bring back Covid-19 positive scientists from Central Asia||The Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out a special rescue mission in which a group of 50 Indian scientists including those who tested Covid-19 positive were brought back in a special C-17 Globemaster transport aircraft from a Central Asian country.The Indian scientists were in the Central Asian republic on official assignment as part of agreements between India and that country. “As soon as information was received about the spread of Coronavirus among the group of scientists, the Indian embassy in that country got activated. Immediately the government authorities concerned asked the Indian Air Force whether it could bring back the group of scientists which included Covid patients,” sources told ANI.The Indian Air Force had brought back Indian nationals stuck in Wuhan in China and other parts of the world but it had not flown Covid-19 positive patients.However, the C-17 squadron of the Air Force had been preparing for such an eventuality and had practiced manoeuvres to fly Covid-19 patients in emergency and the precautions and safety measures to be taken by the pilots and the crew to avoid getting infected, the sources said. Soon after, the agencies concerned took all due clearances to send the aircraft to the central Asian republic.In the first week of this month, the C-17 aircraft took off from India and reached its destination after an almost nine-hour flight, the sources said.At the airport in that country, the Indian officials there safely brought the group of scientists to the aircraft which had created all possible facilities for evacuating them including separate compartments for passengers, the sources said.The aircraft took off after a two-hour halt at the airport and returned to India and dropped the scientists at a location in the Southern part of the country, they added. The rescue mission took a total of around 20 hours. When asked to share details about the special mission and the personnel who carried it out, the Indian Air Force refused to either comment or confirm the developments.The scientific organisation with which the scientists were affiliated with, also refused to discuss the rescue mission and the people involved in it.Sources said the Indian officials in that country played a pivotal role in helping the scientists return to India.It is learned that post-flight, the Air Force crew and other people involved with the mission underwent the mandatory quarantine procedure and are doing fine, the sources said.The Narendra Modi-led government since 2014 has enhanced its efforts to help out Indian citizens in distress outside the country.Former chief and Union Minister Gen VK Singh had led a rescue mission to bring back Indians stuck in a conflict in the Middle East and then went to war-torn Iraq personally to get back Indians believed to have been abducted by the ISIS terrorists.During this Covid crisis also, the Indian Navy was sent to Iran, Maldives, Sri Lanka, and various other locations to get back Indians safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-carries-out-special-rescue-mission-to-bring-back-covid-19-positive-scientists-from-central-asia/story-xZrXp3W6LmmvpKrp7MYzXJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Air India plans to operate non-stop flights on Chennai-London route from January||Air India is planning to operate non-stop flights on the Chennai-London route from January next year, making Tamil Nadu’s capital the ninth city to be connected with the British capital.Air India is currently operating non-stop flights to London from Delhi (seven flights a week), Mumbai (four flights a week), Kochi (three flights a week), Ahmedabad (two flights a week), Bengaluru (two flights a week), Goa (two flights a week), Kolkata (one flight a week) and Amritsar (one flight a week), an airline spokesperson told PTI.Asked how has been the occupancy rate in its London flights after the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the spokesperson said the “load factors have been generally good”.“Some of the stations like Delhi, Kochi, Goa and Ahmedabad have seen quite a heavy demand (for London flights),” the spokesperson said.“We have plans to commence direct operations between Chennai and London from January, 2021,” the spokesperson said.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.Flights between India and the UK have been operating under an air bubble pact only post the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-plans-to-operate-non-stop-flights-on-chennai-london-route-from-january/story-rwwxebJddiReyYtUM5azOK.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah in GHMC poll campaign: ‘Will free Hyderabad from Nawab, Nizam culture’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday took the political campaign heat a notch above after he reached Hyderabad to campaign for the party for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. He visited the Bhagyalakshmi Temple in Old City area of Hyderabad to offer prayers and held a roadshow from Warasiguda in Secunderabad to Sitaphalmandi before addressing his party workers. The GHMC polls, slated for December 1, will witness a triangular fight between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.Also read | GHMC polls: ‘Only Trump is left’, Owaisi takes a dig at BJP campaignHere are the highlights from his address ahead of GHMC polls:- This time Mayor of Hyderabad will be from our party. I want to thank people of Hyderabad for showing immense support to BJP.- The type of corporation in Hyderabad headed by TRS and Majlis is the biggest impetus in making Hyderabad the IT hub of the world. About 60 lakh people were disturbed due to water filling the city due to rain. Illegal construction takes place at the behest of the Majlis, which prevents the drainage of water.- I assure the people of Hyderabad that once the BJP has a chance, we will remove all illegal constructions and smooth the drainage of water.- Hyderabad is benefitting a lot from investment in the IT sector. PM Modi has created a lot of opportunities for the youth and it shows in the faith shown in India by foreign investors.- PM Modi has opened the way for ‘work from anywhere’. The IT professionals working in Hyderabad are going to benefit the most from this move.Also read: ‘Amit Shah can do roadshow 1,200 km away but farmers are at doorstep,’ Congress attacks BJP over farmers’ protest- The public of Hyderabad demands to know what happened to the 100-day scheme KCR and Majlis promised. If you have done anything in 5 years, then keep it here in front of the public. What happened to the Citizen Charter promised?- We’re going to free Hyderabad from the Nawab, Nizam culture and create a mini-India here. We want to build Hyderabad into a modern city, free from the shackles of Nizam culture.- Narendra Modi ji brought the Ayushman Bharat Yojana for the people of Hyderabad so that the poor could get the benefit of free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh a year. You did not allow this scheme to be implemented in Hyderabad due to political reasons- We want to move Hyderabad from Dynasty to democracy. Whether it is Owaisi Sahab’s party or TRS, everybody questions us. I want to ask that in such a large state of Telangana do you find no one but your family? Does anyone have any talent?- I want to ask KCR why do you have a secret agreement with Majlis? Why not dare to share open seats with the Majlis?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-ghmc-poll-campaign-will-free-hyderabad-from-nawab-nizam-culture/story-dFswejRoJTuQfuqbssBsCL.html
29-11-2020||India||BJP releases manifesto in Urdu for DDC polls in Kashmir||The BJP on Sunday released its election manifesto in Urdu for the ongoing District Development Council (DDC) polls in Kashmir.Former MLC Vibhod Gupta released the manifesto in presence of senior party leaders from the Valley such as Sofi Yosuf and Darakhshan Abdrabi.The manifesto claims that while the BJP has unified the country by abrogating provisions of Article 370 and Article 35A that provided special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration – an amalgam of several mainstream political parties, including NC and PDP – was working against the national interest for vote bank politics.It further says that after reorganisation, Jammu and Kashmir has been put on a track of development and peace. The party claimed that stone-pelting was ended and terrorism was being dealt with an iron hand.Read more | J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to knowIn the manifesto, the BJP also claimed credit for reserving 100 per cent of government jobs in the union territory for its residents only and framing a policy that will spur industrialisation.The party said it has launched a war against corruption and land grabbing in the union territory. It has said basic amenities like electricity, water supply and road networks in the union territory have been improved as well.The BJP also claimed credit for doing away with SRO-202, a policy brought in by the PDP-BJP government in 2015 under which newly recruited government employees in Jammu and Kashmir were paid a paltry remuneration for seven years before being paid full salary.The first round of polling in the eight-phase maiden DDC elections was held on Saturday. This is the first electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-releases-manifesto-in-urdu-for-ddc-polls-in-kashmir/story-J1heJ9MA0dqpeYyMtMQF8O.html
29-11-2020||India||In Hyderabad, Amit Shah says ‘never called farmers’ protest politically motivated’||Union minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that he has never termed the ongoing protests staged by agitating farmers in Delhi as politically motivated. Shah, who is in Hyderabad, to campaign for BJP ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections, was speaking to mediapersons at the Telangana BJP headquarters at Nampally.Shah told ANI, “I never called the farmers’ protest politically motivated, neither am I calling it now.” Will rid Hyderabad of Nizami culture, turn it into Mini Bharat’: Amit ShahFarmers from Punjab have been staging protests demanding rollback of the recently passed farm bills. The protests began on November 25 when farmer groups under the Bharatiya Kisan Union started the Delhi Chalo march. Amit Shah had also requested farmers on Saturday to halt their protests and speak to the Centre regarding the issues they are facing with the three farm bills. Shah, while speaking to ANI had said, “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands.”Farmers have rejected the Centre’s offers to hold discussions and have asked the Centre to form a cabinet committee to discuss the issues with the new farm bills. The farmers groups have also highlighted that agriculture is not the domain of the Home Ministry and have demanded that a group of ministers or the prime minister’s office meet the farmers for a fresh set of discussions. Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal told HT, “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture.”Farm leaders reject Amit Shah’s offer of talks, set new termsLeaders from the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and 28 other organisations are protesting against the - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Farmers believe that these bills will adversely impact the agricultural sector by promoting corporate farming and will cause hindrance in procurement of grains under the minimum support price system. The farmers are currently holding protests at Singhu in Delhi-Haryana border. They have denied to proceed to Burari, where the government has earmarked a protest site, and have said that they will only take a decision on holding discussion if Centre does not impose a pre-condition. The protest has entered its fourth day but farmers remain adamant that they shall only withdraw their agitation once Centre hold discussions with the groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-hyderabad-amit-shah-says-never-called-farmers-protest-politically-motivated/story-R5RIQy1RBDMu2nlZ6AkMuO.html
29-11-2020||India||Bengal governor may soon ask TMC to prove majority in House: BJP MP Saumitra Khan||With voices of dissent in the Trinamool congress (TMC) getting shriller, BJP MP Saumitra Khan on Sunday took a jibe at the ruling dispensation, claiming that the governor may soon ask West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to prove her majority in the Assembly.The TMC, on its part, said the saffron camp leaders have no respect for the democracy.Khan, who is also the state president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), said on the sidelines of a programme in Jalpaiguri that the current turmoil and the brewing discontentment in the ruling party have brought to the fore the question if the party still enjoys the support of adequate number of legislators in the House.“The way the MLAs have been dissenting and leaving Trinamool, the governor may all of a sudden ask the CM to prove majority... There is a possibility,” Khan said.Several ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet are ready to switch over to the BJP, he stated.Read more | CBI files fresh case in Bengal despite state’s withdrawal of general consentReacting to Khan’s comments, veteran TMC MP Sougata Roy said BJP leaders like him know nothing about the Constitution and its provisions.“How could Khan know first-hand that the governor will make such an unconstitutional move? An elected government cannot be treated this way... and the overwhelming majority of MLAs are with the chief minister. The TMC has the support of 218 legislators in the Assembly,” Roy asserted.The ruling TMC in Bengal had been trying its best to keep its flock together, as several key leaders, including party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, have, of late, openly aired their grievanced against the dispensation.According to BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, the TMC lacks the courage to expel Adhikari, who recently quit from the state cabinet, as “the party fears that it might face extinction soon.Ghosh also alleged that leaders of the ruling party, who had almost never stepped out of their homes and offices, are now being “forced” to venture out to get an idea about ground realities, ahead of 2021 Assembly polls.“The month of December appears crucial for TMC, as the party is facing extinction with people abandoning the ship.The TMC lacks the courage to expel anyone. It has not been able to expel Suvendu Adhikari,” Ghosh maintained.The Mamata Banerjee party also did little to address the woes of legislator Mihir Goswami, who recently joined the BJP, the state BJP chief said, adding that more such developments are likely in the coming days.Elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-may-soon-ask-tmc-to-prove-majority-in-house-bjp-mp-saumitra-khan/story-FvJjFp5PZHzRvKvGY5XrtN.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana Police||Amid severe criticism of how Haryana Police used ‘force’ on farmers as they were marching towards Delhi protesting against three recently passed farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he doesn’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force. “I don’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force,” he said questioning how Punjab government could allow such protests during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.After Haryana Police resorted to tear gas and water cannon amid freezing cold to disperse farmers’ gathering a verbal brawl ensued between Khattar and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh. Singh accused the Haryana government of using “brute force” against farmers which is “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”, he said. Khattar, in his swipe at Singh, said he would leave politics if there will be any trouble regarding the minimum support price (MSP) because of the new farm laws. Khattar also accused Singh of being “unavailable” for talks on the farmers’ issues. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” Singh said. Khattar also hinted at “unwanted elements” in the crowd of protesters and claimed that “card holders” in the Punjab CM’s office have been directing protesters. While the action of police on protesters met criticism, Haryana Police had said they acted with “great restraint”. “Many of our vehicles were damaged by farmers. We tried convincing them to stop their march. We did not use any force against the farmers. We handled the situation with great restraint ensuring law and order is maintained,” state police chief Manoj Yadava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-don-t-see-use-of-tear-gas-water-cannon-as-force-says-ml-khattar-backs-haryana-police/story-JjoOfDqB5t2fjxiysEdGOI.html
29-11-2020||India||Over 18,000 km railway line electrified in last six years: Piyush Goyal||As much as 18,065 kms of the railway line was electrified under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi between 2014 and 2020 making a “quantum jump” of 371 per cent in its growth pace as compared to the six years before, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday.“Under PM Modi ji’s leadership, Railways has achieved many milestones towards infrastructure development. Electrified 18,065 km of Railway line in 2014-20. Electrification of railway tracks increased by 371 per cent during 2014-20 as compared to 2008-14,” Goyal wrote on Twitter.In his tweet, he also added some infographics, which said that only 3,835 km of railway track was electrified between 2008 and 2014. It also said that the government is planning to electrify 28,143 km railway track between 2019 and 2024, of which 5,642 km has already been commissioned till October 2020. Under PM @NarendraModi ji's leadership, Railways has achieved many milestones towards infrastructure development:🚉 Electrified 18,065 km of Railway line in 2014-20🛤️ Electrification of railway tracks increased by 371% during 2014-20 as compared to 2008-14 pic.twitter.com/TXPkE9SKLZAccording to the Ministry of Railways, a critical section Dighwada-Bandikui of railway route between Ajmer to Delhi has been electrified.“A key step towards making the National Capital Region free from Railways diesel engines. This will contribute in making a cleaner and greener environment in the NCR,” the Ministry said adding that the Indian Railways has set a target to complete electrification of its broad gauge network by December 2023.It said that more than 66 per cent of the broad gauge route has already electrified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-18-000-km-railway-line-electrified-in-last-six-years-piyush-goyal/story-rm1ecj3IyMJpi9i3DdyRxJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Congress trying to destabilise Meghalaya Democratic Alliance govt: NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) has accused the opposition Congress of trying to destabilise the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government by making baseless allegations.The MDA government is led by the NPP.“Yes, they (Congress) are trying to destabilise the NPP-led MDA government (by making allegations after allegations) despite the fact that the issues they are raising have already been addressed,” NPP Spokesman Marcuise N Marak told reporters on Saturday.The Congress has denied the allegations of Marak that it is trying to destabilise the MDA government.The Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged multi-crore scams in the Meghalaya Power Department.It alleged there have been many irregularities and anomalies in the implementation of various projects that include the Asian Development Bank (ADB) funded smart metering project, Saubhagya Scheme and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), among others.Leader of Opposition Mukul Sangma of Congress had also alleged corruption in the power department particularly in the implementation of the Saubhagya scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-destabilise-meghalaya-democratic-alliance-govt-npp/story-Fti0XjSEw08lZBpbhZ08iJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Chilly mornings, sunny days likely over northwest India in winter: IMD forecast||Nights and early mornings are likely to be chilly with below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north, northwest and central and some parts of east India, while day temperatures are likely to be above normal over the same regions, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s seasonal outlook for December to February.This also indicates that these regions are likely to see more clear sky days, leading to radiational cooling at night during the coming winter months. The diurnal temperature variation (difference between day and night temperatures) is likely to be high in most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and a few subdivisions of east India.But most subdivisions of northeast India, a few subdivisions of west coast and south peninsular India are likely to experience above normal minimum temperatures during the next three months. Most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India, however, are likely to experience cold days or below normal maximum temperatures, the outlook based on IMD’s Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) Model forecast.For example, as per the model there is a 60-70% probability that Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh subdivisions will record below normal minimum temperatures (about 0.42 degree C below normal on average) during the season. There is 100% probability of west Rajasthan recording below normal temperatures to the tune of 1.17 degrees C below normal. Similarly, there is a 100% probability that Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha etc will record above normal day temperatures. Day temperatures in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi could be 1 to 0.99 degree C above normal.There is a 40 to 60% probability that night or minimum temperatures will be above normal in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema etc., and a 60% to 100% probability that maximum temperatures will be below normal in these regions. “The model is showing that there is a probability of high diurnal variation in temperatures in northwest; north and some parts of India. This could mean there will more clear sky days in the north. Below normal minimum temperatures are also expected over north India due to the effect of La Nina. In Peninsular India, we are seeing the opposite, which indicates there may be clouding and rain in the region; it will lead to warmer nights and early mornings,” explained DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.“During La Nina years we expect winters to be colder than normal. La Nina is also associated with WDs (western disturbances) and their impact reaching southwards towards the plains. So, this fall in minimum temperatures can be linked to the overall La Nina impact also,” Pai had said last week.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters. Currently, sea surface temperatures are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean and moderate La Niña conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to IMD’s model.“We should remember that this is a probability forecast. It gives you an average general picture of winter months so we shouldn’t focus very much on numbers but get a sense of how overall winter is going to be like,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-day-temperatures-below-normal-night-temperatures-likely-in-delhi-in-winter-imd/story-7OhyPrLjTQreU82ZH5WDUN.html
29-11-2020||India||MVA govt in Maharashtra ‘natural’, will stay on, says Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday slammed the BJP for calling the MVA government in Maharashtra as “unnatural”, and said a government is natural till it exists.In his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut recalled that during alliance talks last year, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge had a heated argument over the Assembly Speaker’s post.“He (Pawar) collected his papers and left the room in anger. I have never seen Pawar so angry,” he said.Raut said the situation changed after that and the next day at dawn (on November 23) BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis and NCP’s Ajit Pawar took oath in a ceremony at Raj Bhavan.Their government collapsed within 80 hours.Last week, former Maharashtra chief minister Fadnavis termed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, as an “unnatural alliance”, and said the day this tie-up breaks, his party will give a strong government to the state.Reacting to it, Raut said,”The BJP has been predicting the government’s downfall and how it will be done depends on the secret activities and the central investigating agencies. Whatever the ED does, I say with responsibility that the MVA government will stay on.” In politics, “no one is a saint” and no government is natural or unnatural, the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson said.“A government is natural till it is there. To destabilise it, agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are being used. Those doing illegal constructions and accused of abetment to suicide are being protected,” he alleged.“If these political pressure tactics are natural, then the ‘Thackeray sarkar’ is also natural. The government has proved its majority on the floor of the House and is within constitutional norms,” Raut said.He said if there were no Covid-19 outbreak, floods, cyclones and lockdown difficulties, the situation in the state would have been different in the last one year.After the Maharashtra Assembly polls last year, the Shiv Sena snapped ties with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post in the state.Recalling last year’s hectic parleys between the Sena, NCP and Congress to form a non-BJP government in the state, Raut said Sharad Pawar and Kharge had a heated argument over the Assembly Speaker’s post in a meeting at Nehru Centre here.“Kharge and others were firm that the post shouldn’t go to the NCP. I have never seen Pawar so angry. He collected his papers and left the room in anger. Myself and (NCP leader) PrafulPatel followed him,” the Rajya Sabha member said.Raut recalled that Pawar had earlier in the meeting said Uddhav Thackeray will be the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. “But after his argument with Kharge, the situation changed.” “Ajit Pawar was chatting on his mobile for a long time in the room and later left. His mobile was switched-off and he was seen the next day at the swearing-in at the Raj Bhavan,” Raut said.The Sena leader rejected Fadnavis’s claim that Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had a meeting in Delhi where it was decided that the NCP will support the BJP following which the early morning swearing-in took place.“There was a meeting at Amit Shah’s place where a top industrialist and NCP leaders may have been present. But, Sharad Pawar was in no mood to have any deal with the BJP,” the Sena leader claimed.“He (Sharad Pawar) told me that ‘offers are being made for a BJP government from various quarters. I will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and will tell him that an alliance with the BJP wasn’t possible’,” he said.Later, Sharad Pawar met Modi on farmers’ issues and also clarified his position on the government formation in Maharashtra, he said.“The real script of the political drama is still under cover and will always remain like that,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-govt-in-maharashtra-natural-will-stay-on-says-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-ZNdQ3Nbtb5XGyymVXj9S4J.html
29-11-2020||India||Editor’s Guild urges PCI to withdraw ‘ominous-sounding’ advisory on foreign content publication by Indian media||The Editors Guild of India has urged the Press Council of India to withdraw its “ominous-sounding” advisory cautioning against “unregulated circulation of the foreign content”, saying it has disturbing implications. In a statement, the guild said it is perturbed by the “unprovoked” advisory issued by the Press Council of India on November 25 to the media. “Through this advisory, it appears that the Council, which swears by self-regulation of media and believes that any government interference would be destructive to press freedom, is lending its weight towards a step that could bring in some form of censorship and punitive actions against those organisations that publish content, which in its view is seen as ‘not desirable’,” the guild said.The advisory does not specify who will verify the content, on what criterion will it be verified, and most importantly, what does “unregulated circulation” even mean, the statement issued on Saturday said.The guild noted that many publications in the country license and reproduce content from foreign agencies, newspapers, and periodicals, which is a prerogative of the editor, and who is in any case responsible for all the content published in their publication. “A reiteration by the Council at this juncture of this established practice, in an ominous sounding advisory, has disturbing implications,” the guild said. It urged the PCI to withdraw this advisory immediately.The Press Council of India, in its advisory, said it has considered references received from various quarters by the government about the responsibility of Indian newspapers in publishing foreign contents.The council had said it is of the view that unregulated circulation of the foreign content is not desirable.Hence, it advised the media to publish foreign extracts in Indian newspapers with due verification as the reporter, publisher and editor of such newspaper shall be responsible for the contents irrespective of the source from which it is received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editor-s-guild-urges-pci-to-withdraw-ominous-sounding-advisory-on-foreign-content-publication-by-indian-media/story-XkfZGSZToST4uqIz8TNxdJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Andhra minister alleges murder attempt on him, suspect in custody||Andhra Pradesh transport and information minister Perni Venkataramaiah, alias Nani, said on Sunday that he survived an alleged murder attempt on him at his residence in Machilipatnam town in Krishna district. The minister told reporters that the incident happened while he was coming out of his residence to meet his well-wishers after performing some rituals for his mother, Nageshwaramma, who died recently. The alleged assaulter, identified as Badugu Nageshwara Rao from Chemmannagiripeta area, was handed over to the Machilipatnam police, who are interrogating him. The accused was said to be in an inebriated condition. According to Nani, a large number of relatives, well-wishers and party workers came to his residence to call on him during the 12th day of the rituals. After completing the rituals, he came out of the house to meet them. A person rushed towards the minister and bowed down to touch his feet. “When I tried to prevent him, he pulled out a sharp iron trowel (used for plastering cement in the construction work) and tried to shove it in my belly. Fortunately, it touched the buckle of my belt,” the minister said. ”Within seconds, my followers caught hold of him and thrashed him, before handing him over to the police. I have not sustained any injuries, but my shirt was torn,” the minister said. The Machilipatnam inspector of police, Venkat Narayana, said a case of attempt to murder was booked on Nageshwara Rao, based on a complaint lodged by the minister’s followers. “We suspect he might have assaulted the minister in a drunken state. We are also verifying whether he has any criminal background or political connections. We are investigating the case,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-minister-alleges-murder-attempt-on-him-suspect-in-custody/story-x36bvtspnWmmXlh2LhX35O.html
29-11-2020||India||Odisha artist creates Lord Jagannath’s idol with 3,635 matchsticks||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases here, Saswat Ranjan Sahoo, an artist in Odisha’s Puri, has created an idol of Lord Jagannath using 3,635 matchsticks to pray for the well-being of people and eradication of the pandemic. Sahoo took 11 days to design this art piece. “I have prayed to God Jagannath to wipe away the Covid-19 pandemic from our lives,” he said while showcasing his work. Since people are not allowed in the Jagannath temple currently, Sahoo decided to help them through his artwork. “Many people are not able to visit the Lord Jagannath temple owing to the ongoing pandemic situation. Hence, I decided to create this idol so that people could pray to God via my artwork,” he added. According to media reports, the Jagannath temple is likely to reopen in December. The iconic temple is closed since March in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sahoo also showcased some of his artworks at the Puri beach.On Friday, the Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath and siblings was held in Puri after a gap of 26 years. The last Besha of the Lords was held in 1994.This year’s celebration was muted due to the coronavirus. It was performed in presence of servitors and temple officials due to the pandemic.Odisha on Saturday has registered 550 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 3,17,789, as per the State Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-artist-creates-lord-jagannath-s-idol-with-3-635-matchsticks/story-FvN1NdX1XWnGkEAdL5ZVsI.html
29-11-2020||India||DK Shivakumar supports K’taka Home Minister’s decision to probe into NR Santosh suicide bid||KPCC president DK Shivakumar has welcomed Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s decision to conduct a detailed inquiry into the alleged suicide attempt by NR Santosh, the political secretary to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.“Basavaraja Bommai has said that a detailed inquiry will be conducted in NR Sanntosh’s suicide attempt case, I welcome his statement. This is the first thing that should take place, I brought this issue in the public domain because of the inside information I had,” said Sivakumar. KPCC chief’s statement comes a day after he demanded an investigation into the alleged suicide attempt by Santosh.“As per my information, as whatever I heard was that a confidential video was distributed by Chief Minister’s political secretary NR Santosh to an MLC and a minister. Later, it was also given to high command leaders of BJP,” the Congress leader had said.“That MLC and minister both were blackmailing the Chief Minister and the leaders in government. It has been happening for the last several months. The Chief Minister’s political secretary allegedly trying to commit suicide is not a small issue. It needs to be investigated properly, the investigation must not be done by the (state) government,” he had said.Santosh was been hospitalised on Friday after he allegedly attempted suicide.He was admitted to Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bengaluru and is suspected to have consumed sleeping pills. Yediyurappa visited the hospital and enquired about Santosh’s health, his family members had said.The Chief Minister said that he will speak with him and his family members once he is better, a family member of Santosh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dk-shivakumar-supports-k-taka-home-minister-s-decision-to-probe-into-nr-santosh-suicide-bid/story-ZthgQPjwKMcgkemyrmkLqI.html
29-11-2020||India||‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday lashed at the Centre for preventing farmers from entering Delhi and said that it was regrettable that farmers were being treated like “terrorists”.“The way farmers have been stopped from entering Delhi, it looks like as if they do not belong to this country. They have been treated like terrorists. Since they are Sikh and have come from Punjab and Haryana, they are being called Khalistani. It is an insult to farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Raut as saying.Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm lawsSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists.” “Humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists is the worst form of BJP. This is a conspiracy of the BJP, which supports the rich and wants to mortgage small-businesses, shopkeepers, roads transport everything to big corporates. If according to the BJP, the farmers are terrorists, then the party should swear that they will not consume the produce grown by farmers,” the SP chief tweeted in Hindi..Also Read: Sikh politicians, separatists in Canada wade into farmers’ protest rowMeanwhile, the Centre approached the protesting farmers with an offer to hold talks before December 3. The letter from home secretary, however, laid down some conditions. The offer was rejected by the farmer unions.On Saturday, home minister Amit Shah had said that his government was ready to hold talks with the agitating farmers. “The Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he said.Farm unions are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-insult-that-farmers-treated-as-terrorists-sanjay-raut/story-tb5Nnb8QOCEGYybGJ2nMqK.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ forum rejects early talks offer, sit-in to continue at Delhi borders||The joint forum of 30 farmers unions have rejected Centre’s offer of early talks in a unanimous decision and said they were against any precondition to talks to resolve a deadlock over the three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. The Central government had offered to advance the talks if the farmer groups protesting against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders agreed to move to a designated venue at Burari in the national capital. President of Sidhupur faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Jagjit Singh Dalewal, said that the forum’s decision was taken in the meeting held at Singhu border. He stressed that farmers will talk to the Centre only if there is no pre-condition.“Venue for holding a protest is no longer our demand. Our supporters are on road at various places leading to Delhi and the indefinite dharna has begun. It has been resolved that talks with the Centre are possible only if they sent an invitation without any pre-condition. We will send a written reply to the Union minister and home secretary detailing reasons for rejection of the conditioned offer,” said Dalewal, leader of a key constituent of the joint forum of farmers. He denied there was an invitation from the Centre for talks on December 1.The meeting at Singhu border was called in light of a late Saturday missive sent by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to all the 32 farmer unions protesting for the last two days. It stated that a high-powered group of ministers was ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the authorities would were willing to advance the talks if the protesting farmers moved to the earmarked protest site in Burari in Delhi.The next round of talks was otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.Also Read: Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community A section of farmers had expressed a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. A farmer leader said that the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.Meanwhile, the Ughrahan faction of the BKU, one of the most active in Punjab, is yet to take a clear stand on the matter. “Our union leaders will soon hold talks with the joint forum before taking a decision,” Ughrahan said.Earlier today, Ughrahan had stated that the group wanted to hold a demonstration at Jantar Mantar.A large gathering of Ughrahan faction is stationed on the outskirts of Delhi near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. “As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: ‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protests would be decided with unanimity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forum-rejects-early-talks-offer-sit-in-to-continue-at-delhi-borders/story-9dUyuV02HYv1Y6W5TjagNP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Amit Shah can do roadshow 1,200 km away but farmers are at doorstep,’ Congress attacks BJP over farmers’ protest||If the Prime Minister defends the farm bills, then what is the point of discussion with the protesting farmers, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday said taking a swipe at the BJP government amid the ongoing farmers protests in the Capital. Referring to Modi’s Mann ki Baat speech where PM Modi said the new farm laws have given new rights and opportunities to farmers, Surjewala questioned Centre’s offer to talks with the farmers.“Amit Shah can travel 1200 km and do a roadshow in Hyderabad. The farmers are just 15 km away. But he can’t go and meet them,” Surjewala said. Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws“There are several questions over these three laws. If there is no mandi, then who will buy crop from farmers in minimum support price. The government is saying farmers can now sell their crops to other states. But 86 per cent of the farmers have less than five acre of land. They can even go out of their district with their crops. And in his Mann ki Baat today, Modiji defended these anti-farmer laws,” Surjewala said. Also Watch | Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad, dares KCR to admit ‘alliance’ with AIMIM The Congress demanded immediate suspension of the three farm laws and the withdrawal of the 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should talk to the farmers. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar should apologise for calling farmers terrorists. So should BJP spokesperson Amit Malviya for calling them ‘Khalistanis’,” Surjewala said.The Centre has invited the protesting farmers for a talk on December 3. Thousands of farmers have reached New Delhi on Saturday, responding to the Delhi Chalo call gainst the three farm laws — defeating all administrative attempts to not let them enter the Capital. The AAP government has designated Burari ground where several farmers are protesting at present but several other groups have denied to move there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-can-do-roadshow-1-200-km-away-but-farmers-are-at-doorstep-congress-attacks-bjp-over-farmers-protest/story-zKXDKyCr7eC0EXLuUHixWL.html
29-11-2020||India||Plea in SC to direct EC to nullify election if NOTA gets most votes||A petition has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Election Commission of India to use its plenary power conferred under Article 324 of the Constitution to nullify the election results and hold a fresh election if maximum votes have been polled in favour of NOTA in a particular constituency.The plea, filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay earlier this week, also sought directions to restrict the candidates, who have participated in the invalidated election, from taking part in the fresh election to be held in the particular constituency.Alternatively, it sought to direct the Centre to take apposite steps to invalidate the election result and hold fresh election, if the maximum number of votes have been polled in favour of NOTA (none of the above) in any particular constituency.Upadhayay, in his petition, said that alternatively, being the custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights of citizens, the apex court should direct and declare that if NOTA gets maximum votes, then election to that constituency shall be invalidated and fresh elections shall be held within six months.He also sought that the contesting candidates, who are being rejected, in the nullified elections, shall not be allowed to participate in the fresh polls. The plea said that the right to reject will check corruption, criminalisation, casteism, communalism, linguism and regionalism.“If these (directions) would be implemented, then the political parties would be forced to give tickets to honest and patriotic candidates. If candidates on whom the political parties spend crores of rupees are rejected, they would abstain from doing so,” the plea said.“The right to reject contesting candidates would mean true democracy, as the people would be able to elect their representatives in true sense. It will make contesting candidates accountable in their process,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-to-direct-ec-to-nullify-election-if-nota-gets-most-votes/story-7S9TH86GecbrKS6NO7Fr3J.html
29-11-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj holds meeting over law and order situation||Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday held a meeting with officials over the law and order situation in the state.Taking to Twitter, Chouhan said that the state government will make Bhopal an amazing capital in terms of development and better law and order and facilities to its people.“Held a meeting with senior officers of Bhopal today and discussed important topics related to the development of Bhopal. We have to develop Bhopal as a model. Good governance is our motto. We will make Bhopal an amazing capital in terms of development, law and order and facilities,” he tweeted. आज निवास पर भोपाल के वरिष्ठ अधिकारियों के साथ बैठक की और भोपाल के विकास से जुड़े विषयों पर महत्वपूर्ण चर्चा की।भोपाल को हमें मॉडल के रूप में विकसित करना है। सुशासन हमारा मूलमंत्र है। विकास की दृष्टि, कानून व्यवस्था और सुविधाओं की दृष्टि से हम भोपाल को एक अद्भुत राजधानी बनाएंगे। https://t.co/BOfx0xAzyn pic.twitter.com/ozBvXnG5OqOn November 26, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had inaugurated Energy Swaraj Yatra in Bhopal.Speaking to ANI, Chouhan had said, “Solar energy is pure, sure and secure. Solar power will help save the earth and its inhabitants. Under the Prime Minister’s leadership, MP is also constantly working in this field.”“Every creature’s existence depends on the survival of the earth. So we all have to contribute to what awareness Prof. Chetan is spreading. Dr Chetan will be the Brand Ambassador of MP’s energy initiative. I wish you success for this great cause #EnergySwarajYatra,” the Chief Minister had tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-holds-meeting-over-law-and-order-situation/story-db1dZoXR9Eo38Lv074gP8O.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Atal Bihari’s NDA had 33 parties, none found it unnatural’: Sena jabs BJP||On the BJP’s charge that the alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress in Maharashtra is “unnatural and immoral”, Sena’s Sanjay Raut pointed to the coalition of 33 parties with different ideologies in the Atal Bihari-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Sena leader underscored how no one found that government “unnatural”.“If we would not have had Covid-19, lockdown, floods, cyclone Nisarga, the government would have changed the picture of the state. We need to remember that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had 33 political parties onboard the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) with different ideologies, and no one found that government unnatural,” asked Raut on the completion of the first anniversary of the Sena-led government in Maharashtra.On Saturday, BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked the Shiv Sena-led government, saying it had failed on all counts. He said the government had been unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, resolve farmers’ issues, and had made no progress on development projects.Hitting back at the BJP, Raut said, several BJP leaders from Maharashtra have been saying the government will fall, but they are silent on how. They are keeping it as a secret, he said.“They are dependent on central investigative agencies like that of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI. There are attempts to destabilise the government by using these agencies. Illegal construction and those who abet suicide are being shielded,” allged Raut.The senior Sena leader said that the Madhya Pradesh pattern worked but the same failed in Rajasthan, referring to the defection of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who has since joined the BJP and the collapse of Kamal Nath government, while Sachin Pilot whose spirited rebellion against Ashok Gehlot shook the party is still with the Congress.“There is resentment in governments where there is a clear majority but here we have three political parties. There are ministers and MLAs in our alliance who have issues and the chief minister does resolve them,” Raut said.Going into the details of government formation a year ago, Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said Sharad Pawar was never into forging alliance with the BJP to form the government in the state and had no secret meetings with the then BJP chief Amit Shah. The meeting of top leaders from three parties at Nehru Centre on November 22, said Raut, witnessed tension between Pawar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, after which the NCP chief left in a huff and Ajit Pawar went sulking minutes after it.“There might be resentment in the government but it will survive. Though Ajit Pawar had gone ahead by taking oath as deputy chief minister under the BJP on November 23, 2019, but today he is a true pillar of strength and trust in the government,” Raut said in his weekly column in party mouthpiece Saamana.Clarifying the rumours swirling around at the time, Raut said: “There was chatter regarding me meeting Sharad Pawar ji on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway to discuss formation of our government, but I had been meeting Pawar ji very transparently.” Raut said that Pawar told him NCP was getting offers from the BJP.Raut said the government was formed a year ago on November 28, 2019 and has support from lakhs of citizens from the state. Despite the BJP and the Shiv Sena having 170 seats post-election results, the government was formed with help of other political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-s-nda-had-33-parties-none-found-it-unnatural-sena-jabs-bjp/story-zufaMSfuGp9AotBxiBE8iN.html
29-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad||Union home minister Amit Shah is holding a roadshow in Hyderabad on Sunday to campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. Shah’s roadshow started at Warasiguda in Secunderabad and will go on for a couple of kilometres up to Sitaphalmandi.“Rousing welcome of HM Shri @AmitShah on his arrival in Hyderabad. #AmitShahInGHMC,” BJP tweeted on Sunday as Shah, the former party chief, reached Hyderabad airport.Rousing welcome of HM Shri @AmitShah on his arrival in Hyderabad. #AmitShahInGHMC pic.twitter.com/a8GXUJGNGeShah visited the Bhagyalakshmi Temple in Old City area of Hyderabad to offer prayers before the start of the roadshow.The city’s civic polls are set to witness a triangular fight between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.The BJP has shuttled a battery of leaders to Hyderabad as it readies to fight regional player TRS and AIMIM. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani as well as party president J P Nadda have campaigned for the BJP in Hyderabad.The pitch for electioneering has gained momentum as BJP tries to flex its political muscle in the city amid criticism from TRS and AIMIM, who have snubbed BJP’s efforts.Telangana CM KCR on Saturday slammed BJP for preaching the state on per capita income despite lagging behind in Uttar Pradesh (presently ruled by the BJP) and Maharashtra (previously ruled by the BJP).“Today UP CM has come. Our state was at 13th position 6 years ago, in terms of per capita income. It now stands fifth. UP stands 28th or 29th and they’ll teach us! Yesterday Maharashtra’s ex-CM came. They are ranked 10th and they will teach us - the one at fifth position,” KCR said.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said on Saturday took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying they have deployed so many leaders for campaigning “as if we are electing a Prime Minister”.Voting will be held in 150 wards in the GHMC polls on December 1 and the results will be declared on December 4.In the last GHMC election, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi won in 99 wards. AIMIM bagged 44, with the remaining seven wards won by other parties and Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-amit-shah-holds-roadshow-in-hyderabad/story-ptVwEX0owBBofnTEv6yJnO.html
29-11-2020||India||DRDO ready with anti-drone system for armed forces, PM Modi to have drone killer as part of his security detail||The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has designated Bharat Electronics as the lead agency for development and production of much needed anti-drone system for the armed forces.It is understood that anti-drone systems are now a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security detail at his residence and portable ones will be part of his car cavalcade. This has been made mandatory as there has been a drone threat since beginning of 2020. Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: IntelWith Pakistan based terrorists using Chinese made commercial drones to cart weapon payloads and drugs across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and international border, the DRDO has been able to successfully develop passive and active anti-drone technology to either disable or shoot down enemy drones.Pak’s million mutinies, ghosts and Doval’s doctrine of ‘defensive offence’It is understood that DRDO Chief Satheesh Reddy will write to the Indian armed forces soon informing them about the production of indigenous anti-drone system. The anti-drone system, which was deployed during 2020 Republic and Independence Day, has a range of over two to three kilometres with radar capability to pick up the drone and then use frequencies to jam the unmanned aerial vehicle. The other developed option includes spotting the drone through radar and then targeting it by laser beam.Pak rubs it in, lets Lashkar front sked prayer meeting for 10 terroristsSince 2019, Pakistan based groups have launched serial drone sorties across the IB in Punjab for delivering weapons and drugs to revive militancy in the border state. The same modus operandi is being used across the IB and LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. Commercially available Chinese drones can carry upto 10 kilograms of weapons and drug payloads.While the DRDO has developed the system, the Indian private sector along with the security agencies have also been able to concurrently developed anti-drone system. The system has been tested on the LoC and has been able to successfully repel the aerial threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-ready-with-anti-drone-system-for-armed-forces-pm-modi-to-have-drone-killer-as-part-of-his-security-detail/story-ZzSLytENkCubX9CuP0XV7N.html
29-11-2020||India||Turkey’s new virus figures confirm experts’ worst fears||When Turkey changed the way it reports daily Covid-19 infections, it confirmed what medical groups and opposition parties have long suspected — that the country is faced with an alarming surge of cases that is fast exhausting the Turkish health system.In an about-face, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government this week resumed reporting all positive coronavirus tests — not just the number of patients being treated for symptoms — pushing the number of daily cases to above 30,000. With the new data, the country jumped from being one of the least-affected countries in Europe to one of the worst-hit.That came as no surprise to the Turkish Medical Association, which has been warning for months that the government’s previous figures were concealing the graveness of the spread and that the lack of transparency was contributing to the surge. The group maintains, however, that the ministry’s figures are still low compared with its estimate of at least 50,000 new infections per day.No country can report exact numbers on the spread of the disease since many asymptomatic cases go undetected, but the previous way of counting made Turkey look relatively well-off in international comparisons, with daily new cases far below those reported in European countries including Italy, Britain and France.That changed Wednesday as Turkey’s daily caseload almost quadrupled from about 7,400 to 28,300.The country’s hospitals are overstretched, medical staff are burned out and contract tracers, who were once credited for keeping the outbreak under check, are struggling to track transmissions, Sebnem Korur Fincanci, who heads the association, told The Associated Press.“It’s the perfect storm,” said Fincanci, whose group has come under attack from Erdogan and his nationalist allies for questioning the government’s figures and its response to the outbreak.Even though the health minister has put the ICU bed occupancy rate at 70%, Ebru Kiraner, who heads the Istanbul-based Intensive Care Nurses’ Association, says intensive care unit beds in Istanbul’s hospitals are almost full, with doctors scrambling to find room for critically ill patients.There is a shortage of nurses and the existing nursing staff is exhausted, she added.“ICU nurses have not been able to return to their normal lives since March,” she told the AP. “Their children have not seen their mask-less faces in months.”Erdogan said, however, there was “no problem” concerning the hospitals’ capacities. He blamed the surge on the public’s failure to wear masks, which is mandatory, and to abide by social distancing rules.Demonstrating the seriousness of the outbreak, Turkey last month suspended leave for health care workers and temporarily banned resignations and early retirements during the pandemic. Similar bans were also put in place for three months in March.The official daily Covid-19 deaths have also steadily risen to record numbers, reaching 13,373 on Saturday with 182 new deaths, in a reversal of fortune for the country that had been praised for managing to keep fatalities low. But those record numbers remain disputed too.Istanbul Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu said 186 people had died of infectious diseases in the city on Nov. 22 — a day on which the government announced just 139 Covid-19 deaths for the whole of the country. The mayor also said around 450 burials are taking place daily in the city of 15 million compared with the average 180-200 recorded in November the previous year.“We can only beat the outbreak through a process that is transparent,” said Imamoglu, who is from Turkey’s main opposition party. “Russia and Germany have announced a high death toll. Did Germany lose its shine? Did Russia collapse?”Health Minister Fahrettin Koca has rejected Imamoglu’s claims, saying: “I want to underline that all of the figures I am providing are accurate.”Last week, Erdogan announced a series of restrictions in a bid to contain the contagion without impacting the already weakened economy or business activity. Opposition parties denounced them as “half-baked.” He introduced curfews for the first time since June, but limited them to weekend evenings, closed down restaurants and cafes except for takeout services and restricted the opening hours of malls, shops and hairdressers.Both Fincanci and Kiraner said the measures don’t go far enough to contain transmissions.“We need a total lockdown of at least two weeks, if not four weeks which science considers to be the most ideal amount,” Fincanci said.Koca has said that the number of seriously ill patients and fatalities is on the rise and said some cities including Istanbul and Izmir are experiencing their “third peak.” Turkey would wait, however, for two weeks to see the results of the weekend curfews and other restrictions before considering stricter lockdowns, he said.Meanwhile, the country has reached an agreement to receive 50 million doses of the vaccine developed by Chinese pharmaceutical company SinoVac and hopes to begin administering it to medical staff and the chronically ill next month. It is also in talks to purchase the vaccine developed by Pfizer in cooperation with the BioNTech pharmaceutical company. A Turkish-developed vaccine is scheduled to be ready to use in April.Erdogan said he had also spoken with Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, over the possibility of procuring a vaccine developed by that country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/turkey-s-new-virus-figures-confirm-experts-worst-fears/story-zge1IlVdDVutIGncoI4DAL.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws||A joint forum of about 30 farmer unions rejected the Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws on Sunday. These farmer bodies said that the protesting farmers will only engage the government in the absence of any pre-condition.The joint forum also said that protest venue for thousands of farmers is no longer an issue as they have started an indefinite dharna on roads leading to Delhi.Earlier on Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah appealed to farmers and said his government was ready to hold talks. “I appeal to the protesting farmers that the Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he had said.Thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana have taken to the streets and highways in the last few weeks protesting the three agricultural legislations, stating that the laws will reduce their earnings in the market and give more power to corporations.On Friday afternoon, the Delhi Police had agreed to let in the protesters, provided they move to the Burari ground, but not before a series of clashes between farmers and the police who used tear gas shells, lathis and water cannons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-reject-centre-s-offer-of-early-talks-to-resolve-deadlock-over-farm-laws/story-Rng0SGUBuvGaEIYBZapvCO.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Baseless’: Taloja Jail on allegations of not providing sipper, straw to Stan Swamy||Tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the alleged Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is being provided sipper and other facilities in the Taloja prison from the day second of his arrest, a senior prison official said on Sunday.Swamy, 83, who is suffering from various health issues including Parkinson’s disease, was arrested on October 8 and has been lodged at the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai.Talking to PTI, a senior prison official said the allegation that prison authorities were not providing sipper and straw to Swamy were “baseless”.“Not just sipper and straw, we are providing him other facilities too like wheelchair, walking stick, walker, and two attendants were also provided to him,” the official said.“We know he is a patient, he suffers from Parkinsons disease. Why would we not provide him things which he requires,” the official said.Meanwhile, some Delhi-based lawyers have also sent straws and sippers for the activist in a parcel along with a letter to the Taloja prison on Saturday.Also Read | Disability rights organization to send sipper to Taloja jail for Stan Swamy“As lawyers, we were pained by the situation as all jail manuals provide for special facilities for inmates who have special needs,” said Nandita Rao, one of the advocates who have signed the letter sent to the jail. “We felt if someone does not even have a right to dignified drinking water in judicial custody, then the basic values of our Constitution and humanity are being disrespected,” she added.Swamy had earlier filed a plea in a special NIA court here, seeking that he be provided a straw and a sipper.The court on Thursday rejected his previous application seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him during the arrest.Swamy had said he needs a straw and sipper as he has trouble eating and drinking because his hands shake due to the Parkinson’s disease.On Thursday, the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links’ case, denied that it had confiscated Swamy’s straw and sipper.Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh then filed a fresh application to obtain these things, besides winter clothing.The activist on Thursday also filed a bail plea in the special NIA court.As per the NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist), and had received funds through an associate for furthering Maoist agenda.He was also the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the NIA claimed.Swamy in his bail plea denied the allegations and said that the prosecution had failed to bring on record any evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-taloja-jail-on-allegations-of-not-providing-sipper-straw-to-stan-swamy/story-t9cyNLaJIEPkBUg4xUmvAL.html
29-11-2020||India||Punjab farmer unions meet to decide on Centre’s early talks offer||Representatives of various farmer unions from Punjab are holding a meeting near the national capital to take a decision on an offer of early talks made by the Centre provided the protesting farmers move to a designated site in Burari in the capital.In a communication sent late Saturday night to all 32 farmer unions camping in and around Delhi for the last two days, the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla stated that a high-powered group of ministers is ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the union authorities would meet them as early as a day after all the protesting farmers move to the earmarked Burari site in Delhi.The proposed meeting would be held at the Vigyan Bhawan complex if the farmers accept the condition laid out by the government for early talks. The talks were otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.The Farmers body said that no formal invite was given to farmers for advancing the talks to December 1 from December 3. It confirmed that the letter from the home secretary received yesterday, offering to advance the date of talks, was the last communication received on the matter.Joginder Singh Ughrahan, president of the Ughrahan faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), confirmed receiving an official letter of talks from the centre government.“All unions are gathering near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi backs farm laws, dispels concerns in Mann Ki Baat addressGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protest would be decided with unanimity.Meanwhile, an office-bearer of one of the BKU factions said that a section of farmers has a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. The leader said the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.“The national convention of farmers had decided to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar. But the central government is insisting that we move to Burari. But as a section of Sikh farmers is against this venue, we will try to convince them,” said a senior functionary of a union.Also Read: Protesting farmers not ‘properly understood’ new farm laws, says Niti Aayog memberHowever, sources said a vast open space spread over 23 hectares in Burari is actually owned by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).“It is popularly known as Nirankari Samagam Ground but the sect is among several other organisations that hold programmes at the site due to spacious vehicular parking and the capacity to accommodate large gatherings. Jantar Mantar is located in the heart of the city and the presence of hundreds of protestors would jeopardise the traffic management,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmer-unions-meet-to-decide-on-centre-s-early-talks-offer/story-R5vLihKBJW8tNBpNDOp4VP.html
29-11-2020||India||2022 UP polls in mind, BJP gives Sunil Bansal two deputies from RSS||After appointing veteran Radha Mohan Singh as the Uttar Pradesh (UP) in-charge, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership has now appointed two old Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hands as the party’s co-general secretary (organisations) in the state. These new appointees, Karmvir and Bhawani Singh who would be based in Varanasi and Meerut --- both strategically key places in east and west UP --- would help BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, who has been playing a crucial role in the party’s organisational expansion in the state, BJP leaders said. The appointments had been made keeping 2022 UP assembly elections in mind, party leaders said. Pradhuman, the organisation secretary of Awadh region, has been moved to central office in Delhi though his replacement in UP hasn’t been announced as yet. Similarly, organisation secretary in Varanasi and Gorakhpur has been sent to Bihar as general secretary (organisation), a posting that assumes significance as the BJP has emerged as the big brother over Janata Dal (United), its ally, which till now held more seats in Bihar than the BJP. BJP leaders said that the post of regional organisation secretary had been renamed as co-general secretary (organisation) in the state.After its success in the recent UP bypolls, the BJP has now set its sights on winning the graduate and teachers’ constituency elections. Polling for these elections which the BJP is actively contesting for the first time, would take place on December 1. The BJP is organising ‘matdaata sammelan’ (voters’ meet) to galvanise the teachers’ community as well as graduates to vote in favour of the party. “All appointments being made by the party are to further strengthen it in UP, where it is widely anticipated that the Congress would ally with several smaller parties to take on the BJP. So the party is preparing itself ahead of 2022. The Bihar polls have conclusively established that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity remains undiminished and riding on his charisma as well as the governance model provided by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, we again hope to overtake the opposition by some distance,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2022-up-polls-in-mind-bjp-gives-sunil-bansal-two-deputies-from-rss/story-ZxrKjqCt956O0h5jbtL1cP.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi says, ‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, claiming that the central government has made sure that marginalised students - those belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe - don’t have access to education. Read more ‘Masks will stay even after we get Covid-19 vaccine’: ICMR chiefThe health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said. Read moreUP Police file first FIR under ordinance against forced religious conversionsHours after Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved an ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest conversions, the police registered the first case under it against a Muslim man in Bareilly district on Saturday night, senior officials said. Read more‘Farm reforms have given new rights, opportunities to farmers,’ says PM Modi amid protestsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reassured farmers on the recently enacted farm laws as he said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities. Read more Pak spy drone spotted near border in Jammu, retreats after army opens fireA Pakistani drone was spotted by the Border Security Forces (BSF) in the Arnia sector along the 198 km long international border in Jammu district on Saturday evening. Read more‘Feel for the captain’: Mohammad Kaif feels Virat Kohli is hard done by as selectors ‘missed a trick’Former batsman Mohammad Kaif reckons the BCCI selectors missed a trick in picking India’s limited-overs squad for the tour of Australia. Kaif’s assessment comes after India took a 66-run beating in the first ODI with the lack of a sixth bowling option hurting the bowling attack. Read moreLate Wajid Khan’s wife reveals pressure from in-laws to convert: ‘Couldn’t be a family due to his and his family’s religious fanaticism’Late music composer Wajid Khan’s wife, clinical hypnotherapist Kamalrukh Khan, has shared a long note revealing how her in-laws were harassing her for not converting to Islam. Read moreWatch: ‘You will be renamed, not Hyderabad’: Owaisi’s retort to Yogi’s Bhagyanagar pitch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-says-in-bjp-s-vision-adivasis-and-dalits-should-not-have-access-to-education-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3cT7HFs4B1vTJtvKC3YOqM.html
29-11-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday sought to dispel concerns about the recently passed farm laws and cited an example of a farmer who used the new law to his advantage.In his monthly radio broadcast, Man Ki Baat the Prime Minister said, “New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers.”The Prime Minister said decades-old demands of farmers were met with Parliament passing laws aimed at liberalizing the farm sector after rigorous brainstorming. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he said. The PM’s remarks came against the backdrop of the ongoing agitation by a large section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, who have marched to the Capital in protest against the laws. The Prime Minister went on to cite the example of a Maharashtra-based farmer, Jitendra Bhoiji, who used one of the new laws to recover money owed to him. The PM said after he failed to get the amount even four months after selling his produce, Bhoiji got his money back using a provision of the law that specifies it is mandatory to pay farmers within three days of purchasing the produce.“If the payment is not made the, the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law, there is a provision that the SDM of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also cited the example of Mohammad Aslam in Rajasthan‘s Botton district, who is creating awareness among farmers by updating them about the day-to-day rates in the local mandis. Aslam is the CEO of a farm producers’ federation. A third example that the Prime Minister gave was that of Virendra Yadav, who returned from Australia to Haryana‘s Kaithal and has found a solution to farm stubble. Instead of burning stubble which causes immense damage to the air quality, Yadav has been selling the stubble to paper mills and agro energy plants, and has made profit in two years’ time.A large number of farmers are protesting against the government’s moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-backs-farm-laws-dispels-concerns-in-mann-ki-baat-address/story-78SDt9HxD3Rr03R6ETTfmL.html
29-11-2020||India||Pak spy drone spotted near border in Jammu, retreats after army opens fire||A Pakistani drone was spotted by the Border Security Forces (BSF) in the Arnia sector along the 198 km long international border in Jammu district on Saturday evening. BSF inspector general NS Jamwal said that a few shots were fired by the BSF jawans at the spy drone after which it retreated towards the Pakistan side.Searches have been launched in the area for the drone.Of late, Pakistan has been using drones and trans-border tunnels to push armed terrorists, arms, ammunition and drugs to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir.The four Jaish terrorists killed at Ban toll plaza encounter near Nagrota on November 17 had used a 160 meter long trans-border tunnel in Samba sector to sneak into India.Also Read: India leases hi-tech US naval drones to boost surveillance, intelAs Pakistan is finding it difficult to send infiltrators and arms from the border fence or open stretches due to the alertness of BSF, it is moving to other methods like tunnels and drones,” a senior BSF officer had said.Another officer said Pakistan has increased its activity along the border in Jammu as it is unable to create any impact in Kashmir, where there is a heavy presence of army and central armed police forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-spy-drone-spotted-near-border-in-jammu-retreats-after-army-opens-fire/story-H0pOx9YCdrIBYPwPxpjZcK.html
29-11-2020||India||Top runners brave pollution, pandemic in Delhi half marathon||Elite runners brushed off poor air quality and a surge in coronavirus cases Sunday in India’s capital for the Delhi Half Marathon, one of the country’s first major sporting events since the pandemic started.Forty-seven professional runners hit the 21-kilometre (13.1-mile) course in the men’s and women’s event, while amateur participants raced between Wednesday and Sunday to prevent overcrowding.The route was sprayed with chemicals to minimise the effect of Delhi’s annual toxic smog, which blankets the megacity in winter due to traffic and industrial pollution, crop stubble burning and cold temperatures.The air quality index -- which monitors tiny PM2.5 and PM10 particles that get into the bloodstream and vital organs -- was at 244 and in the “poor” category, the Central Pollution Control Board said Sunday.Doctors last week said it would be “suicidal” for runners to take part in the competition given the twin risks.Ethiopia’s Amdework Walelegn won the men’s race with a course record of 58.53 minutes with last year’s champion Andamlak Belihu just a second behind.The previous best was 59.06 set by Ethiopia’s Guye Adola in 2014.“The course was very good,” Walelegn said.“In earlier years there were a lot of U-turns, but this time it was flat and good to race on.”In the women’s race, Yalemzerf Yehualaw of Ethiopia won in 1.04.46 -- also a record -- with Kenya’s Ruth Chepngetich second.Avinash Sable, who has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in 3000m steeplechase, was the top Indian finisher with a record national time of 1:00.30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-runners-brave-pollution-pandemic-in-delhi-half-marathon/story-HkLJ6kO0MMluvYbUwe2XQM.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers not ‘properly understood’ new farm laws, says Niti Aayog member||Niti Aayog Member (Agriculture) Ramesh Chand has said protesting farmers have not fully or properly understood the new farm laws, asserting that these legislations have potential to increase farm income in a big way. He further said that the motive of the three new farm laws is exactly the opposite of what the protesting farmers have understood. In an interview to PTI, Chand said, “The way, I am reading these farmers, who are protesting, it looks like that they have not fully or properly understood these three laws.” “If these new farm laws are allowed to be implemented, there are very high chances of big increase in income of the farmers and in many states, it may even double,” he said while replying to a question on whether the government is still confident of doubling farm income by 2022. Also Read | Amit Shah appeals to farmers as crisis persistsThe Narendra Modi-led NDA government has set a target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. On September 27, President Ram Nath Kovind gave assent to the three farm bills -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. Elaborating further on farmer contentions, the Niti Aayog member said protesting farmers are saying that the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) has been removed and full freedom has been given to stockists, black marketers, etc. “If you look at what actually has been done is, there is a modification done in the Essential Commodity Act. According to that modification, a criterion has been laid when Essential Commodities Act can be imposed, and that is if there is a 50 per cent increase in prices of cereals, oil seeds and pulses, then it can be imposed,” Chand explained. “Or if there is 100 per cent increase of price of onion and potato then Essential Commodities Act can be imposed,” he added. Citing an example, the Niti Aayog member said that on October 23, the Centre had invoked the Act when onion prices were rising. It was required, he said adding “states were told to put stock limit”.Similarly, allaying fears of protesting farmers about contract farming, he pointed out that there is a big difference between corporate farming and contract farming. “Corporate farming is not allowed in any states in India... and contract farming is already happening in many states and not even a single incidence has come where land of farmers has been taken over by private companies,” Chand said. The Niti Aayog member asserted that the new Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act has been tilted in favour of farmers. To a question on farm sector growth, Chand said,” In this fiscal year (2020-21), I expect the growth of agriculture to be slightly more than 3.5 per cent.” Agriculture and allied sector’s growth stood at 3.7 per cent during the 2019-20 fiscal year.Also Read |  Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’ On frequent ban on exports of onion, he said whenever prices go beyond a band, the government intervenes and it happens everywhere in India, the US and the UK. Noting that prices are always maintained within a band, Chand said in some situation, the government protects interests of farmers by stopping imports, and sometimes, it protects interests of consumers by banning exports. “We can’t allow onion prices to go to Rs 100 that too when farmers are not selling onions. 60-70 per cent of onions reach market in the month of April and May and it does not reach market at this time,” he said. Chand argued it is not that by imposing ban on exports the government is doing something terribly wrong against the producers. “It is done only in a particular situation, never in normal situation,” he explained. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three new laws. They say the intention of these laws is to dismantle the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-not-properly-understood-new-farm-laws-says-niti-aayog-member/story-5XoPtuFcMl19vWvjwt2oSM.html
29-11-2020||India||‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, claiming that the central government has made sure that marginalised students - those belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe - don’t have access to education.“In BJP/RSS vision of India, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education. Stopping scholarships for SC-ST students is their way of ends justifying their means,” Gandhi tweeted. In BJP/RSS vision of India, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education.Stopping scholarships for SC-ST students is their way of ends justifying their means. pic.twitter.com/rnh31gZdmfGandhi’s tweet cited a report which said that scholarships for 60 lakh SC students is stuck due to end of central funding. The all India Post Matric Scholarship scheme for SCs gives financial assistance of about Rs 18,000 per annum to SC students upwards of class 11 and 12, in order to help them complete their education.The report stated that the scheme was pending Cabinet approval for nearly a year now and was also discussed in detail with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Congress leader, who has consistently attacked the government on his Twitter on topics ranging from economy to laws and policies, had recently said the Indian economy is in recession for the first time under PM Modi.Gandhi’s tweet came after data showed India’s gross domestic product or GDP contracted by 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter after the economy shrank by a record 23.9 per cent in the last quarter. He also blamed the prime minister’s arrogance over the ongoing stir by farmer’s march over three agricultural reform legislations and said, “Our slogan was ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, but today a soldier is standing against the farmer due to PM Modi’s arrogance. This is very dangerous.”He had also attacked the Centre over the farmers’ agitation and said, “The PM should have remembered that whenever the ego hits the truth, it is defeated. No government in the world can stop the farmers fighting the battle for truth. The Modi government has to accept the demands of the farmers and black laws will have to be withdrawn. This is only the beginning!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bjp-s-vision-adivasis-and-dalits-should-not-have-access-to-education-rahul-gandhi/story-1h4cHzWjvAfzOy8uP4JJEI.html
29-11-2020||India||Odisha CM expels MLA from BJD for “anti-people” activities||Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik on Sunday expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi from the regional party on charge of “anti- people” activities.An official release issued by the BJD said: “Pradeep Panigrahi, MLA Gopalpur is expelled from the primary membership of the party with immediate effect for his anti- people activities.” The three-time MLA and a former minister, is the first leader in the regional party who has been expelled on charge of “anti-people” activities, though many members in the past were removed from the BJD on “anti-party” charges.Though the BJD’s official order signed by its general secretary (Media Affair) Manas Ranjan Mangaraj mentioned Panigrahi’s “anti-people” activities, it was not clarified the nature of the offence he allegedly indulged in.Also Read |  ‘Odisha IFS officer who took 20 chartered flights during lockdown arrested’: Vigilance officialsThe party action against Panigrahi came after the anti-corruption vigilance wing established his alleged association with suspended Indian Forest Service Officer (IFS) Abhay Kant Pathak and his son Akash Kumar Pathak.The father-son duo has been arrested and sent to jail on charge of amassing huge properties in a disproportionate asset case. Panigrahi had allegedly helped Pathak’s son Akash in a job fraud.Pathak’s son has also been accused of cheating youths from Ganjam district by luring them with jobs in a reputed company. Panigrahi allegedly helped Akash in the cheating incidents, sources in the vigilance said.Panigrahi was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-expels-mla-from-bjd-for-anti-people-activities/story-lNID5lgggxjhq3Chrt2EbK.html
29-11-2020||India||Commuters moving towards Delhi face road blockade as farmers’ protest continues||Commuters headed towards the national capital from other states on Sunday said they are facing problems due to road blockade at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).“We are facing many problems due to the protest. There is no vehicle for steady communication,” said a commuter.Another commuter said that people are forced to walk towards their destination due to the road blockade.“I have walked for around five to six kilometers. We do not have any conveyance soo it is very problematic for the commuters,” he added. Also Read | Farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s bordersMeanwhile, farmers protesting against the farm laws stay put at the Tikri border amid police deployment. The government has given permission to the agitating farmers to hold their protest at Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari.On the other hand, security has been beefed up at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) as farmers’ protest continues, some protesters are expected to conduct a meeting at 11 am on Sunday to discuss their next strategy.Farmers at the border decided yesterday that they’ll continue their protest here and won’t go anywhere else.The security has also been tightened on the Delhi-Haryana border as farmers, who are opposing the farm laws, stayed put at the Delhi border points.The farmers further said the government should come forward with an “open heart” and not with a “condition”.The Delhi administration has allotted the Burari ground to the farmers for protesting. While some hundred shifted there on Saturday morning after they were allowed to enter Delhi through the Tikri border, thousand others are demanding that they be allowed to enter the heart of the city.Also Read | Northern Railways short terminates, diverts trains due to farmers’ stirThe Home Minister said that the Centre was ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of the farmers as soon as they move to the ground allocated by the Delhi Police.The farmers of Kisan Union Amristar said that if the government really wished to hear their problems, they can visit the farmers at the Singhu border.The farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, embarked on ‘Dilli Chalo’ march to protest against the three new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commuters-moving-towards-delhi-face-road-blockade-as-farmers-protest-continues/story-H0lgDPpRwRy1QR2ZPgCSmN.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Farm reforms have given new rights, opportunities to farmers,’ says PM Modi amid protests||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reassured farmers on the recently enacted farm laws as he said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities.“Parliament has recently passed farm reform laws after rigorous brainstorming. These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them,” PM Narendra Modi said during Mann Ki Baat.“The demands made by farmers over the years, which every government had only promised to meet so far, have finally been met with the new reforms,” PM Modi also said.Also Read | PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat to importance of culture, says it acts like emotional recharge during crisisThe Prime Minister also cited an example of a Maharashtra-based farmer Jitendra Bhoiji who used the new law to recover money that was owed to him. The PM Modi said after he failed to get the total amount that was agreed to even four months after selling his produce, Jitendra got his money back using the provision of the new law that specifies that it is mandatory to pay the farmers within three days of purchasing the produce.“ If the payment is not made the the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law there is a provision that the SDM of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” the PM said.When the farmers have the power of such a law the problem was bound to get resolved. He filed a complaint and got his dues within a few days. The knowledge of law is important and it is important to have the right information,” he said.Also Read | ‘New Zealand MP took oath in Sanskrit’: PM Modi says spread of language fills Indians with pridePM Modi further called on farmers to stay away from rumours and false information as he said , “the right information is a great support for every person in every sector.”The comments come as farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the farm laws. They have been camping in and around Delhi demanding that the laws should be taken back by the Centre.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Opposition parties which are supporting the protests have criticised the laws as “anti-farmer” while the government says that the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-reforms-have-given-new-rights-opportunities-to-farmers-pm-modi/story-qY9tFHE2p8Tv05ZEL3erLP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Sharing a good news’: PM Modi spotlights return of statue on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked about the return of an ancient statue of Goddess Annapurna from Canada to India as he addressed the nation on his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’.“Today I want to share a good news with you all. Every Indian will be proud to know that a very old statue of Goddess Annapurna is coming back from Canada to India,” PM Modi said.Emphasising on the goddess’s connection with Varanasi, PM Modi said, “Mata Annapurna has a very special relationship with Kashi. Now the return of his idol is pleasant for all of us. Like the statue of Mata Annapurna, many of our heritage has been victims of international gangs.”माता अन्नपूर्णा का काशी से बहुत ही विशेष संबंध है।अब उनकी प्रतिमा का वापस आना हम सभी के लिए सुखद है।माता अन्नपूर्णा की प्रतिमा की तरह ही हमारी विरासत की अनेक अनमोल धरोहरें, अंतरराष्ट्रीय गिरोहों का शिकार होती रही हैं।- पीएम @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qFRG2FBPWCAlso read | ‘New Zealand MP took oath in Sanskrit’: PM Modi says spread of language fills Indians with pride“A coincidence is also associated with the return of the statue of Mata Annapurna that World Heritage Week has been celebrated a few days ago. World Heritage Week provides a great opportunity for culture lovers to go back to the old times, explore the important points of their history,” PM Modi said.The statue, dating back to the 18th century, was handed over by interim president and vice-chancellor of the University of Regina, Thomas Chase, to India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, in a virtual event earlier this month that was also attended by officials from Global Affairs Canada and Canada Border Service Agency.The statue is originally from Varanasi and was part of the university’s collection in its MacKenzie Art Gallery.According to a release from the Indian high commission, the university recently discovered that the Annapurna statue may have been acquired “under suspicious circumstances and did not conform to current principles of ethical acquisition”.‘Mann ki Baat’ is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme addressed to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-precious-heritage-victim-of-international-gangs-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-xtfQrqHgCC8c7Fion0fSRK.html
29-11-2020||India||Bihar polls: JD(U) assessment says LJP hit its chances in 36-40 seats||A preliminary internal assessment by the ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), identified former ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s decision to field candidates against it as the biggest factor behind its below-par performance in the recently concluded assembly elections in Bihar, according to a party leader aware of the matter. While the JD(U) fought 115 of the 243 seats in the state and won just 43 of them, the LJP contested a total of 143 seats, including all those contested by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party. According to analysts, the LJP, a former constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state that decided to go it alone, made dent in the JD(U) vote share, though it ended up winning just one seat. However, the NDA retained power in a close contest, winning 125 seats in the state where the majority mark is 122. The BJP alone won 74 seats while two smaller allies got four each. The opposition alliance of the Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Left parties won 110 seats. According to the JD(U)’s preliminary assessment, factionism, weak organisation in some places, lack of coordination with the BJP, and a perceived failure to counter the RJD’s promise of a million jobs also played their part in its poor show, said an office-bearer of the party, requesting anonymity. The party’s senior office-bearers and leaders who interacted with workers as part of the assessment drive got a unanimous view that the LJP hampered JD (U)’s prospect in at least 36-40 seats. “It damaged us on these seats by ensuring split of the NDA votes. Had this not been the case, JD (U) today would have got no less than 70 seats. The damage was more pronounced in constituencies which went to poll in the first phase of elections,” said a JD (U) functionary, requesting anonymity. Elections were held in Bihar in three phases (October 28, November 3 and November 7). Results came out on November 10. The JD (U) won 71 seats in 2015, 115 in 2010 and 88 in 2005. The JD(U) leader, involved in the assessment, said the party has taken the outcome as a wake-up call with its state president, Bashistha Narain Singh, setting his eyes on revamping the state unit. “The party might go for an organisational revamp soon,” said the senior leader.The assessment found that a section of disgruntled leaders, particularly those who did not get tickets, as acted against party’s interest and that the JD(U) leadership failed to neutralise their influence. “Action will be also taken against more leaders who worked against party’s interest,” the leader said.Another reason pointed out during the review was the weak organisational structure at ground level. “All along it was claimed that the JD (U) has a strong ground level organisation, but this was not seen at several assembly seats,” said the JD (U) leader. Several party workers also complained about lack of co-ordination between the BJP and JD(U), according to XXX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-jd-u-assessment-says-ljp-hit-its-chances-in-36-40-seats/story-BjuQFJ8jGx2lfC8XiWbxIK.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat to importance of culture, says it acts like emotional recharge during crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through ‘Mann Ki Baat’, where he talked about how culture helps people overcome the trauma of a crisis. “Every Indian would feel proud to know that an ancient idol of Devi Annapurna is being brought back from Canada to India. Almost 100 years ago in 1913, this idol was stolen from a temple in Varanasi and smuggled out of the country,” PM Modi said as he began his address.“This coincided with Heritage Week which provides the culture enthusiasts an opportunity to look back into the past and discover the important phases of history. Despite the Covid-19 crisis, we saw people celebrating the Heritage Week in innovative ways,” he added.The Prime Minister further said that culture is of great use during crisis, and it acts as emotional recharge.“India’s culture and scripture have always been a centre of attraction for the entire world. Some people came to India in search of them and stayed here for life. While some returned to their countries as cultural ambassadors of India,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.He then shared the story of a Jonas Masetti, who is is giving lessons on Vedanta and Bhagavad Gita in Brazil.“I got to know about the work of Jonas Masetti, who is also known as ‘Vishvanath’. Jonas gives lessons on Vedanta and Gita in Brazil. He runs an organisation called ‘Vishvavidya’ which is located in hills of Petrópolis about an hour’s driver from Rio De Janeiro,” said PM Modi.He added, “After completing mechanical engineering, Jonas worked for his stock market company. Later he was attracted towards Indian culture, especially towards Vedanta. He studied Vendanta in India &spent 4 yrs at Arsha Vidya Gurukulam in Coimbatore. I congratulate Jonas for his efforts.”Earlier on November 17, PM Modi had invited suggestions from the people, for the 71st edition of the programme.“Mann ki Baat” is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme addressed to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dedicates-mann-ki-baat-to-importance-of-culture-says-it-acts-like-emotional-recharge-during-crisis/story-tZO0nZH9kNlBqpmP4FIb4N.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi addresses Mann Ki Baat. Click here to watch live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation through the 71st edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday.On November 17, PM Modi had invited suggestions from the people about topics for his programme.“This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” he had tweeted.Watch Mann Ki Baat live here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-mann-ki-baat-click-here-to-watch-live/story-T068fbUKdOwK8Bno450p1H.html
29-11-2020||India||Eight states/UTs largely contribute to India’s new Covid-19 cases: Data||India’s daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are being largely reported from just eight states and Union Territories (UTs), according to the government data.The states that contribute maximum number of daily new cases are Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal , Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.Maharashtra leads the tally with 6,185 new Covid-19 cases, according to data on Saturday. Delhi has recorded 5,482 cases, while Kerala follows with 3,966 new cases, according to the data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The national recovery rate has improved and jumped to 93.68%, with total recovered cases in India being 87.59 lakhs (8,759,969) currently.About 77% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and UTs. According to the health ministry data, Delhi has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,937 newly discharged cases, followed by 4,544 people having recovered in Kerala, and 4,089 in Maharashtra.Similar pattern is observed in reporting of deaths due to Covid-19 in the country. As per government data, maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths currently are also being reported from 10 states and UTs.Close to 78% of the 494 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are concentrated in these 10 states and UTs.The states are Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Delhi, with 89 deaths, reported maximum new Covid-19 fatalities. Maharashtra on Saturday was a close second with 88 deaths reported in a single day, followed by West Bengal with 52 deaths.Covid-19 testing in country has gone up tremendously, and the number of tests per million population is now more than 100,000 tests per million.As of Saturday, India’s test per million population stands at 100,159. It stood at just over 77,000 at the end of October, as per union health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-uts-largely-contribute-to-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-data/story-1BwigdvEXsOQfNZBHQnOpJ.html
29-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: ‘Only Trump is left’, Owaisi takes a dig at BJP campaign||The campaigning for upcoming election for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is seeing some interesting remarks. The local body election is scheduled for December 1.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said on Saturday took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying they have deployed so many leaders for campaigning “as if we are electing a Prime Minister”.“It doesn’t look like a Hyderabad election, it’s as if we’re electing a Prime Minister in place of Narendra Modi. I was at a rally in Karwan and said that everyone has been called here, a child said they should have called Trump too. He was right, only Trump (US President Donald Trump) is left,” Owaisi said while campaigning for his party’s candidate, according to news agency ANI.The GHMC election is witnessing a triangular contest between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.The BJP is undertaking hectic poll campaigns in the city and has roped in several high profile leaders. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani as well as party president J P Nadda have campaigned for the BJP in Hyderabad. Elections to the 150-member GHMC are scheduled to be held on December 1 and the counting of votes will take place on December 4.The campaigning for the civic body polls is ending on Sunday.Home minister Amit Shah will hold a roadshow today, on the last day of campaigning, appealing to the people in Hyderabad to vote for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-only-trump-is-left-owaisi-takes-a-dig-at-bjp-campaign/story-tJC4AiqrSrFFRwIKoP7jXK.html
29-11-2020||India||MP loses 26 tigers in 2020; govt says birth rate more than deaths||Madhya Pradesh, which is known as the ‘tiger state’ of India, has lost 26 striped animals so far this year, as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority.Reacting to it, Madhya Pradesh Forest Minister Vijay Shah told PTI that the average death rate of tigers was less compared to their birth rate in the state in last six years.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authoritys (NTCA) website, out of the 26 tiger deaths reported since April this year, MP lost 21 felines inside the tiger reserves, including 10 in the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve.No tiger death was reported in the first three months of this year, as per the data.In 2019, the state lost 28 tigers while three cases of seizures of body parts due to poaching were also reported.Karnataka, which is on the second position in the number of tigers in the country, registered eight deaths and two seizures of tiger body parts this year, as per the data.Also Read |  In a first-of-its-kind experiment, Maharashtra to release tigress captured for killing human, livestock back in the wildThe southern state lost 12 big cats last year.“Right now, MP has 124 tiger cubs. The cubs were not counted during the last census (in 2018). In the next count, we are going to have more than 600 tigers,” Shah said.“We have more tigers than the area for them. Take the example of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve-it has 125 tigers whereas it has the territory to house only 90,” he said.The minister attributed the big number of tiger deaths in Bandhavgarh to the territorial fight among the big cats for space and dominance.Earlier, MP had lost the ‘tiger state’ tag to Karnataka in the all India tiger estimation exercise for 2010, primarily due to alleged poaching in the Panna Tiger Reserve.That time, MP had 257 tigers compared to 300 in Karnataka.In the 2014 tiger census, MP slipped to no.3 position in the country with 308 striped animals after Uttarakhand (340) and Karnataka (408).However, MP regained the tag in the 2018 census with 526 big cats, two more than in Karnataka.Wildlife activist Ajay Dubey said Madhya Pradesh lacks a special tiger protection force.Also Read | NTCA approves release of tigress Avni’s cub into the wild: Maharashtra forest department“We have filed a petition in the high court for the formation of the special force which is pending. Karnataka has such a special force, thus tigers there are protected,” he said.The Centre in 2006 asked states to form the special force and offered to bear its expenditure, but MP has not formed it, he noted.Karnataka has five tiger reserves and the number of striped animals there (as per the last count) was just two less than Madhya Pradesh, which has around six tiger reserves.“MP should learn from this,” he said.A tiger was allegedly killed and buried in Shahdol district earlier this month, he said, noting that some people have been arrested in the case.The recovery of a severed tiger head in the Panna Tiger Reserve last month suggests that poachers are operating in the wildlife areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-loses-26-tigers-in-2020-govt-says-birth-rate-more-than-deaths/story-9Vm3ZevVXOhjiyVJIc26CP.html
29-11-2020||India||UP Police file first FIR under ordinance against forced religious conversions||Hours after Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved an ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest conversions, the police registered the first case under it against a Muslim man in Bareilly district on Saturday night, senior officials said.Avinash Chandra, additional director general (ADG), Bareilly zone, confirmed that the first information report, or FIR, was registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly. He said a Hindu man of Sharifnagar village accused a Muslim man of mounting pressure on his daughter to convert her to Islam.He said the complainant alleged that the Muslim man knows to his daughter since her college days and that he has been troubling the woman and her family members for the past few months.The FIR, a copy of which is in HT’s possession, said the accused hurled abusive remarks and threatened the family with dire consequences on facing opposition to his advances for religion conversion of the woman. Another Bareilly police official said the woman and the accused are from the same village -- they are not married --- and the incident has impacted communal harmony in the locality. He said the accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 504 (for insulting a person) and 506 (for criminal intimidation), and the section 3/5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which came into effect on Saturday. The accused is on the run.The ordinance has provisions to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage.”Also Read | Massive cycle of religious conversions going on under guise of love: ChouhanThe state cabinet cleared the law earlier this week, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, where Muslim men marry Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages where the intention is to change the woman’s religion will be declared invalid.Under the provisions of the new law, the violations have been made a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The new law authorises the aggrieved persons’ parents, siblings or close relatives to file an FIR for violation of the provisions of the ordinance. The ordinance provides for jail term of up to 10 years in some cases for violators and treats forced and forced conversions as a non-bailable offence.A government spokesperson said those violating the provisions may be punished with imprisonment of one to five years with a fine of not less than Rs 15,000. In case of girls, who are minors or belong to the scheduled castes or the scheduled tribes, the imprisonment will be for two to 10 years with a minimum fine of Rs 25,000. In case of mass conversion, the law has the provision for imprisonment of three to 10 years and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000. It provides for courts to award appropriate compensation with a maximum of Rs 5 lakh payable by the accused to the victim.Any person who counsels or convinces the other person to commit the offence will also invite punishment. And the burden of proof will lie with the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-file-first-case-under-ordinance-against-forced-religious-conversions/story-nOQhSj1zVh1EyPJBriPKyN.html
29-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Vocal for Local push shows promise as growth centres make profit||Growth centres started in Uttarakhand, with a focus on Centre’s Vocal for Local agenda, have started making profits and give earnings to locals from the hilly regions. The State government started developing growth centres at a fast pace after lakhs of migrants returned to the state during the nationwide lockdown. “Starting growth centres to give employment to locals is a dream project of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and it is yielding positive results also. We have over 100 growth centres that have been sanctioned in the state, which are helping locals increase their daily productivity with mechanised support,” said SA Murugesan, commissioner industries. The commissioner further said that 106 growth centres have been approved of which over 70 have started production and making profits. Further, the department has 12 new proposals pending for approval. The 75 growth centres, that have started production in the past few months, have generated a turnover of over ₹6 crores, said Anupam Dwivedi, deputy director of Uttarakhand Industries department.“We take monthly updates from the growth centres on overall and net profits. Official records show that there has been an overall turnover of ₹6 crores by all growth centres combined, with a profit of around 10% of the total turnover. The profit making is slow, but it is picking up with the use of technology and proper marketing,” said Dwivedi. He added that the industries department works on a convergence model with its main role being facilitating in the function of the growth centre. Cooperatives or self-help groups that approach the department use the existing infrastructure, and the machinery to boost production is given by the state government. Also Read: 28 4G mobile towers to rise in Uttarakhand’s border areas to boost connectivity In October, while reviewing the working of the growth centres, chief minister Rawat had announced that Uttarakhand’s local products will soon have an umbrella brand for better branding to connect with the state and the Himalayas. “The products being produced by the growth centres involving locals would soon have an umbrella brand under which other brands would continue to operate. The brand would be developed with the help of experts. It would be such that one will get a feeling of Uttarakhand and its Himalayas. This would help the products to be sold in a much better way,” Rawat had said.Under the initiative, it was suggested that the government open centres in blocks were people are mainly involved in one occupation like poultry, agriculture or dairy. For an area where people are involved mainly in poultry, the government opened a poultry based growth centre, similarly a dairy based growth centre was opened in areas where dairy was the primary occupation of the locals and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-vocal-for-local-push-shows-promise-as-growth-centres-make-profit/story-1fTWzWYtTmfQblEYXLEmrO.html
29-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 count now closer to 9.4 million, 22 states and UTs have fatality rate lower than national average||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) count reached 93,92,919 on Sunday after 41,810 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry.The number of active cases stand at 4,53,956, while 88,02,267 people have been cured or discharged.The country also recorded 496 new fatalities due to the coronavirus disease, which pushed the death toll up to 1,36,696, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The ministry posted a graph on Sunday morning, which showed that 22 states and union territories have Covid-19 fatality rate lower than the national average of 1.46 per cent. #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/1i9sx7A43lOn Saturday, India had recorded 41,322 new cases of the novel coronavirus.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, held a three-city tour to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad on Saturday to personally review the development and manufacturing of the vaccine.The Prime Minister’s visit to Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech earlier today was aimed at getting the first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in the country’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens.PM Modi also met SII chief Adar Poonawalla, who said after the meeting that his company will apply for an emergency approval for the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca in two weeks.The vaccine being developed by Oxford and AstraZeneca had shown to be at least 62 per cent (and up to 90 per cent) effective in an interim analysis based on 131 infections in the clinical trials being held in the United Kingdom and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-count-now-closer-to-9-4-million-22-states-and-uts-have-fatality-rate-lower-than-national-average/story-jgYuLHhlhySGfJ1igOI6VO.html
29-11-2020||India||Scientists develop method that may lead to more accurate, fast Covid-19 test||Scientists have used nanopores (extremely small pores) and electric current to devise a new method to identify viruses. The method will be a breakthrough in new, fast and accurate tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they claimed.The study describing the new method has been published in the journal ACS Sensors.Also Read: Scientists try to break down why some people develop Covid-19 as life-threatening disease while others remain asymptomaticThe study demonstrated a new system for identifying single virus particles using an algorithm trained to detect changes in the current passing across silicon nanopores, according to news agency PTI. The team of scientists include those from Osaka University in Japan, it further reported.The scientists used a layer of the compound silicon nitride - just 50 nanometres thick - with nanopores added, for the study. The layer was suspended on a silicon wafer and when a voltage difference was applied to the solution on either side of the wafer, ions travel through the nanopores in a process called electrophoresis.According to the study, the motion of the ions can be monitored by the current they generate, and when a viral particle enters a nanopore, it blocks some of the ions from passing through, leading to a transient dip in current. Each dip reflects the physical properties of the particle, such as volume, surface charge, and shape, the scientists said, adding that the method can be used to identify the kind of virus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe research team combined single-particle nanopore sensing with artificial intelligence to determine the identity of new samples and were able to achieve highly accurate identification of multiple viral species, PTI quoted senior author of the study, Makusu Tsutsui. Coronaviruses, due to their spiky outer proteins, are especially well suited for this technique, researchers said.“This work will help with the development of a virus test kit that outperforms conventional viral inspection methods,” said Tomoji Kawai, another co-author of the study.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-develop-method-that-may-lead-to-more-accurate-fast-covid-19-test/story-fYRqQpWi3YPiWAk5apHxgL.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah to hold roadshow today for high-stakes GHMC polls||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and Union home minister Amit Shah will on Sunday hold a roadshow to appeal to the people in Hyderabad to vote for the party in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election.The campaigning for the GHMC election will end today. The polling will take place on December 1.Shah is expected to land in the state at around 10 am and will be accompanied by BJP’s election in-charge Bhupender Yadav and the party’s OBC Morcha president K Laxman.Shah will visit Bhagyalakshmi Devi temple before his roadshow from Varasiguda Chourasta to Sithaphalmandi.The counting of votes in GHMC election will be done on December 4.Meanwhile, BJP’s Telangana unit spokesperson NV Subhash on Saturday described the election as a direct battle between “all the parties that follow family rule versus BJP which follows the public rule. “Further attacking Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Subhash said, “This election is majorly a fight between the corrupt TRS and the transparent BJP party. It is a fight between dictatorship and democracy.”“The central leaders of BJP are also paying a visit to Hyderabad just to expose the corrupt government of TRS,” he also said.Chief minister and TRS president K Chandrashekhar Rao has alleged that some “divisive forces” were trying to enter the city to disturb peace and tranquility amid the polls.Telangana currently has two MLAs from the BJP in the legislative assembly and has four MPs in the Lok Sabha from the state. The BJP is keen to use the civic polls as a means to increase its footprint in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-hold-roadshow-today-for-high-stakes-ghmc-polls/story-YPtDiki3FTDdIHMvLk0SaM.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available,’ says ICMR chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available, masks here to stay’: ICMR chiefThe health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said. Read moreBJP accuses Ashok Gehlot govt of horse tradingA video clip circulating on social media showing a Rajasthan Congress MLA accusing two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs of receiving Rs 10 crore each during the Rajya Sabha polls and the internal fight in the state unit of the Congress prompted the BJP on Saturday to accuse the Ashok Gehlot government of involvement in horse trading. Read more1 officer of CRPF’s CoBRA battalion killed in IED blast triggered by Maoists in ChhattisgarhAn Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and seven others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Sukma district on Saturday night. Read moreAsteroid, nearly as big as Burj Khalifa, to fly by earth todayAn asteroid named (153201) 2000 WO107, that is more than 800 metre high and over 500 metre wide - bigger than skyscraper Burj Khalifa - will barrel past earth on November 29 and will be closest to our planet at 10.38 am, according to scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). Read more‘It’s happening since last World Cup’: Gautam Gambhir points out glaring issue with Indian teamFollowing India’s 66-run defeat to Australia on Friday, plenty of issues have come to light. India’s fielding looked rusty and the bowling attack appeared weak. Read moreSana Khan feels blessed and is in a happy space, shares fresh post-wedding picsFormer actor and Sana Khan, who got married to Surat-based Anas Sayied, earlier this month, has shared fresh pictures on Instagram. It is evident how happy she feels after marriage. Read more‘PM Modi extremely knowledgeable on vaccine’: SII CEO Adar PoonawallaSerum Institute India CEO Adar Poonawalla spoke on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to vaccine lab in Pune. Poonawalla said that he was amazed by the Prime Minister’s knowledge about vaccines and vaccine production. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-need-to-follow-covid-19-protocol-even-after-vaccine-is-available-says-icmr-chief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I1cbwyNZX76l9jeKbrDn2K.html
29-11-2020||India||Chinese construction activities along Indian border ‘provocative measure’: US lawmaker||An influential US lawmaker has expressed concern over reports of China’s continuing construction activities along the Indian border in Ladakh, saying if the reports are true, it is a “provocative measure” on the part of Beijing and fits the pattern of its conduct in the South China Sea.India and China have been locked in a military standoff, which began in May, along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Armies of both countries have deployed a large number of troops along the LAC. Multiple rounds of talks between the two sides to resolve the standoff have not yielded any concrete outcome.“If it (reports) turns out to be true, it would be yet another provocative measure by the Chinese military to change the facts on the ground,” Democratic Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi told PTI.“It would also fit the pattern of their conduct in the South China Sea, where they build islands, where they try to change the facts as we previously understood them, and they would be deeply disturbing, to say the least,” said Krishnamoorthi, who is the first-ever Indian-American to be on the US House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.The Congressman from Illinois said reports including satellite images are his source of information about Chinese construction activities.Krishnamoorthi, who was recently re-elected to the House of Representatives for the third consecutive time, said the US stands with India.“I have to say that we currently in the US Congress, but also the Trump and the incoming Biden administration stand by our Indian partners and the Indo-Pacific region,” he said.The recently concluded Malabar exercise of QUAD countries -- India, Japan, Australia and the United States -- is a signal that the democracies in the Indo-Pacific region will continue to stand with each other and push for a rules-based international order, the Congressman said.Responding to a question, Krishnamoorthi said US President-elect Joe Biden has been a longtime friend of India, and he along with Indian-origin vice president-elect Kamala Harris will stand with New Delhi.“I think his selection Kamala Harris only cements a relationship given her own Indian roots. Secretary of State-nominee Anthony Blinken is also a longtime friend of India. He knows the region extremely well. I trust that incoming Secretary Blinken is going to take the relationship to new heights, along with President Biden and vice president Harris,” he said.“They are going to continue the approach that has largely been taken by Democratic and Republican presidents, which is we stand with India in the region, and opposing any kind of militaristic action on the part of any neighbour, including China,” he added.Krishnamoorthi also said addressing Covid-19 needs to be the number one priority for India and the US.“A global health partnership that involves India, the United States, and all of our partners and allies around the world, and others, is crucial for defeating the pandemic,” he said.“I’m confident it’s going to happen, especially with Joe Biden as one of the world’s premier preeminent leaders pushing this change.“I also am glad that he and his administration will once again engage with the WHO and the World Health Organisation will play an important part in distributing vaccines and the logistics of killing this virus. That’s the number one priority for both of our countries. I really look forward to the partnership that emerges on that front,” he said.The US has the highest number of coronavirus infections in the world, followed by India.The US’ death toll is now more than 264,000. And nearly another 60,000 people could lose their lives over the next three weeks, according to an ensemble forecast published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) this week.India’s COVID-19 tally stood at 93,51,109 on Saturday. A total of 1,36,200 people have succumbed to the contagious respiratory disease in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-construction-activities-along-indian-border-provocative-measure-us-lawmaker/story-5jCNhJyHWAwek2yUQsxwTO.html
29-11-2020||India||Assam proposes 6th national park in militancy ravaged forest||The Assam government has proposed setting up a national park in a militancy ravaged reserve forest, which, if approved, would make it the state’s sixth national park. Forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya informed on Saturday that the process for approving Raimona National Park has been initiated. He unveiled the map of the new park at Manas National Park. “Another feather of success will be added to the biodiversity cap of Assam soon as we have initiated the process for approving the proposal for the 6th National Park of Assam, the Raimona National Park. Today we unveiled the map of this upcoming park,” Suklabaidya tweeted. According to the forest department, the proposal has been submitted to the governor of Assam for upgrading an area of 422 sq km of notified Ripu reserve forest under Manas National Park and Tiger Reserve as the proposed Raimona National Park. The existing national parks in Assam are Kaziranga, Manas, Dibru-Saikhowa, Manas and Orang. Also Read: Gorkhas of Assam seek recognition as indigenous group, release white paperRipu reserve forest is part of the buffer zone of Manas national park bordering Bhutan. The forest along with Chirang reserve forest has the largest known population of endangered Golden Langur. Since 1989, nearly 30% of the reserve forest has been felled and encroached upon due to the insurgency related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-proposes-6th-national-park-in-militancy-ravaged-forest/story-vUNRb5YGjh1YjI6RSayNzI.html
29-11-2020||India||Gorkhas of Assam seek recognition as indigenous group, release white paper||The Assam unit of Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh (BGP) has released a white paper stressing that Gorkhas are an indigenous group of the state and should be included as such in the high-level committee (HLC) report on Clause 6 of Assam Accord, which had left the community out. The compendium of historical facts and figures showing the presence of the community in Assam since many centuries was released on Saturday in Guwahati. “The white paper includes documents and facts with commentaries towards justification of Gorkhas as an indigenous group of Assam which the Justice Biplab Kumar Sharma-led HLC on Assam Accord Clause 6 undermined and left out from the report without any mention,” said BGP’s Assam spokesperson Nanda Kirati Dewan. The Assam Accord was signed in 1985 after a 6-year agitation in the state against illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. The Clause 6 of the accord sought to provide constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the indigenous Assamese people. The HLC, formed by the Union home ministry, to define who constitute Assamese people and suggest measures for safeguarding their rights, submitted its report in February this year to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Also Read: BJP promises implementation of Bodo accord, development ahead of BTC polls in AssamThe report of the committee, which was made public by All Assam Students Union (AASU) in August, stated that all citizens of India, who were a resident of Assam on January 1, 1951, and their descendants, would be considered as Assamese people for the purpose of Clause 6. According to BGP, there was no mention of the Gorkha community in the HLC report. In September, BGP submitted a dissent note to the Assam chief secretary seeking safeguards for the community under provisions of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. Copies of the white paper would be sent to the Union home minister, chief minister of Assam and other departments to seek the inclusion of Gorkhas as an indigenous community of Assam in the HLC report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkhas-of-assam-seek-recognition-as-indigenous-group-release-white-paper/story-dbBBcj1aL6O3IJJuBP94GK.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available, masks here to stay’: ICMR chief||The health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said.Speaking at a webinar hosted by Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr Bhargava said that India is making rapid progress as far as the development of Covid-19 vaccine is concerned. “We have a target to provide vaccine to 30 crore people by July next year. The future course of action will be decided after that. India will develop a vaccine, not just for itself but for 60 per cent of the developing nations. Twenty four manufacturing units and 19 firms will be engaged in developing a Covid-19 vaccine,” Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan quoted prof Bhargava as saying on Saturday.The ICMR director general also said that masks will stay because they work like a vaccine.“Mask is like a fabric vaccine. We cannot ignore the contribution made by masks in stopping the spread of Covid-19. We are working on vaccines, five candidates are undergoing trial in India. Out of these, two are being developed by India which three are from abroad. But vaccines won’t be enough to end Covid-19. We will have to keep following health and safety protocols,” Dr Bhargava added at the webinar titled ‘Changing paradigms in Covid-19 management’.He said that masks play an important role in keeping those people safe who have recovered from the infection.The webinar was held on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a three-city tour to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad to personally review the development and manufacturing of the vaccine.The Prime Minister’s visit to Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech was aimed at getting the first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in the country’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens.According to Union ministry of health, as many as 93,51,110 cases of Covid-19 have been reported thus far including 87,59,969 recoveries and 4,54,940 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-follow-covid-19-protocol-even-after-vaccine-is-available-masks-here-to-stay-icmr-chief/story-dXlcsCkn1BSHR9hLAlbDcP.html
29-11-2020||India||After eight-month gap, churches in Mumbai to resume Sunday Mass from today||After remaining closed since March this year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, churches in Mumbai will resume Mass from Sunday with strict adherence to all the government regulations and necessary protocols in place.The state government had permitted reopening of religious places on November 16. However, churches remained closed and only private prayers were allowed so far.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn March 25, the Centre had imposed a nationwide lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread across the country, which led to closure of all religious places of worship and banned public gathering.Guidelines that devotees need to follow:According to government guidelines, face masks have been made compulsory and those entering the churches will have to follow social distancing norms.Adults above the age of 65 years, children below 10, and persons with fever, cold, cough, and comorbidities will not be allowed inside church premises.Churches will continue to organise online masses for people who cannot step out as of now, according to Archbishop of Bombay.To maintain social distancing, devotees have been asked to sit on marked seats only. Prayers books will be absent.All devotees are requested to go through thermal scanners at the time of the entry. Foot pedal dispensers have been provided to sanitise their hands.There will be gaps between mass to allow church authorities to fumigate the place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-eight-month-gap-churches-in-mumbai-to-resume-sunday-mass-from-today/story-ew68nM7JiKGmvFJMnhgu9I.html
29-11-2020||India||Massive cycle of religious conversions going on under guise of love: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has alleged that a ‘massive cycle’ of religious conversions is going on under the guise of love in the country. Chouhan claimed that the condition of such women’s lives have gone from bad to worse making it necessary to stop marriages with wrong motives, done through incentives, pressure, fear and temptation. Chauhan was in Prayagraj on a personal visit to immerse ashes of his father-in-law at the Sangam. Speaking on the contentious issue of ‘love jihad’, he said state governments run by the BJP were bringing in tough laws to curb religious conversions under the guise of love. Speaking over the massive demonstrations against the Centre’s new farm laws, Chouhan said that there can be no well-wisher of farmers like PM Narendra Modi. He said all the three laws being opposed are in the interest of farmers.Chouhan arrived at Sangam city on Saturday morning to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law Ghanshyam Das Masani, who passed away recently. The MP CM was received at the Bamrauli airport by UP minister of civil aviation, minority welfare, haj and waqf department, Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi. Chouhan was also accompanied by his wife Sadhana Singh and few other relatives. The MP CM also met Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and performed religious rituals at Sangam. Also Read: ‘Why no ordinance for farmers, jobless youth?’ Akhilesh reacts to UP’s ‘love jihad’ lawChouhan’s comments on Love Jihad came on a day when Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories.Chouhan’s government in Madhya Pradesh has also indicated that it would double the duration of sentence to 10-years of rigorous imprisonment from a 5 year sentence for cases of forceful religious conversions and marriages by enticement or fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-cycle-of-religious-conversions-going-on-under-guise-of-love-chouhan/story-xfavst0vfvUln6CTkeLHOP.html
29-11-2020||India||No PUC certificate could lead to seizure of vehicle RC from next year||The central government is tightening the noose around those who violate pollution norms for vehicles. From January next year, a system will be put in place where not having a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificate can lead to seizure of the vehicle’s registration certificate (RC).According to Hindustan Times’s sister publication Hindustan, the road transport ministry has issued a draft notification on November 27 asking for suggestions from other stakeholders before it takes the PUC system online. The process will take two months, according to Hindustan.People aware of the development told Hindustan that according to the new system, the information regarding the vehicle owner will be uploaded to servers linked to Motor Vehicles database. This way, it will be very hard for people to continue using their vehicles without a PUC certificate, the people cited above said.The vehicle users will have to give their mobile numbers, on which they will receive a One-Time Password (OTP). The executive at the PUC centre will be able to generate a form only after the user provides an OTP, thereby reducing the chances of foul play.According to the proposed system, it will be mandatory to renew a vehicle’s PUC within the stipulated time period. If a user is not found carrying a valid PUC certificate, he/she will be given seven days. Failing to obtain a valid certificate within this period will lead to seizure of the vehicle RC.Additionally, authorities too can ask a users to get their vehicles checked if they are found emitting extra fumes. Such users will also be given a time of seven days to get their vehicles in order. The same rules will apply on commercial vehicles too, Hindustan reported.The steps are being taken to control the air pollution level which has reached to hazardous levels in the last few weeks. On Saturday, Delhi’s air quality slipped back into the poor category.The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 231 on Saturday. It was 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday.With winds slowing down, government agencies said the air quality is likely to deteriorate further.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-puc-certificate-could-lead-to-seizure-of-vehicle-rc-from-next-year/story-PqcR6JLQzTKifbI2H0dd2M.html
29-11-2020||India||1 officer of CRPF’s CoBRA unit killed in IED blast triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||An Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and eight others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Sukma district on Saturday night.Inspector General of Police (IG) Bastar, Sunderaj P, told Hindustan Times that a team of 206 CoBRA was out for anti-naxal operation late on Saturday night when eight personnel, including two senior officials, were injured in an IED blast triggered by the Maoists.The IG said that the incident took place near Arabraj Metta hills, which is nine kilometres Northwest of Chitagufa police station and six kilometres west of Burkapal base camp.“All eight injured were airlifted to Raipur at around 12.45 am and were admitted in a hospital. On Sunday morning an Assistant Commandant, Nitin Bhalerao, who sustained serious injured died in the hospital,” said the IG.Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao succumbed to his injuries and breathed his last at 3:30 am on Sunday in Raipur, according to IG Suderaj P. Bhalerao belonged to Nasik in Maharastra.The police said that other seven are out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-officer-of-crpf-s-cobra-battalion-dead-7-others-injured-in-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-district/story-lpIqWQabgHkoM1xW9J1k9H.html
29-11-2020||India||Northern Railways short terminates, diverts trains due to farmers’ stir||Amid farmers’ agitation in Punjab against farm bills, Northern Railways said on Saturday that some trains will be short terminated, short originated or diverted.The Chief Public Relations Officer, Northern Railways Deepak Kumar issued a release in this regard.The 02715 Nanded -Amritsar express special train journey commencing on November 28 will be short terminated at New Delhi while the 02716 Amritsar - Nanded journey commencing on November 30 will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi- Amritsar- New Delhi.Also Read | Farmers stand by demands, Burari offer sees few takersThe 02925 BandraTerminus - Amritsar express journey commencing on November 28 will be short terminated at Chandigarh. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar- Bandra Terminus express journey commencing on November 30 will short originate from Chandigarh and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh- Amritsar-Chandigarh.The 02903 Mumbai Central- Amritsar express special journey commencing on November 27 will be diverted to run via Beas - Tarntaran - Amritsar while the 02904 Amritsar- Mumbai Central express journey commencing on November 28 will be diverted to run via Amritsar -Tarntaran - Beas.The 04650/74 Amritsar- Jaynagar express special journey commencing 29 .11.20 will be diverted to run via Amritsar -Tarntaran - Beas while the 04649/73 Jaynagar -Amritsar express special jco 27.11.20 will be diverted to run via Beas - Tarntaran - Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railways-short-terminates-diverts-trains-due-to-farmers-stir/story-cv2kiRldWOTdfzJSKKvgAM.html
29-11-2020||India||Jaishankar stresses on enhancing bilateral ties with Seychelles in post-Covid era||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar stressed on India’s resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era as he held high-level talks with the country’s top leadership during his two-day visit to the key Indian Ocean nation.Jaishankar was on a November 27-28 visit to Seychelles. He arrived here after his visit to the United Arab Emirates. He also visited Bahrain as part of this three-nation tour, which began on Tuesday.Also Read: EAM Jaishankar begins Seycelles visit, to focus on security, development cooperationDuring his visit, he called on Seychelles’ newly-elected Indian-origin President Wavel Ramkalawan on Friday and congratulated him on his recent electoral victory.During the meeting, Jaishankar and Ramkalawan discussed the historical neighbourly relationship strengthened by shared belief in values of democracy and rule of law. Jaishankar “iterated India’s resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era,” according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs on Saturday.The minister also “spoke of the centrality of Seychelles to India’s vision of SAGAR (Security And Growth for All in the Region) that characterised India’s policy towards the Indian Ocean Region. As a neighbour across waters, Seychelles was very much a part of the Neighbourhood First policy as well,” it said.Jaishankar also carried a personal message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and conveyed an invitation from the Indian leadership to the Seychelles President to visit India in 2021.“Discussed our close security cooperation, strong development partnership and long-standing people-to-people contacts,” Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting with Ramkalawan.“Assured him that Seychelles had a particular priority, both under the Neighbourhood First policy and the SAGAR outlook. Look forward to further strengthening our ties under his leadership,” he said.The minister also recalled Ramkalawan’s visit to India in January 2018 and expressed the confidence that under his leadership, the close ties between the two countries would develop even further, it said.Also Read: S Jaishankar meets UAE counterpart; discusses Covid-19, strategic cooperationPresident Ramkalwan appreciated the assistance provided by India during the pandemic in the form of medical supplies and critical drugs and valued the development and security partnership between the two countries. He also spoke of its positive impact on nation building in Seychelles. Jaishankar emphasised India’s commitment to support the interests and aspirations of Seychelles and take this cooperation to a higher level.The discussions underscored the need to further expand and deepen bilateral engagement, and to coordinate and cooperate to counter the challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the press release. They stressed the need to strengthen shared efforts to combat drug trafficking, IUU (Illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing, piracy and climate change while protecting the ocean ecosystem. They also talked about a wide range of regional issues that impacted on their respective interests.Jaishankar also met Seychelles’ Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism Sylvestre Radegonde and discussed various aspects of bilateral relations including development partnership, capacity building, defence cooperation, people to people and cultural ties, trade, tourism and commerce and health, it said.Jaishankar’s visit assumes significance as India is developing infrastructure in the country to expand its footprint in the strategically-key region in the Indian Ocean where China has been trying to enhance its military presence. Indian-origin President Ramkalawan won the presidential election on October 25 this year, the first such victory for an Opposition candidate since Independence. Born in Mahe, the principal island of Seychelles, Ramkalawan was ordained as a priest in 1985 following theological studies at St Paul’s Theological College in Mauritius, and thereafter at Birmingham University. His grandfather was from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-stresses-on-enhancing-bilateral-ties-with-seychelles-in-post-covid-era/story-xJLLPbAJKZvI5X7fy5k1nK.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to address 71st edition of Mann Ki Baat shortly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday. On November 17, he sought suggestions from the people about topics for the 71st edition of the programme.“Every #MannKiBaat we celebrate the accomplishments of outstanding people, working for societal good. But, for every one example shared, there are many I am unable to share due to paucity of time. But, I do read many of the inputs and they are truly valuable,” he tweeted.“This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” the PM further added.In the 70th edition of the programme, aired on October 25, the PM urged countrymen to buy local products during the festival season, and talked about Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir which is emerging as a hub for making pencils.“Today, Pulwama is playing an important role in educating the entire nation. Today, if the students across the nation do their homework, prepare notes, it is because of the hard work of the people of Pulwama,” PM Modi said.“Almost 90 per cent of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley. And Pulwama has a big share in that. At one time, we used to import the wood for pencils, but now, Pulwama is making the country self-reliant in this field,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-71st-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today/story-JTK3lnBfFIT3AbzCitEYKJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah appeals to farmers as crisis persists||Home minister Amit Shah reached out to protesting farmers on Saturday, appealing to them to move their demonstration to the designated spot in Delhi’s Burari and saying the government was ready to hold talks with their leaders before the scheduled date of December 3. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he was ready to join the Centre’s efforts to resolve the issue and urged farmers to take up the home minister’s offer for talks.The statements come after thousands of farmers pressed on with their protest at highways on the outskirts of the Capital. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh were stopped by police at the Ghazipur border as they attempted to join their counterparts from Punjab and Haryana. Only a few hundred farmers moved the protest to the Sant Nirankari Ground in outer Delhi’s Burari on Saturday, and thousands others continued to block two arterial roads at the Singhu and Tikri borders, connecting the Capital with Haryana.As the impasse continued, Shah urged them to move to the Burari ground, saying the government wanted to discuss the issues during a meeting called by the agriculture minister on December 3 and was ready to “hear their grievances”. “If farmers’ unions want to hold a discussion before December 3, then I want to assure you all that as soon as you shift your protest to the designated place, our government will hold talks to address your concerns the very next day,” Shah said.The farmers – largely from Punjab and Haryana who travelled in their tractor-trolleys – were allowed to enter Delhi on Friday after braving a day of clashes with police, who used teargas, water cannons and baton charges to push them back. “We intend to block Delhi from all sides so that the government is suffocated into listening to our demands. Protesting in Burari would have practically been like being jailed in an open ground for us,” said Purushottam Singh, chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Lakhua unit. Police personnel kept both the border points barricaded on Saturday. “There is no confrontation since Friday, but the barricades will remain closed...” said A Koan, DCP (outer district).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-appeals-to-farmers-as-crisis-persists/story-u4YfB4hptvmUn5ZexwHWsI.html
29-11-2020||India||CBI files fresh case in Bengal despite state’s withdrawal of general consent||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) carried out searches across 45 locations in four states on Saturday after registering a case against alleged coal pilferer Anup Manjhi who was suspected to be acting in collusion with two general managers and three security personnel of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL), people familiar with the matter said.The searches were spread across West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, they said. The CBI registered the case despite the West Bengal government having withdrawn its general consent to the agency on November 18, 2018. This is the fifth such FIR (first information report) registered by the agency in the election-bound state this year without the West Bengal government’s nod. The previous four FIRs were filed in the months of September and October 2020 – on allegations pertaining to financial irregularities involving coal ministry officials in a central provident fund organisation case; against a Border Security Force (BSF) commandant on cattle smuggling; against two scientists at the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS); and a case against a former vice chancellor of Visva Bharati University. The CBI officially refused to comment on the matter but at least two officials, who didn’t wish to be named, said the agency was using the leverage provided in a Calcutta high court judgment on March 12 this year in Ramesh Chandra Singh & Others Vs CBI. The high court had observed in its order that “the central government/CBI’s power to investigate and prosecute its own officials cannot be in any way impeded or interfered by the state even if the offences were committed within the territory of the state”. Ramesh Chandra Singh was a central government employee who was being investigated for disproportionate assets much before the general consent was withdrawn. He had challenged the CBI’s jurisdiction in the state. A CBI official said, “The high court provided us an opening to file cases in West Bengal. As the high court has mentioned, we now don’t need the state government’s permission to file cases against central government officials.” TMC leader and West Bengal minister Dr Shashi Panja said, “All allies have deserted the NDA (National Democratic Alliance). Some of their most trusted allies still remain: CBI, ED, etc. It is election season, so Modi-Shah are at it again.” West Bengal is among the eight states to have withdrawn the mandatory general consent granted under section 6 of the DSPE Act for probes in their jurisdictions. The seven other states are – Rajasthan, Mizoram, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala and Chhattisgarh. Opposition states have alleged that the CBI is being used by the government to target them. After filing the latest case on Friday evening, CBI teams raided 45 locations in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and recovered ₹40 lakh in cash and several documents. Those booked include Anup Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar (Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajora area) besides ECL chief of security Tanmay Das, area security inspector Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said the “agency had information from reliable sources indicating illegal excavation and theft of coal in the leasehold area of ECL in connivance with the officials of ECL, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Railways”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-case-in-bengal-despite-state-s-withdrawal-of-general-consent/story-AbbOnEeqcMK6KOxHNcJEUJ.html
29-11-2020||India||SII to seek emergency licence in two weeks||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will apply for an emergency approval for the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca in two weeks, its chief executive Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday, hours after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was on a three-city tour to pharma companies working on an inoculation against the Sars-Cov-2.The announcement comes at the end of a week when Oxford and AstraZeneca announced their vaccine had shown to be at least 62% (and up to 90%) effective in an interim analysis based on 131 infections in the clinical trials being held in the United Kingdom and Brazil. “We are in the process of applying to India’s drugs regulator-- the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) -- in next two weeks for emergency licensure and things will follow then in that order. We are in the process of submitting data to DCGI for analysis,” said Poonawalla.“Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also took a look at their manufacturing facility,” Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet after visiting the Pune facility where he met Poonawalla. Earlier, Modi visited the vaccine manufacturing unit of Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and of Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad. Both the companies have developed their own vaccine candidates that are into advanced stages of clinical trials.“The central message of this trip is to motivate the vaccine producers. Here is a PM sitting down with promoters, chief scientists to discuss the details of their work. Even though he couldn’t give more than half an hour at each facility as he had to travel between different cities, he was not short of enthusiasm. Never before has any PM gone to such facilities to discuss their work in detail,” said a government official who asked not to be named. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate is among the global front-runners in terms of volumes produced and clinical trial progress, and is being closely watched because it is cheaper and easier to transport than its only rivals that have shown efficacy till now: the mRNA vaccines by Moderna and Pzifer-BioNTech. All of these vaccines have a two-dose regimen.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is also being tested among Indian volunteers as part of global phase 3 trials in different populations.Experts said the approval process would depend on what data SII approaches the national drugs regulator with. “We need to be sure about which data they will be providing -- only Indian component of global [trial]? Only 2 full-dose component or also include the half-full stream as well,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.The dose references relate to the difference in efficacy in the announcement by Oxford and AstraZeneca. The developers found that the vaccine was more effective among people who were given a half-strength first dose, a regimen that was not originally planned, leading many experts to question the scientific sanctity of the trials. Poonawalla said the controversy will not affect the trials in India. “At the moment trials are enough to establish the efficacy. In future, if at all we have to conduct fresh trials it will be for under 18 age group after safety is established in adults,” he added. The lower efficacy with two full doses, while not as good as the 95% reported by Moderna and Pfizer, could be enough for an approval by regulators since they have set the bar at 50%. The British pharma company’s CEO told Bloomberg on Thursday that the company may undertake a new trial with the half-strength dose.Poonawalla, in his comments on the opening day of the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit this month, indicated that an emergency use licence could be secured by January.The PM’s discussion with the SII team largely centred around the vaccine implementation plan, and the pros and cons of all Covid-19 vaccine candidates in the fray, as well as estimates of doses that will need to be made available.“The indication is for about 300-400 million doses by July 2021, which the government has earlier also announced on various occasions. We are trying to get to the target. The government will have to take a balanced view keeping in mind pros and cons of all the vaccines out there,” Poonawalla added on Saturday.SII has manufactured about 40 million doses of the vaccine and can currently make about 50-60 million a month, with the capacity expected to be scaled up to 100 million by February. “How to distribute and where to distribute -- all this was discussed. We have indicated a price which is affordable and accessible for everybody but it all depends on regulatory approvals. However, stockpiling and manufacturing is continuing as it is and even if there is delay in getting approvals there shouldn’t be any delays in producing volumes,” said Poonawalla.As per results available currently, the vaccine has shown zero hospitalisation in patients and the viral load reduced by about 60%, said the SII CEO. “It means that even if you get hospitalised, the attack won’t be severe; and those who are infected won’t transmit, which is bonus for a vaccine for a disease that is so infective,” he said.SII has a licence to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for low- and middle-income countries, and has committed to reserve half of what it produces for India. Officials aware of the PM’s plans said the visit was meant to motivate the scientists and the employees of these firms. “Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey. At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far...,” Modi said in two tweets after the visits, each of which lasted around 20-25 minutes and involved hectic flights and helicopter transports.According to an official who asked not to be named, the PM met the promoters of the companies and the chief scientists. At each of the facilities, the PM sought to know how they are conducting the trials, the status of vaccine development and, apart from Covid vaccine research, what other activities related to drugs or diagnostics are undertaken at each place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-seek-emergency-licence-in-two-weeks/story-KobMzYgKW7EcxEdeKcM9LI.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers stand by demands, Burari offer sees few takers||Only a few hundred agitating farmers had, as of Saturday evening, accepted the Delhi Police’s offer to continue their stir at a ground in Burari, a day after relentless skirmishes at the capital’s interstate borders forced the police to allow protesters into the city. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers continued to block two arterial roads at Singhu and Tikri borders, connecting Delhi with Haryana, for the second consecutive day as part of their ongoing agitation against three farm laws passed by Parliament in September.Union home minister Amit Shah appealed to farmers on Saturday and said his government was ready to hold talks. “I appeal to the protesting farmers that the Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he told ANI.Unlike Friday, when police and farmers clashed multiple times at the two border points, Saturday was free of incident. “We intend to block Delhi from all sides so that the government is pressured into listening to our demands. Protesting at Burari would have been like being jailed in an open ground. We have come prepared for however long it takes,” said Purushottam Singh, chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Lakhua (Punjab) unit. On Friday afternoon, the Delhi Police had agreed to let in the protesters, provided they move to the Burari ground, but not before a series of clashes between farmers and the police who used tear gas shells, lathis and water cannons. Only a few hundred farmers who entered via Tikri border have moved to Burari; no farmer camped at Singhu border has agreed to the “protest only in Burari” offer of the Delhi Police. Farmers at SInghu said they would agree to a march to Rashtrapati Bhawan or Jantar Mantar, but not any other site. “Some of the farmers from the Tikri border had left for the Burari ground but we have called them back,” said Jaspal Singh, a farmer leader from Firozpur, who is camping at Tikri border. Amid the impasse, farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued to arrive at the Delhi-Haryana border throughout Saturday. “We have trucks and trolleys lined up for several kilometres,” said Jaspal Singh.On Saturday, the police and the farmers maintained a distance of at least 50m from each other at both the borders. “If farmers want to go to Burari, we will remove the barricades. There was no confrontation since Friday afternoon, but barricades will remain closed,” said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district). Gaurav Sharma, DCP of outer-north district, under whose jurisdiction the Singhu Border falls, said,“Our aim is to keep things peaceful.” The Delhi government on Saturday set up a Covid-19 testing centre at the ground. The mobile centre will have teams to conduct rapid antigen tests free of cost, said a senior official in the revenue department.Health minister Satyendar Jain said, “The farmers have legitimate concerns. They should at least be heard. The Delhi government has refused the police’s proposal to turn stadiums into jails. We are merely facilitating the famers’ visit.”Several politicians spoke in support f farmers on Saturday. AAP legislator Sanjeev Jha, who met farmers in Burari along with his party leader Raghav Chadha, said they were there to ensure that there is no inconvenience to farmers. “We will ensure that they have no problems, irrespective of how long they wish to stay there,” Jha said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the Modi government cannot break the strong resolve of farmers through “fake FIRs” and the fight against the “anti-agriculture” laws will continue till they are repealed. He also tweeted that raising one’s voice against injustice was not crime but a duty. “Raising voice against injustice is not crime, it is a duty. For us, it was ‘Jai Kisan’ and will remain so,” he said. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by Rakesh Tikait, broke through barricades at the UP Gate border with east Delhi on Saturday afternoon. The 500-odd farmers were stopped at Ghazipur by Delhi Police and they returned to UP Gate to hunker down below the flyover for the night. “After breaking the barriers, we took our vehicles up to the Ghazipur where the Delhi Police stopped us. So, we returned to UP Gate and decided to stay put till a strategy is devised to enter Delhi,” said Rajvir Singh, state vice-president, BKU. “We are diverting traffic away from UP Gate. Commuters coming from Mohan Nagar will not be allowed to turn left towards UP Gate. Instead, they can enter Delhi from Kaushambi. Those travelling on NH-9 will also not be allowed to come down to the UP Gate flyover. Instead, all such vehicles will go over the flyover,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). In Gautam Budh Nagar, a group of farmers was intercepted on the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday afternoon. “They were stopped near Jewar after which they camped on the side of the expressway. There wasn’t any traffic disruption and it was a peaceful gathering. No police action was needed,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said he will not speak to his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar until he apologises for “inflicting brutality” on farmers marching to Delhi.“Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” said Singh. The Punjab CM’s reaction came after Khattar claimed on Saturday that despite him trying to reach out over the farmers’ issue, Singh did not respond or answer calls made to his office for three days.Farmers from Nuh, Mewat,will be travelling to Delhi on December 1 to join the ongoing stir, farmer leaders from the region said. The decision was taken after a joint meeting of farmers’ union Bharatiya Kisan Union, Mewat Kisan Union and other organisations such as Mewat Vikas Sabha in Nuh on Saturday. “We were proceeding towards Delhi on November 26 itself but were stopped from doing so by authorities who detained us. Farmers will march towards Delhi on December 1 and join the stir in huge numbers,” said Azad Khan, vice-president (Haryana), Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stand-by-demands-burari-offer-sees-few-takers/story-MjQE39u4AJ1uA9UGob7cSI.html
29-11-2020||India||Traffic chaos continues at city borders||The Singhu and Tikri borders were on Saturday shut for traffic for the second consecutive day due to the farmers’ protests. Motorists commuting between Delhi and Haryana faced massive disruptions even as the traffic police said that the situation was better than Friday due to awareness among commuters about the restrictions.Traffic police made a host of diversions and deployed its personnel along the affected routes.However, a large number of labourers and workers who were moving between Delhi and Haryana through the two borders for either work or for other reasons were still seen struggling. Scores of them were seen carrying their luggage on their heads and backs and walking across both the borders in the absence of any public transport.Chand Pal, a physically disabled man, said he had arrived from his hometown in Madhya Pradesh, landed at Anand Vihar, but had to walk near the border with luggage on his back. “I work in a factory in Bhiwani. I need to enter Haryana anyhow and catch a bus from where ever I can because there is no public transport at the Delhi Border,” Pal said at the Tikri Border after having to walk nearly a km using crutches and more thereafter.Traffic police on Saturday used their Twitter handle to list a host of other border points where people could enter Haryana from Delhi. These included Jharoda, Dhansa, Rajokri, Bijwasan, Dundahera, Badarpur, Palam Vihar and Daurala.And yet, a large number of motorists were confused about the borders they could access. They tweeted to the Delhi Traffic Police for status updates and in response were asked to dial the traffic helpline for the latest status.Taj Hassan, special commissioner of traffic police, however, said that the updates were being relayed correctly on its social media handles.Otherwise, the officer said that the traffic situation on Saturday was much more relaxed than on Friday. “Most motorists did not head towards the two borders as they were better informed of the situation on Saturday. Only the locals travelled in those areas and they were aware of the alternative routes,” said Hassan.Hassan said while the traffic movement at other border points in the city could be slower than usual due to checks, there was no major impact elsewhere.On Friday, the police also closed two other border roads — at Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan — for traffic as a precautionary measure even through there were no protesters there.Santosh Meena, DCP (Dwarka), said that while Dhansa Border was opened for traffic on Friday evening, the Jharoda Kalan Border was opened only for traffic towards Haryana. “The incoming traffic at Jharoda Kalan is open only for emergency traffic,” said the DCP.The Jharoda Kalan Border has remained partially closed as many farmers wanting to entering Delhi pass by on a Haryana road that is close to the border. Through Saturday, the traffic police diverted traffic from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal Road and did not allow any traffic movement from Outer Ring Road or Azadpur towards Singhu Border. In one of its tweet alerts, the traffic police termed the traffic at Mukarba Chowk and GTK Road as “very very heavy”.They advised motorists to avoid Outer Ring Road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice-versa, the GTK Road and NH-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-chaos-continues-at-city-borders/story-CkBDrHamsCDgl35KMOC6vI.html
29-11-2020||India||51.7% turnout in first phase of J-K DDC polls||The first phase of the maiden elections to the District Development Council recorded 51.76% voting in 43 constituencies that went to the polls under tight security arrangements in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, official figures showed.The contest is between the newly launched People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari. State election commissioner KK Sharma said, “The first phase of DDC polls was held in 43 constituencies in all the 20 districts of the UT. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere barring a minor incident where a child threw a stone at a polling station in Kulgam. Police took cognizance”. Sharma said a large number of people came out to exercise their franchise. “Out of 7 lakh voters, 51.76% voted today; 212,244 voters turned out in Jammu and 150,522 turned out in Kashmir despite cold wave conditions, and that is an encouraging sign,” he said. Sharma said the Jammu region recorded a voting percentage of 64.2 while Kashmir logged 40.65.The official said a total of 362,000 voters exercised their right to franchise, which included 193,000 men and 169,000 women despite intense cold wave conditions in the upper reaches of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The highest polling percentage in Jammu was recorded in Reasi district at 74.6% followed by Rajouri, 70.52%, Poonch, 68.69%, and Samba, 68.61%. In Kashmir, Budgam district recorded a highest voting percentage of 56.96 followed by Kupwara, 50.74%, Ganderbal, 48.62%, and Shopian, 42.58%. Twenty-five constituencies in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu went to the polls in the first phase. The counting of votes for the eight-phase polls will be held on December 22. In the second phase on December 1, a total of 43 constituencies -- 25 in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu -- will go to the polls, with 321 candidates in the fray, including 125 in Jammu and 196 in Kashmir. For the second phase, there will be 2,762 polling stations for 760,664 electors. The state election commission has prohibited the conduct of any exit poll and publishing/displaying of the result of any such exit poll till the last phase of the elections is over.An order by Sharma said, “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 36 of the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, the election authority prohibits the conduct of any exit poll and publishing or publicising/displaying the result of exit poll by means of the print or electronic media or in any other manner in the ongoing DDC elections in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir till the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in the last phase of these elections on December 19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-7-turnout-in-first-phase-of-j-k-ddc-polls/story-sbi7njQPfU5GgA8Uz9KrRI.html
29-11-2020||India||Attorney General denies consent for contempt proceedings on Bhushan||Attorney General KK Venugopal has declined consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets in which he was critical of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde being provided a special helicopter by the Madhya Pradesh government, saying the activist-lawyer later expressed regret. The consent of the topmost law officer was sought by one advocate Sunil Singh to initiate contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his October 21 tweet saying that the activist-lawyer connected “the personal life of CJI” with a pending case before him.Though Venugopal termed Bhushan’s earlier tweet about the CJI as “wholly unwarranted, improper, devoid of legal basis and prima facie contumacious”, he declined the consent considering the regret expressed in his later tweet. “I am of the opinion that the imputations contained in three tweets to the effect that the Chief Justice of India committed an act of impropriety in accepting facilities of the state of Madhya Pradesh during his visit to Kanha National Park while a case pertaining to the disqualification of certain members of the legislative assembly of MP was pending before him were wholly unwarranted, improper , devoid of legal basis and prima facie contumacious for following reasons,” Venugopal said in his response to the lawyer.He said firstly the CJI is one of the highest constitutional functionaries in the country and is entitled to receive protocol as befits the stature of his office and the state guests are entitled to be extended appropriate security.The top law officer said he was initially of the mind to grant the consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt. “However, I must bring to your attention subsequent developments … he has expressed regret for the error made in his earlier tweet on October 21. He has stated publicly that it was incorrect to state that the fate of the government of Madhya Pradesh depended on the case pending before the CJI… “In these circumstances, I do not think that it would be in public interest to give consent for proceedings on the basis of the original tweet in view of the subsequent tweet expressing regret. I accordingly decline consent,” Venugopal said,   The Attorney General said the region CJI visited has been a Maoist affected region and that is why he was given the helicopter facility.It is significant to note that on November 4, a bench headed by the CJI disposed of a plea that had raised the issue of pendency of disqualification proceedings against some Congress MLAs who had joined the BJP and were appointed as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh.The top court, on August 31, had imposed a token fine of one rupee against Bhushan as punishment in the contempt case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attorney-general-denies-consent-for-contempt-proceedings-on-bhushan/story-Ed57ycTTpcrh99Vlvdu9hN.html
29-11-2020||India||Symptomatic patients four times more likely to spread virus: Study||A person who has symptoms of Covid-19 is four times more likely to pass the virus on to others than someone who remained asymptomatic, and the highest risk of infection comes from sharing a home with an infected individual, according to a statistical analysis of dozens of contact-tracing reports, which offers new evidence to underscore the need for people to isolate themselves as soon as they develop signs they may be ill.The researchers from Imperial College London also found that households have the highest transmission rates among indoor settings when compared to being in a workplace and casual social spaces, with the chance of one family member infecting another becoming significantly higher if the duration of exposure is more than 5 days.“This analysis provides some of the first evidence that asymptomatic infections are substantially less infectious than symptomatic cases. It also reinforces growing evidence of the importance of household transmission, especially in the context where symptomatic cases are not isolated outside the home,” said Imperial College professor Neil Ferguson, whose modelling in March led the UK to announce a lockdown to stop transmission, in comments over email. The study was based on a meta-analysis – a uniform statistical review – from 45 contact-tracing studies from around the world published till mid-July. “Where the initial case was asymptomatic, the secondary attack rate was estimated to be two thirds lower (3.5%, 95% CI: 0.0%-6.4%) than when the index case had symptoms (12.8%, 95% CI: 8.9%-16.7%, p = <0.001),” Imperial College’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis said in a statement.Asymptomatic transmission has been seen as a particular challenge in stopping the spread of Covid-19 since contact-tracing efforts often fail to identify the index patient, who may not have had any signs that they were infected when they passed the virus on. But outbreaks have also perplexed epidemiologists when they noticed that only a small proportion of infected people cause the most number of infections – a so-called superspreader effect. “The differences we observed in transmissibility by symptom status of index cases and duration of exposure have important implications for outbreak control strategies, highlighting how contact tracing, testing and rapid isolation of cases will be crucial,” said lead author Hayley Thompson.The authors also calculated chances of infections in different settings. Among workplace contacts, they found three studies showed there was a 1.9% chance of a secondary infection in an office. In healthcare-based contacts -- exposures in hospitals, clinics etc -- the researchers found a secondary attack rate of 3.6% of all contacts of the average index patients. In social settings, which included people exposed while travelling, at religious events, fitness classes, whilst shopping or at entertainment venues and other social events with family and friends, the pooled attack rate came to about 1.2%.The risk, thus, was highest among household contacts, and the chances increased with time. “Chance of passing on infection in households (the secondary attack rate) estimated to be 21.1% (95% CI: 17.4%-24.8%),” the report added. The researchers found that there were no statistically significant differences in how people of different ages spread the infection.These findings are crucial in order to fix strategies to test, trace and isolate people. “Understanding the conditions where transmission is more likely to occur is essential in guiding policy interventions to reduce transmission whilst balancing the economic impact,” said Imperial College researcher Andria Mousa. “Our results highlight the importance of targeting interventions in settings where close and prolonged contacts occur, as well as the need for further research to inform policies for reducing transmission in workplaces, schools and care-homes,” Mousa added.Thompson, however, added that more studies are required to better understand these patterns. “The number of studies we identified from large scale contract tracing was limited and highlights the need for continued research into further understanding the locations and types of contact that facilitate transmission, especially in schools and workplaces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symptomatic-patients-four-times-more-likely-to-spread-virus-study/story-jsQzFWlmvykJYipKsxaAGO.html
29-11-2020||India||BJP accuses Ashok Gehlot govt of horse trading||A video clip circulating on social media showing a Rajasthan Congress MLA accusing two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs of receiving Rs 10 crore each during the Rajya Sabha polls and the internal fight in the state unit of the Congress prompted the BJP on Saturday to accuse the Ashok Gehlot government of involvement in horse trading. HT cannot vouch for the authenticity of the video clip. The clip shows Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya saying during a campaign for the panchayat polls in Banswara that each of the two BTP MLAs of Dungarpur received Rs 5 crore during the Rajya Sabha polls and again Rs 5 crore each during the political crisis when former deputy CM Sachin Pilot rebelled against the Gehlot government. Malviya said in the video that he has been in politocs for a long time but not earned so much money.He did not respond to repeated calls and messages seeking comment. Two BTP MLAs -- Ramprasad Dindor (Sagwara) and BTP Rajkumar Roat (Chorasi) -- supported the Congress government during the Rajya Sabha polls and the rebellion by Pilot. Refuting the allegations, BTP MLA Roat said, “The Congress MLA has tried to blame his own party in Rajasthan by levelling the accusations.” Dindor, the other BTP MLA, said, “Malviya was with those who wanted to topple the Congress government, so he could not digest it when he failed. We saved the Congress government in the state.” State BJP president Satish Poonia, tagging the alleged video of Malviya, wrote to Gehlot: “Please enlighten, is it horse trading or Goat Mandi? The statement of the senior Congress leader in this video is just a corroboration of the questions raised by me during herding of MLAs by you.” Commenting on the video, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said, “I cannot verify the authenticity of the video, but if such things are stated, then it is wrong. What is stated is far from the truth.” Gehlot in a statement on Friday alleged that when the Rajasthan government was trying to save lives of people from Covid-19, BJP leaders were making negative statements at the behest of their central leadership.“BJP wants to destabilise the state government in Rajasthan for capturing power with the help of money and muscle power,” Gehlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-gehlot-govt-of-horse-trading/story-3y2rN1VsnR49vY0Etv35WJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Cong names Pawan Bansal as interim treasurer after Ahmed Patel’s death||The Congress on Saturday day announced the appointment of Pawan Bansal, 72, the person in charge of administrative affairs of the party as its interim treasurer after the passing of Ahmed Patel. In a statement, party general secretary KC Venugopal said, “(The move is) an interim measure to look after the duties of treasurer with immediate effect.’’The move is being seen by Congress members as a makeshift arrangement till a permanent Congress President is elected by early next year and chooses a new team. Bansal was the only one immediately able to step intothe role on account of having worked closely with Motilal Vora, who was Congress treasurer between 2002 and 2018 , when his advancing age (he is now 92) forced him to hand over to Patel. There was great urgency to find an able replacement as treasurer, party members said. According to a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms earlier this year, the Congress reported Rs 918 crore of income in 2018-19, which is 361% more than its income in the previous financial year. A former functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the party spends Rs 5-10 crore a month on just general administrative expenses. Traditionally, the post of treasurer has always gone to a seasoned hand with plenty of contacts in states. Bansal is expected to work closely with Chief Ministers such as Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh . ”There are two people who sign cheques for a party. The general secretary of a particular department who clears an expense, and the treasurer. Every expense, from salaries to hiring a chartered flight has to go through them,’’ a former office bearer said on condition of anonymity.  Congress leaders remembered the role Patel played as treasurer and senior strategist. “ A treasurer has to not only have the trust and confidence of diverse stakeholders, but the ability to influence, cajole, persuade, pressurise or otherwise ensure that they contribute. These include members of the party as much as non members. He also has to have the knack to create, maintain and sustain long term relationships, irrespective of political ups and downs, Above all, he needs to have the implicit trust of the party on whose behalf he acts and receives. In all this, AP excelled! He was a natural treasurer, though his long innings as a political secretary eclipsed his talents in this role,’’ Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Manusinghvi said on Friday. Bansal was rail minister in the United Progressive Alliance government but stepped down in 2013 after his nephew was allegedly caught accepting a bribe of almost Rs 90 lakhs for posting an officer on the Railway Board. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) didn’t find any evidence against the minister but charged his nephew Vijay Singla. The Enforcement Directorate filed a chargesheet in the case last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-names-pawan-bansal-as-interim-treasurer-after-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-O0UePEKmU6tGjT0s1JEkaK.html
