30-11-2020||India||Govt invites Kisan Union for talks on Dec 1 at Vigyan Bhawan: Narendra Singh Tomar||Amid ongoing protests by farmers against the new farm laws, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday invited leaders of the farmer unions for talks on December 1.The meeting will be held at 3 PM at Vigyan Bhawan here, the minister said.“On November 13 we decided to conduct next round of talks on December 3 but Farmers continued their protest and with the Covid situation and with winters we decided that we needed to talk before December 3 and resolve the situation. That is why on December 1 at 3 pm in Vigyan Bhawan all Kisan Unions are invited who were present in the first round of meeting,” Tomar told ANI here.Tomar said that farmers were under some misunderstanding regarding the newly enacted farm laws and the government is committed to have talks with the kisan unions who were present in first round of meeting with the government.“Under Modiji leadership, in the last six years, for farmer income increase many historic work was done. When the new farm amendment laws came, farmers had some myths in their mind. We conducted two sessions of meeting with Kisan Unions, the first on October 14 at at the Secretary level and on November 13 I was there with Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash and spoke to Kisan Unions,” Tomar added.The farmers had rejected the Centre’s ‘conditional’ offer to hold talks, saying that they will not accept any conditional dialogue and threatened to block entry points to the national capital.Farmers from different states have gathered at north Delhi’s Burari ground while others are camping at the borders to the national capital. The agriculture minister also requested the farmers to leave the agitation and come for the talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-invites-kisan-union-for-talks-on-dec-1-at-vigyan-bhawan-narendra-singh-tomar/story-wAjGI4gUXindQKUUeH6ClL.html
30-11-2020||India||Karnataka High Court says BJP MLC cannot be appointed minister||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ruled that nominated legislative council member AH Vishwanath cannot be appointed as a minister as his disqualification was still operative.Vishwanath a former President of the state unit of Janata Dal (S), who was an MLA from Hunsur, was one of the 17 ‘rebels’ from Congress and JDS who resigned from assembly membership and helped topple the JDS-Congress coalition government last year.The then speaker Ramesh Kumar had disqualified him as well as other legislators. However, while all the other defectors got re-elected to the assembly on BJP tickets, two of them - MTB Nagaraj and Vishwanath were defeated. Another ‘defector’ R Shankar chose not to contest the by-poll.While Nagaraj and Shankar were elected to the legislative council, Vishwanath was nominated under the ‘litterateur’ category by the Governor to the upper house on the recommendation of the state government as he is the author of a few books.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigation petitions, a division bench of the Karnataka high court headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajit Shetty ruled that “The Governor will take into consideration the disqualification incurred by Vishwanath, while the disqualification ceased to be operative in case of Nagaraj and Shankar as they were elected to the legislative council, if a recommendation is made by the Chief Minister to appoint them as ministers.”While others have been accommodated with ministerial berths, Vishwanath, Shankar, Nagaraj and Munirathna who was recently elected in the recent bypolls have been waiting to be inducted into the cabinet. Chief minister Yediyurappa in turn is waiting for the party high command’s nod before expanding his cabinet. Karnataka can have a maximum of 34 ministers including the CM and currently there are seven vacancies.The ruling by the HC means that Vishwanath’s often repeated ambition to be ‘recognized for sacrifice made and rewarded with ministry’ may not fructify for the present. While Vishwanath was not reachable for comments, a BJP spokesperson said, “What is there for us to comment, it is a court ruling and everybody has to follow it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-says-bjp-mlc-cannot-be-appointed-minister/story-yHqujwFnbg6HsOI0V11HoO.html
30-11-2020||India||Businesses get 4 months to implement QR code-based payment system||Businesses with turnover of Rs 500 crore or more have been given a four-month window until March 31, 2021, to implement QR code-based digital payment system without attracting penalty, two officials said. The move will promote digital India and check rampant misuse of fake invoices to misappropriate input tax credit under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime.The government had also instructed tax officials to verify deemed GST registrations granted to business entities without Aadhaar authentication between August 21 and November 16 this year to ascertain that they are undertaking genuine business activities and not using these firms to generate fake invoices, the officials said requesting anonymity.The decisions have been taken at a high-level meeting in the Department of Revenue (DoR) recently, which is an arm of Union finance ministry that administers matters related to direct and indirect taxes, they said.“It was decided to give a one-time waiver on penalty provisions for four months period till March 31, 2021, on the condition that the stakeholders would set up necessary process during this period to go-live with QR code on invoices by April 1, 2021, thereby enabling GST on UPI [Unified Payments Interface],” one of the officials said.Also read: BJP leaders meet again, say govt ready for talks as farmers remain defiantIn order to create a cashless society, on March 21, 2020, the government mandated the issuance of invoices with dynamic QR code by registered business entities with turnover exceeding 500 crore. The system was to be effective from December 1 this year. The system requires dynamic QR codes for issuing invoices to customers or unregistered persons to track transactions.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), an arm of the DoR, is taking several measures to check tax evasion through fake invoices, a second official said. “One such move is verifying business activities of all such entities that have been granted deemed GST registration,” he said.It was noticed that many unscrupulous people were misusing the easy GST registration system to con the exchequer by generating fake invoices and misappropriating ITC, he added. Currently, the GST law permits deemed registration after 21 days of application.An entity having deemed registration where the applicant has not opted for Aadhaar authentication has to go for mandatory physical verification of the premises, he said. “In cases where the physical verification is difficult, certain additional documents may be called for verification by the tax officer before deciding upon grant of registration,” he added.The CBIC has also come out with standard operating procedure (SOP) for officers to carry out physical verification of entities that have been granted a deemed GST registration without Aadhaar authentication, he said.“This SOP would effectively curb the menace of fake invoices and ITC frauds while at the same time this would ensure proper facilitation of ease of doing business for the genuine applicants/entities without any overreach,” he added.Meanwhile, the government has also intensified its nationwide crackdown against fake GST invoices. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has so far arrested 92 persons for availing or passing on ineligible ITC fraudulently through fake invoices and have booked 994 cases against more than 3,161 fake GST registered, the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/businesses-get-4-months-to-implement-qr-code-based-payment-system/story-X6a6couScgBRueNwQcULdO.html
30-11-2020||India||Sero-surveillance study on Covid-19 begins in Manipur||Manipur’s health department has started sero-surveillance study on Covid-19 prevalence in four districts namely Churachandpur, Imphal West, Kakching and Ukhrul, the government said in a statement on Monday.A total of 4,600 samples will be collected for necessary analysis during the study which is scheduled to continue till December 19.Meanwhile, Manipur’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 25,000 mark with 135 fresh cases on Monday. The tally now stands at 25,045.Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department in a press release on Monday said all 135 people who tested positive ae civilians.The new cases were reported from Imphal West (44), Imphal East (45),Thoubal (12), Bishnupur (9), Kakching (14), Churachandpur (4), Jiribam (1), Ukhrul (1), Tamenglong (4) and Chandel(1), the statement said. There were eight casualties taking the death toll in the pandemic to 281 in the state.A total of 165 people were discharged from 15 Covid care facilities in the past 24 hours, it added.There are 3,198 active cases while 21,566 people have recovered from Covid-19. Manipur’s recovery rate is 86.1%, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-surveillance-study-on-covid-19-begins-in-manipur/story-cqZaDuBN5XuZKRVBNLdhmI.html
30-11-2020||India||Nagaland Governor shoots down NSCN’s demand for separate flag, Constitution||Nagaland Governor and Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, RN Ravi on Monday said the government of India is absolutely clear that there shall be only one national flag and Constitution in India. “Anyone talking anything contrary is peddling preposterous lies. They are trying to confuse and mislead the people,” he said in his message to the people of the state on the eve of Nagaland’s 58th statehood day. His message drew condemnation from the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), the largest Naga rebel group. The governor’s reference to the flag and constitution comes against the backdrop of the demand of a separate Naga flag and Constitution by the NSCN (IM) which has been holding talks with the government of India for the past 23 years.Maintaining that India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty is supreme, Ravi stated that the Centre has never ever talked, much less negotiated with anyone on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. “Any misadventure to disintegrate this great nation shall not be tolerated,” he said, while pointing out that ‘the right decision taken today will determine our future and the destiny of our coming generations’. He mentioned that with common understanding having been reached on all the issues on the table and conclusion of talks on October 31, 2019, the people of Nagaland are anxiously waiting for a new dawn. However, he went on to allege that there are some people who are standing as “a roadblock” to the aspirations of the people of Nagaland.“I urge these people to see the writings on the wall, to come out of their make-believe echo-chamber and listen to the voice of the people and in a true democratic spirit respect their wishes,” the governor said. Ravi said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dynamic and visionary leadership, fundamental anomalies and distortions in the ongoing peace process have been corrected by making it truly inclusive.Stating that Nagaland state is an abiding testimony to the triumph of the politics of peace over the politics of bloodshed, he maintained Naga political issue belonged to the Naga people and no single entity should claim the sole franchise over it.“Nagas have existed and survived through centuries through their customary and traditional institutions. The traditional village institutions and the tribal bodies are the primary stakeholders in the Naga political issue. Their freely expressed wishes and decisions are paramount in any settlement. They have clearly expressed their mind. They demand conclusion of the endless peace process without any further delay,” Ravi said. He said disrespecting the primary stakeholders was an insult to the people of Nagaland, therefore, any attempt to intimidate or threaten them will invite the wrath of the people and full might of the laws of the land, he added.The governor paid tributes to the leaders of the Naga Peoples’ Convention, martyrs and countless Nagas whose blood, toil, sweat and sacrifices he said had led to the birth of the 16th state of the Indian Union with extraordinary constitutional safeguards for their unique identity and interests.The NSCN-IM issued a statement condemning governor Ravi’s stand on the peace talks.“Naga people are fully aware of the divisive, extraordinary involvement of Nagaland state Governor RN Ravi behind this commemoration program in order to justify his all out efforts to protect the 16 Points Agreement at all costs,” the statement said.The group made it clear that the history of Naga political struggle and the ongoing political talk is a living testimony that the present Nagaland state was the brainchild of a few treacherous Nagas that showed up in the name of Naga People’s Convention hijacking the Naga issue without the concern of the bona fide “freedom fighters”.“The Convention without the consent, support and participation of the Naga people arrived at an agreement called the 16 Points Agreement that was responsible for the creation of Nagaland as the 16th state of the Indian Union. This fragmented the Indian-occupied Naga territories by placing them into different administrative units of Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh,” the NSCN-IM said. It stated that the Naga people would never allow another political hijacking to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-governor-shoots-down-nscn-s-demand-for-separate-flag-constitution/story-CXEpXS0DKNAzUwUxGNXWGM.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Cheap stunts’: Shehla Rashid reacts to her estranged father’s charges||Shehla Rashid, student activist and the former students’ union leader of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), on Monday denied her estranged father’s charges that she is involved in anti-national activities. Abdul Rashid Shora, in a letter to Jammu and Kashmir police chief, had also claimed there is a threat to his life from Shehla, her sister Asma and his wife Zubeda Shora as well as her security guard, according to reports.Shehla rubbished these allegations and has instead accused her father of domestic violence. “Many of you must have come across a video of my biological father making wild allegations against me and my mum & sis. To keep it short and straight, he’s a wife-beater and an abusive, depraved man. We finally decided to act against him, and this stunt is a reaction to that,” Shehla tweeted, posting a three-page letter.In a series of tweets, Shehla talked about her father. She said that the was not a political matter, “as it has been going on ever since I came to senses” and also tweeted a letter to him from the mohalla committee in 2005 asking him not to abuse them. 1) Many of you must have come across a video of my biological father making wild allegations against me and my mum & sis. To keep it short and straight, he's a wife-beater and an abusive, depraved man. We finally decided to act against him, and this stunt is a reaction to that. pic.twitter.com/SuIn450mo2“He had never, in his wildest dreams, imagined that his obedient wife and timid daughters would ever speak up against him. Since he was restrained from entering home by the Hon’ble Court, he’s trying to derail the judicial process by resorting to cheap stunts,” she said in one of the tweets.“One may talk endlessly about justice, but charity really does begin at home. We have finally decided to not bear abuse silently, as silence only emboldens abusers. Here’s the court order restraining him from entering home dated 17-11-2020. Anything he says is an afterthought,” she added in her last tweet.Rashid has also demanded a probe against the non-government organisations (NGOs) run by Shehla and accused her of having accepting money to join politics in the Kashmir valley, a charge denied by her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-disgusting-baseless-shehla-rashid-on-estranged-father-s-allegations-against-her-ngos/story-U2QFE3AS8GJrsIFxihfH7L.html
30-11-2020||India||Sanitizer used to burn scribe to death in UP’s Balrampur, 3 held: Police||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur on Monday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a local journalist and his friend. Those arrested have been identified as Akram Ali alias Abdul Qadir, Lalit Mishra and Keshvanand Mishra alias Rinku. Rakesh Singh (45), who was working for a local newspaper, and his friend Mithlesh Sahu (36), suffered serious burns in a fire at his house in Kalwari village, Balrampur.While Sahu died on the spot, Singh suffered 90 per cent burns and was referred to a Lucknow hospital where he succumbed to injuries, the police said.The Balrampur police had constituted four teams to solve the murder mystery. Balrampur superintendent of police (SP) Dev Ranjan Verma told media persons that alcohol-based sanitizer was used to set the journalist and his friend on fire. “First the culprits served liquor to Rakesh Singh and Mithlesh Sahu. When the two were under the influence of liquor, the culprits set them on fire with the help of alcohol-based sanitizer,” Verma told media persons. Commenting on the motive behind the murder, Verma stated that personal enmity was behind the murder and the investigation was still going on to ascertain all facts. He denied the use of explosives in the incident. “The culprits had tried to frame the murder as a mishap and fled away from the spot after committing the crime,” added Verma. According to the district police chief two more persons were involved in the crime who will be arrested soon. Earlier on Sunday, the district administration handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the wife of the deceased journalist, officials said.In a statement, police said that the cheque was handed over to the family of the deceased by legislator Paltu Ram.The administration will also ensure that the two daughters of Rakesh Singh get free education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanitizer-used-to-burn-scribe-to-death-in-up-s-balrampur-3-held-police/story-S9lga0W2VpZf3lMkE3A3VP.html
30-11-2020||India||Fines for not wearing masks, discounts for shopping during lean hours among Centre’s SOPs for markets||Imposing fines for not wearing masks or not following physical distancing, opening markets on alternate days and closing them if large number of coronavirus cases are reported, are among the measures recommended by the Centre to ensure compliance to COVID-appropriate behaviour in markets.The standard operating procedures for markets issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday to contain spread of coronavirus infection, stated that online booking of groceries and doorstep delivery of those must be encouraged while incentives or discounts for those who shop during non-peak hours may be considered.The SOPs outlined that market places in containment zones shall remain closed. Shop owners and employees living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces, it stated.According to the SOPs, COVID-appropriate behaviour in marketplaces may be regulated by market associations through a number of measures, including creation of a sub-committee for each market to facilitate and monitor implementation of such behaviour in marketplaces.It also suggested setting up mask dispensing kiosks at government-approved rates at entry points of markets and parking lots, establishing hand washing stations in public utility areas while recommending use of foot operated taps and contactless soap dispensers.It also sought for providing mass thermal screening provisions at the entry and access points to the market, procuring thermal guns, sanitizers, disinfectants for sanitization of public utility areas and placement of IEC materials and signages regarding COVID appropriate behaviour in prominent locations. “Where self-regulatory approach fails or lacks impact, the planning shall also entail taking enforcement actions, wherever warranted. This may include levying of fines/penalties on defaulters for not wearing mask/face cover, or for not following physical distancing norms. “Exploring the option of allowing markets/shops to open on alternate days and closure of markets in case larger number of cases are getting reported which are found to be having epidemiological links with the market by the administration,” the SOPs stated.The ministry said market places are visited by a large number of people. With gradual opening of economic activities, markets are witnessing high footfalls, it said. “Such large gatherings, without observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour have the potential to spread coronavirus infection,” the SOP document stated.It also suggested strategies that can be worked out by the law enforcing agencies in collaboration with market associations to manage crowd such as engaging civil defence volunteers, home guards and volunteers to regulate crowd, accessing control at parking lots for limiting vehicle entry and exploring staggered time of shops and utilities, thereby allowing them to remain open for longer duration.“Crowd density does not remain the same throughout. It usually peaks during evening hours on weekdays. On weekends and holidays, marketplaces are crowded for most of the day till late in the evening. Planning should specifically factor-in requirement for these peak days/hours,” the document noted.According to the guidelines, at the entry point of shops, all employees and visitors should undergo mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening and only asymptomatic employees and visitors shall be allowed inside shops while a face-cover or mask has to be worn at all times inside and outside shops.To prevent the risk of transmission of coronavirus, it is crucial that healthy environment is maintained at marketplaces, the SOPs said and recommended sanitization by shop owners prior to resumption of daily activities.Market associations shall facilitate maintaining healthy environment of public utility areas and open spaces through their own means and through local urban bodies and civic agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fines-for-not-wearing-masks-discounts-for-shopping-during-lean-hours-among-centre-s-sops-for-markets/story-WDsmX3T4Lc9sVK0oUojXiP.html
30-11-2020||India||Plea in Delhi High Court to classify transgender as third gender in NCRB’s prison statistics||A public suit has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to recognize and classify transgenders as a separate third gender in their annual publication of prison statistics.The public interest litigation, filed by law graduate Karan Tripathi, sought immediate and urgent intervention of the court as the process of data collection for the next annual publication of the Prison Statistics report 2020 by the NCRB, which is already underway.The Public interest litigation(PIL) is set to come up for hearing before a division bench of the High Court on December 1.Tripathi’s advocates Yash Mishra and Akhil Hasija urged the Delhi High Court to issue directions to the concerned prison authorities and departments to maintain data on transgender prisoners or inmates in each and every document or report required to be maintained by the authorities concerned and departments as per laws applicable.The plea said that to date, only two genders appear in the Prison Statistics India report published by the NCRB -- male and female -- to the complete exclusion of the third gender.“In light of the growing neglect towards the welfare of the transgender community, especially during the COVID-19 and denial of basic necessities to the transgender community in general, it is difficult to imagine the state of transgender prisoners in jails where they are not even recognised as a third gender on paper, let alone in the reality behind the bars,” the plea said.The plea also urged the High Court to direct the Central government and the NCRB to issue directions to the concerned prison authorities and departments to maintain data on transgender prisoners, inmates in each and every document, or report required to be maintained by the said authorities and departments as per laws applicable.It also sought directions to NCRB to take appropriate action to ensure proper implementation of the directions/guidelines passed by the Supreme Court of India in the matter titled as “National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India”.The plea also sought directions to the government to take appropriate action to ensure implementation of the recommendations made in the 2014 report, by the Expert Committee on issues relating to transgenders acting under aegis and directions, in compliance with the direction of the Supreme Court.It sought the formulation of appropriate rules and laws that will govern the protection of rights of the marginalized transgender community in the prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-delhi-high-court-to-classify-transgender-as-third-gender-in-ncrb-s-prison-statistics/story-avwiYfbB7P6Lydws1vAnZM.html
30-11-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA in Odisha faces heat as CID starts probe into job scam||Expelled Biju Janata Dal MLA Pradeep Panigrahy may face trouble as the crime investigation department (CID) of Odisha police on Monday started their investigation into the alleged involvement of Akash Pathak, son of tainted IFS officer Abhay Pathak in a job scam in Ganjam district, officials said.Abhay Pathak and his son Akash were arrested on November 27 and have been remanded in judicial custody till December 9Panigrahy, 57, was expelled from the primary membership of the regional party on Sunday on charges of indulging in anti-people activities. The party, however, did not specify the charges which led to the summary expulsion of the three-time MLA who was once the blue eyed-boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik. Soon after the expulsion, the police put barricades outside Panigrahy’s house.On Monday, S Dharmaraj Reddy of the Congress who contested against Panigrahy from Gopalpur in 2019 and lost, lodged an FIR with local police seeking action against Panigrahy for defrauding 68 youths of the area promising them jobs through fake appointment letters.“Panigrahy through Akash Pathak (who was due to marry Panigrahy’s daughter next month) collected crores of rupees from the unemployed youths promising them jobs but left them high and dry. He also collected money from local sand exporters. The MLA has been terrorising the youths when they asked about the jobs,” the Congress leader alleged in his FIR.Officials said if some of the youths of Gopalpur who were allegedly conned by Akash Pathak with the promise of jobs in Tata Motors lodge complaints with CID and local police it may end up embroiling the former BJD leader.“If some of the defrauded youths lodge a complaint that Panigrahy acted hand in glove with Pathak, he may be arrested. It seems quite improbable that Akash Pathak would have defrauded so many people of Gopalpur area without the complicity of a local politician. A detailed investigation would surely bring out the truth,” said a CID official.Assembly Speaker Suryo Patro said if Panigrahy has to be arrested in a case involving cognisable offence, the police need not seek his permission. “The police just need to inform the Speaker after the arrest,” he said.The state government is also looking at possible corruption angle of Panigrahy while he was minister of state for rural development and minister of state higher education and science and technology between 2014 and 2017. Sources said the vigilance department would soon scan the files of the rural development department as well as the higher education department.Panigrahy claimed he was paying the price for writing several letters to chief minister Patnaik on Covid-19 mismanagement as well as other issues related to the pandemic.“The state government was initially not in favour of bringing back the migrant workers following the outbreak of Covid-19. It seems that I am now paying up the price for writing to the Chief Minister. I also raised the issues of mismanagement in Covid centres as well as the treatment procedures of Covid patients,” said Panigrahy.Post-expulsion, the three-time BJD MLA is now an unattached MLA. If he defects to some other party he would lose his MLA seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-bjd-mla-in-odisha-faces-heat-as-cid-starts-probe-into-job-scam/story-YkhFQxcIp2Sibp3i7HbKRK.html
30-11-2020||India||India refuses to support China’s Belt and Road project at SCO meet||India on Monday didn’t join other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in backing China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which New Delhi has consistently opposed as a key part of it passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). BRI or the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, President Xi Jinping’s flagship programme for trade and connectivity, was backed by Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan in a joint communiqué issued at the end of the SCO council of heads of government meeting hosted by India. The communiqué said the other countries, while “reaffirming their support for China’s ‘One Belt, One Road’ (OBOR) Initiative (BRI), note the ongoing work on joint implementation of this project, including efforts to bridge construction [between] The Eurasian Economic Union and OBOR”. The council of heads of government is SCO’s second highest body and is responsible for handling the trade and economic agenda. This was the first time India hosted a meeting of the body since it was admitted into the eight-member grouping in 2017. India has repeatedly said it will not join BRI because it does not offer a level playing ground to the country’s businesses. It has also opposed BRI because a key component – the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) – passes through PoK. New Delhi’s trade concerns related to Beijing were a key factor behind India’s decision not to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the trade deal recently signed by the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and Australia, China, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash noted that the SCO meeting was held at a time when India is decoupling from China and it was “no longer business as usual” between the two countries. There is also an “unholy alliance” between China and Pakistan that will thwart India’s initiatives, he said. One of India’s main objectives for joining SCO was the desire to forge deeper ties with Central Asian states but the country now needs to assess whether these “efforts were commensurate with the results”, Prakash said. During Monday’s meeting, the heads of delegations said SCO has established itself as an effective platform for cooperation for strengthening multilateralism, rule of international law and the UN Charter, and ensuring “equal, mutual, indivisible, comprehensive and reliable security [and] sustainable socio-economic development”. The heads of delegations called for deepening of cooperation to support a transparent, open, inclusive, fair, non-discriminatory multilateral trading system based on principles and rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and to promote an “open world economy”, the communiqué said. The SCO members also stressed the need to reform WTO, including by improving its key functions such as negotiations, monitoring and dispute resolution. They also pointed to the importance of using international and multilateral organisations to form a “space of broad, open, mutually beneficial and equal interaction in Eurasia”. India proposed the creation of a special working group on innovation and start-ups and an expert working group on traditional medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-doesn-t-join-sco-members-in-endorsing-china-s-belt-and-road-project/story-CBH22ODWVImRFpwkkhehWI.html
30-11-2020||India||‘For some heritage means their family’s name’: PM Modi’s veiled jibe at Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took a veiled dig at dynastic politics as he referred to a centuries-old statue of Goddess Annapurna, which was stolen over a hundred years ago and has been handed over to India by Canada. Without naming the Congress party, the Prime Minister said that the statue would have come back to its original home in Varanasi if such efforts were made earlier.Also Read :India giving befitting reply to anti-national forces, PM Modi says in VaranasiWhile talking about legacy and inheritance, PM Modi said for him the country’s heritage rests only in its culture and values, unlike many others in this country, who value family above all. “It is true that if so much effort was made earlier, the country would have got back many such idols. But some people have different thinking. For us, heritage means the country’s heritage but for some people, heritage means their name and their family’s name. For us, heritage means our culture, our faith. For them, heritage means their own statues, their family photos,” he said while taking part in the Dev Deepawali celebrations in his parliamentary constituency.Also read:Doubts being spread against farm reforms, this has become a new trend: PM Modi in Varanasi“It is due to your blessings that Kashi’s inheritance is coming back. Kashi has decked up after hearing this news,” the Prime Minister told his constituents about the statue of Goddess Annapurna which was stolen in 1913 and smuggled to Canada.He also touched on the topic of Kashi’s development and criticised those who had opposed the implementation of the Kashi-Vishwanath corridor. “When development work started for Kashi, the protesters protested only for the sake of protest. When Kashi decided that Vishwanath Corridor would be built till Baba’s court, the protesters had a lot to say about it too, but today the glory of Kashi is being revived by the grace of Baba. Centuries ago, the direct connection of Baba’s court to Maa Ganga is being re-established,” he stated.Also read: PM Modi to visit Sarnath, watch sound and light showHe briefly talked about the on-going farmers’ protest in Delhi maintaining that the new farm laws will grant farmers freedom from all middlemen. The Prime Minister also offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the occasion of Dev Deepawali. He also lit an earthen lamp at Raj Ghat and earlier in the day inaugurated the six-lane widening project of Rajatalab section of National Highway 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-some-heritage-means-their-family-s-name-pm-modi-s-veiled-jibe-at-congress/story-AoJNcfZRrmiL1mJOrcgCbM.html
30-11-2020||India||87-year-old man arrested for raping minor in Odisha: Police||The Odisha police on Monday arrested an 87-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl in coastal Kendrapara district.Sunakar Patra, shopkeeper in a village under Aul police station of Kendrapara, had taken the minor to his shop on November 23 and kept her there for a long time, said police. When the girl’s mother came to know about it, the police added, she rushed to the place to find her daughter lying in front of the cabin in an unconscious stage.“When the woman asked Patra about it, he remained silent while his son threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed the matter before anyone,” said Aul police station sub-inspector Pradosh Patnaik.The girl’s mother alleged that the family of the accused kept a close watch on her to ensure that no complaint is filed with the police.On Saturday, the girl’s mother managed to file a complaint pleading for justice.On the basis of her complaint, an FIR was registered and Patra was arrested on Monday morning under various sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87-year-old-man-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-odisha-police/story-o6MnSyIcRgsKxVNEMBgd6I.html
30-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Withdraw farm laws, says BJP ally in Rajasthan; threatens to quit alliance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Withdraw farm laws, says BJP ally in Rajasthan; threatens to quit allianceHanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party that partnered with the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2019 on Monday told Home Minister Amit Shah that his party would reconsider its partnership with the BJP if the Centre did not withdraw the three farm laws. Read more‘Messing up Hindutva’: BJP on Sena leader’s azan chanting competitionShiv Sena’s South Mumbai zonal head Pandurang Sakpal’s announcement to hold azan chanting competition on the lines of Gita chanting competition has led to a controversy with the BJP alleging that the party is trying to appease Muslims. Read moreTamil Nadu, Assam allow opening of educational institutions; Rajasthan closes all till Dec 31Tamil Nadu and Assam on Monday announced that some higher education institutions would reopen from December as Covid-19 cases have started coming down in these states. Rajasthan, on the other hand, closed all schools till the end of December to prevent spread of the disease. Read morePM Modi to chair all-party meet to take stock of Covid-19 pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country said a person aware of the details. Read moreThis sensor from Xiaomi can control smart home devices by tracking your movementsThe compact Mi Human Body Sensor 2 tracks movements and triggers corresponding actions and comes with motion detection, the ability to detect light and darkness and also intelligent linkage. Read moreArcher shoots arrow right through doughnut’s hole. His precision wows netizensIf you’re a fan of the superhero genre or enjoy reading about and watching dystopian content, then you may be familiar with characters such as Arrow and Katniss Everdeen. Read moreMosul movie review: Russo brothers’ brutal action film is a worthy follow-up to Endgame and ExtractionMosul, a new war movie co-produced by the Russo brothers, is bookended by two terrific scenes. The immediacy with which we’re thrust into the action almost makes it seem as if Netflix’s da-dum has melded into the sound of gunfire. Read more‘India massively important part of world cricket’: ICC chairman Greg BarclayStating that Indian are a ‘massively important part of world cricket’, the International Cricket Council’s (ICC) newly-elected chairman Greg Barclay on Monday said they have been able to find a way to navigate through the minor differences with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). Read moreWatch: Iran says scientist killed ‘remotely’; blames Israel l Latest updatesA top Iranian security official has alleged that Israel used ‘remote, electronic devices’ to kill its top scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. Officials had originally said that Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a veteran scientist who worked on nuclear and defense projects, was killed outside Tehran on Friday in a bomb and gun attack. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-withdraw-farm-laws-says-bjp-ally-in-rajasthan-threatens-to-quit-alliance-and-all-the-latest-news/story-72PUTVwjlodsjvezQrPXXO.html
30-11-2020||India||Farmers protest impact: Supply of vegetables, fruits from other states impacted||The supply of vegetables and fruits to the city from other states has been impacted and it has been halved at Azadpur Mandi, one of Delhi’s largest wholesale market, owing to the protest by farmers at the Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital for the last five days. Vendors in other parts of Delhi said due to curtailed supply, the wholesale rates of seasonal vegetables has gone up by Rs 50- Rs 100. They said the roadblock at Singhu and Tikri border has impacted supply of vegetables and fruits from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.The arrival of vegetables and fruits to Delhi’s largest wholesale market at Azadpur has been reduced by half due to the closed borders, said Adil Khan, chairman Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee at Azadpur. “During normal days, around 2,500 trucks of vegetables and fruits used to arrive at Azadpur Mandi from other states. The number has come down to around 1,000 trucks now and if the borders remained closed for a few more days, the situation will worsen,” Khan said.He, however, said the rates have not registered any significant rise so far because local produce and stocks are being sold.Some other vendors said the wholesale rates of seasonal vegetables has already gone up by Rs 50- Rs 100 due to the short supply.They said due to obstructions at the border, the trucks are finding it difficult to reach Delhi and those somehow managing to do so are getting delayed by several hours.  “The supply and rates will have further impact if the borders are not opened and traffic is brought back to normal,” they said.Gopal, a wholesale commission agent of green pea at Azadpur market, said supplies have drastically reduced. Normally 40-45 trucks of peas from Punjab’s Amritsar-Hosiarpur belt would arrive on a given day in winters but it has reduced to 15-20 trucks now, he said.“The rates have gone up due to reduced supply and hike in transport charges that have increased by around Rs 10,000 per truck,” he said.The trucks from Punjab carrying fruits and vegetables that would normally take around 9-10 hours for a trip to Delhi, now takes 12-14 hours due to closure of Singhu border, said another wholesaler.The reduced supply has also pushed retail rates in the markets of the city. The rates of potatoes, tomatoes and onion that were already high, have relatively been less affected, said the wholesalers.“The major supply of potatoes and onions to Delhi are from states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and MP and the routes to these states are not affected by the farmers’ stir. “However, supply of vegetables and fruits from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir has been affected,” said Hakim Rahman, a wholesaler at Okhla Mandi.Some wholesalers said the supply was badly impacted for two days of the farmers’ protest but now it has been restored as the trucks were using alternate entry points and routes to enter the city from other states.“The supply had reduced initially for two-three days as the farmers blocked the Singhu and Tikri borders. But, now, the trucks are using other roads and avoiding highways although it has resulted in longer hours of travel and increased transportation charges,” said a vegetable commission agent Srikant Mishra at Azadpur Mandi.He said the supply of new crop of potatoes has also been hit.A fruit wholesaler at Azadpur Mandi, R K Bhatia, said the supply of fruits like apple and Kinnow was hit but rates were more or less the same. Apple in Kashmir was not good this season, so rates were already high and demand was less, he said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Pravin Kapoor claimed that availability of vegetables and fruits is getting short in Delhi and requested Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to pay attention towards the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-impact-supply-of-vegetables-fruits-from-other-states-impacted/story-wIQGh39KR9ocDDz9LAcFUK.html
30-11-2020||India||BJP leaders brainstorm for second day, say govt ready for talks with farmers||Eager to break the deadlock with famers who are agitating for scrapping the new farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership held meetings for a second consecutive day on Monday and sent out the message that the Union government is ready for talks. Union home minister Amit Shah met Union minister for agriculture, NS Tomar earlier in the day to discuss the strategy to break the logjam. A senior party functionary said, “The message from the top is clear that the laws are not anti-farmers and that the farmers are being misled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reiterated that laws will offer better opportunity for the farmers.” The functionary said the government is ready to sit across the table and discuss the new laws and “address whatever concerns” the farmers have. Speaking in Varanasi, the PM on Monday said the laws have given farmers new options and legal protection. He lashed out at the opposition for “misleading” the farmers and said earlier decisions of government were opposed now rumours have become the basis for opposition and propaganda is being served even though the laws favour the farmers. The party has also opted for a cautious, measured response to the agitation. Even though it is pinning the blame on the opposition for provoking the protest, it is taking care not to rile the farmers. “The farmers are innocent. They are being misled by those with vested interests. The laws have barely been implemented and their impact is yet to be ascertained, so how can people rush to call these anti-farmers,” said Rajkuamr Chahar, head of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha. He said the Punjab unit of the Morcha has been communicating with the farmers’ representatives and has relayed the government’s willingness to address their concerns. On Monday, even as the party tried to diffuse the anger against the bills, its ally the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) joined the chorus for the rollback of the laws. Rajasthan lawmaker and RLP chief, Hanuman Beniwal, shot off a letter to Shah, seeking the reversal of the laws. “….In view of the countrywide sentiment in support of the ongoing farmers’ movement, the recently introduced three bills related to agriculture should be immediately withdrawn. (The Centre must) implement all recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, and immediately hold dialogue with farmers in Delhi,” he said. The BJP, however, played down the ally’s demand. Its national spokesperson on economic issues, Gopal Krishna Agarwal said, “We assure all, including our NDA partners that farmers’ well-being and welfare are in our heart. Large scale market reforms are needed and that has always been the consensus.” He went on to add that while the BJP opposes misgivings about the APMC mandis being dismantled and MSP being withdrawn, the opposition is politicizing the issue along with the Arhtiyas (commission agents) and middleman. “We have offered all the basic facilities to farmers, drinking water, toilets, shelters and medical facilities. They have been given permission to protest and also been invited for dialogue. We are open for all discussions on the merits or demerits of the three bills. If farmers have certain serious concerns, we are ready to listen to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-brainstorm-for-second-day-say-govt-ready-for-talks-with-farmers/story-Cp7MfBpPiWb90PSE5iVEMM.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi to chair all-party meet to take stock of Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country said a person aware of the details. The Prime Minister will meet the floor leaders of all parties that have more than five MPs in Parliament to assess the situation on the ground. At the meeting, which will be held through video-conferencing, the PM is likely to take up the issue of the government’s preparation for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. The PM has so-far interacted with six companies involved in the producing the vaccine. On Monday, over video conferencing he interacted with teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. A statement issued by the PM’s office said, “The PM appreciated the efforts being taken by the scientists in these companies to come out with a vaccine solution to tackle Covid-19. The potential of various platforms for vaccine development was also discussed.” Modi also asked the companies to come out with their suggestions and ideas regarding the regulatory processes and related matters and suggested they take extra efforts to inform the general public in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy etc., the PMO said. “Matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc in respect of delivering the vaccines were also discussed…The PM advised all the departments concerned to engage with the manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit in order to serve the needs of the country and the entire world,” the statement said. The all-party meeting comes close on the heels of the Prime Minister’s meeting with a group of chief ministers on November 24. In that meeting the Prime Minister had underlined the need to collectively curb the transmission of Covid-19 and bring the positivity rate under 5%. The Prime Minister had reiterated the need to guard against the spread of the virus and had asked the states to set up task forces or steering committees at district and block levels to prepare for the Covid vaccine programme. Last week, the Union home ministry also released guidelines for surveillance and containment to consolidate the gains that have been achieved against the spread of the virus. The new guidelines which will come into force from December 1, empower the states to impose local restrictions including night curfew to check the spread of the virus. In April the Prime Minister had interacted with the floor leaders of all the parties through video conference. At that meeting he had suggested that it may be necessary to extend the 21 day lockdown that was imposed in March and spoken about the government’s priority to save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-all-party-meet-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-mn9S9UhvntN83h7FOrnhwN.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Messing up Hindutva’: BJP on Sena leader’s azan chanting competition||Shiv Sena’s South Mumbai zonal head Pandurang Sakpal’s announcement to hold azan chanting competition on the lines of Gita chanting competition has led to a controversy with the BJP alleging that the party is trying to appease Muslims. Hitting out at the Sena, its former ally, the BJP accused it of having given up on Hindutva advocated by late Bal Thackeray for the sake of vote bank politics. “Sakpal has given Balasaheb Thackeray’s reference while advocating his attempt to appease Muslims. Balasaheb had opposed the use of loudspeakers in masjids for namaz. Today, the party has messed up with the Hindutva for the sake of vote bank. Sakpal is known to be a close confidant of Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who has been compromising with the fundamental ideology of the party just to save the government,” said leader of opposition and party leader Pravin Darekar said.The azan chanting competition will be held for the school going Muslim students from South Mumbai, said Sakpal. The purpose, said the Sena leader, is to encourage the students from the community for the holy chanting. He said that the azan chanting sounds melodious and he has always been inquisitive about it.“Many students from the community chant azan very skilfully. I think the competition is a first attempt of its kind. It is an age old tradition among the Muslims and nobody should oppose it. Azan is as holy as Mahaarati among Hindu citizens,” he said.The competition will be organised by the Sena and the prizes will be given out to the winners after their selection by a panel of maulanas.Azan is the call to ritual prayer made by a muezzin from the minaret of a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/messing-up-hindutva-bjp-on-sena-leader-s-azad-chanting-competition/story-qPeLuiqiHORf3BOGA4KJjP.html
30-11-2020||India||Rakhi on a song in Lucknow!||Lucknowite and film director Mahrukh Mirza is currently shooting for web-series ‘Tawaif’ in his hometown these days. He has earlier directed Aasif Khan’s debut film ‘Rama O Rama’, ‘Yara Dildara’ and Ayub Khan’s ‘Mashooq’.The filmmaker is shooting a film after a long gap. Avi Kashyap and Sneha Gupta play the lead roles. The multi-starrer series also features Ashmit Patel, Rakhi Sawant, Mukesh Rishi, Ayesha Julka, Raza Murad, Asif Sheikh and Naseeruddin Shah in the cast. The shoot has been underway at various locations since a week. Sneha started her career as contestant in ‘Dance India Dance-3’ and has done shows ‘Ek Vivah Aisa Bhi’ and ‘Dil Dosti Dance’ while Avi hails from Ghaziabad. For the last three days, the crew has been shooting for the title song at the so-called Marine Drive section near Ambedkar Memorial in Gomti Nagar with actor Rakhi Sawant. A large number of the support team of dancers shook a leg with the actor. To maintain social distancing the production team was continuously announcing that an arm’s distance be maintained during the rehearsals and shots. “’Tawaif’ is currently a working title as the film is based on the subject. It’s a modern story on the state of ‘tawaifs’ (dancers) in the backdrop. It’s an 8-episode series and will be shot over 120 days in and around Lucknow. The shoot started on November 19 at a prominent hotel at Parivartan Chowk. Ashmit Patel and Mukesh Rishi have already shot and in coming days we have a galaxy of actors who will come down to shoot,” executive producer Rizwan Khan said. A small portion will be shot in Goa too.A lot of actors from Lucknow are featured in the series which includes Rakhi Jaiswal, Devendra Modi, Meraj Alam and Vandana Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/rakhi-on-a-song-in-lucknow/story-QE62SqWO62x3HPV77TYS5N.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Sarnath, watch sound and light show||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Sarnath on Monday to watch a light and sound show at an archaeological excavation site before leaving Varanasi. This will come shortly after the Prime Minister attended the Dev Deepawali Mahotsav at Rajghat in his parliamentary constituency.In his address, PM Modi addressed a range of issues like connectivity via Varanasi-Prayagraj National highway, farmers’ protest and return of ancient idol of the Goddess Annapurna from Canada. “On the occasion of Dev Deepawali, I pay my tributes to all those who have laid their lives for the nation. The nation is giving a befitting reply to the expansionist forces, to those trying to infiltrate into India or those trying to break India from India,” he also said.Dev Deepavali and the affection of the people of Kashi! 🙏🏼 pic.twitter.com/XRgcL9WR1vAlso read: India giving befitting reply to anti-national forces, PM Modi says in VaranasiEarlier in the day, PM Modi inaugurated a project to add six lanes of the 73-km Varanasi-Prayagraj National Highway during his visit to his Lok Sabha constituency. He also visited the Kashi Vishwanath Mandir and inspected the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor project.Ahead of the PM’s visit, the stairs of the ghats were decorated with flowers and a red carpet, while artists created rangolis and painted pots. As per the officials, arrangements were made up to light 1.1 earthen lamps on the banks of the river.The 30-minute show held every evening between 6.30 and 7pm portrays the journey of transformation of Prince Siddhartha into Lord Buddha. The archaeological museum and excavation site in Sarnath have been closed to the public and tourists till Monday in view of PM Modi’s visit to the excavation site.Also read | Doubts being spread against farm reforms, this has become a new trend: PM Modi in VaranasiSarnath superintending archaeologist Neeraj Sinha said that the entry of tourists and commoners to the archaeological excavation site and the archaeological museum has been prohibited from Saturday till November 30 on the instructions of the district administration.Security has been tightened across Sarnath with the deployment of police personnel at the site, a senior police official said. The Special Protection Group (SPG) also inspected the site and reviewed security arrangements, he added. Security teams equipped with metal detectors have been instructed to regularly patrol the site. The dog squad has also been deployed, a senior security official said.Sarnath is a holy Buddhist site where Lord Buddha gave his first sermon to five pupils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-sarnath-to-watch-sound-and-light-show/story-uPYOYrzWF2NRu0WnY67lPO.html
30-11-2020||India||TN, Assam allow opening of educational institutions; Rajasthan closes all till Dec 31||Tamil Nadu and Assam on Monday announced that some higher education institutions would reopen from December as Covid-19 cases have started coming down in these states. Rajasthan, on the other hand, closed all schools till the end of December to prevent spread of the disease.The educational institutions were supposed to open from the first week of November but most states postponed the reopening as the Covid-19 cases were rising. Only a few states have announced the re-opening of the educational institutions so far.Tamil Nadu government on Monday allowed reopening of classes for all final year undergraduate students from December 7 across arts and science, technical, engineering and agricultural programs.In a statement, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the state will continue to remain in Covid-19-induced lockdown till December 31 but announced some relaxations. Classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students in medicine-related courses will resume from December 7 but classes for first-year students who have been admitted in the 2020-2021 academic year will begin only from February 1, 2021.Assam’s health and education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday said that classes in elementary schools from kindergarten to Class 6 will resume from January 1 and hostels in residential schools and colleges will start in a limited manner from December 15.Also read: Delhi government caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 800“The Covid-19 situation in Assam is satisfactory and under control. But keeping in mind the situation in other parts of India and the world, we are on the alert,” he said.Till Sunday, Assam had recorded 212,617 Covid cases with 981 deaths. At present, there are 3,350 active cases in the state. The recovery rate is 98 per cent while the death rate is at 0.46 per cent. Sarma said the number of positive cases has continuously gone down in November starting from 325 average daily cases in the first week of November to 158 cases daily in the last week.Though Assam had allowed the resumption of offline classes from Class 7 and above earlier, the junior classes had not started in schools. Sarma informed that classes will start in a staggered manner and detailed SOPs will be announced within the next few days.Students will be allowed to attend classes based on written consent from parents while students staying in hostels will be allowed entry only after they undergo Covid-19 tests.In Rajasthan, the government announced that all educational institutions will remain closed till December 31 as the state imposed lockdown in containment zones and extended the night curfew to 13 districts from earlier eight. Night curfew will not be applicable for industry factories having night shifts, pharmacies and marriages.“Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid-19. Over the last few weeks, the number of new cases has been rising. The confluence of certain factors, such as recent festival season, the onset of winter and laxity in the observance of the Covid-19 guidelines, pose the risk of the situation becoming aggravated, thus putting a strain on the health infrastructure,” said Abhay Kumar, principal secretary, home, while issuing the new guidelines.The order also said that in areas outside containment zones, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes will remain closed till December 31. Also, cinema halls, theatres, entertainment parks, social or religious, or any large congregation will not be permitted to function.Rajasthan has recorded over 2.65 lakh Covid-19 cases and death of 2,292 people with the daily average of over 3,000 cases since Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assam-allow-opening-of-educational-institutions-rajasthan-closes-all-till-dec-31/story-8aJOl48vQe2Cv6Zyy1xFbP.html
30-11-2020||India||Superspreader protest? As experts worry about Covid-19, farmers say new laws bigger threat to their survival||The shadow of the pandemic looms large and experts warn their agitation could well be a Covid-19 superspreader but farmers, some in masks and many without them, protesting in Delhi and at gateways into the city say the new farm laws pose a greater threat to their survival. As thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana but also from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, protest at the national capital’s border points and in north Delhi’s Burari ground for the fifth day on Monday, Covid-19 continues its spread. There have been few signs of social distancing during the protests that started last week with the farmers, banded under various organisations, leaving their homes and moving towards Delhi. “A protest is a mass gathering and thus from a public health perspective, I would urge protective and preventive behaviour against the spread of coronavirus infection, failing which a superspreading event might set in,” cautioned Dr Samiran Panda, head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Seeking strict compliance with norms, he said It is important to note that SARS-COV-2 is a transmission efficient virus and such gatherings are conducive to its spread.Many of the farmers, threatening to block all five entry points into the capital, said they are aware the infection is still raging but the Centre’s new farm laws are a bigger threat. Gurmeet Singh from Faridkot in Punjab, for instance, has been at the Burari ground, one of the largest in the city, for three days and counting. And he has no intention of moving. For him, and hundreds of other farmers at the North Delhi ground where they were allowed to congregate, the three contentious farm laws are a bigger disease.“We may even survive corona, but how will we survive this cruel law that will take away our bread and butter,” Gurmeet told PTI.In another corner of the sprawling ground, a team of seven medicos from Delhi’s AAP government has tested over 90 farmers for Covid-19 since November 28.“There have been no positives as yet,” said a medical officer on the condition of anonymity.“We tested 40 people on the 28th, then another team took over, and today we have tested 50 people so far,” the officer said. Several e-rickshaws roamed the ground to create awareness of the disease and the necessity of wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene. But the message appeared to be getting drowned out in the slogans, protest songs and speeches. Gursharanjeet Singh from Bilaspur, Uttar Pradesh, said his family is entirely dependent on produce from their six-acre farm. “If we stay careful we won’t get corona, but if we don’t protest against these farm laws and this government we will definitely die of hunger,” he said.His desperation finds resonance at the Singhu and Tikri border points, where farmers have been camping in large numbers. Some volunteers were distributing masks to the protesting farmers. As the farmers, many who came in tractor-trolleys and trucks in preparation for a long haul, continued their protest, two doctors, Sarika Verma and Karan Juneja, were at Singhu, urging farmers to wear masks and maintain social distancing.“We are also offering treatment if anybody faces any problem or injury,” Verma said. Delhi has already been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases post Diwali celebrations and with pollution levels increasing. On Sunday, the city recorded 4,906 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 68 fatalities, taking the total number of cases to 5,66,648 with 5,22,491 recoveries. The number of India cases is 94,31,691 with 38,772 new infections, according to Union Health Ministry data on Monday. Dr K K Aggarwal, president of the Confederation of Medical Association of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) and former IMA president, said the farmers’ agitation should not have been allowed by the government.Politics should never get precedence in a pandemic, he said. “Government has the powers under the Diseases Epidemic Act to take control of any situation which can spread the infection,” he said.“The farmers’ agitation will end up in superspreading events which will not only be a danger to Delhi but also to the whole country,” he asserted. As experts worry at the lack of safeguards to prevent the infection from spreading, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the farmers fear they will lose their livelihoods. “The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus…,” the farmer leader told PTI over the phone. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers’ agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls. “When Bihar elections took place, where was Covid-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus?” he asked, an apparent reference to the election rallies. He claimed the issue comes up only when farmers begin an agitation for their rights.A spokesperson for the BKU’s Haryana unit led by Gurnam Singh Charuni said farmers are trying their best to keep Covid-19 at bay. “As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre’s farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them,” he said. He said it is now up to the Centre to accept their demands. When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said, “No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back.” At the Sonipat border, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers. “Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance,” he said. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out, he added. The health department also plans to carry out random tests for Covid-19. The contentious laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Unions have expressed apprehension that the new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, says that the new laws give farmers options to get higher prices for their crops and the MSP regime will still continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/superspreader-protest-as-experts-worry-about-covid-19-farmers-say-new-laws-bigger-threat-to-their-survival/story-GdzBJEjurcybjPtwwWrEBJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Cochin port comes under scanner as Kerala gold smuggling probe expands||Investigators probing the Kerala gold smuggling case suspect the yellow metal was also smuggled into the country through Cochin port even as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) heading the investigation sought legal opinion to charge arrested bureaucrat M Sivasankar under the Unlawful Prevention Activities Act (UAPA).During investigation, central agencies found that on April 2 a cargo shipment was cleared at Cochin port without check and Customs officials said they were pressured by some influential people to release it. “We have information that some shipments were released without mandatory check. Some of the accused inteh gold smuggling case had visited the port on several occasions and they used their proximity with the higher-ups to get the shipments released,” said a senior official, who did not want to be named. He also said that clearing officials and agents will be questioned soon. He said details of all recent shipments from Persian Gulf countries have been sought from port authorities and Customs. The central agencies are also planning to probe some of the former officials of the Cochin Port Trust and Customs. The senior official said more information emerged after retrieving vital data from the destroyed phones of some of the accused in the gold smuggling case. Investigators also traced a private phone reportedly used by Sivasankar. The gold smuggling racket came to light on July 5 after the seizure of 30 kg of yellow metal from a consignment addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital. Thirty-four people have been arrested so far in the case. One of the alleged key funders Rabins Hameed was extradited from the UAE last month and another key suspect Faizal Fareed will be brought from the UAE next week, the official said. The NIA is also planning to slap the UAPA against Sivasankar, former secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Smuggling was included in the list of anti-national activities with an amendment to the UAPA last year. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate raided the Uralungal Labour Co-operative Society headquarters in Vadakara north Kerala on Monday and sought details of some of the works being carried out by the society. It is learnt that the raid was in connection with the ongoing investigation against the CM’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran. But society president Ramesan Paleri said it was not a raid and officials were given details that they sought. The Labour Co-operative Society which is involved in construction business, is very close to the ruling CPI(M) and most of its office-bearers are party workers. The ED is also planning to summon Raveendran in a couple of days, the official said. He was summoned last month but he could not appear before the central agency after he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cochin-port-comes-under-scanner-as-kerala-gold-smuggling-probe-expands/story-mTTO1Jrz3ERuPG6cLrupgL.html
30-11-2020||India||India giving befitting reply to anti-national forces, PM Modi says in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India is giving a befitting reply to anti-national forces inside and out of the country as he paid tributes to the soldiers of the country. “On the occasion of Dev Deepawali, I pay my tributes to all those who have laid their lives for the nation. The nation is giving a befitting reply to the expansionist forces, to those trying to infiltrate into India or those trying to break India from India,” he said ar Raj Ghat in his parliamentary constitution of Varanasi.The Prime Minister also talked about the ancient idol of Goddess Annapurna, stolen from a temple in Varanasi and smuggled out of the country in 1913, which will be brought back to India from Canada. “There is another special occasion for Kashi. More than 100 years ago, the idol of Mata Annapurna that was stolen from Kashi is now coming back again. Mother Annapurna is returning home once again. It is a matter of great fortune for Kashi,” he said.The Prime Minister said these ancient idols of our gods and goddesses are a symbol of our faith as well as our priceless heritage. It is also true that if such effort had been made earlier, the country would have got back many such statues. But some people think in a different way, he said. “For us heritage means the country’s heritage. While inheritance means for some people, their family and their family name. For us heritage means our culture, our faith, our values. For them, heritage means their idols and family photos,” he said.“Today, along with the banks of Ma Ganga, Kashi is celebrating Dev Deepawali and with the blessings of Mahadev, I also got an opportunity to take dip in the light of the festivities,” he said in his address.The Prime Minister lit a lamp at Raj Ghat in Varanasi during the Dev Deepawali, a festival of light and fervour in Varanasi celebrated on the full moon of the Hindu month of Kartik 15 days after Diwali. The stairs at the ghat have been decorated with flowers and a red carpet and artists have created rangolis and painted pots. Officials have been said 1.1 million earthern lamps will be lit on the banks of the river.Before this, PM Modi offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He also launched the Pawan Path website which will provide information about temples of Kashi. The Prime Minister also inaugurated the six-lane widening project of the Handia in Prayagraj to Varanasi’s Rajatalab section of National Highway 19 during his visit. The 73-km stretch of the newly widened and six laned NH19, made with a total outlay of Rs 2,447 crore, is expected to reduce the travel time between Prayagraj and Varanasi by one hour, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.Modi said during one of his speeches that farmers, who have been protesting the three farm laws, said they they were being misled and reiterated that the deregulation would benefit them. “The new agricultural laws have been brought in for benefit of the farmers. We will see and experience benefits of these new laws in the coming days,” he said and blamed the opposition for spreading rumours about the future of farmers.As PM Modi concluded his speech, he said that the stream of development will keep flowing like Ma Ganga. He will go to Sarnath and would watch a light and sound show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-giving-befitting-reply-to-anti-national-forces-pm-modi-says-in-varanasi/story-DqppzueB8AHE0rr2ydAniO.html
30-11-2020||India||Man gets anticipatory bail from Delhi HC after marrying woman he allegedly raped||The Delhi High Court has granted anticipatory bail to a man facing rape charges after the family of the survivor submitted that they no objection to the same and informed the court that the accused has married the woman.A bench of Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri decided to allow the anticipatory bail plea filed by the accused after the mother of the prosecutrix submitted that the petitioner has married the prosecutrix and she has no objection if the petitioner is released on anticipatory bail.“Keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances, it is directed that in the event of his arrest, the petitioner be released on anticipatory bail on a personal bond in the sum of Rs 25,000 with one surety in the like amount,” the bench said in its order on November 27.The High Court, in its order, also imposed several conditions on the anticipatory bail including that the petitioner shall not leave the jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi without prior permission of the concerned court and that he shall remain available on his mobile number, which he undertakes to keep operational at all times during the period of the trial.Also Read | Rise in crimes against women, children in Mumbai in 2019-2020: Praja Foundation reportAmong other conditions, the court directed the petitioner to inform the investigating officer or the station house officer in case of a change of residential address or contact details.The prosecutrix as well as her mother had joined the court proceedings through video conferencing. The Counsel for the petitioner, during the arguments, had submitted that the present FIR has been lodged on account of a misunderstanding between the parties and the complainant has already given a request for re-recording of her statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure.The petitioner’s counsel further submitted that the petitioner is a government servant and has joined the investigation. It is further submitted that although the alleged incident was committed between the period from January to June 2020, however, the FIR came to be registered only on July 12, 2020, the counsel submitted.Additional public prosecutor, on the other hand, had opposed the bail application and stated that the prosecutrix has supported her allegations in her statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-gets-anticipatory-bail-from-delhi-hc-after-marrying-woman-he-allegedly-raped/story-K3VCkARLLjmP1LoRvM6DMP.html
30-11-2020||India||Centre asks states to identify healthcare workers to carry out Covid-19 inoculation drive||The Centre has asked states to identify healthcare workers, including doctors, pharmacists as well as MBBS and BDS interns, who will carry out a Covid-19 inoculation drive once a vaccine is available. The Centre in its letter to states and UTs has said the MBBS and BDS doctors as well as interns, staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives and pharmacists would be considered as potential vaccinators, for carrying out the drive, provided that they are actively involved in day-to-day provision of clinical care and have experience in administering injections.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“Further, the states may also consider retired personnel from above mentioned categories, as applicable, that may be utilised to meet the demand for vaccinators,” the letter written on November 23 by Additional Secretary, Union Health Ministry, Vandana Gurnani said.According to Union Health Ministry officials, the anti-coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Covid-19 inoculation programme, using the processes, technology and network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). It would run parallel to the UIP. The letter said the government has initiated preparations for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine upon its availability and as part of it, one of the activities is creation of a database of healthcare workers who will be prioritised for coronavirus vaccine. This database will be uploaded on Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoVIN), it said.It is reiterated that the potential vaccinators among the healthcare workers need to be identified for support during the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the letter stated.“You are kindly requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure identification of the mentioned potential vaccinators in the database of healthcare workers being created for upload on CoVIN software. Appropriate training of the potential vaccinators will be carried out before utilising them for Covid-19 vaccination drives.“You are requested to kindly identify the pool of potential vaccinators which will be available once the Covid-19 vaccine is available as per the list shared,” the letter read.According to sources, around one crore frontline healthcare workers, including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers among others been identified who will be given the Covid-19-vaccine whenever it becomes available.Also Read | French health body says nursing homes should get Covid-19 vaccine firstIt may be mentioned here that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has offered the services of its over three lakh members in the Covid-19 inoculation programme of the government, once a vaccine is available, and also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to effectively use its trained manpower for this noble cause.The Union Health Ministry has also asked states to conduct planning and mapping of vaccination sessions where healthcare workers will be vaccinated during the first phase. Mapping human resources across departments could be deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier said a Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available by the first quarter of 2021.He had said the Centre estimates to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine covering around 25 crore people by July next year.  “The prioritisation of groups for Covid-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations -- occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-identify-healthcare-workers-to-carry-out-covid-19-inoculation-drive/story-8aiMJ9EsQs1UxXI2pXAn5I.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Up to them’: MEA on Pakistan cooperating with India’s initiatives at SCO||The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said on Monday whether Pakistan will join India’s initiatives at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting is up to them and backed this with SCO charter’s provision. “As far as whether Pakistan is going to join (our) initiatives, it’s up to them. SCO charter has a provision that one country cannot hold up cooperation in areas and allows member countries which are interested to take it forward with the exclusion of one country that is opposing,” MEA secretary Vikas Swarup said.Swarup said that India considers SCO as an important regional organisation to promote cooperation in the areas of peace, security, trade, economy and culture. “We are committed to deepening our cooperation with SCO by playing a proactive, positive and constructive role,” the MEA secretary said.Also read: PM Modi, Imran Khan to skip SCO summit todayEarlier in the day, India indirectly cornered Pakistan for using terrorism as an instrument of state policy and called for collective efforts to combat the menace during a meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, who chaired the virtual meeting of the council, hurled the attack without naming Pakistan and said, “India condemns terrorism in all its manifestations. We remain concerned about threats emerging from ungoverned spaces and are particularly concerned about states that leverage terrorism as an instrument of state policy.”Panning Pakistan’s stance, Naidu said, “Such an approach is entirely against the spirit and ideas and the charter of the SCO. Elimination of this threat will help all of us realise our shared potential and create conditions for stable and secure economic growth and sustainable development.”Naidu also criticised Pakistan for attempting to use SCO to raise bilateral matters and said this went against the grouping’s charter, which safeguards the sovereignty and territorial integrity of member states.Also read | SCO meet: India launches thinly veiled attack on Pakistan over terrorismPakistan has repeatedly sought to raise bilateral matters such as the Kashmir issue at multilateral forums and India had walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO in September after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-them-mea-on-pakistan-cooperating-with-india-s-initiatives-at-sco/story-k4lP3VqrZ8t7BA2SPOKDZK.html
30-11-2020||India||Tight security for second phase of polling in DDC election in J-K||Polling will be held for 43 seats in the second phase of election for the District Development Council in Jammu and Kashmir amid tight security on Tuesday.On Saturday, in the first phase of polling 51.7% voting was recorded. The polling passed off peacefully without any major incident. The eight-phase election will end on December 19 and the counting will be held on December 22.“Of the total 280 DDC constituencies in J&K, 25 will go to polls in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu in the second phase of the election,” State Election Commissioner, K K Sharma said.Sharma said that 7.90 lakh voters are eligible for voting in the second phase and 142 polling stations have been set up across the union territory. He said that 321 candidates are in the fray for the second phase of the DDC polls, 196 in Kashmir and 125 in Jammu. “In Kashmir, 1,305 polling stations have been set up and 837 in Jammu for the second phase of polling.” Sharma said that in Kashmir all the polling stations are sensitive and adequate security arrangements have been made for the polling.He also said that 58 sarpanches and 804 panches have been elected unopposed in the bypolls.”The elections will be held for 164 panchayat halqas. In the second phase, polling will be held for 87 sarpanch seats for which 223 candidates are in the fray. Polling will also be held for 705 panch seats tomorrow. A total of 1,815 panches will be elected in the bypolls.” He said in the first phase, people came out in good numbers to vote for which all political parties and independent candidates need to be complimented. “For the second phase people should also come out to vote without fear.”He said security arrangements for the second phase of the DDC election will be more elaborate and 169 companies of central forces would be deployed at polling stations and during the de-induction of the staff.“The panches and sarpanches who got elected will be provided proper security after proper assessment,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tight-security-for-second-phase-of-polling-in-ddc-election-in-j-k/story-azk34qMf6DVGN51BfeheDJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Our ‘Go South’ policy blends with India’s ‘Act East’: Taiwan’s representative tells HT||In his first interview to the Indian media since he took over as head of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in New Delhi in September, Taipei’s de-facto ambassador Baushuan Ger said convergence on new security threats, such as disregard for shared norms and values by other nations and Covid-19, can add momentum to efforts to upgrade cooperation between India and Taiwan. Ger said Taiwan is looking to India, as chair of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) executive board, to ensure the body takes a “leave no one behind” stance when considering Taiwan’s participation in WHO and related meetings and mechanisms. Here are the excerpts from the interview: Q. As you begin your term in India, what are your priorities for taking forward India-Taiwan relations? A. This year marks the 25th anniversary of the establishment of our respective representations in New Delhi and Taipei. Taiwan and India are reliable and natural partners to each other. Our two countries share fundamental essential values such as freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Markedly, there is a vast intersection between India’s “Act East Policy” and Taiwan’s “New Southbound Policy”, which aims to enhance Taiwan’s relations with targeted 18 countries in Southeast Asia, South Asia and Oceania. During my tenure, I will focus on people-to-people exchanges across areas such as trade and investment, science and technology as well as education and culture. We are witnessing the restructuring of global supply chains that have created a lot of opportunities for Taiwan and India to further enhance our links in the area of manufacturing. We should, therefore, carefully appraise our respective positions and make policies to forge a stronger partnership. Also read: Novel coronavirus may enter brain via nose, study saysQ. With bilateral trade crossing $7 billion and recording growth of 40 per cent during 2017 and 2018, what more can be done to drive economic ties and investment? A. A major factor driving rapid trade development are Taiwanese businesses integrating their supply and production chains with emerging opportunities in India to secure efficient production and low-cost benefit. In India, Taiwanese businesses operate comprehensive industrial chains that focus on various products, such as medical devices, auto parts, machinery, steel, electronics, construction, engineering etc., most of which are ICT products. Closer trade and investment will benefit Indian industries and facilitate their partnership to connect with supply chains globally. In terms of our industrial structures, Taiwan and India are very complementary. Therefore, I can see tremendous business opportunities and potential in our future cooperation. Taiwan and India should continue to engage with greater effort in building resilient supply chains across key sectors, increasing the value addition of industry, and leveraging Taiwan’s hardware production to link with India’s software service. Q. There are reports that three Taiwanese suppliers of Apple Inc are planning to invest $900 million in India in the next five years. Are there plans to boost investments? Does Taiwan have plans to join India’s ‘Make in India’ initiative and to support India’s plans to become a hub for global supply chains? A. Taiwan excels at hardware manufacturing while India’s expertise and competence lies in software development. India enjoys a demographic dividend as well as a perfect location with respect to market access in East Asia, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Responding to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have noticed that India has doubled down on its ‘Make in India’ initiative and Self-Reliant India (Atmanirbhar Bharat) to boost the economy and attract foreign investment. India, therefore, is invigorated to put more effort to attract Taiwanese businesses. Taiwan’s industries, especially ICT and electronics, have become technologically autonomous. We are glad to see India continue to improve its investment environment, as this benefits Taiwanese businesses looking to expand investment in India. Taiwan’s “Go South” synchronises with India’s “Act East”, creating a win-win for both. Also read: Delhi government caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 800Q. You are beginning your tenure at a time when both Taiwan and India face challenges due to the actions of China. Is there scope for India and Taiwan to work together to overcome such challenges? Commentators in Taiwan and India have called for redefining the relationship between the two countries and making them more comprehensive. Should relations between the two sides be upgraded? A. Enhancement of bilateral relations shall be based on the mutual interests of both countries rather than consideration of other external factors. In the past 25 years, both Taiwan and India have greatly benefited from the ever-growing trade and investment, education exchanges and technological collaborations. Now it is time for us to redefine our mutually beneficial objectives and the strategies to achieve them. Promoting economic connections and social exchanges remain the priority, but other new areas shall be taken into consideration. Economic diplomacy is the mantra. New security threats such as Covid-19, disobedience [of] shared norms and values, environmental disasters, as well as cybersecurity, are also becoming our common concerns. I believe a convergence of such new security interests could further create the momentum to upgrade the cooperation framework between our two sides. India plays a key role in the stability and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific region and Taiwan is an essential partner in achieving the goal. Q. How grave is the threat currently posed to Taiwan by China? Is the world community doing enough about this situation? A. China’s attempts to intimidate Taiwan militarily have never ceased. It continues to dispatch military aircraft and vessels to circle Taiwan and provoke us. Since January this year to date, the PLA has dispatched more than 300 military aircraft to intrude into Taiwan’s air defence identification zone (ADIZ). Intrusions by a range of Chinese warplanes have become almost a daily occurrence. In response to the intrusions amid escalating cross-Taiwan strait tensions, Taiwan’s Air Force scramble jets to chase off the intruding Chinese aircraft, issue radio warnings and mobilise air defence systems to monitor their movements. The US recently approved a sale of defensive weapons package worth US $600 million to Taiwan. The weapons will help Taiwan further enhance its ability to maintain cross-strait peace and regional stability. We are committed to upholding cross-strait stability, but this is not something Taiwan can shoulder alone; it is the joint responsibility of the international community. Also read: Moderna to seek US, EU emergency authorization todayQ. Can India and Taiwan cooperate on international platforms such as the World Health Organization (WHO) as the global community explores ways to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and similar challenges in future? Would Taiwan expect countries such as India to back its efforts to become a member of WHO? A. Taiwan sincerely congratulates India on its new role as chair of WHO’s Executive Board earlier this year. As the most important international organisation guiding the development of global public health and defending the right to health, WHO should welcome participation by all stakeholders, including Taiwan. As viruses like Covid-19 acknowledge no borders, we hope, India will help ensure WHO maintains a professional and “leave no one behind” stance when considering issues related to Taiwan’s participation in the WHO and its related meetings, mechanisms and activities. Q. How can India and Taiwan cooperate to overcome the health and economic impacts of the Covid-19 crisis? Is Taiwan looking to India for help with vaccines? A. The Covid-19 pandemic has generated the worst global health, economic and social crises. No country, no economy, and no society can combat and counter this pandemic alone. Currently, the world is tackling another wave of the virus. The pandemic remains our most important issue to tackle. Taiwan and India can work together to achieve a strong, resilient, green and inclusive recovery when fighting and containing the virus. We must continue to adopt all necessary measures and technologies to protect public health. Strong multilateral action is needed to match the level of ambition of national responses. International cooperation will be key to developing and distributing vaccines at large and to support countries and regions in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-go-south-policy-blends-with-india-s-act-east-taiwan-s-representative-tells-ht/story-4eEEQhDuUuv03V6HLkQ4DP.html
30-11-2020||India||Red, orange alerts for 5 Kerala districts; warning of very heavy rains in parts of south India||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued red and orange rain alerts for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts of Kerala for December 2 and 3.IMD has also issued warnings for Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala that are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during December 2 and 3 and isolated heavy rainfall on December 1 and 4. The department in a tweet added that heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over south coastal Andhra Pradesh too during December 2 and 3 and over Lakshadweep during December 3 and 4. iii) Heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh during 2nd & 03rd December and over Lakshadweep during 03rd and 4th December, 2020.The alerts came after IMD projected intensification of depression over the southeast Bay of Bengal that can lead to a cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours. The weather department said, “It is very likely to intensify further into a Deep Depression during the next 12 hours. It is also likely to intensify further into a Cyclonic Storm during subsequent 24 hours.”Also Read | Another storm could hit Tamil Nadu after Cyclone Nivar: IMDDue to the harsh weather conditions, fishermen have been advised to not enter the southeast Bay of Bengal from November 30 to December 1, southwest Bay of Bengal and east Sri Lanka coast from December 1 to 3. “Total suspension of fishing operations during 30th November to 4th December over the areas. Fishermen out at Sea are advised to return to the coast by today,” IMD added.If the depression deepens into a cyclone then it would be a second storm hitting the southern states of India in less than a week. The ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ of Cyclone Nivar had hit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on November 26. While no large-scale damage to life or property was claimed, Nivar caused heavy rains and had flooded Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-orange-alerts-for-5-kerala-districts-warning-of-very-heavy-rains-in-parts-of-south-india/story-SfT6ThwRb0VMgObfH0BobO.html
30-11-2020||India||Withdraw farm laws, says BJP ally in Rajasthan; threatens to quit alliance||Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party that partnered with the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2019 on Monday told Home Minister Amit Shah that his party would reconsider its partnership with the BJP if the Centre did not withdraw the three farm laws. Beniwal also demanded that the Centre implement the recommendations of the Swaminath Commission and hold dialogue with farmers in Delhi in the right spirit.Hanuman Beniwal, who was once in the Bharatiya Janata Party, floated his party before the 2018 state elections and became part of the National Democratic Alliance right before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Beniwal won the Lok Sabha election from Nagaur in 2019. His party had won 3 seats in the state elections the previous year and had put up a tough fight in quite a few others.The jat leader’s threat to consider exiting the NDA is seen to indicate the discomfort within the regional party over the protests that erupted against the three farm laws enacted by the BJP-led coalition at the Centre that change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets.The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior ministers have tried to dispel concerns around the three laws, telling that these had opened up new opportunities for cultivators.But leaders of farmers who have been marching to national capital Delhi against the law aren’t convinced and have insisted that their agitation will continue. Thousands of farmers have been camping on the borders of Delhi and in the city’s Burari grounds since November 27, a day after their Delhi Chalo agitation was launched from Punjab. The protests have since then spread to pockets in other states as well.In a string of tweets that he followed up with a letter to Amit Shah, Hanuman Beniwal said his party would be forced to reconsider its alliance if prompt action is not taken since farmers and the youth formed the core support base of his party.In a video message earlier, Beniwal said the RLP had protested the three farm laws through social media and on the streets. “Today, I have written to Shah that if the laws aren’t withdrawn, then we will reconsider our alliance with NDA,” he said.“We are with the farmers and if required will march to Delhi. The PM and Shah should hold dialogue with farmers, and provide space to hold dharna in the capital. If any kind of ill-treatment is done with the farmers, then the farmers of the entire country will be on streets to gherao Delhi,” he said.Beniwal’s tweets came a day after chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding withdrawal of the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-farm-laws-says-bjp-ally-in-rajasthan-threatens-to-quit-alliance/story-0eCwMBWrKvwGcbJP08sGEO.html
30-11-2020||India||One time power bill settlement scheme launched in Goa||A one-time settlement scheme for power consumers was launched in Goa on Monday by Chief minister Pramod Sawant in the presence of Electricity Minister Nilesh Cabral.Sawant called it one of the biggest steps in the state in the last 60 years and said a similar scheme would be launched by the public works department (PWD) for water bills.Cabral said delayed payment fee would be dropped, fully or partially, under this power settlement scheme, for which applications can be made all through December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-time-power-bill-settlement-scheme-launched-in-goa/story-s4zvJavZH30hlPzFTijGLM.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19 stops outsiders, only locals allowed for Kartik Poornima bath in Haridwar||The administration in Haridwar allowed the local people to take ritual baths in the various ghats of the Ganga on the occasion of Kartik Poornima on Monday after the Akhada Parishad, Ganga Sabha, priests and trader organizations insisted that bathing for locals be allowed.The administration had earlier ordered a blanket ban n the festivities due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand. Usually lakhs of people arrive for the ritual baths, but this time due to curbs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, only around 40,000 to 50,000 local people showed up.As soon as the news of the waiver spread, local people started thronging the Ganga ghats from the morning. At the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent Ganga ghats local pilgrims were seen bathing in the river.According to district magistrate C Ravi Shankar local people were allowed with strict adherence and guidelines of social distancing norms at Ganga ghats. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad and Ganga Sahha had condemned the state government move to impose a blanket ban on Kartik Poornima festive bath for devotees. A delegation of Ganga Sabha and local traders had also met Uttarakahnd’s urban development cabinet minister Madan Kaushik to press their demand.“Kartik Poornima is a major festive bath in Hindu festive calendar dedicated to Lord Vishnu. It is also the last festive bath of the year. Earlier Somwati Amawasya festive bath and Kanwar fair was canceled by the administration. While election rallies are allowed, why only religious spiritual occasions are being targeted?” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. While the locals were fortunate to take a dip in the Ganga, police turned away pilgrims from other states heading for Haridwar to take a ritual bath.Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border posts at Chidiyapur, Kali Nadi, Mandawar, Narsain were barricaded all day.“As Kartik Poornima bath has been cancelled no pilgrims from other states were allowed to enter the district area. Only those people who were coming for some other purpose having documents to substantiate, patients, official work and those for marriages were permitted,” said Shyampur’s station house officer (SHO) Deepak Kathait. Ganga Sabha also ensured pilgrims adhere to social distancing and wearing masks compulsorily. “We thank the administration for allowing local pilgrims and those from other states coming for immersion of ashes and pre-scheduled religious events. Approximately 40 to 50 thousand pilgrims arrived at Har-Ki-Pauri, Malviya ghat, Subash ghat , Vishnu ghat, Kushawrat ghat, Nai Sota and adjacent Ganga ghats,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha. Superintendent of city police Kamlesh Upadhyay said that a meeting was held at Har-Ki-Pauri police post Sunday evening with Ganga Sabha office representatives, teerth purohits , police officials and local traders regarding restrictive Kartik Poornima festive bathing amidst social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-stops-outsiders-only-locals-allowed-for-kartik-poornima-bath-in-haridwar/story-SNFWb4lPCiTggyTnqAnn6O.html
30-11-2020||India||UP’s new Covid-19 guidelines authorise districts to clamp night curfew||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday issued a fresh set of guidelines, authorising the districts’ administration to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, depending on the assessment and requirement of the situation in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a circular issued by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari.The chief secretary has, however, clarified that no lockdown outside the containment zones can be imposed without the prior permission from the Central government.The guidelines with regard to social and other gatherings, including marriage parties, outside containment zones will remain the same as issued by the state government on November 23.The new instructions that are largely a reiteration of the Union home ministry’s November 25 guidelines will come into effect on December 1 and will remain in place till further orders.Issuing the circular, the chief secretary has asked commissioners, district magistrates and other officials to strictly enforce the fresh guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution against Covid-19 infection.Also read: Delhi government caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 800The chief secretary said though the number of positive cases had declined in most of the places, the positivity rate had increased in some cities and this, he added, called for extreme caution and alertness since the virus may further spread due to festive gatherings and the cold weather.Citing the new guidelines, the chief secretary said depending on their assessment of the situation and the requirement, the DM could clamp down night curfews and also impose Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) even outside a containment zone to contain the spread of the virus.He also asked them to ensure demarcation of containment zones at the micro-level in line with the Centre’s call for “dynamic containment zones.”“It has to be ensured that no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services, is allowed,” the chief secretary directed the officials.“The surveillance teams made for this purpose will necessarily do intensive monitoring of each house under the containment zones and quick isolation of Covid-19 patients (will be) ensured,” he said.Tiwari said the protocol related to social distancing, washing of hands and wearing of masks must be enforced strictly as before. He asked officials to penalise people who were found without a mask on their face in public places.The new guidelines advise the vulnerable, including people above 65 years age and those with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age, not to step out of their home unless it is essential to go out for a medical emergency.The DMs and other officers concerned have been asked to ensure social distancing in workplaces by considering staggered timings.“In cities, where the weekly case positivity rate is in more than 10 per cent, the officers concerned will consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures, with a view to reducing the number of employees attending office at the same time, thereby ensuring social distancing,” the chief secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-new-covid-19-guidelines-authorise-districts-to-clamp-night-curfew/story-CNDPxCWW2bbz9YJpUeCnPN.html
30-11-2020||India||Moderna to seek US, EU emergency authorization Monday after Covid-19 vaccine 94.1% effective||Moderna Inc said it will apply for US and European emergency authorization of its Covid-19 vaccine on Monday based on full results from a late-stage study showing its vaccine was 94.1% effective with no serious safety concerns.It also reported a 100% success rate in preventing severe cases. The filing sets Moderna’s product up to be the second vaccine likely to receive US emergency use authorization this year.“We believe that we have a vaccine that is very highly efficacious. We now have the data to prove it,” Moderna Chief Medical Officer Dr. Tal Zaks said in a telephone interview. “We expect to be playing a major part in turning around this pandemic.”Zaks said he was emotional after seeing the 94.1% result over the weekend: “It was the first time I allowed myself to cry. At this level of effectiveness, when you just do the math of what it means for the pandemic that’s raging around us, it’s just overwhelming.”Moderna’s announcement follows news from Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech SE that their vaccine, which also uses a new technology called synthetic messenger RNA (mRNA), was 95% effective. Pfizer has applied for emergency use authorization, putting it about a week ahead of Moderna.Read more | UK secures 2 million more doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccineIn addition to filing its US application, Moderna said it would apply for conditional approval from the European Medicines Agency, which has already begun a rolling review of data, and would continue to talk with other regulators conducting rolling reviews.Moderna’s latest efficacy result is slightly lower than an interim analysis released on November 16 of 94.5% effectiveness, a difference that Zaks said is not statistically significant.Both the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines proved more effective than anticipated and far superior to the 50% benchmark set by the US Food and Drug Administration.Britain’s AstraZeneca has announced an average efficacy rate of 70% for its vaccine and as much as 90% for a subgroup of trial participants who got a half dose first, followed by a full dose. But some scientists have expressed doubts about the robustness of the 90% efficacy figure for the smaller group.Still, the past few weeks of positive vaccine results have ignited hopes for an end to a pandemic that has battered economies and claimed more than 1.45 million lives worldwide. It comes as new infections and Covid-19 hospitalizations are at record levels across the United States.Independent advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration are scheduled to meet on December 17 to review Moderna’s trial data and make a recommendation to the FDA. They will meet on December 10 to review Pfizer’s data.Shortly after gaining emergency use authorization, Moderna expects the vaccine to be shipped to designated distribution points throughout the United States by the government’s Operation Warp Speed program and McKesson Corp, a drug distributor contracted by the US government.Its distribution is expected to be easier than Pfizer’s because while it needs to be stored in a freezer, it does not require the ultra-cold temperature needed by Pfizer’s vaccine.Of the 196 volunteers who contracted Covid-19 in the more than 30,000-person trial, 185 had received a placebo versus 11 who got the vaccine. The company reported 30 severe cases - all in the placebo group - which means the vaccine was 100% effective at preventing severe cases. The trial included one Covid-19-related death in the placebo group.Moderna said the vaccine’s efficacy was consistent across age, race, ethnicity and gender demographics. The 196 cases included 33 adults over 65 and 42 volunteers from racially diverse groups, including 29 Latinos, 6 Blacks, 4 Asian Americans and 3 multiracial participants.Click here for complete coverage of Coronavirus pandemicZaks said the vaccine has been developed during a period of “political acrimony” and having a highly effective vaccine may go a long way toward erasing some of that distrust.“This is as black and white as an effect on a population will be. Your chances of actually being sick if you’ve been vaccinated are decreased 20-fold,” he said.Moderna reported no new side effects since its interim analysis on November 16. Based on that analysis, the most common side effects were fatigue, injection site redness and pain, headache and body aches, which increased after the second dose and were short-lived.Zaks said the vaccine caused significant flu-like symptoms in some participants, which, he said, “goes hand-in-hand with having such a potent vaccine.” But it has not caused any significant safety concerns so far.Moderna plans to start a new trial to test the vaccine in adolescents before the end of the year, followed by another trial in even younger volunteers early in 2021. The company hopes to have the vaccine available for adolescents by September of next year, Zaks said.Other vaccine makers have said they are studying their vaccines in young people as well.Moderna said it was on track to have about 20 million doses of its vaccine ready to ship in the United States by the end of 2020, enough to inoculate 10 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/moderna-to-seek-us-eu-emergency-authorization-monday-after-covid-19-vaccine-94-1-effective/story-udPItjIyHptm1MxRWqoH0M.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Train vaccinators from among health workers on priority, Centre tells states||As part of the exercise to create a database of healthcare workers who would be given Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine shots on priority in the first phase of vaccination next year, the Centre has directed states to create a sub-set of healthcare workers from the group who can also be utilised as vaccinators.Union ministry of health and family welfare has written to all states and Union Territories to identify such people to utilise them during the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive. The information on these people will be digitally fed in the common database on national immunisation programme-related activities.Also read | Delhi government slashes price of RT-PCR test to Rs800“As you are aware, Government of India has initiated preparations for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, upon its availability. As part of the preparations, one of the activities is creation of database of health care workers (HCWs) who will be prioritised for Covid-19 vaccine. This database of HCWs is to be uploaded on Covid-19 vaccine intelligence network (CoVIN),” read the letter sent by Vandana Gurnani, additional secretary, Union ministry of health.“In this regard, it is reiterated that the potential vaccinators among the HCWs need to be identified for support during the Covid-19vaccination drive..,” the letter further read.The health ministry has formed a list of categories who would qualify as potential vaccinators and will be trained accordingly. Among the categories defined by the experts are MBBS doctors, BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) doctors, staff nurses (those who have BSc. Nursing), Auxillary Nurse Midwives of different grades, pharmacists, those students who are interning during their MBBS course, and also BDS (dentists) interns.These people will be considered for administering Covid-19 vaccine, provided that they are actively involved in day-to-day provision of clinical care to patients and have experience in administering injections through intramascular (into a muscle), intradermal (superficial injection), and subcutaneous (into the skin) routes.The Centre is preparing to vaccinate at least 250-300 million people, including healthcare and frontline workers, against Covid-19 in the first phase by July next year. Of the 300 million people, close to 30 million are Corona warriors involved in outbreak management in the country.Apart from them, people above 65 years of age, and those between 50 and 65 years of age, and people who are 50 years and less but suffering from comorbidities form a part of the government’s priority list. All states are gearing up for the mass vaccination drive that is likely to start by either January or February next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-train-vaccinators-from-among-health-workers-on-priority-centre-to-states/story-gEjNJwpKVOawUZCnWCL2iM.html
30-11-2020||India||J-K DDC polls: 17 govt employees suspended for MCC violation||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has “temporarily” suspended 17 government employees, including seven teachers and three policemen, in Kishtwar district for allegedly violating the Model Code of Conduct ahead of the second phase of the District Development Council elections, officials said Monday.District Panchayat Election Officer, Kishtwar, Ashok Kumar Sharma ordered the attachment of the employees of Dachhan block on Sunday following complaints against them, the officials said.The second phase of the DDC elections, along with panchayat bypolls, is scheduled to start across Jammu and Kashmir at 7 am on Tuesday, covering 43 constituencies to seal the fate of 321 candidates – 125 in 18 seats of Jammu division and 196 in 25 constituencies of Kashmir division.The attached employees include seven teachers, a forester, a policeman and two Special Police Officers, the officials said, adding they have been directed to report to the sectoral or district offices concerned with immediate effect till the conclusion of the second phase of the DDC elections and panchayat bypolls of Dachhan block.They said Sub Divisional Magistrate, Marwah, Mohsin Raza was appointed the inquiry officer to conduct a detailed probe into the allegations levelled against the public servants and was directed to furnish a detailed report within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ddc-polls-17-govt-employees-suspended-for-mcc-violation/story-E43qC5IRaSlsFbFuXuuzbN.html
30-11-2020||India||Novavax delays US Covid-19 vaccine trial again, now sees start in the coming weeks||Vaccine maker Novavax Inc said on Monday it has pushed back the start of a US based, late-stage trial for its experimental Covid-19 vaccine and now expects it to begin in the coming weeks instead of November.It is the second time that Novavax, which already has a late-stage UK trial underway, has rescheduled the Phase 3 trial after first flagging an October start, hampered by issues in scaling up its manufacturing.Novavax plans to use vaccine material produced at commercial scale for the trial in the United States and Mexico and has been working closely with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to greenlight the use of the vaccine made at a North Carolina plant.The company also said it has completed enrollment for its 15,000 participant UK trial and expects interim data as soon as the first quarter of 2021.It has previously said that the UK trial could be the basis for some global regulatory approvals.More than 25% of enrollees in the UK trial are over the age of 65, while a large proportion of volunteers had underlying co-morbid medical conditions generally representative of the population.Novavax is also running a fully enrolled Phase 2b trial in South Africa, which has 4,400 volunteers including 245 who are medically stable, HIV positive participants. Efficacy data from that trial could also be available in the first quarter of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/novavax-delays-us-covid-19-vaccine-trial-again-now-sees-start-in-the-coming-weeks/story-q9u7dCjJSGCIuWrxj4uQfM.html
30-11-2020||India||West Bengal govt will soon start free ambulance service for road accident victims: Official||To help save lives of road accident victims by taking them to nearby hospitals as quickly as possible, the West Bengal government will soon start a free-ambulance service, a senior official of the state health department said on Monday.Starting with at least 150 ambulances, the state government is at the moment setting up a detailed map of the accident prone zones and the nearby hospitals, he said.This service will primarily work on the GPS system and for the same, the state government will have to bear a cost of around Rs 30 crore, the official said.“This will definitely help us in saving the lives of road accident victims. We are targeting to take the victims to nearby hospitals or medical colleges or trauma care centre within 15 to 20 minutes after getting calls regarding the accident. This is in a planning stage and we are dying to start it as soon as possible,” he told PTI.There will be two types of ambulances basic life support ambulances and the advance life support ambulances, he said, adding that a toll free number will be given.The Health department is in talks with the Public Works Department (PWD), police and the transport department, he said.“The police and the transport department have been asked to provide details of the accident prone areas in the state depending on which the PWD department will be preparing a map on the accident prone zones here for this kind of ambulance services,” he said.The map ‘Trauma care ambulance mappings’ will be having markings of the accident prone zones and nearby hospitals.The health department is also mulling the option of hiring ambulances from private operators, he said.“This will help us in cutting down in the budget,” the official said.Asked whether private hospitals will also be enrolled for the services, the bureaucrat said that at the moment the department has concentrated on including those run by the state government.“Thats also in our mind. It’s not that we have not spoken to them. But you will see that most of the best private hospitals are in and around the city. Anyway, we will see that option once this initiative is rolled out,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-govt-will-soon-start-free-ambulance-service-for-road-accident-victims-official/story-MY77Te58yB55pMltjm4aRN.html
30-11-2020||India||Month after new rules, J-K govt prematurely retires first employee||The Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to prematurely retire an employee, the first such case in the newly formed union territory, over a month after framing new rules to fire state employees after he/she has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age.The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (JKBOSE) has issued a notice to one of its Class-IV employees Fayaz Ahmad Siraj to retire from service as he has completed his 27 years of service on October 14.Chairperson of the JKBOSE Veena Pandita, while issuing the order on November 27, has stated that it was in the “public interest” to do so.“Now, therefore in exercise of the power conferred by Article 226(2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulation, the Chairman Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education hereby gives notice to Fayaz Ahmad Siraj, orderly that he having already completed 27 years’ service on 14-10-2020 shall retiree from service with effect from forenoon of 1st December, 2020,” wrote Pandita.HT attempted to contact Pandita to know the specific reasons for which they decided to retire the employee but she did not respond to multiple calls and text messages.Siraj has been allowed three months’ pay and allowance in lieu of three months’ notice.In the last week of October, the government of Jammu and Kashmir had brought some changes in the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulations.It decided that the government can in public interest retire any public servant after he has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age. The exception to this rule is the employee working on a post which is included in Schedule II of these rules.The authorities shall have to give notice to the government servant at least three months before the date on which he is required to retire or three months of pay and allowance in lieu of such notice.The government had said that the broad criteria to be followed by the Review Committee, while making the recommendations for such retirement are doubtful integrity of the government servant or if he/she is found to be ineffective in his/her work.The government was criticized when the new rules were framed with many saying that they were aimed at hounding employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/month-after-new-rules-j-k-govt-prematurely-retires-first-employee/story-mNYaFZEOy25hoCqC4Sc3pI.html
30-11-2020||India||Devotees take holy dip on ‘Kartik Purnima’ in Prayagraj, Varanasi||Devotees gathered at Triveni Sangam to offer prayers and take the holy dip in River Ganga on the occasion of ‘Kartik Purnima’ on Monday. “After our Chhat Puja, it is necessary to take a holy dip in River Ganga so we have come here. It is an auspicious occasion,” said a devotee. “It is believed that all gods and goddesses come on earth on the occasion of Kartik Purnima, hence this day is celebrated with great fervour,” said another devotee. Devotees also took a holy dip in the Ganga river at Raj Ghat and Ramganga River in Moradabad on the occasion of Kartik Purnima today. However, in the wake of rising cases of coronavirus across the country, devotees will are not allowed to take a holy dip in the river Ganga in Utttarakhand’s Haridwar on the occasion of Kartik Purnima, the district administration said. Kartik Purnima is also celebrated as Dev Deepawali and marks the fifteenth lunar day of the Hindu month of Kartik. The festival is linked with Prabodhini Ekadashi and it marks the end of Chaturmas, a four-month period when Lord Vishnu is believed to sleep. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi today and dedicate to the nation the six-lane widening project of the Handia (Prayagraj) - Rajatalab (Varanasi) section of National Highway 19. He will then visit Kashi Vishwanath Mandir around 4:30 pm followed by inspection of the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor project. The Prime Minister will attend the Dev Deepawali Mahotsav at 05:15 PM followed by the address to the gathering. He will depart from Raj Ghat and will view Dev Deepawali celebrations from Raj Ghat to Chet Singh Ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-take-holy-dip-on-kartik-purnima-in-prayagraj-varanasi/story-gidwbLMKCLr6DqrUXzjanL.html
30-11-2020||India||Nitish says farmer’s agitation due to misconception, favours talks||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that the farmers’ protests are taking place because of misconceptions and favoured dialogues between the government and farmers’ bodies. “The Central government wants to talk to farmers to dispel the fear of issues in the procurement mechanism. So I believe that dialogue should take place. The protests are happening on account of misconceptions,” said Kumar on the sidelines of a function in Patna. Kumar backed the farm bills passed by Parliament by recalling that his government had abolished the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006 and commenced public procurement. “Farmers will not face any problem in procurement as it happened in Bihar,” said the Bihar CM. Also read | Congress launches social media campaign to garner support for agitating farmersHe said when the farmers come to the table for talks, their misconceptions will be dispelled. “In Bihar, farmers are not facing any problem. This year too, we have kept the target of procuring 3 million tonnes of foodgrains,” he said. Kumar had earlier lent support to the farm bill, maintaining that there was nothing wrong in replicating such a model across the country and had alleged that misinformation was being spread about The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Supporting them, he had said that these bills are in the interest of the farmers. The Bihar government replaced agriculture markets with roadside wholesale markets where farmers sell their produce directly to private players. The local municipal bodies, which set up these markets, charge 1% of the selling price each from the farmer and the buyer as a facilitation fee. Kumar had remarked, “In 2006, we abolished it (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act). Then, we started the procurement process. So, the situation in Bihar is different.” Farmers have been protesting at various places in Delhi and Haryana and have rejected the Central government’s offer to hold talks on December 3, saying that imposing conditions for starting a dialogue is an insult to them. Around 32 farmer organisations, mostly from Punjab, and some from Gujarat and Maharashtra managed to reach Delhi on Friday and assembled at the borders where they have continued to protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-says-farmer-s-agitation-due-to-misconception-favours-talks/story-upwMTLpxuKy1D7cKG1AzPM.html
30-11-2020||India||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee like a kid, got everything on a platter, says BJP Bengal president||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh hit back at TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee on Monday for calling him a ruffian.Banerjee, a TMC MP, and also chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, had on Sunday also dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders to take his name instead of referring to him as bhaipo (nephew in Bengal) or bhatija (nephew in Hindi) in their public speeches.“So what if we lovingly call him Bhaipo (nephew)? Does he want to be named Pappu? I don’t call him Bhaipo. I call him khokababu (kid). Those people who gave their sweat and blood for the party are now outcast whereas he got everything on a platter,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president.Also read | Abhishek Banerjee targets Suvendu Adhikari, TMC flexes muscle on ex-minister’s turfBanerjee had tagged Ghosh as a ruffian and mafia while addressing a rally in the former’s constituency in South Parganas on Sunday. On Monday Ghosh, through a lawyer, sent a legal notice to Banerjee demanding an unconditional apology.The BJP leadership also continued to attack the TMC, alleging that under the latter’s regime, terrorists were using the state as a corridor to disrupt peace across the country and that the ruling party was trying to transform West Bengal into West Bangladesh.“It is because of West Bengal that peace is being disturbed across India. Activists from al-Qaeda, SIMI and Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen enter West Bengal and then fan out across the country. These infiltrators and Rohingyas are connected to every bomb blast,” Ghosh said.“The maximum property has been damaged in West Bengal. Infiltrators from Bangladesh are sitting here and damaging property of the country. Didi has made them voters and if you say anything against them, you would be tagged as communal,” he added“We were stripped of our belongings when we were coming to India. My sister who was coming with my parents was taken away. We never saw her again. A conspiracy is going on to make West Bengal into West Bangladesh and bring those days back,” he said.The TMC hit back, saying that it was one of the many irresponsible statements made by Ghosh and that the TMC is not taking it seriously. “As usual, Ghosh has made yet another irresponsible statement. West Bengal will remain as it is, no matter what Ghosh says. It’s a habit of the BJP to speak about infiltrators every time. We are rubbishing such statements,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.Other political parties, including the Congress and the CPIM, also lashed out at the BJP. “It is strange that despite having the RAW, IB and NIA, the Centre knows nothing about this conspiracy of transforming West Bengal into West Bangladesh but Ghosh came to know about it. The Parliament and country should know about this. The politics of infiltration from Bangladesh has become stale. The BJP maintains different stands on such issues in different states,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.“Ghosh had earlier said that the BJP would transform West Bengal into Gujarat. West Bengal would neither become Gujarat nor West Bangladesh. It would remain the way it is,” said Md Salim, CPIM politburo member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-like-a-kid-got-everything-on-a-platter-says-bjp-bengal-president/story-gcv3EtYNaPeyylGzPqU0rK.html
30-11-2020||India||No land to extend Dehradun airport’s runway except forest: Uttarakhand govt to Centre||Over a month after the Centre asked Uttarakhand government to search for alternate land for extension of the runway at Dehradun airport, the state government has replied saying that no such land was available for the exercise.In October, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had written to the state government. The letter had mentioned that the state government “may explore alternatives for the proposal such as acquiring area lying north of the existing runway…the entire proposed forest area for diversion falls within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve and elephant corridors within its 1 km radius. Moreover, the notified Kansaro-Barkot Elephant Corridor is located within 5 km radius. The State Government should consider avoiding these sensitive areas and explore alternative lands.” Officials privy to the matter said that a reply from the Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) on technical queries has been submitted, while reply by the forest department will be sent on Tuesday. Rajiv Dhiman, divisional forest officer of Dehradun forest division said, “We have learnt that UCADA has submitted a reply in this matter already. We will be submitting a reply in this matter on Tuesday.” Meanwhile, a senior forest official, on condition of anonymity said, “The existing runway in the Dehradun airport needs to be expanded towards a side which is feasible and in this case it is the forest side. With alternate land, a completely new airport will have to be built.” Ashish Chauhan, chief executive officer of UCADA said, “We have replied to the technical queries asked by the Centre regarding the project. Our reply was mostly about documentation required for the process.” In September, the state government had sought the union environment ministry’s approval under the Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 87.0815 hectares of forest land for “Expansion of the Jolly Grant Airport.” On November 24, the Uttarakhand State Wildlife Advisory Board approved the denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve as an elephant reserve to pave way for the expansion of Dehradun airport project. Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister said, “The state wildlife board during its 16th meeting approved the de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve as there is no law to define an elephant reserve. In the late 90s and early 2000, the state government had sent a proposal to the Centre seeking a clarification regarding the said area, after which it was notified as an elephant reserve in 2002. But as per the norms of the central government, there is no law or Act yet under which the legal status of an elephant reserve is defined.” He said the state government will issue an official order within a few days in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-land-to-extend-dehradun-airport-s-runway-except-forest-uttarakhand-govt-to-centre/story-guyAAwiLz6sBt55RTrszXK.html
30-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: India launches thinly veiled attack on Pakistan over terrorism in SCO meet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SCO meet: India launches thinly veiled attack on Pakistan over terrorismDuring a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s (SCO) council of heads of government, India on Monday launched a thinly veiled attack on Pakistan for using terrorism as an instrument of state policy and called for collective efforts to combat the menace. Read moreGovernment calls all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country, said a person aware of this details. The Prime Minister will meet the floor leaders of all parties to assess the situation on the ground; it is, however, not clear whether the meeting will be held in person or through video-conferencing. Read moreAnother storm could hit Tamil Nadu after Cyclone Nivar: IMDAnother storm is expected to affect Tamil Nadu less than a week after Cyclone Nivar hit the southern state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The weather department said the cyclone, which will cross the Sri Lanka coast on December 2, will bring heavy rain over Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Read‘Didn’t ask permission to return, was committed to play for India and my wife backed me’: Sunil Gavaskar clarifies about 1976 tourIt all started in the 2nd week of November when BCCI sent out a press release stating that India captain Virat Kohli was granted paternity leave and will fly back home after the first Test against Australia in Adelaide to be with his wife Anushka Sharma for the birth of his first child. Read moreTroll calls Karan Johar ‘the favourite wife’ in Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives, filmmaker says ‘made me laugh’Filmmaker Karan Johar took to Twitter to reply to a person who called him ‘the favourite wife’ in Netflix show, Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives. The show, which debuted on Friday, follows celeb wives Maheep Kapoor, Bhavna Panday, Neelam Kothari and Seema Khan. Karan, who has produced it under the aegis of Dharmatic, has also appeared in the show and has a gossip session with the four women. Read moreMaruti Suzuki S-Presso safer in this country than India-spec model: ReportMaruti Suzuki S-Presso has drawn flak in recent times for flunking the Global NCAP crash test with zero-start rating. The report has triggered debate how safe are some of the Indian cars available currently in the market. Read moreCaught on camera: Massive 13-foot-long alligator in Florida snatches duck in front of people, eats itA video involving a huge alligator has now created a buzz online. Some may even go as far to say that it looks like a scene straight out of a Jurassic Park movie. The clip shows a massive 13-foot-long alligator devouring a duck in a lake in Florida in front of some people. Watch‘Chinese govt should be ashamed’: Australian PM hits out over ‘repugnant’ tweetAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has lashed out at the Chinese government over a tweet by a Chinese official which shows a fake image of an Australian soldier appearing to kill a child. Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for China’s foreign ministry had posted a tweet with a caption saying: ‘shocked by murder of Afghan civilians & prisoners by Australian soldiers. We strongly condemn such acts, & call for holding them accountable.’ Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-india-launches-thinly-veiled-attack-on-pakistan-over-terrorism-in-sco-meet-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KlgACc8bJCe072tGw9dDtK.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Patna AIIMS to enrol 1,000 volunteers for Covaxin phase 3 trial||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, plans to enrol 1,000-1,200 volunteers as part of the third and final phase multi-centric human trial of the Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech. The trial is a randomised double-blind placebo control trial, in which half the volunteers will be administered the vaccine and half will be given a placebo that does not contain the active substance that affects health, said sources associated with the trial. Since the trial is double-blind, the vaccinated volunteers will not know if they were given the vaccine or a placebo, to rule out bias in issues related to treatment and statistical analysis.The placebo-vaccine ratio was 1:3 in the first phase trial that focused on safety. It was not given in the second stage, but would be given in 1:1 ratio in the third stage, said sources. Also read | Plan to vaccinate around 25-30 crore people by July-August, says Harsh Vardhan“We hope to begin enrolling healthy volunteers between 18 and 55 years of age from December 2 and commence the third phase trial tentatively from December 5 or 6,” said Dr CM Singh, superintendent of AIIMS,Patna, who is also the principal investigator of the trial.Volunteers will be given two shots of the vaccine at an interval of 28 days. For the next 194 days, there will be regular follow-ups by medical experts. “The follow-up sampling to check the level of immunogenicity (amount of antibody produced in a healthy body to fight against the SARS CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease) has to be done on day 14, 28, 42, 104 and 194,” added Dr Singh. The third phase will exclude volunteers in the first two phases of the trial, they said. As many as 46 volunteers had enrolled here out of the total 375 across different centres during the first phase trial. In the second stage, 44 volunteers enrolled at AIIMS, Patna, out of the 750 across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patna-aiims-to-enrol-1-000-volunteers-for-covaxin-trial/story-kISuAVby8lfnRu6BonWa9H.html
30-11-2020||India||Delhi government caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 800||Hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said authorities will bring down the price of Covid-19 test by Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), the Delhi government on Monday fixed the price of the test by private labs at Rs 800. The home collection of samples will cost Rs1,200. At present, people have to spend Rs 2,400 for the RT-PCR test at private labs.CM Kejriwal had announced the move in a bid to help those who want their tests done in private labs, which are carried out free of cost at the government hospitals. “I have directed that the rates of RT PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in govt establishments, however this will help those who get their tests done in pvt labs,” Kejriwal had tweeted earlier on Monday.Adopting an aggressive approach of contact tracing and testing, the Delhi government has carried out RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test to detect novel coronavirus in the national capital. Both tests are done free at government testing centres and hospitals, but not at private clinics or hospitals.The government had earlier capped the price of all Covid-19 tests, whether from a government or private centre, in Delhi at Rs 2,400. The decision was taken in a District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and attended by Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot and other top officials from the Delhi Police, administration and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The move to cap the price of RT-PCR test comes as Covid-19 cases in Delhi have reached 5.6 lakh and death have crossed the 9,000 mark. Delhi on Sunday reported 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative toll of positive cases reported so far this year to 5,66,648. In the last 24 hour, the national capital witnessed 68 deaths, adding to the total deaths. The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-government-caps-the-price-of-rt-pcr-test-by-private-labs-at-rs-800/story-VNkclW0rC2i4jvmyeBI0ZI.html
30-11-2020||India||Congress launches social media campaign to garner support for agitating farmers||The Congress on Monday launched a social media campaign to muster support for the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying, when farmers raise their voice, it resonates across the country. “The Modi government has persecuted the farmer - first it brought black laws and then used lathis against them, but it forgot that when the farmer raises his voice, it resonates throughout the country. You also raise your voice against the exploitation of farmers and join the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.“The farmer of the country has come to Delhi in the cold, leaving his home and fields, to voice his protest against the black agriculture laws. In this battle of truth and untruth, with whom do you stand - the ‘Annadata’ (food-giving) farmer or the PM’s capitalist friends,” Gandhi said in another tweet.The former Congress chief said wherever these farmers are protesting, the people and Congress workers should stand in their support and provide them food. “The question is why is the farmer out on the roads, travelling thousands of kilometers and is stalling traffic. PM Modi says the three farm laws are in favour of the farmer, but if these laws are in the farmer’s favour, why is he not happy and why is he protesting,” asked the Congress leader. “These laws are for Narendra Modi’s two-three friends and are aimed at stealing from the farmers. That is why we all have to together stand with the strength of India - the farmer,” he said.He also shared an over one-minute-long video as part of the campaign in which the Congress party asked the government to listen to the grievances of the farmers and not use force against them. The video also alleged that while the farmers are producing food grains to feed the country, they are facing water cannons and lathis at the hands of the Modi government. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also joined the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign and shared the same video highlighting the plight of the farmers. “In the name of farm laws, all billionaire friends are benefitting. How can farm laws be framed without even talking to farmers? How can the interests of farmers be ignored?” she said in a tweet in Hindi. “The government will have to listen to the farmers. Let us together raise our voice in support of farmers,” she commented while seeking public support in favour of the farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should announce the suspension of the three agri laws and take back all 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers without any pre-conditions. He also demanded that Modi should himself talk to the representatives of all farmer unions and assures them of redressing their grievances. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said, “Lakhs of farmers who are protesting the anti-farmer laws passed by the govt have now been stopped outside Delhi. If the BJP is convinced of the laws passed by them, they should have to courage to meet the farmers and convince them.”  Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat lamented that the farmers who are helping the country’s falling economy have been rewarded with the new “black laws” and their grievances have not been heard. “There is a conspiracy to take away the MSP (minimum support price), demolish the existing mandi structure and end the procurement system through the FCI,” Rawat said.“The farmers have crossed all hurdles and reached Delhi to air their grievances. Hear out the farmers and their pain, but do not ignore their voice and talk to them... scrap the three black laws,” Rawat added. The Congress on its official Twitter handle demanded that the government must stop the alleged violence and atrocities against the farmers who are exercising their right to protest.“Use of brute force on the souls that feed a billion stomachs is nothing but grave, inhumane, gut-wrenching injustice. India will not stand for this. India will #SpeakUpForFarmers,” the party tweeted from its official handle.  It also alleged, “First they undemocratically passed the draconian anti-farmer laws, now they are hell-bent on stifling our farmers’ democratic voices.” A host of party leaders including P L Punia, Tariq Anwar, Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid, Mohan Prakash and Sunil Jakhar also spoke in support of the farmers and urged the government to redress their grievances. The Congress has launched a day-long online campaign in support of the farmers who are agitating on the roads against the farm laws. The ongoing protests by thousands of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws entered the fifth day on Monday, with the protesters threatening to block all five entry points to the national capital rejecting the Centre’s offer to hold talks once they move to the Burari ground, the farmers said they will not accept any conditional dialogue and have called a meeting to discuss their next course of action later in the day. Farmers, who had reached the Nirankarai Samagam Ground in Burari on Saturday, continued their protest there while traffic continued to be disrupted in the city due to the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-social-media-campaign-to-garner-support-for-agitating-farmers/story-cmBDnT5hVZqAFTh4ZBYb0I.html
30-11-2020||India||SCO meet: India launches thinly veiled attack on Pakistan over terrorism||During a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s (SCO) council of heads of government, India on Monday launched a thinly veiled attack on Pakistan for using terrorism as an instrument of state policy and called for collective efforts to combat the menace. Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, who chaired the virtual meeting of the council, also indirectly criticised Pakistan for attempting to use SCO to raise bilateral matters and said this went against the grouping’s charter, which safeguards the sovereignty and territorial integrity of member states. In his opening remarks, Naidu pointed to the importance of efforts to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic and took a tacit swipe at China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), saying trust alone determines sustainability of global trade and countries must demonstrate their compliance with rules of multilateral trade. The council of heads of government is the second-highest body of SCO and is responsible for handling the grouping’s trade and economic agenda and approving its annual budget. This is the first time India is hosting a meeting of the body since it was admitted into the eight-member grouping in 2017. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan did not join the virtual meeting. Pakistan’s participation was at the lowest level – the country was represented by parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs Andleeb Abbas – and Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan were represented by their prime ministers. Naidu said trade can flourish only in an environment of peace and security, and the most important challenge faced by countries in the region is terrorism, “particularly cross-border terrorism”. He described terrorism as “the enemy of humanity” that needs to be combated collectively. “India condemns terrorism in all its manifestations. We remain concerned about threats emerging from ungoverned spaces and are particularly concerned about states that leverage terrorism as an instrument of state policy,” he said, without naming Pakistan. “Such an approach is entirely against the spirit and ideas and the charter of the SCO. Elimination of this threat will help all of us realise our shared potential and create conditions for stable and secure economic growth and sustainable development.” Naidu said SCO is key to cooperation based on universally recognised international norms, rule of law, openness and transparency and it is “unfortunate ...that there have been attempts to deliberately bring bilateral issues into SCO and blatantly violate the well-established principles and norms of the SCO charter safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of SCO member states”. Pakistan has repeatedly sought to raise bilateral matters such as the Kashmir issue at multilateral forums and India had walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO in September after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. Naidu said the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiative is aimed at building national economic strength, resilience and enhanced capacities so that the country can be a trusted partner. The initiative recognises the importance of reciprocity, transparency and fairness in trade and is central to collective efforts to overcome vulnerabilities exposed by the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. “Partners must be trustworthy and transparent. It is trust that determines the sustainability of our global trade and nations must demonstrate their compliance with rules of multilateral trade to remain a part of this system,” he said. Naidu also highlighted India’s role in producing more than 60% of vaccines used for global immunisation programmes and said, “This global vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all the countries in fighting this crisis.” He noted that the socio-political impact of Covid-19 had exposed the weaknesses of global institutions, including the WHO, which need to be revamped as part of a reformed multilateralism that reflects today’s realities and gives voice to all stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sco-meet-india-launches-thinly-veiled-attack-on-pakistan-over-terrorism/story-a5hoaIRwpUn4EbhlBOsfUP.html
30-11-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases increase in Maharashtra, inches closer to 1 lakh mark after dip last month||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are on the rise again with cases crossing the 90,000 mark on Sunday. The state’s active cases had dipped to 78,272 earlier this month. There are now 90,997 active Covid-19 cases in the state.Pune district continues to have the highest active cases with 19,658 cases, followed by Thane district and Mumbai with 16338 and 15610 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra added 5,544 fresh cases on Sunday which took the tally to 1,820,059. The state also reported 85 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll past 47,000 to 47,071, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.59%. Of the 85 fatalities, 39 were in the past 48 hours, 25 in the past week and 21 before that, the state health department stated. The state is expected to increase testing in the coming month to pick up any increase in spread of infection. The government is identifying ‘superspreaders’ in the population, or people who have maximum social contact in the community, and is testing such people on priority. These include bus conductors, street vendors, milkman etc who are likely to come in contact with 10-15 people daily due to the nature of their work.Two weeks after Diwali (November 15) the state is yet to see any significant increase in Covid-19 cases. There was a fear among state health department officials that the viral infection could see a surge after Diwali as large crowds were seen during the festive season. “There is no significant rise in cases yet, but we are ramping up testing. The district authorities have been directed to increase contact tracing as well,” health department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-increase-in-maharashtra-inches-closer-to-1-lakh-mark-after-dip-last-month/story-oqTgQyL5Z8NUkIIiwlyHgK.html
30-11-2020||India||Doubts being spread against farm reforms, this has become a new trend: PM Modi in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday defended his government’s initiatives for farmers and vouched for independence in their decision-making. He said it should be upto the farmers to decide whether they want to sell their produce or not in Varanasi.PM Modi was addressing his first public engagement in Khajuri where he dedicated to the nation the widened Handia (Prayagraj)-Rajatalab (Varanasi) section of National Highway 19. The Prime Minister’s remarks on farmers and country’s agricultural policies comes amid a stir by thousands of farmers against the three farm legislations recently cleared by Parliament. Also read: In Varanasi, PM Modi hails work done by Yogi govt, says UP now known as ‘Express Pradesh’Here is what all he said on farmers and agricultural policies in the country in his address:- We promised that Swaminathan would give MSP one and a half times the cost in line with the Commission’s recommendation. This promise was not only fulfilled on paper, but has reached the bank accounts of the farmers.- The new agricultural laws have been brought in for benefit of the farmers. We will see and experience benefits of these new laws in the coming days. There’s new trend now, earlier decisions of government were opposed, now rumours have become basis for Opposition (parties). Propaganda is spread that although decision is right, it can lead to other consequences, about things that haven’t happened or will never happen. Same is with farm laws.- We had said that we will stop black marketing of urea and give sufficient urea to the farmer.Urea deficiency was not allowed in the last 6 years. Earlier, urea had to be taken in black, and the farmers who came to take urea were also lathicharged on. - Earlier, transactions outside the market were illegal. In such a situation, small farmers were cheated and disputed. Now the small farmer can also take legal action on every deal that is out of the market. The farmer has now also found new options and legal protection from deception.- India’s agricultural products are famous all over the world. Should not the farmer have access to this big market and higher prices? If someone considers transactions from the old system only, then where has that been stopped?- Farmers are being empowered by giving them options for a bigger market. Reforms are being done in the interest of farmers, which will give them more options. Shouldn’t a farmer get freedom to sell his produce directly to those who give them better prices and facilities?- In the past years, crop insurance or irrigation, seeds or markets, work has been done at all levels. PM crop insurance scheme has helped about 4 crore farmer families of the country. Under the PM Agricultural Irrigation Scheme, 47 lakh hectares of land has come under micro irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubts-being-spread-against-farm-reforms-this-has-become-a-new-trend-pm-modi-in-varanasi/story-TyzkaEKvjiMJGkqQcGwyAM.html
30-11-2020||India||Eco-friendly ‘kulhad’ to replace plastic tea cups at railway stations||Tea will be sold in environment-friendly ‘Kulhads’ (earthen cups) in place of plastic cups at all railway stations in the country, Railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday. Speaking at an event organised at the Digawara railway station in Rajasthan’s Alwar district, the minister said the initiative will be the contribution of the Railways towards a plastic-free India.“Tea is given in ‘Kulhads’ at nearly 400 railway stations in the country today, and in future, it is our planning that tea will be sold only in ‘Kulhads’ at all the railway stations in the country. This will be the contribution of the Railways towards a plastic-free India,” he said. The minister said before addressing this gathering, he was having tea in a ‘Kulhad’ and the taste was really different.  ‘Kulhad’ saves the environment and lakhs of people get employment from it, he said. The minister was speaking at an event to mark the inauguration of the newly electrified Dhigawara-Bandikui section under north-western Railways.The minister said before the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014, the railway sector was ignored in Rajasthan as electrification had not been taken up in the last 30 years after the electrification of Delhi-Mumbai route.Also Read | Northern Railways short terminates, diverts trains due to farmers’ stirHe said the investment by Railways and infrastructure development projects in Rajasthan have increased multiple times between 2014-2020 as compared to that between 2009-2014. Goyal said 65 underpasses were constructed from 2009-14 while 378 underpasses have been constructed from 2014- September 2020.He said only four overbridges were constructed in five years till 2014 whereas 30 such bridges have been constructed from 2014 to September 2020. The minister said electrification of railway lines across the country will save the environment as engines will run on electricity produced in the country, saving fuel, money and time. Also, the speed of trains will also be increased, he said.“This will also help farmers who will be able to take their crops to any part of the country (through rail freight transport) in less time,” he added. Goyal said the prime minister is very concerned about the environment and therefore emphasis is being given on electrification. The minister flagged off the first train on the newly electrified 34 km-long Dhigawara-Bandikui rail section. He said after the entire line from Rewari to Ajmer has now been electrified with the electrification of this stretch. Dausa MP Jaskaur Meena, GM-NWR Anand Prakash and other public representatives and railway officials were present in the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eco-friendly-kulhad-to-replace-plastic-tea-cups-at-railway-stations/story-aFsqZf58yVOyG9k9W1x6tI.html
30-11-2020||India||Pilots’ bodies urge aviation minister Hardeep Puri to roll back pay cuts||Air India pilots have urged aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to roll back their pay cuts, pointing out that unlike private airlines, their salaries were further cut from October. In a letter written on Monday, the pilots of Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA) (representative body for the pilots of Indian Airlines) and Indian Pilots Guild IPG (that includes pilots of Air India Express and Alliance Air apart from Air India) complained of the unilateral wage cut and asked the minister to look into their grievances sooner. They also reminded Puri of their pending meeting. The pilots claimed that while private airlines are rolling back the austerity pay cuts for their pilots, the wage cut for Air India pilots has further increased from October which is divorced from market reality and unfair. The pilots also said their colleagues who test positive for Covid-19 need to undergo quarantine or hospitalisation as per the requirement which is followed by mandatory medical checks and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approval. This entire process takes more than a month for the recovered pilot which is unfair as they are not paid when they do not operate. “Is it fair to deny these pilots their livelihood due to an occupational hazard? Is this how ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) wants to treat the workmen who are making the Vande Bharat Flights (VBM) possible?” questioned the pilots. “We pilots continue to be shackled with an indefinite and unilateral wage cut of up to 70% while the indifferent company top management contributes a namesake 10%. The airline top management has let us down tremendously. Our pilots have expressed their displeasure and are extremely troubled by this unwarranted ordeal,” said the association. The letter read, “The DGCA has offered contract flight operations inspector (FOI’s) special as well as a non-flying compensation. We fail to understand why barbaric austerity measures apply only to Air India pilots.”It concluded by urging Puri to intervene immediately and put a stop to the ‘victimisation’ and therefore they urgently request a follow up meeting with the minister. An Air India spokesperson said, “We would not like to comment on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-bodies-urge-aviation-minister-hardeep-puri-to-roll-back-pay-cuts/story-ax1eRt7WIfgX4t00Q4pi3M.html
30-11-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, paddy procurement to start from tomorrow, over 21 lakh farmers sign up to sell on MSP||As paddy procurement for the year 2000-21 will start from tomorrow, a total of 21,29,764 farmers have registered to sell their paddy in the state, officials said on Monday. The area under which paddy is sown this year is more than 27, 59, 385 hectares in the year 2000-21. As per the records, in the last two years, the area under paddy has increased from 19.36 lakh hectare to 27.59 lakh hectare. The Chhattisgarh government had purchased 80.38 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from 15.71 lakh farmers in the year 2018-19 while in the year 2019-20, 83.94 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were purchased from 18.38 lakh farmers. “In 2017-18, 76.47 percent farmers sold paddy while total 92.61 percent of farmers sold paddy in the year 2018-19. In the last marketing year 2019-20, 94.02 percent farmers in the state sold paddy at the support price,” the official added. It is worth mentioning that, in November 2019, the Congress government had decided to procure paddy at Rs 1835 per quintal, at the Centre fixed rate but also said it is committed to fulfilling all the promises made to the state’s farmers. It had also said that it will find a way so that farmers get Rs 2500 per quintal. The Centre had fixed Rs 1815 per quintal for common grade paddy and Rs 1835 per quintal for Grade A paddy as compensation. Later, a five-member committee was constituted to study how a benefit of Rs 2500 per quintal could be ensured to farmers. Later, the Bhupesh Baghel government launched a scheme “Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna” under which the difference amount has been given in four installments. “Under this scheme 19 lakh farmers of the state are being given in four installments an amount of Rs 5750 crores. So far, direct assistance of Rs 4500 crore has been given to the farmers in three installments,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-paddy-procurement-to-start-from-tomorrow-over-21-lakh-farmers-sign-up-to-sell-on-msp/story-4EClx4GQ2K6WFP8IuPmHVJ.html
30-11-2020||India||BJP, Cong and JD(S) set for another electoral battle as EC notifies panchayat polls||The Election Commission on Monday notified polls for 5,762 gram panchayats across 30 districts of Karnataka that will pit the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress and JD(S) against each other. Though the polls are held without using party symbols, control of gram panchayats is seen by political parties as building blocks to consolidate their power.The polls were due in May but the state government had requested the EC to postpone it for six months saying that Covid-19 cases which were then surging would hamper the smooth conduct of the poll process. The Congress through its legislative council member K C Kondaiah had approached the Karnataka High Court seeking directions to hold the polls at the earliest. On November 13, the high court had asked the EC to notify the polls within three weeks.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa welcomed the EC’s notification for the panchayat polls. “Gram Panchayat polls are as important as assembly and Lok Sabha polls to strengthen the party at grassroots level. Though candidates will contest without party symbols, voters know who will identify with which party,” he told media persons.He also brushed aside any chances of the panchayat polls further delaying the planned cabinet expansion “No. I don’t see any correlation (between the polls and cabinet expansion,” he said.State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel too said that for BJP the local body polls were very important as it would ‘nurture the next generation of BJP leaders.’ Last week, Kateel had said that the party was aiming to win at least 80% of the seats in the polls.The Congress too is going all out to win a majority of the seats in the gram panchayat polls. A total of 92,121 candidates will be elected in the 5,762 panchayats. The KPCC is holding a day-long meeting on Monday to analyze the reason for the recent defeat in the Sira and RR Nagar by-polls as well as to draw up a strategy to counter the BJP in the gram panchayat polls. In the 2016 local body polls Congress-backed candidates had won the majority of the seats.KPCC President D K Shivakumar on Friday had said that the party was fully geared to take on the BJP and win the bulk of the gram panchayat seats. The regional Janata Dal (Secular) which has its pockets of strength especially in Southern Karnataka has also been drawing up its battle plans with its state president and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy meeting district unit chiefs to identify suitable candidates and draw up a strategy.Senior political analyst Neelakant said that the gram panchayat polls indicate the public mood, especially in rural areas. “It is important for all the three parties. For BJP to strengthen its hold specially in rural areas as it is still seen as an urban party. Its performance in the Old Mysuru region will be watched closely to see whether it has made an inroads there. For the Congress victory is important if it has to bounce back in the next assembly polls and for JD(S) it is an existential question.”The EC has said that the polls will be held in two phases with voting on December 22 and 27 while the results will be declared on December 30. With polls being notified the model code of conduct has come into force with immediate effect in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-and-jd-s-set-for-another-electoral-battle-as-ec-notifies-panchayat-polls/story-YIt8BnEKnKOe3e0S0NN7ZN.html
30-11-2020||India||Plan to vaccinate around 25-30 crore people by July-August, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said that the Central government has a plan to provide coronavirus vaccines to around 25-30 crore people by July-August next year.“In the first 3-4 months of next year, there is a possibility that we will be able to provide vaccine to the people of the country. By July-August, we have a plan to provide vaccines to around 25-30 crore people and we are preparing accordingly,” Vardhan told reporters here.“I would like to request everyone to remember and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and following social distancing. These are important for health,” he said.“We will soon be completing eleven months in our fight against Covid. Since then, the most important principle to protect ourselves and others is to follow basic principles of hygiene and physical distancing. In the fight against Covid, our biggest weapon is mask and sanitiser,” he said.The Union minister highlighted that India has one of the highest recovery rates in the whole world. “From 1 lab in January 2020, we now have 2,165 labs. More than a million people are being tested on a daily basis. We have completed 14 crore cumulative tests today. This all shows the determination of the government and relentless efforts of our corona warriors whose contribution is significant in fighting the pandemic,” he said.“Under the able guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, India has become self-reliant in production of masks, PPE kits, ventilators etc. More than 10 lakh PPE kits are being manufactured every day in India. And now, our scientists are instrumental in the research for the vaccine and it will be available on time,” he said. India’s coronavirus tally breached the 94-lakh mark after 38,772 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s data on Monday. The overall coronavirus cases reached 94,31,692 including 4,46,952 active cases and 88,47,600 recoveries. With 443 new deaths, the cumulative toll mounted to 1,37,139.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/plan-to-vaccinate-around-25-30-crore-people-by-july-august-says-harsh-vardhan/story-Iw2a7eg6uuDZcQTcwn0CGP.html
30-11-2020||India||Huge potential for furthering Indo-Dutch economic ties, says India’s envoy Venu Rajamony||There is huge potential for furthering growth in the Indo-Dutch economic ties, especially in the key areas of water, agriculture, food processing and healthcare, India’s envoy to the Netherlands Venu Rajamony said on Monday. Modern flood management principles adopted by the Dutch nation are of great value to India besides the culture of fitness and passion for cycling are worth emulating, he said on the last day of his tenure in this country. “The pandemic has opened everyone’s eyes to the need to stay healthy and build immunity. Bicycles are cheap, efficient and environment friendly. Electric bikes of the kind popular in the Netherlands can transport people over long distances with little effort. If manufactured in India in large numbers, prices will also be reasonable,” Rajamony told PTI in an interview over telephone. He said that India has strong economic interests in the Netherlands in terms of trade and investment. In the financial year 2020-2021 (April-June), the Netherlands is the second largest investor into India at USD 1.085 billion, the senior diplomat said. In the ongoing fiscal (April-September 2020), the Netherlands was the third largest destination for Overseas Direct Investment (ODI) from India with investments estimated at USD 679.12 million, Rajamony said. The top two destinations were Singapore and the US. Rajamony, who superannuates on Monday after putting in over three decades as an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, said that the relations between India and the Netherlands are at an all-time high and significant progress has been made during his tenure. “My tenure has been wonderful here. I have been touched by the affection I got from the Dutch people as well as those from India. We have achieved so much,” he said. Speaking about the role of the Indian diaspora in furthering the bilateral ties, Rajamony said that he would like the vibrant Indian diasporas in the Netherlands to be more actively involved in further strengthening Indo-Dutch relationship. “The strength of India is the strength of Indian diaspora too,” he said, citing the diverse and pluralistic nature of his home country.Also Read | Centuries-old Netherlands-India textile tradition revived with cotton printing studio De Katoendrukkerij’s opening “I came here (the Netherlands) without too much expectation. The job of Ambassador here is a very unique kind of position,” Rajamony said, highlighting the presence of the International Court of Justice (ICJ), the Permanent Court of Arbitration and the Organization for Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in the Dutch nation. A career diplomat, Rajamony has been working as India’s Ambassador to the Netherlands since June, 2017. He previously served at Hong Kong, Beijing, Geneva, Washington DC and Dubai among others. Rajamony also served as the chief of staff to External Affairs Minister and as Press Secretary to former President Pranab Mukherjee. He is also the Permanent Representative of India to the OPCW in The Hague as well as responsible for India’s relations with the ICJ and the Permanent Court of Arbitration. Rajamony was a member of the Indian legal team which successfully presented India’s views before the ICJ during the Kulbhushan Jhadav case. Jadhav, a retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The ICJ, then, restrained Pakistan from executing him. Ambassador Rajamony also appeared before the ICJ on behalf of India in the matter of advisory opinion on the Chagos Peninsula. India has supported Mauritius over its claim on disputed Chagos islands, which is home to Diego Garcia -- the key military base of the UK and the US in the Indian Ocean. Asked about things that he may wish to bring to India from the Netherlands, he said the culture of bicycling and fitness is something very positive to emulate. “The separate cycle tracks and associated infrastructure is well planned. Flood management systems are very advanced in the Netherlands. I also captured this in my book ‘What we can learn from the Dutch: Rebuilding Kerala Post 2018 floods’,” Rajamony said. “Dutch are quite efficient and direct in their communication. They also enjoy their holidays which are something admirable, particularly when you have a hectic work schedule,” he said. To a question on some of the unfinished tasks, he said India and the Netherlands have two centres of excellence (CoE) in agriculture - one on vegetables in Baramati, Maharashtra and a recently inaugurated Centre of Excellence for vegetables and flowers at Wayanad, Kerala. “Under the Indo-Dutch Joint Action Plan, more centres of excellence are planned. I hope we can operationalise the remaining soon so that India can benefit from Dutch techniques and know-how,” Rajamony, who hails from Kerala, said. Dutch can also contribute towards development of India’s inland water navigation system, port infrastructure and logistics network, he added. In a rare gesture, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte recently wrote a personal letter thanking Rajamony for his contributions in strengthening the Indo-Dutch relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-potential-for-furthering-indo-dutch-economic-ties-says-india-s-envoy-venu-rajamony/story-KnHzsv3ocAn4zLokuFHWnI.html
30-11-2020||India||Pilots’ bodies request urgent meet with Hardeep Singh Puri over wage cut||The Indian Commercial Pilots Association and the Indian Pilots Guild on Monday wrote to Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri requesting an urgent meeting regarding wage cuts of frontline workers, including pilots, of Air India, Air India Express and Alliance Air. The pilots’ bodies said that frontline workers continued to be shackled with an ‘indefinite and unilateral wage cut’ of up to 70 per cent while the top management faced only a 10 per cent deduction. The letter reiterated the civil aviation ministry’s statement where it expressed confidence that air travel would reach pre-coronavirus pandemic level by the end of 2020 and pointed out that while other airlines were rolling back the austerity pay cuts for their pilots, Air India increased the wage cut for its pilots from October. The bodies also added this was unfair to the pilots of Air India and its subsidiaries.“Pilots who test positive for Covid-19 need to undergo quarantine/hospitalisation. This has to be followed by a NOC, mandatory medical checks and DGCA approval. The entire process to get back to flying takes more than a month. Is it fair to deny these pilots their livelihood due to an occupational hazard? Is this how MoCA wants to treat the workmen who are making the Vande Bharat flights possible,” it said.The bodies further highlighted that the top management had let it down ‘tremendously’ and urged the ministry to intervene immediately and put a stop to this victimisation.Air India has been the Centre’s official carrier for the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ - under which Indian citizens stuck in other countries were being evacuated and brought back home amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-bodies-request-urgent-meet-with-hardeep-singh-puri-over-wage-cut/story-WBNNUw1Eix5YO9R3IaHOiK.html
30-11-2020||India||In Varanasi, PM Modi hails work done by Yogi govt, says UP now known as ‘Express Pradesh’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday arrived in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, where he will inaugurate a number of infrastructure projects and attend a Dev Deepawali event.Shortly after landing at Babatpur airport, PM Modi reached Khajuri for his first public engagement where he dedicated to the nation the widened Handia (Prayagraj)-Rajatalab (Varanasi) section of National Highway 19. PM Modi began his speech with “Har Har Mahadev” chant and wished extended greetings of Dev Deepawali and Gurupurab.“The road dedicated today will benefit the people of Prayagraj along with the people of Kashi,” PM Modi said.“Varanasi is getting improved infrastructure on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti and Dev Deepawali. This will benefit both Varanasi and Prayagraj,” he added.Also Watch l ‘Same people who cheated farmers…’: PM Modi blames opposition for protests PM Modi said that the new road will be beneficial during Kumbh. “People had to face several problems while travelling between Kashi and Prayagraj. But with the widening of the road will not only end the problem, but it will also beneficial during Kumbh,” he said.The Prime Minister said that the pace of infrastructure development has increased in Uttar Pradesh since Yogi Adityanath became the chief minister in 2017.“What the status of infrastructure in UP was before 2017 is known to all. But after Yogi ji became chief minister, the speed of infrastructure development increased. Today UP is known as Express Pradesh,” said PM Modi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who accompanied PM Modi to the public function at Khajuri, said,“Kashi is transforming while maintaining its antiquity since last six years. In last six years, developmental schemes worth Rs 18,000 crore have either been inaugurated or under construction in Kashi.”PM Modi will later address a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers’ meeting in the Mirzamurad area of the district. The Prime Minister will also undertake a site visit of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project, and the Sarnath Archaeological site.The 73-kilometre stretch of the newly widened and six-laned NH-19, made at a total cost of Rs 2,447 crore, will reduce the travel time between Prayagraj and Varanasi by an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-arrives-in-varanasi-s-khajuri-dedicates-six-lane-widened-national-highway-stretch/story-o0qDvjhnvXYsOmlEOjpLyI.html
30-11-2020||India||Nagaland’s virtual Hornbill Festival to begin on December 1||For the first time, amid the global coronavirus pandemic, Nagaland will be taking its 21st edition of the Hornbill Festival to a virtual platform from December 1 to 5, on three national and regional audio visual news channels.Dubbed as the ‘Festival of Festivals’, the Hornbill Festival, which has put the state on the global tourist map, is a 10-day annual cultural and tourism extravaganza that elaborately showcases the rich and diverse Naga ethnicity through folk dances, traditional music, local cuisine, handicrafts, art, craft workshops highlighting indigenous textiles and designs, among various other Naga experiences.However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, the state government has announced it will make the festival virtual. Tourism officials informed that the virtual event will showcase a series of cultural programmes during the next five days with the content sourced from government archives. According to the head of the Tourism department, Ajanuo Belho, the Nagaland Virtual Hornbill Festival 2020 will air on NDTV 24x7 on December 1 (10.30 AM) and December 5 (12.30 PM); Doordarshan Kendra on December 1 (5.30 PM) and December 4 (3.00 PM); and Northeast Live on December 1 (11.30 AM) and December 3 (3.30 PM).The premier festival kicks off on December 1, which also marks the Nagaland statehood day. In 2019, the Indian Air Force (IAF) also participated in the event by conducting a spectacular fly-past over the festival site, the Naga Heritage Village Kisama, 10 km away from the state capital Kohima, with Sukhoi 30MKI fighter planes, to commemorate the 57th year of Nagaland state.The Tourism department had recorded a total of 2,82,811 visitors to its 20th edition of the Hornbill Festival in 2019, which included 3015 foreign tourists and 55,584 domestic tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-s-virtual-hornbill-festival-to-begin-on-december-1/story-Ic00o5tg4kjQ6F1etlrguJ.html
30-11-2020||India||CBI, Enforcement Directorate should be sent to borders: Shiv Sena takes dig||The Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation should be sent to the borders to tackle terrorists and infiltration on the borders, Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has said in its latest attack on the BJP. Criticising the use of water cannons on protesting farmers near Delhi in this cold wave sweeping parts of north India as “cruel”, the Sena also said that the BJP is raking up the Khalistan issue to start their “politics” in Punjab.“Our farmers are being treated as terrorists and attacked on the Delhi border while terrorists are killing our soldiers on the border in Kashmir. BJP wants to vitiate the atmosphere…. Khalistan is a closed chapter for which Indira Gandhi and General Arunkumar Vaidya laid down their lives. BJP is now unnecessarily raking up the Khalistan issue. It wants to spark the issue and start its politics in Punjab,” the editorial in Saamana said.Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting for the past five days and have gathered at the Haryana-Delhi border as they are denied entry into the national capital. The farmers are protesting against new agricultural laws that the Centre says will bring reforms. They fear the new law will allow corporates to control prices and take away their minimum guaranteed earnings.Commenting on the use of Central agencies by the ruling government at the Centre to target opposition-ruled states, the Sena said, “The ED and CBI should be given an opportunity to prove their valour. Every time bullets don’t work. At Delhi’s border, our farmers are called terrorists while terrorists are entering the Kashmir border and Ladakh. At such times, ED and CBI should be sent to the borders. There is no other option.”The editorial published on Monday said that the giant statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat will be shedding tears at the treatment meted out to the farmers. It further added that the BJP is using all tools to destabilise the government of the opponents in all non-BJP ruled states, including Maharashtra, but the same “determination” is not seen while battling the enemies of the country.“Farmers are stopped at the Delhi border. Since they are from Punjab they are termed terrorists and Khalistani. Farmers are charged with rioting, attempt to murder, etc. Seeing all this the grand statue of Sardar Patel must have shed tears,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-enforcement-directorate-should-be-sent-to-borders-shiv-sena-takes-dig/story-2N4M1P5TONmPFyYD8M73WO.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Guru Nanak Tekri, Narmadapuram’: BJP leader suggests new names for Madhya Pradesh’s Idgah Hills and Hoshangabad||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has indicated it will change Hyderabad’s name to Bhagyanagar if it wins the upcoming mayoral polls in the city, a party leader from Madhya Pradesh-where it is in power-has suggested that Bhopal’s Idgah Hills and the city of Hoshangabad should be known by new names.“Idgah Hills in Bhopal should be known as Guru Nanak Tekri because Guru Nanak Dev visited the place 500 years ago when there was no Idgah there. I appeal to people to call it Guru Nanak Tekri,” said BJP leader Rameshwar Sharma, who is also the protem speaker of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, on a day the country is celebrating Gurpurab, the birth anniversary of the first Sikh guru, Guru Nanak.“Hoshangabad should be called as Narmadapuram. Hoshang Shah was a looter. He attacked the city and destroyed its temples. That is why we have called it Narmadapuram and the govt has created Narmadapuram division,” Sharma further told news agency ANI. Hoshangabad should be called as Narmadapuram. Hoshang Shah was a looter. He attacked the city & destroyed its temples. That is why we have called it Narmadapuram & the govt has created Narmadapuram division: Rameshwar Sharma, Madhya Pradesh Assembly Protem Speaker & BJP leader https://t.co/PhzY3vFrRuThe BJP has raised the stakes for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, with many of its prominent leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, national president JP Nadda and youth wing chief Tejaswi Surya campaigning in the IT city. While Surya has referred to Hyderabad as ‘Bhagyanagar’ in several of his tweets, Adityanath, who campaigned in the Telangana capital on Saturday, went so far as to say, “Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can be renamed as Bhagyanagar. I said, ‘Why not?’”This has triggered a bitter war of words between the BJP and the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). The BJP had pitched renaming Hyderabad to Bhagyanagar during campaigning for the 2018 Telangana assembly polls as well.In 2018, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, which Adityanath heads, had renamed Faizabad district to Ayodhya and Allahabad to Prayagraj, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-nanak-tekri-narmadapuram-bjp-leader-suggests-new-names-for-madhya-pradesh-s-idgah-hills-and-hoshangabad/story-BrW9KGLJE0ZxZiXy9ijQqM.html
30-11-2020||India||Home secretary writes to states, UTs over fire incidents in hospitals, nursing homes||Two days after six persons died in a hospital fire in Rajkot, Gujarat, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla has written to all the states and Union Territories to immediately inspect and check the hospitals and nursing homes from the point of view of fire protection and means of escape to prevent recurrence of such incidents. The home secretary has also asked the states/UTs to submit the action taken in this regard with the ministry of home affairs. “I would like to draw your kind attention towards occurrence of various fire incidents in hospitals/nursing homes in recent past. Non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities in their respective jurisdiction is a matter of concern,” Bhalla said in his letter on Monday. Also read | Farmers’ protest enters fifth day, traffic disrupted in DelhiHe said that director general, fire services, has been issuing necessary advisories at regular intervals to states/UTs so that suitable directions may be issued to ensure compliance of fire safety guidelines as well as various codes and standards and to ensure that proper fire safety measures are in place in all buildings, including hospitals and nursing homes. “In addition, guidelines have been issued by NDMA (National Disaster Management Authority) for hospital safety, laying down the provisions to establish the minimum requirements for a reasonable degree of safety from fire emergency in hospitals,” Bhalla’s letter, reviewed by HT, stated. “Recently, six precious lives of Covid-19 patients have been lost in an incident in ICU ward of a hospital in Rajkot and eight lives were lost in Ahmedabad. At such a crucial time, when the country is fighting against Covid-19 pandemic, utmost precaution needs to be taken to avoid such incidents in future,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secretary-writes-to-states-uts-over-fire-incidents-in-hospitals-nursing-homes/story-Yk1tXxw1f4Vd2MKRxx9mmM.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Free’ mask, Rs 200 fine in Mumbai on Covid-19 rule violation: BMC||To encourage Covid-19-appropriate behaviour among residents of Mumbai, the city civic body has decided to provide ‘free’ masks to those found without face cover in public and also collect a fine of Rs 200 from them.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a release on Sunday said from April till November 28, it took action against 4.85 lakh citizens for not wearing masks in public places and collected over Rs 10.7 crore as fine from them.The BMC said when an offender, after being fined, goes ahead without a face mask, the objective of implementing the Covid-19 prevention protocol remains unfulfilled.“Therefore, in order to fulfill the objective, the citizen concerned will be provided a free mask and charged a penalty of Rs 200,” it said.The relevant penalty receipt will also mention about the free mask, it said.To curb the spread of infection in the post-Diwali season, the civic body has increased inspection drives in the city, with the violation of mask rule attracting a penalty of Rs 200.From April till November 28, the maximum number of 32,010 citizens without masks were fined in the K-west ward, which includes areas like Juhu and Versova, a BMC official said, adding that Rs 63.39 lakh was collected as fine from them.Besides sanitisation of hands and maintaining social distance, regular use of mask is necessary for controlling the spread of coronavirus infection, he added.Till Sunday, Mumbai city reported a total of 2,82,821 Covid-19 cases and 10,865 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-mask-rs-200-fine-in-mumbai-on-covid-19-rule-violation-bmc/story-Cv9VVVNAZU0DLu41VymjAN.html
30-11-2020||India||Social activist Baba Amte’s granddaughter Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi found dead in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur||Social activist Baba Amte’s granddaughter Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi was found dead in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-activist-baba-amte-s-granddaughter-dr-sheetal-amte-karajgi-found-dead-in-maharashtra-s-chandrapur/story-JdvAZphDSB2p6RUPk0pHUK.html
30-11-2020||India||Government calls all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country, said a person aware of this details. The Prime Minister will meet the floor leaders of all parties to assess the situation on the ground; it is, however, not clear whether the meeting will be held in person or through video-conferencing.The meeting comes close on the heels of the Prime Minister’s meeting with a group of chief ministers that was held on November 24. In that meeting, the Prime Minister had underlined the need to collectively curb the transmission of the Covid-19 virus and bring the positivity rate under 5%. The Prime Minister had reiterated the need to guard against the spread of the virus and had asked the states to set up task forces or steering committees at district and block levels to prepare for the vaccine programme. Also read | With 140 million Covid-19 tests, India crosses major landmarkAs per another person, at the all-party meeting, the PM is likely to take up the issue of the government’s preparation for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. The PM has already met three teams that are involved in developing Covid-19 vaccine via video conferencing last week. On Monday, he interacted with three other teams— Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr Reddy’s.Last week, the union home ministry also released guidelines for surveillance and containment during the ongoing pandemic with an eye on consolidating the gains that have been achieved against the spread of the virus. The new guidelines, which will come into force from December 1, empower the states to impose local restrictions, including night curfew, to check the spread of the virus.In April, the Prime Minister had interacted with the floor leaders of all the parties through video conference. At that meeting, he had suggested that it may be necessary to extend the 21-day lockdown that was imposed in March and had spoken about the government’s priority to save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-calls-all-party-meeting-on-december-4-to-discuss-covid-19-situation/story-4eIc3HXkxmp5r8Grf5cgCJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Another storm could hit Tamil Nadu after Cyclone Nivar: IMD||Another storm is expected to affect Tamil Nadu less than a week after Cyclone Nivar hit the southern state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The weather department said the cyclone, which will cross the Sri Lanka coast on December 2, will bring heavy rain over Tamil Nadu and Kerala.The weather department has issued a red alert for the southern areas of Tamil Nadu and Kerala in view of the brewing storm and said these areas are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall. A well-marked low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression. “It is very likely to intensify further into a deep depression during the next 24 hours. It is also likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross the Sri Lanka coast around the evening of December 2,” IMD said.“It is very likely to move nearly westwards thereafter and emerge into the Comorin area on December 3 morning,” IMD’s Cyclone Warning Division said.Also read | No major destruction reported due to Cyclone Nivar in Tamil NaduSqually weather with wind speed would gradually increase becoming 55-65 kilometres per hour gusting to 75kmph over the southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and 70-80kmph gusting to 90kmph over southwest Bay of Bengal, along and off Sri Lanka coast, the weather bureau said. Winds with a speed of 45-55kmph gusting to 65kmph are likely over the Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from the forenoon of December 2 for subsequent 24 hours.The sea is expected to become rough due to the weather system and fishermen have bee advised not to venture into the southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and along and off east Sri Lanka coast, Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from forenoon of December 2 for the subsequent 24 hours. Those out at sea are advised to return to the coast by November 30, IMD said.Last week, “very severe cyclonic storm” Nivar had hit Tamil Nadu. Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall on November 26, brought heavy rainfall and flooded several parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry but did not cause any large-scale damage to life or property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-storm-could-hit-tamil-nadu-after-cyclone-nivar-imd/story-jUCHptHfDjkLGdlZy5LlEJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Karnataka local body poll dates out; elections to be held in 2 phases||Karnataka State Election Commission on Monday announced polls to 5,762 out of the total 6,004 gram panchayats. The polling will take place in the state in two phases on December 22 and 27; keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation.The results for both phases will be declared on December 30. In all there are about 2.97 crore electors who can vote to elect 92,121 gram panchayat members for which 45,128 polling booths will be set up, and over 2.70 lakh polling officials will be deployed. Voting will be held between 7 am to 5 pm on polling days. State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju said the model code of conduct has come into immediate effect with the announcement of the poll schedule. While the election notification will be issued for first and second phase on December 7 and 11 respectively, last date for filing of nominations will be December 11 and 16, and December 14 and 19 will be the last date for withdrawal of nominations.The announcement comes after the High Court recently providing three weeks time, had asked the poll panel to announce the dates for gram panchayat polls.Reacting to announcement of gram panchayat polls, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said these polls are as crucial as assembly and Lok Sabha polls as it helps in strengthening the organisation from the grassroot level.“We will take utmost interest in these polls, though candidates will not face this election on party symbol, we want candidates supported by us to win,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-local-body-poll-dates-out-elections-to-be-held-in-2-phases/story-uDsnwMtbooLPQxyIcHw44L.html
30-11-2020||India||Another cyclone likely to hit Indian coast on December 3: IMD||Days after cyclone Nivar made a landfall, another depression is likely to intensify into a cyclone with wind speeds up to 80km per hour by Tuesday evening, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The depression is currently located about 1,120-km southeast of Kanyakumari. As per the current trajectory, the IMD has forecast that the cyclone system is likely to cross the Sri Lankan coast in the evening or night of December 2 and continue its westward movement to reach the Indian coast near Tamil Nadu on the morning of December 3. The low pressure system is likely to bring rain over isolated parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadweep. Parts of South Tamil Nadu and South Kerala are likely to get heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on December 3 as the cyclone hits the Indian coast. Also read: Cyclone Nivar helps improve Mumbai’s airThe sea conditions will be rough to very rough Monday through December 4, with the government advising a complete suspension of fishing operations in the region. Fishermen have been advised to return to coast by Monday. Cyclone Nivar was a very severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds hitting up to 130 km/hour that made landfall in Karaikal, Puducherry, on November 25. It was the third named cyclone in 2020 to hit the Indian coast – the first was super cyclonic storm Amphan in May and severe cyclonic storm Nisarga in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-cyclone-likely-to-hit-indian-coast-on-december-3-imd/story-kwwHaDuSZ4PZiY1ovP21EJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Final year college classes to resume from Dec 7 in TN; govt permits people to visit beaches||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday allowed reopening of classes for all final year undergraduate students from December 7, across arts and science, technical, engineering and agricultural programs. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami released a statement that the state will continue to remain in Covid-19 induced lockdown till December 31 but announced a slew of new relaxations with standard operating procedures (SOP).Classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students in medicine-related courses will resume from December 7 but classes for first year students who have been admitted in the 2020-2021 academic year will begin only from February 1, 2021.People are also allowed to visit beaches from December 14. The state has allowed indoor political, social, religious and recreational gatherings in auditoriums with 50% seating capacity or a maximum of 200 people with permission from the police and district authorities from December 1. Swimming pools will reopen only for sports training. Exhibition halls will open for business purposes. As of November 29, a total of 7,80,505 people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu and 11,703 people have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-year-college-classes-to-resume-from-dec-7-in-tn-govt-permits-people-to-visit-beaches/story-sofp508dmKIDe06fHGlbNL.html
30-11-2020||India||Explain Covid-19 vaccine in simple terms to people, PM Modi tells drug makers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with three teams working developing and manufacturing a vaccine against the coronavirus disease. He appreciated the efforts put in by scientists across firms to come with a vaccine to tackle the prevailing pandemic situation. Apart from discussing the potential of various platforms for vaccine development, the Prime Minister also asked the pharmaceutical firms to take extra efforts to inform the general public in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy etc.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In a meeting with representatives from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd Pune, Biological E Ltd Hyderabad and Dr. Reddys Laboratories Ltd Hyderabad, Modi discussed key issues, including logistics, transport, cold chain, related to the production, procurement and delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine PM Modi also asked the companies to come up with suggestions and ideas regarding the regulatory processes. All the vaccine candidates discussed are at different stages of trials and detailed data and results are expected early next year onwards, the Prime Minister’s office said in a statement.The Prime Minister has advised all the departments concerned to engage with the manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit in order to serve the needs of the country and the entire world, the statement added.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMonday’s virtual meet is the second such interaction that the PM had with the teams working to develop the Covid-19 vaccine. On Saturday, the PM was in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of coronavirus vaccines at facilities in these cities.He first visited the Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, where he was briefed about the vaccine development process. He then visited Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley, located around 20 km from the Hyderabad air station and final visit was to the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Manjari, in Pune where he interacted with the scientists and other executives, who briefed him on the vaccine’s progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explain-people-about-covid-19-vaccine-in-simple-terms-pm-modi-tells-drug-makers/story-mTDmdvusyAxAFo2J2WdcuI.html
30-11-2020||India||India seeks answers from China on Ladakh peace plan. It is a make-or-break question||As India and China prepare for the 9th round of military dialogue to restore status quo ante in East Ladakh sector, New Delhi is waiting for “certain clarifications” on the disengagement and de-escalation roadmap from Beijing, people familiar with the matter said.According to military and diplomatic officials based in Delhi and Beijing, the window of opportunity for disengagement and de-escalation from the friction points along the 597 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) would close in December when very heavy snows, polar temperatures and high-velocity winds sweeping the Tibetan plateau and Ladakh heights would make any significant movement of troops, artillery and armour will be near impossible. As of now both sides have deployed more than three divisions of troops on each side with missile, artillery and armor support.“There is a roadmap on the table but India has asked for specific clarifications from China on the stepwise disengagement by both the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army. The clarifications could be a deal-breaker but the answers are awaited from Beijing. Step by step disengagement and de-escalation moves will be detailed in a written agreement if the clarifications are to satisfaction of both the countries,” said an official in the know of the matter.The Border Roads Organization (BRO) already is fighting an uphill battle to keep the Zoji La axis open till 31 December 2020, since the weather in east Ladakh has taken a turn for worse with multiple snowfalls and the temperature already way below the minus 20 degree-mark. The terrain on the Indian side of the LAC is mountainous and glaciated, while it is a flat plateau on the Tibet side of China.Also Read: Indian Army takes a leaf out of Chinese warfare, deploys tunnel defences in LadakhSince PLA aggression on the north bank of the Pangong Tso in May 2020, followed by transgressions in Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs, the armies of two countries have been locked in a stand-off at multiple points in East Ladakh for more than six months. The Indian counter to PLA aggression was to occupy heights south of Pangong Tso, the saltwater glacial lake spread across 700 sq km - half the size of the national capital Delhi - and dominating the Chushul-Moldo area with Kailash Ranges ridgeline under its control.The PLA wants India to first disengage from south of Pangong Tso but New Delhi has made it clear that the Chinese military will first have to vacate the forward areas before the Indian Army retreats from the commanding heights south of the lake.Also Read: Chinese construction activities along Indian border ‘provocative’: US lawmakerGiven that the PLA has built roads right up to its outposts on LAC, New Delhi believes that the disengagement of the two armies should be such that time taken to return to the withdrawal point is the same for both sides.India has taken a cautious approach to disengagement and de-escalation, a senior official said, pointing that New Delhi will have to set aside its deep distrust of the PLA that has grown over the last six-seven months. India has, on several occasions, underlined that China had violated 30 years of written agreements for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC by escalating the standoff and later reiterating its 1959 claim on Ladakh, which had been rejected by India the first time it was proposed by Mao Zedong’s regime, to justify its actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-some-answers-from-china-before-9th-round-of-talks-on-ladakh/story-GnLhJhOZy8tU3S9faGpYIL.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: PM virtually reviews vaccine progress of 3 more pharma companies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had virtual meetings with three teams working on developing and manufacturing vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).These teams were from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd in Pune, Biological E Ltd, and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd, in Hyderabad, according to the statement released by PMO.“The PM appreciated the efforts being taken by the scientists in these companies to come out with a vaccine solution to tackle Covid-19. The potential of various platforms for vaccine development was also discussed,” the statement read.PM Modi also discussed matters related to regulatory approvals of the vaccine candidates. “PM also asked the companies to come out with their suggestions and ideas regarding the regulatory processes and related matters,” the statement said.Also read | With 140 million Covid-19 tests, India crosses major landmarkThe PM also suggested the companies to have a vaccine outreach initiative in place for the general public so as to dispel myths or doubts about it.“He suggested that they should take extra efforts to inform the general public in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy etc,” read the statement.Matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc; in respect of delivering the vaccines were also discussed in the meeting. All the vaccine candidates discussed are at different stages of trials -- between phase 1 and phase 3 -- and detailed data and results are expected from early next year.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has tied up with the Russian Covid-19 vaccine developers to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trials for their Sputnik V in India.Biological E has also recently started phase 1/2 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is also ready to test its m-RNA vaccine candidate against Covid-19.On Saturday, PM Modi had taken a three-city tour to physically review progress at three companies that are in advanced stages of developing and testing Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The companies he visited were Zydus Cadila in Ahmadabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad, and Serum Institute of India in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-virtually-reviews-vaccine-progress-of-3-more-pharma-companies/story-S5NTFCAdNNw6H1uCF5IH8J.html
30-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Amid fears of Covid-19 spread, medical camp set up at Singhu border||A medical camp has been set up at the Singhu border (on Haryana side of Delhi) to help farmers which are protesting there against the Centre’s farm laws and trying to enter the national capital. The camp has been set up in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic which has already infected over 9.4 million people in the country.Volunteer doctors at the camp have urged the central government to carry out tests among the protesting farmers as health protocols were not being followed at the site.The doctors said that farmers are being made aware of the safety guidelines as the majority of them are not ensuring social distancing and moving without masks. Delhi: Medical check-up camp setup at Singhu Border where farmers are protesting against the farm laws. "We should conduct COVID-19 test here. If there's any possibility of a super spreader, the disease might spread to other people which will be disastrous," says a doctor. pic.twitter.com/QwFoqSADh4“We should conduct Covid-19 test here. If there is any possibility of a super spreader, the disease might spread to other people which will be disastrous,” a doctor told news agency ANI adding that protests could prove to be dangerous and may lead to an outbreak of the infection.Dr Sarika Verma, another doctor present at the site also told ANI that protesters were being provided with medicines, masks and other facilities.Also Read| ‘Farmers being treated as terrorists, attacked on Delhi borders’: Shiv Sena“Yesterday a friend of mine informed me that some medical facilities are required here so I came here along with my colleague today to organise a free medical camp. We are providing them (protesters) with medicines, masks and other medical facilities,” she said.The Delhi Police had earlier said that the overall situation was peaceful and police officials were in contact with farmers. They pointed out that Tikri and Singhu borders had been closed for any traffic movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-amid-fears-of-covid-19-spread-medical-camp-set-up-at-singhu-border/story-06GXsmiPT1ILItxZuxU1BK.html
30-11-2020||India||Punjab CM lays foundation stones of development projects at Sultanpur Lodhi on Gurupurab||On the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Punjab Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday laid the foundation stones of development projects at Sultanpur Lodhi, as per an official statement. The Chief minister also paid his respect at Sri Ber Sahib Gurudwara in Sultanpur Lodhi. In a tweet, Singh said: “At Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib to pay respects to Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji on Guru Sahib’s 551st Prakash Purb. Prayed for Sarbat da Bhala...May Waheguru bless us all with peace and prosperity. #GuruNanakDevJi.” Happy to share that today we have dedicated a number of projects in Sultanpur Lodhi to #PrakashPurb including a Solar Power Plant, Smart Anganwadi Centre, Sr Sec Boys School & Sewage treatment plants. pic.twitter.com/Yldu0JdpPAWith Covid-19 protocols in place, devotees offered prayers at Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) in Amritsar on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev today.People along with their families offered prayers and lightened candles in the temple premises. Golden Temple has been illuminated with elaborate lights.Guru Nanak Jayanti is celebrated with much joy and fervour throughout the country and different parts of the world on the full moon day of the Kartik month as per the Hindu calendar. It is also marked as Kartik Poornima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-lays-foundation-stones-of-development-projects-at-sultanpur-lodhi-on-gurupurab/story-o4s7XlFK2YS09l0WkSJnOK.html
30-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: Stage set for battle on Tuesday||The stage is set for polling on Tuesday in the Hyderabad civic polls which witnessed a high decibel campaign resembling an Assembly or parliamentary election with top leaders from different parties participating in the electioneering.As many as 74,44,260 voters would exercise their franchise using ballot papers to elect their representatives in the 150-ward Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), according to official data.The polling would begin at 7 AM and come to an end at 6 PM.The total number of contesting candidates is 1,122.The Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has made elaborate arrangements for the balloting process by deploying 48,000 (including reserve) polling personnel and 52,500 strong police force.The Commission had decided to conduct the election with ballot papers after obtaining the views of major political parties, Health department in view of Covid-19 and taking into consideration various relevant issues, it said earlier.Also Read | GHMC polls: BJP only knows ‘jumla’ and ‘hamla’, says KTR on last day of campaignThe SEC has conducted a campaign, featuring some film personalities, to motivate the electorate to vote.Observing that all arrangements, including those in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,have been made for smooth polling, State Election Commissioner C Parathasarathi has appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise.The run-up to the polling witnessed a high decibel and often acrimonious campaign.Buoyed by its victory in the recent bypoll to Dubbak Assembly constituency, the BJP conducted a powerful campaign to win the GHMC polls.It has drafted its General Secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who has been its incharge for Bihar, to supervise the preparation for the poll in Hyderabad.Top leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, party president J P Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy, who is Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, party MP and BJYM national president Tejaswi Surya participated in the campaign.The BJP highlighted the TRS’ “alliance” with the AIMIM and sought votes to provide clean and transparent governance in the city.The TRS, however, denied any alliance with the AIMIM.The TRS’ campaign was led by its Working President and state Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, while party supremo and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao addressed a public meeting.The state’s ruling party has deployed several state ministers and legislators for canvassing in the city.The Congress campaign was led by its state president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and Working President A Revanth Reddy and other senior leaders.Once a major force in the state, but marginalised now, the TDP sought to revive its fortunes highlighting the development witnessed in the city, including in the IT sector, during N Chandrababu Naidu’s regime as Chief Minister in undivided Andhra Pradesh.Also Read |  GHMC polls: Bhagyalakshmi Temple turns into cynosure of election narrativeThe TRS and BJP leaders were engaged in a war of words attacking each other.BJP’s Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar found himself in a row following his comments that his party would conduct a “surgical strike” in the old city here to send away Rohingyas and Pakistanis after it wins the post of Mayor in the polls.AIMIM’s Akbaruddin Owaisi in a poll campaign earned the wrath of his opponents by asking whether the ‘samadhis’ of former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao and TDP founder N T Rama Rao, built on the Hussain Sagar lake bank, would be removed as he questioned the eviction drive against “poor people” residing near water bodies.Counting of votes will be taken up on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-stage-set-for-battle-on-tuesday/story-GFJEeku1KynKEEGi7IN2UO.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Matter of concern’: Union home secretary writes to states over fire incidents in Covid-19 hospitals in Gujarat||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has said that the incidents of fire in hospitals and nursing homes in which Covid-19 patients died is a matter of concern. In a letter to state chief secretaries, Bhalla asked ensure compliance of advisories issued by the home ministry.“I would like to draw your attention towards occurrence of fire incidents in hospitals/nursing homes in recent past. Non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities is a matter of concern,” Bhalla said in his letter.“Recently, six precious lives of Covid-19 patients were lost in a fire incident in ICU ward of a hospital in Rajkot and eight lives were lost in a hospital in Ahmedabad. When India is fighting against Covid-19, utmost precaution needs to be taken to avoid such incidents,” he further said in the letter.The Union home secretary asked the chief secretaries of various states to ensure compliance of advisories issued by the Centre (home ministry) and direct officials concerned to re-inspect/re-check all hospitals/nursing homes from the point of view of fire protection and means of escape.Five people were booked on Sunday on the charge of causing death by negligence in connection with fire at a designated private Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot. Five people were killed due to the blaze.The accused included chairman, executive director, and other officials of Gokul Healthcare Pvt Limited which operates Uday Shivanand Covid Hospital, where the five deaths had occurred.The police said that their probe revealed violation of multiple norms by management of the hospital.“The hospital was started in three floors rented at a hospital being run by Shivanand Mission Trust. Several norms were found to be flouted and negligence of hospital administrators came to fore during investigation,” Rajkot DCP Manoharsinh Jadeja.The DCP said the ICU emergency gate was found blocked, as a result of which it could not be used for rescue when the blaze erupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-concern-union-home-secretary-writes-to-states-over-fire-incidents-in-covid-19-hospitals-in-gujarat/story-GriJx3f6iewse2Li78QkjP.html
30-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urge people to join ‘Speak Up for Farmers’ campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday urged people to join the “Speak Up for Farmers” campaign, amid farmers’ protests against the Central government’s new farm laws.“Modi government tortured farmers- first they brought in black laws and then used force/lathi-charged farmers. But they forgot that when farmers raise their voice then it resonates across the country. Join us through the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign against the exploitation of our brother farmers,” read Rahul’s tweet (roughly translated from Hindi).Also Read | Delhi: Farmers’ protest enters fifth day, traffic disrupted in cityRaising the issue, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the interests of farmers were ignored in new agricultural laws.“Name of the law is farmer’s law but all the benefit to billionaire friends. How can farmer laws be made without talking to farmers? How can the interests of farmers be ignored while making these laws? The government will have to listen to the farmers. Let us together raise our voice in support of farmers. #SpeakUpForFarmers,” she tweeted in Hindi. नाम किसान कानून लेकिन सारा फायदा अरबपति मित्रों का किसान कानून बिना किसानों से बात किए कैसे बन सकते हैं? उनमें किसानों के हितों की अनदेखी कैसे की जा सकती है?सरकार को किसानों की बात सुननी होगी। आइए मिलकर किसानों के समर्थन में आवाज उठाएं।#SpeakUpForFarmers pic.twitter.com/av8i7jhUptFarmers have been protesting at various places in Delhi and Haryana and have rejected the central government’s offer to hold talks on December 3 saying that imposing conditions for starting a dialogue is an insult to them.Around 32 farmer organisations, mostly from Punjab, and a few farmers from Gujarat and Maharashtra as well managed to reach Delhi on Friday and assembled at the border areas to continue their protest.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the Central government is ready for talks with the farmers’ unions on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-urge-people-to-join-speak-up-for-farmers-campaign/story-yn11LvgYdT63FI59Lh2XfL.html
30-11-2020||India||‘In 2024 Lok Sabha polls support will be for the party backing Gorkhaland demand’: Roshan Giri||Senior leader of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s(GJM) Bimal Gurung faction Roshan Giri on Sunday said they are not giving up their demand for Gorkhaland and will extend support to that party in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections which will back their demand for a separate state.However, in the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections the Bimal Gurung faction of the GJM will support the Trinamool Congress(TMC) and like to see Mamata Banerjee become the chief minister for the third time, Giri told reporters after a rally in Kurseong.The GJM led by fugitive Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung on October quit the National Democratic Alliance(NDA) and aligned with TMC, saying the saffron party has “failed to find a permanent solution” for the Hills -- which had witnessed major unrest over demand for a separate state in 2017.On Sunday, Giri, the general secretary of the outfit, said, “We will extend support to Mamata Banerjee in the coming assembly polls. She had fulfilled her promises about development in Darjeeling hills. But the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), despite securing our support in Lok Sabha polls since 2009, had failed to honour its promises.” “We don’t trust BJP but we have faith in Trinamool Congress.” About the TMC not supporting the Gorkhaland demand in past, he said, “The Trinamool Congress government cannot do anything to fulfil our statehood demand, they don’t have the requisite power.” TMC government will ensure development of the hills. The BJP government at Centre had failed to honour their statehood promise to GJM in all these years, Giri alleged.“In 2024 Lok Sabha polls, our support will be for the party backing the Gorkhaland demand,” he said.Ruling out any reconciliation with the Binoy Tamang faction, he claimed that Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Chairman Anit Thapa and GJM leader Binoy Tamang have no base in the hills and accused them of being involved in financial wrongdoings.Tamang too had recently levelled similar charges against the Gurung faction and ruled out any understanding with them.Giri returned to Darjeeling district on Saturday, more than three years after slipping out of the hill station, following the police launching a manhunt for him and other party leaders in connection with violent incidents during the 2017 Gorkhaland statehood agitation.Gurung and Giri had resurfaced in Kolkata in October pledging support to Mamata Banerjee and announcing they severed links with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2024-lok-sabha-polls-support-will-be-for-the-party-backing-gorkhaland-demand-roshan-giri/story-6jwDL4u3260vQiGmHXqgRM.html
30-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CPWD blames Oppn for muted microphones in RS during farm bills’ passage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CPWD blames Opposition leaders for muted microphones in RS during farm Bills’ passageThe government’s construction arm, CPWD, has blamed the Opposition parties for the microphones going silent in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the contentious farm Bills in September. It led to a brief period of silence on Rajya Sabha TV too. Read moreFarmers’ protest: Concrete barriers come up at Ghazipur, Delhi-Ghaziabad borderDelhi Police on Monday morning placed concrete barriers at Ghazipur, Delhi-Ghaziabad border after farmer leaders said they will block more highways connecting Delhi apart from Singhu and Tikri borders where they’ve been camping since Friday. Read moreCovid-19: Eight states reporting maximum new deaths, says government dataEight states are reporting most of India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related daily deaths, shows government data.With 444 new deaths reported from across the country on Sunday, the total number of people having succumbed to the viral infection in the country has reached 137,173. Read moreMetal detectors, dog squads: Security beefed up in Sarnath ahead of PM Modi’s visitPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is expected to reach Varanasi at 2 pm on Monday, would also see the light and sound show at an archaeological site in Sarnath which he had inaugurated earlier this month. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘We were ineffective with the ball,’ Virat Kohli disappointed with bowling efforts after ODI series lossIndia suffered a 51-run loss to Australia in the 2nd ODI in Sydney on Sunday. The result meant that the Virat Kohli-led side had lost the ODI series with Australia taking an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series.  Read moreDeepika Padukone is the only person Ananya Panday will hug, says ‘I love you Aka’. See their photoActor Ananya Panday shared a couple of pictures and a video clip at Gateway of India recently. One of them had her hugging Deepika Padukone, with a face mask on. Read moreNew car in a bubble wrap? Tata Motors going extra mile to ensure safetyCar manufacturers and dealers across the country have taken several steps to ensure safety and precaution during the Covid days. From sanitisation to contactless buying on digital platform, the carmakers have no stone unturned to prevent the spread of the virus. Read moreHave you seen the images of this white lion showing off its majestic mane?“He is gorgeous and he knows it,” this is probably what you’ll be inclined to say after seeing the stunning images of a white lion named Moya. Captured by British photographer Simon Needham, the images may make you say ‘wow’ repeatedly. Read moreWatch: Farmers threaten to block Delhi entry points; reject talks offer l All updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cpwd-blames-oppn-for-muted-microphones-in-rs-during-farm-bills-passage-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YOjXFAu5gOlmlLKltRzesK.html
30-11-2020||India||With 140 million Covid-19 tests, India crosses major landmark||On a day the latest numbers from the Union health ministry showed that India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed the 9.4 million mark, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data showed that the total number of samples tested for Covid-19 in the country, too, have crossed a major milestone-140 million.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Testing update for Covid-19: Total samples tested up to 29 November 2020-14,03,79,976. Samples tested on 29 November 2020-8,76,173,” the government-run ICMR tweeted on Monday. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Msxvz13qsbOn November 21, the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had announced that India had crossed the “landmark” of 130 million tests, with the last 10 million coming in just 10 days. Thus, since the country’s first swab sample was tested on January 23, the rise from 10 million tests to 140 million has been as follows: 10 million (July 7), 20 million (August 3), 30 million (August 17), 40 million (August 29), 50 million (September 8), 60 million (September 17), 70 million (September 26), 80 Million (October 6), 90 million (October 14), 100 million (October 23), 110 million (November 2), 120 million (November 11), 130 million (November 21) and 140 million (November 29).Also Read | India crosses 130 million Covid-19 test mark, last 10 million in 10 days: GovtOverall, India is among the select group of countries which have conducted such a high number of Covid-19 tests. The United States, which is the worst-hit, has conducted more tests than any other country. Meanwhile China, where the virus originated and spread from last year, comes next.India’s current Covid-19 tally stands at 9,431,691 after 38,772 new infections were logged in the last 24 hours, in addition to 443 new deaths, as per the health ministry’s data on Monday. This includes 8,847,600 recovered cases, 446,952 active cases and 137,139 deaths. Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting via video conferencing with Covid-19 vaccine developing teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr Reddy’s. On Saturday, the prime minister had visited vaccine development centres at Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-140-million-covid-19-tests-india-crosses-major-landmark/story-pLyStjYVnW4vZbdZhWDqYN.html
30-11-2020||India||Rajinikanth says ‘districts secretaries with me, will announce my decision soon’ on his next political move||Actor Rajinikanth on Monday said that he will announce his decision about his next political move soon. His statement came soon after a two-hour meeting with office bearers of Rajini Makkal Mandram, an extension of his fan club, in Chennai.“Districts secretaries told me they are with me on whatever I decide. I will announce my decision as soon as possible,” Rajinikanth told reporters outside his residence after the meeting. The announcement comes in the backdrop of doctors advising the Tamil superstar to not enter politics due to his health condition. Last month, after a letter stating Rajinikanth will not be entering politics did the rounds on social media, the actor denied releasing any such letter. “The leaked letter that has been circulated is not mine. However, the information in it about my health and doctors advice is true. Regarding my political stand, I will discuss with Rajini Makkal Mandram and announce at an appropriate time,” Rajinikanth had written on Twitter in Tamil.The actor had confirmed his plunge into politics in December 2017 and even confirmed setting up his own party. He also set up a website to register members from his fan clubs as well as those willing to join his party. The website is called rajinimandram.org and it’ll assemble all his fans under the click of a mouse button.However, soon after the launch of the website, speculations were rife that Rajinimandram could be the name of Rajinikanth’s party, but it is yet to be confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-says-districts-secretaries-with-me-will-announce-my-decision-soon-on-his-next-political-move/story-8elBIurZDicNthQvIBW5NL.html
30-11-2020||India||Sikh ‘jatha’ from India leaves for Nankana Sahib in Pakistan||A Sikh Jatha from India has left for Nankana Sahib in Pakistan on the occasion of Guru Nanak’s 551st birth anniversary.“We’ll pray to Guru Maharaj to end this pandemic so that we can also visit Kartarpur Sahib freely,” said Laxman Singh, a jatha (pilgrim) member.Earlier, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on November 19 had made the announcement regarding the Sikh jatha’s visit to Nankana Sahib from November 27 to December 1.“A Sikh jatha from India will visit Nankana Sahib from November 27 to December 1 on the occasion of 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev ji,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.Amid the threat posed by the virus, Pakistan has asked pilgrims to adhere to the coronavirus guidelines of their country. A Covid-19 negative report has been made mandatory for every visitor to gain entry to Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-jatha-from-india-leaves-for-nankana-sahib-in-pakistan/story-Mi8tJek0MfqQOF8HlWvj4N.html
30-11-2020||India||Pakistani fighter jet spotted close to LoC in Poonch||Amid a spike in ceasefire violations and terror tunnels being detected along the borders, a Pakistani fighter jet flew very close to the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district on Monday morning.“The jet flew close to the LoC in Poonch sector in violation of international conventions which does not allow fighter jets to fly within a 10km radius of the border,” a defence spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that a jet stream was clearly visible in the sky close to the LoC in Poonch. Recently, a few drones had been spotted near the Line of Control.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighter-jet-of-pakistani-origin-spotted-close-to-loc-in-poonch/story-86Sczm2Ype4zgALnix5mzL.html
30-11-2020||India||Plastic pollution from fishing nets threatening wildlife in Ganga, study finds||Plastic pollution from discarded fishing gear in the Ganga River poses a threat to wildlife such as the critically endangered three-striped roofed turtle and the endangered Ganga river dolphin, according to an international team including researchers from the Wildlife Institute of India.In the study, published in the journal Science of The Total Environment, surveys along the length of the river, from the mouth in Bangladesh to the Himalayas in India, show levels of waste fishing gear are highest near to the sea.The researchers noted that fishing nets -- all made of plastic -- were the most common type of gear found.Interviews with local fishers showed high rates of fishing equipment being discarded in the river -- driven by short gear lifespans and lack of appropriate disposal systems, they said.“The Ganges River supports some of the world’s largest inland fisheries, but no research has been done to assess plastic pollution from this industry, and its impacts on wildlife,” said Sarah Nelms from the University of Exeter in the UK.“Ingesting plastic can harm wildlife, but our threat assessment focussed on entanglement, which is known to injure and kill a wide range of marine species,” Nelms said.The researchers used a list of 21 river species of “conservation concern” identified by the Wildlife Institute of India in Uttarakhand.They combined existing information on entanglements of similar species worldwide with the new data on levels of waste fishing gear in the Ganges to estimate which species are most at risk. “There is no system for fishers to recycle their nets. Most fishers told us they mend and repurpose nets if they can, but if they can’t do that the nets are often discarded in the river,” said Nelms. “Many held the view that the river ‘cleans it away’, so one useful step would be to raise awareness of the real environmental impacts,” she said. The findings offer hope for solutions based on “circular economy” where waste is dramatically reduced by reusing materials, according to Professor Heather Koldewey, from the Zoological Society of London(ZSL). “A high proportion of the fishing gear we found was made of nylon 6, which is valuable and can be used to make products including carpets and clothing,” Koldeway said. “Collection and recycling of nylon 6 has strong potential as a solution because it would cut plastic pollution and provide an income,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plastic-pollution-from-fishing-nets-threatening-wildlife-in-ganga-study-finds/story-Ma4r298OWOb3pO8NsW5x7L.html
30-11-2020||India||Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa says won’t give BJP ticket to Muslim candidate for Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll||Karnataka rural development minister KS Eshwarappa on Saturday said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not give ticket to any Muslim candidate for the bypoll to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. Eshwarappa said that the party might give a ticket to a candidate of any community of the Hindus but not to Muslims. “We might give the party ticket to any community of Hindus. Whoever we might give it to - maybe Lingayats, Kurubas, Vokkaligas, or Brahmins but definitely, it will not be given to Muslims,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. A candidate who can win by gaining the trust of the people will be selected, the senior BJP leader told reporters. “Belagavi is one of the centres of Hindutva, there is no question of us giving tickets to Muslims here,” he added. The Belagavi Lok Sabha seat fell vacant recently following the death of Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi due to Covid-19. The bypoll for the seat is yet to be announced by the Election Commission.Earlier in April last year, Eshwarappa had in Koppal said that BJP will not give tickets to Muslims to contest the elections as they do not believe in the party. However, he had later clarified that he was not hater of any community including Muslims and his statement was in response to a question about a specific leader from the community getting a ticket from the BJP. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-ks-eshwarappa-says-won-t-give-bjp-ticket-to-muslim-candidate-for-belagavi-lok-sabha-bypoll/story-W5SaDAyS9Ub3spQn3sRuFL.html
30-11-2020||India||Actor Urmila Matondkar to join Shiv Sena today in Mumbai, says party leader Sanjay Raut||Actor Urmila Matondkar is set to restart her political journey after quitting the Congress party last year in September. The 46-year-old actor will join the Shiv Sena on Tuesday, senior party leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said. She is likely to be inducted formally at Matoshree in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and state minister Aaditya. “She [Matondkar] is anyway a Shiv Sainik. She may join the Sena formally tomorrow… Our women leadership is getting stronger,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai, when asked if the actor is joining the party. Matondkar did not respond to HT’s calls or message, seeking her comment on the development. However, her husband Mohsin Akhtar said that she is scheduled to address a press conference in Juhu on Tuesday at 4pm. According to party insiders, the Sena has already proposed Matondkar’s name for one of the 12 Governor-nominated seats in the state legislative Council. Last year, Matondkar had contested the Lok Sabha polls from Mumbai North constituency on a Congress ticket. She was defeated by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gopal Shetty. In September, she quit the Congress, stating that her efforts to work for the betterment of the party did not find support. She also cited “petty in-house politics” as one of the reasons behind her resignation. Senior party leaders said that the leadership was impressed with the manner in which Matondkar took on actor Kangana Ranaut when the latter and the Sena were locked in a war of words after Ranaut equated Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Matondkar will be an additional resource for the Sena to put out its messages on a national level. Party insiders said that Matondkar is a well-known face nationally, has a good social connect within Maharashtra and will become an additional voice for the party on issues. “Urmila is a Mumbai girl, who wants to work for Mumbai and its development. She is a well-known face across the country and voice and a well-read person. She is not just fluent in Marathi, but speaks Hindi and English also fluently. We are sure that she will fulfil any responsibility well that Uddhavji gives,” said Manisha Kayande, Member of legislation Council (MLC) from Sena and party spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urmila-matondkar-to-join-shiv-sena-on-december-1-sanjay-raut/story-CzUWdm4aUt9bavydyWLMEJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Leopard enters girls’ hostel in Guwahati; tranquilized and sent to state zoo||There was panic among residents of a locality in the middle of Guwahati for several hours on Monday morning after an adult leopard entered a girls’ hostel. It took forest officials more than three hours to tranquilize the animal, which was trapped under a cane sofa placed in the verandah of the ground floor of the hostel where the owner stays. “The animal must have entered the premises in the wee hours as seen in CCTV camera footage. It entered the grilled verandah and got trapped under a sofa,” said Mousumi Bora, owner of Milestone paying guest hostel for girls located at Hengerabari area of the city. “I was the one to see it first. I mistook it for a piece of cloth and nearly grabbed its tail before realizing what it is. We locked ourselves in and informed forest officials. There are 15 girls in the hostel at present and they also locked themselves in their rooms immediately,” she added. It took forest and police officials a lot of effort to tranquilize the animal as they didn’t have a clear view of it. But when they finally managed to hit it with a tranquilizer shot, the leopard left the spot and entered a nearby house. Forest officials finally managed to put the tranquilized animal in a cage and shift it to the Assam state zoo at about 11 am. “Since the animal is sedated, it will be kept in the zoo till it wakes up. We will check if it has sustained any injuries. A microchip will be inserted into the animal and it will be released in a forest later,” said Tejas Mariswamy, divisional forest officer, Assam state zoo. As Guwahati is surrounded by forest and hills, leopards are frequently seen in the city and sometimes enter houses. In August this year, a 6-year-old boy was killed by a leopard in the city and in June local residents had killed and paraded a leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-enters-girls-hostel-in-guwahati-tranquilized-and-sent-to-state-zoo/story-4SPIPplyvAIGVzmLdLv5pO.html
30-11-2020||India||South Korea considers more vaccine buys as coronavirus cases surge||South Korea’s ruling party has called for the country to buy millions of additional coronavirus vaccine doses after a spike in infection numbers raised concerns about the government’s existing plans.South Korea already plans to secure enough doses to vaccinate 30 million people, or about 60% of the population, but Democratic Party lawmakers said they would appropriate funds to buy doses for at least 44 million people.“The party plans to allocate an additional 1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion) to next year’s budget,” an official with Democratic Party lawmaker Lee Nak-yon’s office told Reuters.South Korea is battling one of its largest waves of coronavirus infections yet, fuelled by small outbreaks in the densely populated capital city of Seoul and surrounding areas.The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) reported 438 new coronavirus cases as of midnight Sunday, bringing the country’s total to 34,201 cases and 526 deaths. The government’s current vaccine purchase plan puts it well ahead of a World Health Organization (WHO) goal for the early purchase of supplies for 20% of most vulnerable people, and the minimum of 40% agreed by European Union nations, Britain and EU partners for their populations.Korean authorities have said they are not in a rush to procure large numbers of vaccines quickly because the country has succeeded in keeping infection rates at controllable levels, preferring to wait and see which vaccines worked best.Securing more vaccines of different types is also necessary because their safety has yet to be guaranteed, the KDCA said on Monday.The KDCA has said they do not expect to start vaccinating the public until the second quarter of 2021.The Korea National Enterprise for Clinical Trials said that as of Monday 3,500 people have pre-registered to participate in clinical trials for coronavirus experimental vaccines and treatment drugs, though a smaller number will be selected to participate.Under the current plan, the government has secured a third of the needed doses via the COVAX facility, an international Covid-19 vaccine allocation platform co-led by the WHO, with the remaining doses purchased from private companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/south-korea-considers-more-vaccine-buys-as-coronavirus-cases-surge/story-kcPnJRhSdrO4fC41htnTWL.html
30-11-2020||India||‘Farmers being treated as terrorists, attacked on Delhi borders’: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena on Monday slammed the BJP-led regime’s treatment meted out to protesting farmers, adding it was cruel to use water cannons on them amid a cold wave sweeping parts of north India.The farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since five days against the new farm laws and have said they will not accept any conditional dialogue and threatened to block all five entry points to the national capital.Also Read | Farmers protest LIVE updates: Medical camp setup at Singhu Border in view of Covid-19“Our farmers are being treated as terrorists and attacked on Delhi borders while terrorists are killing our soldiers on the border in Kashmir,” an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said.The Sena singled out Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for claiming a Khalistani link in the protests.“BJP wants to create anarchy. Khalistan is a closed chapter for which Indira Gandhi and General Arunkumar Vaidya laid down their lives,” it said.“The government is using all its might to crush political opponents but why is this determination not seen while dealing with the country’s enemies,” it asked.In the last one month, 11 soldiers from Maharashtra attained martyrdom while fighting enemies on the borders, the Sena said.Also Read |  Leaders weigh in on issue in India, abroadReferring to the giant statue of Sardar Patel “erected by PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah” in Gujarat, the editorial said Patel was also a leader of farmers and led many farmers’ agitation against the British. “His statue’s eyes must be moist now seeing how farmers are being treated,” it said.Central agencies like ED and CBI are being used as weapons against political opponents, the Sena said.“These agencies should also get a chance to display their valour,” it said and suggested that (personnel of) ED and CBI should be deployed in Ladakhand Kashmir to help the Army fight India’s enemies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-slams-bjp-calls-using-water-cannons-on-farmers-amid-cold-wave-cruel/story-swfrlF8AXq6S63uJ7HjAZP.html
30-11-2020||India||CPWD blames Opposition leaders for muted microphones in RS during farm Bills’ passage||The government’s construction arm, CPWD, has blamed the Opposition parties for the microphones going silent in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the contentious farm Bills in September. It led to a brief period of silence on Rajya Sabha TV too. The Opposition had accused the Rajya Sabha authorities of deliberately switching off the microphones to silence the critics of the Bills. The CPWD, responsible for the maintenance of the Parliament building, wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat, “It is informed that abrupt interruption in the audio feed of the Rajya Sabha proceedings between 13.05hrs and 13.35hrs on September 20 during consideration of two farmer’s bills by Rajya Sabha was due to damage to the chairman’s microphones by the Hon’ble MPs.” Some Opposition MPs were accused of wrenching the microphone of the deputy chairman Harivansh, storming into the Well of the House, throwing papers and House rule book at the Chair and abusing him. They hurled some papers at the deputy chairman. As many as eight Opposition leaders were suspended till the end of the monsoon session for these “gross disorderly conduct” leading to another round of tussle between the Opposition and the government. Also read | Farmer groups say no political parties will be allowed to speak at protests, term Burari site as ‘open jail’While the Opposition denied uprooting microphones, the CPWD corroborated with what the government managers had said. “As per the directions of the chair, no other mic was on except those of the chairman. So, when these mics were broken, there was no audio output from the system to RSTV,” it wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Ruling out any technical issue causing interruption, it said, “the sound system was working perfectly and audio feed resumed when the broken mics were replaced with the permission of marshals and table office.” On September 20, Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings when the MPs charged at him, ostensibly for not paying heed to their demand for a division of votes on the two agricultural reform Bills. The bills were passed by voice vote, without being referred to a select committee of Parliament. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress accused each other of not upholding democratic norms after action was ordered by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu against MPs from four Opposition parties for their protest in which they stormed the Well of the House and charged towards the Chair, which was at that time occupied by deputy chairman Harivansh. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Admi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) were suspended for seven days each. The last time a large group of MPs was suspended from the Upper House was in 2010, when seven MPs from three parties were barred for the rest of the session over their protests against the Women’s Reservation Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpwd-blames-opposition-leaders-for-muted-microphones-in-rs-during-farm-bills-passage/story-EQmOkCyFoHgpiYjvbMXXVM.html
30-11-2020||India||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai discharged from hospital, to remain in home isolation||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai has been discharged from Max Hospital in the national capital late Sunday evening.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19After being tested positive for coronavirus on November 26, Rai was admitted to Max hospital on the same day. The Minister’s health is now stable and he will be observed and treated by doctors under home isolation, an official said.“After initial symptoms, I underwent corona test and the report has come positive. Those who have come to my contact in the last few days, please take care and get yourself tested,” Rai had tweeted when he contracted the virus.Earlier, Rai’s cabinet colleague and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tested Covid-19 positive but later he recovered.Delhi reported 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, 6,325 recoveries, and 68 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total positive cases in the national capital have reached 5,66,648 including 5,22,491 recoveries, 35,091 active cases, and 9,066 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-discharged-from-hospital-to-remain-in-home-isolation/story-eveRngDKcbf83ABSaWoZTL.html
30-11-2020||India||Ancient idol of Goddess Annapurna to be brought back to India from Canada: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to visit his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Monday, shared the news with the people of the city that an ancient idol of Goddess Annapurna was being brought back to India from Canada, according to a government press statement. The announcement, which PM Modi made on Sunday in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, came on the eve of the Dev Deepawali celebrations, which the prime minister will attend in Varanasi on Monday. “Every Indian would feel proud to know that an ancient idol of Maa Annapurna is being brought back from Canada to India,” PM Modi said in the 71st episode of the programme. Explaining the connection of Goddess Annapurna with Varanasi, the prime minister said, “Mata Annapurna has a very special bond with Kashi. And the return of the idol is very pleasant for all of us. Like the statue of Mata Annapurna, much of our heritage has been a victim of international gangs.” Over 100 years ago in 1913, the idol was stolen from a temple in Varanasi and smuggled out of the country. On Monday, the PM will light the first diya (earthen lamp) at Rajghat to start the illumination at all 80 ghats that will be decorated with over a million diyas and colourful lights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ancient-idol-of-goddess-annapurna-to-be-brought-back-to-india-from-canada-pm-modi/story-PKUKiF4UQ5FqJfDNGcaLFM.html
30-11-2020||India||HC refuses pre-arrest bail to Surat resident who fled with diamonds worth Rs3.87 crore||The Bombay high court on Friday rejected anticipatory bail plea of a Surat resident accused of fleeing with diamonds worth Rs3.87 crore from the city.Justice Sarang Kotwal refused pre-arrest bail to Kausang Dolchiwala, observing that his custodial interrogation was necessary for the purpose of recovering the precious stones and to find the modus operandi employed by him.An FIR was registered against Dolchiwala and Shashikant Shah by the Bandra Kurla Complex on August 4, on the basis of complaint lodged by diamond trader Piyush Jogani.Jogani said Shah had sent him a WhatsApp message in June that he wanted diamonds for a client. Jogani then went to Shah’s office at BMC and gave him diamonds worth Rs62.85 lakh. At that time, Jogani added, Dolchiwala was also present at Shah’s office. The men took the diamonds and signed receipts against the same.Also read | Mumbai diamond trader duped of Rs1.29 lakh in commonplace KYC update fraudJogani said some other diamond traders had also handed over diamonds to the duo on that day. Many of them later went to Shah’s office and asked him to return the diamonds. He, however, expressed inability to do so, claiming that Dolchiwala had taken them all. Jogani added that attempts were made to contact Dolchiwala at his Surat residence, but he could not be traced.Meanwhile, Dolchiwala had moved the high court for a pre-arrest bail, contending that he was wrongly implicated in the case as an accused and he had nothing to do with the misappropriation of the diamonds. He added that he was merely sitting with Shah who accepted all the diamonds.Assistant public prosecutor SR Agarkar, however, pointed out that the investigation has revealed that Dolchiwala took all the diamonds. He pointed out that the CCTV footage collected by police showed that both Shah and Dolchiwala accepted the precious stones and both signed the receipts, and later Shah handed over the diamonds to the Surat resident who kept those in his pockets and left Shah’s office.Agarkar also pointed out that Dolchiwala had taken away diamonds worth Rs3.87 crore. “The investigation carried out so far has revealed that the diamonds given by the informant were taken away by the present applicant. His complicity in the offence is shown during the investigation,” said the judge, rejecting Dolchiwala’s plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-surat-resident-who-fled-with-diamonds-worth-rs3-87-crore/story-mvZk25M0roZXQfJMRT5xHM.html
30-11-2020||India||Metal detectors, dog squads: Security beefed up in Sarnath ahead of PM Modi’s visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is expected to reach Varanasi at 2 pm on Monday, would also see the light and sound show at an archaeological site in Sarnath which he had inaugurated earlier this month. The 30-minute show portrays the journey of transformation of Prince Siddhartha into Lord Buddha.Located 10 kilometres northeast of Varanasi, Sarnath is a holy Buddhist site where Lord Buddha gave his first sermon. The deer park is where he first taught the Dharma.The archaeological museum and the excavation site in Sarnath are closed for general public and tourists since Saturday due to PM Modi’s visit.Also Read: Varanasi decked up ahead of PM Modi’s visit on Dev Deepawali“The entry of tourists and commoners to the archaeological excavation site and archaeological museum has been prohibited from Saturday till November 30 on the instructions of the district administration,” Sarnath’s superintending archaeologist Neeraj Sinha said.Meanwhile, security has been beefed up around the area and with the deployment of police, tight arrangements have been put in place, a senior police official said. A team from the Special Protection Group (SPG) had inspected the site and reviewed security arrangements, he added.A security official also highlighted that teams equipped with metal detectors have been instructed to regularly patrol the site and a dog squad has also been deployed.Apart from the Sarnath visit, Modi will launch the Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project and participate in Deepotsav celebrations at the ghat (bank) of river Ganga. He would also pay a visit to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project site to review its progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metal-detectors-dog-squads-security-beefed-up-in-sarnath-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit/story-GlFK4pgp3lAGQLycAXQg7L.html
30-11-2020||India||With Covid-19 ‘under control’, Assam to open elementary schools, hostels||With marked improvement in the Covid-19 scenario in the state in November, the Assam government has decided to start elementary schools and also allow hostels to open. Health and education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that classes in elementary schools from kindergarten to Class 6 will resume from January 1 and hostels in residential schools and colleges will start in a limited manner from December 15. “The Covid-19 situation in Assam is satisfactory and under control. But keeping in mind, the situation in other parts of India and the world, we are on alert. A survey by a weekly magazine has ranked Assam as the best state in Covid-19 management,” Sarma told journalists in Guwahati. Till Sunday, Assam had recorded 2,12,617 Covid-19 cases with 981 deaths. At present there are 3,350 active cases in the state. The recovery rate is 98% while the death rate is 0.46%. Sarma informed that the number of positive cases have continuously gone down in November starting from 325 cases on an average daily in the first week of the month to 158 cases daily in the last week. “Keeping in view the present situation, we have decided to allow opening of elementary schools from kindergarten to Class 6 from January 1 and allow residential schools and colleges to allow final year students to stay in hostels from December 15,” he said. Though Assam had allowed resumption of offline classes from Class 7 and above earlier, the junior classes had not started in schools. Sarma informed that classes will start in a staggered manner and detailed SOPs will be announced within the next few days. Students will be allowed to attend classes based on written consent from parents and students staying in hostels will be allowed entry only after they undergo Covid-19 tests. “We have closed all temporary Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in the state due to the improved situation. In the meantime, the number of beds in hospitals has been increased. The temporary CCCs will open again if the Covid-19 situation deteriorates in the coming days,” said Sarma. There were over a dozen CCCs operating in Guwahati and another 20 more in the rest of the state earlier. Sarma informed that the Centre has asked states to prepare details on the four categories of people who would get vaccinated first—1) doctors, nurses, frontline workers, 2) police, army, para-military personnel, 3) senior citizens and 4) persons with co-morbidities. “Based on preliminary survey, there would be nearly 60 to 70 lakh people in Assam falling in those categories. As far as we know, the vaccine would be available around March-April next year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-under-control-assam-to-open-elementary-schools-hostels/story-gcArxcs9w364T3bfGHLqLK.html
30-11-2020||India||Simultaneous production of sugar, power generation from bagasse is environment-friendly, says IIT-Bombay study||Simultaneous production of sugar and electricity generation from bagasse -- a by-product of sugarcane -- in mills is more environment-friendly and consumes less water than undertaking these processes separately, finds a study by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. Researchers found that the production of a tonne of sugar is likely to release greenhouse gases equivalent to 324 to 834kg of carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide are the key greenhouse gases (GHGs) that can hang in the air for almost 300 to 1,000 years and trap heat in the atmosphere, thereby increasing the temperature on earth. India is one of the leading producers of sugar in the world, and Maharashtra is the second-largest sugarcane producer in India with 82 million tonne (mt) production in 2018. “Scenarios with only sugar production lead to more GHG emissions, water consumption and other environmental impacts than scenarios with both sugar and surplus electricity production,” said the study published on November 13 in the Journal for Cleaner Production, a peer-reviewed journal published by Elsevier. Also read | Bharatiya Kisan Union to continue Dilli Chalo stir from UP Gate, decides to prolong staySugarcane cultivation alone accounts for more than 90% of greenhouse gas emissions in the entire life cycle of sugar production. Coal-based electricity consumption for irrigation and application of chemical fertiliser and cattle manure lead to this high level of emissions. Sugarcane milling accounts for 6-7% and cogeneration of electricity from bagasse accounts for 2-3% of emissions, finds the study. Researchers from IIT-B -- Moonmoon Hiloidhari, a PhD scholar from the interdisciplinary programme in climate studies, Rangan Banerjee, professor in the department of energy science and engineering and Anand Rao, professor and head of the Centre for Technology Alternatives for Rural Areas -- set out to understand the interaction of bioenergy, climate and environment in the production of sugar. They found that the energy return on investment (EROI) for producing sugar and using bagasse to produce electricity together was much higher than that for only sugar production or cogeneration of electricity. In simple terms, the energy generated from production of sugar and electricity surpassed the energy required for both the jobs, leaving producers with surplus electricity for sale. “We have detailed ways to reduce the carbon footprint, water crisis of sugar production and to improve environmental sustainability of sugarcane in Maharashtra. We have also discussed how sugar factories can become cleaner energy generators,” said Hiloidhari. The researchers suggest that sugar producers cultivate high-yielding sugarcane such as adsali or pre- seasonal to reduce environmental impact of sugarcane cultivation and increasingly use renewable energy-based irrigation systems. “Micro-irrigation techniques such as drip and sprinkler should be preferred over the existing flood irrigation system to reduce water consumption for sugarcane cultivation. Producers should choose truck-based transportation instead of a tractor to reduce energy demand and emissions from biomass transportation. Adopting modern cogeneration technology to increase surplus electricity production is environment-friendly and will also enhance revenue of sugar mills,” said Hiloidhari.Abinash Verma, director general, Indian Sugar Mills Association said that most sugar factories in the country were net generators of water and generated electricity from bagasse. “When the sugarcane is crushed, 70% of what we get is water. So we do not draw any water from the ground after the first day of crushing for any of our activities, including cleaning of factories. The surplus water is treated and released for irrigation,” said Verma.With the new sugarcane season set to take off on Tuesday, Verma said that the target for the sugar industry is to replace 7.5-8% of petrol consumption in the country with ethanol, another byproduct of the sugar industry. “Currently, sugar mills in India generate around 8,000MW power from bagasse, 6,500 MW of which is supplied to the grid as surplus. In addition, we have successfully replaced 5% of petrol consumption with ethanol, which is mixed with petrol to fuel engines. Ethanol is a greener substitute of petrol and the target is to replace 20% of petrol with it by 2030,” added Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/simultaneous-production-of-sugar-power-generation-from-bagasse-is-environment-friendly-says-iit-bombay-study/story-aHMiIB76pwrZ6ys8vOmrOL.html
30-11-2020||India||BSP demands UP govt reconsider decision on law against ‘love jihad’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said that the party demands that the government reconsider on Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020.“The ordinance regarding religious conversion brought by UP government in haste against love jihad is full of doubts. In the country, forceful and deceitful religious conversion is not acceptable. Many laws are already in place regarding the issue. The government should reconsider the decision on the law. The BSP demands,” Mayawati said in a tweet (roughly translated from Hindi). लव जिहाद को लेकर यूपी सरकार द्वारा आपाधापी में लाया गया धर्म परिवर्तन अध्यादेश अनेकों आशंकाओं से भरा जबकि देश में कहीं भी जबरन व छल से धर्मान्तरण को न तो खास मान्यता व न ही स्वीकार्यता। इस सम्बंध में कई कानून पहले से ही प्रभावी हैं। सरकार इस पर पुनर्विचार करे, बीएसपी की यह माँग।Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led UP Cabinet had cleared the ordinance, proposing a maximum punishment of 10 years and fine for “love jihad” related offences on November 24.The new ordinance mandates a jail term of one to five years, with Rs 15,000 penalty for religious conversion for marriage or through force.Also Read | UP Police file first FIR under ordinance against forced religious conversionsFor conversion of minors and women of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes community, there will be a jail term of 3-10 years with Rs 25,000 penalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-demands-up-govt-reconsider-decision-on-law-against-love-jihad/story-wAwyYqAMZQaWvJ794FYfrL.html
30-11-2020||India||Devotees witness ‘Chokkapanai’ lit at Ramanathaswamy Temple on Karthigai Deepam festival||Devotees witnessed ‘Chokkapanai’ (Palm Tree) lit at Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram on the occasion of Karthigai Deepam festival on Monday. Karthigai Deepam is celebrated on the Pournami (Purnima) Tithi of the Tamil month of Karthigai. Like Diwali, it is a festival of lights. On this day, lamps are lit with oil as a symbol of holiness in Indian culture and every household gets decorated with flowers and beautifies. The Chokappanai burning festival is celebrated at the Rameswaram Ramanathaswamy Temple every year on the Karthika Deepam Day to commemorate the event of Puranas.In that sense, two shrines, the Ramaswamy Shrine and the Parivarthani Ambal Shrine were previously covered with palm trees and palm leaves.Later the palm trees were burnt in the presence of a large number of devotees, who prayed to Lord Shiva while the burning of the Chokappanai known as the Paradise of Heaven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-witness-chokkapanai-lit-at-ramanathaswamy-temple-on-karthigai-deepam-festival/story-WrutF8upGiIXfxAAh1GGKI.html
30-11-2020||India||Devotees offer prayers at Golden Temple on Guru Nanak Jayanti||With Covid-19 protocols in place, devotees offered prayers at Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) in Amritsar on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on Monday. People along with their families offered prayers and lightened candles in the temple premises. Golden Temple has been illuminated with elaborate lights.“I along with my family, have come here all the way from Guwahati to offer prayers on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. We felt so good,” said Sanjay Kumar, a devotee. “A large number of devotees have come here to offers from far away places,” said another devotee, Umarjeet Singh. Earlier in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev and wished citizens on his birth anniversary.Taking to Twitter, the President said that Guru Nanak Dev showed people the path of unity, harmony, fraternity, comity, and service, and gave an economic philosophy to realize a lifestyle based on hard work, honesty, and self-respect. Greetings to all fellow citizens, especially to our Sikh brothers and sisters in India and abroad, on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. On this sacred occasion, let us resolve to conduct ourselves in a manner so as to emulate his teachings.The Prime Minister prayed that the Sikh Guru’s thoughts keep motivating people to serve society and ensure a better planet. I bow to Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji on his Parkash Purab. May his thoughts keep motivating us to serve society and ensure a better planet.Guru Nanak Jayanti is celebrated with much joy and fervour throughout the country and different parts of the world on the full moon day of the Kartik month as per the Hindu calendar. It is also marked as Kartik Poornima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-offer-prayers-at-golden-temple-on-guru-nanak-jayanti/story-utBtXCTMhKcZLxSrdiLQpN.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan to impose lockdown in containment zones, night curfew in 13 districts||In view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, the Rajasthan government has decided to impose lockdown in containment zones, and night curfew in 13 districts. Also, schools and colleges will remain closed till December 31. The government issued guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution for the period of December 1 to December 31. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid-19. Over the past few weeks, the number of new cases has been rising. The confluence of certain factors such as recent festival season, onset of winter and laxity in observance of Covid-19 guidelines pose the risk of the situation aggravating, thus putting a strain on the health infrastructure,” said Abhay Kumar, principal secretary, home, issuing the guidelines. Also read | Covid-19: Eight states reporting maximum new deaths, says government dataTaking into account the prevailing situation in the state, lockdown will be enforced in the containment zones till December 31. “Effective demarcation of containment zones in vulnerable and high incidence area is key to break the chain of transmission controlling the virus. The zones will be demarcated by the collectors following the guidelines issued by the Centre. Only essential services will be allowed in these areas and intensive house-to-house surveillance be conducted.” The state government has increased the number of districts where night curfew will be imposed from 8 to 13 – Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, Sikara and Ganganagar. However, it will not be applicable on factories with production of continuous nature and night shift, IT companies, chemist shops, marriage halls etc. In areas outside containment zones, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes will remain close till December 31. Also, cinema halls, theatres, entertainment parks, social or religious, or any large congregation is not permitted. “Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” said Kumar. Rajasthan has recorded over 265,000 Covid-19 cases and 2,292 deaths. Currently, the numbers of active cases is 28,758.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-to-impose-lockdown-in-containment-zones-night-curfew-in-13-districts/story-IsFVtvO3rN2ZxULgtBoG7O.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19 restrictions in Tamil Nadu to continue till Dec 30, number of guests at gatherings capped at 200||The Tamil Nadu government has extended the restrictions imposed to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till December 30, news agency ANI reported.In other measures, the state government has decided to start the final year undergraduate classes from December 7 and Chennai’s famous Marina Beach after December 14.The number of guests allowed at a gathering has been capped at 50 per cent capacity of the venue, or a maximum of 200 people, ANI further reported.Tamil Nadu recorded 1,459 new infections on Sunday, which took the total number of cases in the state to 7.80 lakh. Tamil Nadu has been recording less than 2,000 daily cases since November 13.Recoveries continued to outnumber the new Covid-19 cases with 1,471 people walking out of healthcare facilities after getting cured. So far, 7.57 lakh people have been cured of the disease, according to Tamil Nadu government record.A total of 67,145 samples were tested on Sunday, taking the cumulative total to 1.19 crore specimens examined so far.Tamil Nadu does not use Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Tests (RADT) and all tests are RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction based).The number of daily fatalities also dropped sharply to nine on Sunday in the southern state. The death toll stands at 11,703.This is a record low for the state which has seen several peaks over the last several months. In August, number of deaths due to coronavirus had crossed 120-mark. It hovered in double digits range for several months.Of the 11,703 deaths so far, Chennai accounted for 3,847.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-restrictions-in-tamil-nadu-to-continue-till-dec-30-number-of-guests-at-gatherings-capped-at-200/story-exZ8mE9EGH2mD1ObjK6F4I.html
30-11-2020||India||Prof Sangita Srivastava appointed first woman VC of Allahabad University||Professor Sangita Srivastava has been appointed as the new regular vice chancellor of Allahabad University (AU). She is the first woman chosen for this post at AU.She will take charge on Monday, said the university’s registrar Prof NK Shukla, confirming the development.Prof Srivastava is a former head of Allahabad University’s home science department. After her new appointment, she was relieved of her present charge as vice chancellor of Prof Rajendra Singh University on the orders of the chancellor and governor Anandiben Patel. Prof KN Singh, the present VC of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU), will take charge as VC of Prof Rajendra Singh University on Monday. Prof Sangita Srivastava had joined AU as a lecturer in 1989. She took over as head of the home science department in 2002, when it took shape as an independent department. She served as the head of the department till she was appointed as VC of Prof Rajendra Singh University on June 25, 2018 for a period of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prof-sangita-srivastava-appointed-first-woman-vc-of-allahabad-university/story-ef82mpG4JOZk8MIUxFd1JK.html
30-11-2020||India||TMC MPs, MLAs ready to join us, say BJP leaders in Bengal||In the past three days, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have named at least seven Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs and MLAs, including minister of the Mamata Banerjee government, claiming that it is just a matter of time before the lawmakers from the ruling party in West Bengal resign and them. TMC leaders have, however, rubbished the allegations, saying the BJP is taking random names to create confusion and spread propaganda with an intention to bring down the morale of the TMC workers ahead of the 2021 elections.“It is just a matter of time before TMC leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Goutam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh and Sourav Chakraborty switch sides. These matters will be first discussed within the (BJP) party before a decision is taken,” said Saumitra Khan, BJP MP. While Mukherjee, Deb and Ghosh are state ministers, Chakraborty is a TMC MLA from Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal. Also read | Bengal governor may soon ask TMC to prove majority in House: BJP MP Saumitra Khan“Khan is day dreaming after leaving the TMC and joining the BJP himself. I will take poison but will never join a communal party like the BJP,” said Ghosh. “Khan is rather new to politics. It is not easy to break the TMC. We were with Mamata Banerjee and would remain within the party,” said Chakraborty. “I have my standards. Never even in my dreams can I think of joining the BJP,” said Deb. Another BJP MP, Locket Chatterjee, claimed TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee is likely to join the BJP. But Banerjee has also rubbished the allegations. “At least five TMC MPs could resign any moment. Saugata Roy may be speaking on behalf of the TMC in front of the camera but he would also join the list once the camera is off,” BJP MP Arjun Singh had told the media on Saturday. “In the coming days, the BJP will form the government (in West Bengal). The day Suvendu Adhikari joins BJP; the present TMC government will not be able to remain in power. The government will fall,” he added. While Roy had rubbished the claims as BJP propaganda and said that he would either quit politics or die but would never join the BJP, Adhikari has resigned from the Cabinet, widening his rift with the TMC. “The BJP is engaged in a dirty politics. It is just taking random names of TMC leaders. They are naming only those from whom they are facing stiff opposition. This is propaganda,” said Kalyan Banerjee. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where the BJP won 40% of the vote share in Bengal and bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in the state, the party is now eyeing the state assembly. Elections are due in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mps-mlas-ready-to-join-us-say-bjp-leaders-in-bengal/story-uBu5b2rWJla4pBMORn0I3M.html
30-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 tally drops to 38,772; total recoveries nearing 8.9 million||India recorded a drop in its daily coronavirus (Covid-19) tally on Monday after 38,772 fresh cases registered in the last 24 hours, accordin to Union health ministry update. With this, the number of total cases have now climbed to 9,431,691 which include 446,952 active cases and nearly 8.9 million recoveriesThe country also recorded 443 new fatalities due to the infection, which pushed the death toll to 137,139.According to the health ministry, the overall recovery rate is nearing 94 per cent.The ministry on Monday said that India continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population globally adding that focused measures to ensure a low and manageable fatality rate have resulted in daily mortality figures of less than 500.Click here for live coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEight states - Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan - contributed nearly 71 per cent in the number of fatalities on Sunday. Maharashtra led the tally with 89 deaths, followed by Delhi (68) and West Bengal (54), the health ministry said.ALSO WATCH | ‘Be serious’: Nitin Gadkari’s warning to people on Covid infection l #HTLS2020 Maharashtra on Sunday added 5,544 coronavirus cases which pushed the tally to over 1.8 million. This is the second consecutive day that the daily cases were below 6,000. The state government has scaled up its daily Covid-19 testing with 82,224 tests conducted till Saturday. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope had said that district authorities had been directed to go for aggressive testing in a bid to contain the spread of the disease.Also Read| Covid-19: Eight states reporting maximum new deaths, says government dataOn the other hand, Delhi’s coronavirus cases continued to fall but total deaths crossed the 9,000-mark on Sunday after 68 deaths were reported. Daily cases remained below 5,000 for second time in a row and positivity rate further dropped to 7.64 per cent. Health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Saturday that there is sufficient infrastructure and equipment to vaccinate the national capitals’ entire population once a vaccine is available.“There is no need to worry about storage of vaccines. We have a large number of health care facilities, such as mohalla clinics, poly clinics, and hospitals etc, where a Covid-19 vaccine can be administered to people,” he added, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-to-38-772-total-recoveries-nearing-8-9-million/story-862YQai4krNiugAvBtCy7H.html
30-11-2020||India||On Gurpurab, PM Modi seeks Guru Nanak Dev’s blessing to serve society||Greeting the nation on Gurpurab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev on Monday on his 551st birth anniversary.“I bow to Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji on his Parkash Purab. May his thoughts keep motivating us to serve society and ensure a better planet,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter. President Ram Nath Kovind also took to Twitter to wish the nation and share the teachings of the Sikh guru. “Greetings to all fellow citizens, especially to our Sikh brothers and sisters in India and abroad, on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. On this sacred occasion, let us resolve to conduct ourselves in a manner so as to emulate his teachings,” he tweeted. “Guru Nanak Dev Ji showed people the path of unity, harmony, fraternity, comity and service, and gave an economic philosophy to realize a lifestyle based on hard work, honesty and self-respect. His life and teachings are inspiration for all human-beings,” Kovind said in another tweet. Union minister Amit Shah also wished the nation on the occasion of Gurupurab, by tweeting in Hindi, “Heartfelt greetings of the 551st Prakash Parv of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji to all the countrymen. Guru Nanak’s thoughts will always give us the power to walk on the path of religion and national interest.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also greeted the citizens on Guru Nanak Dev Jayanti. “My salutes to Guru Nanak Dev Ji, who taught me truth and brotherhood, away from ego. Best wishes to all of you, Guru Purab,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. Last week, PM Modi had released a book by Kirpal Singh on the life and ideals of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism and first of its 10 gurus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gurpurab-pm-modi-seeks-guru-nanak-dev-s-blessing-to-serve-society/story-sUMpu41gaqx9jfRwSGuxMO.html
30-11-2020||India||BJP chief JP Nadda to meet Haridwar saints, CM Rawat on Uttarakhand visit||BJP national president JP Nadda will begin his Uttarakhand tour by meeting saints and seers in the holy city of Haridwar on December 4, followed by party events from December 5-7, BJP’s national general secretary and state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam said on Sunday in Dehradun. Gautam informed about Nadda’s programme while addressing the media at the party headquarters during his first visit to the state after being appointed Uttarakhand unit in-charge along with co-in-charge Rekha Verma. He was on a two-day visit from Saturday to discuss the strategy for the 2022 assembly elections with state office-bearers and plan out events of Nadda’s visit next month. “Nadda will begin his visit by meeting the seers and saints in Haridwar and seeking their blessings on December 4. Following that, his party events will begin from December 5-7,” said Gautam. Informing about Nadda’s events during his visit, he said, “On December 5, he will hold meetings with the chief minister, cabinet, party core committee and party state office-bearers to discuss public issues and government work done. On the same day, he will also meet Covid-19 warriors and leaders of social and religious organisations.” Gautam informed that the following day on December 6, he will hold meetings with “district unit presidents, leaders of party’s different wings and presidents of the booths who are important party members on the ground.” “On the last day of his visit on December 7, he will hold meetings with mandal leaders and social media volunteers. He will help to chalk out the party strategy for 2022 assembly elections which the party is going to win by bagging 60-65 seats of a total of 70 seats,” he said. The party national general secretary who is also the in-charge of the party’s Punjab and Chandigarh state units expressed confidence that the BJP will triumph in the next assembly elections as, “The government and the party is working in commendable coordination in the state”. “Also, the way the people welcomed us on the way from the airport to the city on Saturday, it showed that people are very enthusiastic about the BJP and happy with the development being done by its government here,” said Gautam. The Opposition Congress, however, attacked Gautam on his claims of winning the 2022 assembly elections saying the “public will teach BJP a lesson in the polls”. Congress state president Pritam Singh said, “He is claiming to win 60-65 seats of total 70 seats. But he and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat should answer about what the BJP government has done for the people in the last three-and-a-half years of being in power?” “They failed to fulfill all the promises of jobs, removing corruption and development. The people of the state are now very well aware of the misdeeds of this government and will teach them a lesson in the next assembly elections,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-meet-haridwar-saints-cm-rawat-on-uttarakhand-visit/story-EwrQFMqRHWyfaauV2DKoUJ.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Eight states reporting maximum new deaths, says government data||Eight states are reporting most of India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related daily deaths, shows government data.With 444 new deaths reported from across the country on Sunday, the total number of people having succumbed to the viral infection in the country has reached 137,173. About 71% of the new Covid-19 deaths are being reported from Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. With 89 deaths reported on Sunday, Maharashtra had the maximum new fatalities. Delhi follows closely with 68 deaths and West Bengal reported 54 deaths. Of the eight states, these three states currently are reporting a majority of the deaths due to Covid-19. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayAlso, at least 22 states are showing case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of people dying out of total number of positive cases reported, less than the national average that at the moment has dropped to 1.45%. India’s CFR has been steadily declining. From the national CFR of about 1.98% about three months ago in August, it has now come down to 1.45%. India also continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population globally. “Focussed measures to ensure a low and manageable fatality rate have resulted in daily mortality figures of less than 500,” tweeted the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday morning. India has also significantly increased its Covid-19 testing capacity, with the number of tests per million population crossing the 100,000 mark recently. On average, India has been conducting one million tests to detect Covid-19 in a single day for at least three months. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is spearheading India’s Covid-19 testing initiative, has so far approved 2,165 laboratories across the country to perform the tests. Of all these laboratories, 1,175 laboratories are in the government sector, and 990 in the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-eight-states-reporting-maximum-new-deaths-says-government-data/story-oKiqcomedgP6KXasNwiruM.html
30-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to launch Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, will inaugurate Varanasi-Prayagraj highway projectPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi on Monday to launch the Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project and participate in Deepotsav celebrations at the Ganges ghats. As the city prepared for the Prime Minister’s visit, security personnel, along with the dog squad, were seen checking boats at the ghats. Read moreRajasthan BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari, Covid-19 positive, passes away; ‘personal loss,’ says Lok Sabha speakerBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Rajasthan’s Rajsamand, Kiran Maheshwari, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last month, passed away last night at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital, news agency ANI reported. Read moreDeemed GST registration granted between August 21, November 16 under CBIC scannerThe Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC) has instructed its officials to verify deemed Goods and Services Tax (GST) registrations granted to business entities without Aadhaar authentication between August 21 and November 16 this year to ascertain that they are undertaking genuine business activities, two officials said. Read moreEducational institutions to remain closed across J-K till December 31All schools, colleges and higher education institutes in Jammu and Kashmir will remain closed till December 31 according to an order issued by the Union Territory administration. “Class 9-12 students can visit schools on a voluntary basis. Cinemas can open with 50 per cent capacity. 100 guests are allowed in marriage functions,” the UT administration said. Read morePriyanka Chopra shares a pic of her grand temptation, asks ‘what do I do with this?’Priyanka Chopra Jonas had a difficult question to answer this Sunday. Faced with a scrumptious spread of waffles, poached eggs and a generous serving of meat, the actor couldn’t decide what to do with it – to eat it all or not, was the question. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Big blow to Aussies as injured David Warner ruled out of ODIs, T20Is; doubtful for Test seriesAustralia suffered a big blow on Monday after it was revealed that star- batsman David Warner was ruled out of the limited-overs series and will be in a race to be fit for the first Test which begins from December 17th in Adelaide. Read moreReplies to ‘Why you are happy today’ in these videos are simply heartwarming. You may relate tooIf your mood could use a little boost, then these videos shared on an Instagram profile maybe just what you need. Called OneReason, the profile is filled with videos of someone asking people to share the reason behind their happiness. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-launch-varanasi-prayagraj-highway-project-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oI2WILhq2L2CrZcOuCSwEM.html
30-11-2020||India||Decided to defeat BJP who cheated us, will support Mamata: GJM’s Roshan Giri||With the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to be held next year, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) faction’s Roshan Giri on Sunday said that they will back chief minister Mamata Banerjee who he said unlike the faction’s former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “keeps her promises.”Giri, general secretary of the faction headed by Bimal Gurung, alleged that the BJP cheated their faction and did not live up to any of its promises during their association from 2009 to 2020. “We’ve decided to defeat BJP who cheated us. They didn’t fulfill any of our demands from 2009 to 2020. We’ll support Mamata Banerjee in North Bengal. We want to see her as the third time CM. She keeps her promises,” news agency ANI quoted Giri, general secretary of the faction headed by Bimal Gurung, as saying. During a rally in the Darjeeling region, Giri said the BJP governments had assured the Gorkhas before three successive Lok Sabha polls that political crisis in the hills would be solved but nothing was done. “Actually they don’t have the political will to find a permanent political solution. Why does the Centre make tripartite talks a prerequisite when it comes to the Gorkhas? The creation of Telangana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand did not require tripartite talks,” Giri said. The Gorkhas lost 15 years because of the BJP, he added.The GJM led by fugitive Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung in October quit the NDA and aligned with TMC, saying the BJP had “failed to find a permanent solution” for the Hills -- which had witnessed major unrest over demand for a separate state in 2017.Giri also clarified the GJM was not giving up its demand for Gorkhaland and will extend support to that party in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections which will back their demand for a separate state.He also ruled out any reconciliation with the Binoy Tamang faction claiming that Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Chairman Anit Thapa and GJM leader Binoy Tamang have no base in the hills. Giri accused them of being involved in financial wrongdoings(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decided-to-defeat-bjp-who-cheated-us-will-support-mamata-banerjee-gjm-s-roshan-giri/story-I64rh7pNPDTck6CgWebkGO.html
30-11-2020||India||Rajasthan BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari, Covid-19 positive, passes away; PM Modi, Lok Sabha speaker condole demise||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Rajasthan’s Rajsamand, Kiran Maheshwari, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last month, passed away last night at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital, news agency ANI reported. Maheshwari, who was also a member of the 14th Lok Sabha from 2004-2009 from Rajasthan’s Udaipur constituency, was shifted to Medanta earlier this month after her health worsened.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to reports, Maheshwari had contracted Covid-19 during October’s municipal corporation elections. She was one of the two election in-charges of the BJP for the Kota North Municipal Corporation (KNMC), Churu MLA Rajendra Rathore being the other.Condoling her demise, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the Member of Parliament (MP) from Kota, called it a “personal loss.” He tweeted: “The passing way of Rajsamand MLA Kiran Maheshwari is extremely saddening. She devoted her entire life to serving the society. Her death is a personal loss to me. May her soul rest in peace. My condolences are with her family.”“I worked with Kiran ji politically and socially for a long time. She was a strong voice for social issues, especially the rights of women and deprived classes. Kiran Ji, who was always ready to help the afflicted, will always be remembered for her courage and clarity,” Birla posted in a subsequent tweet. किरण जी के साथ राजनीतिक-सामाजिक जीवन में लम्बे अरसे तक काम किया। सामाजिक विषयों विशेषतः महिलाओं व वंचित वर्गों के अधिकारों की वे सशक्त आवाज थीं। दीन-दुखियों की सहायता के लिए हमेशा तत्पर रहने वाली किरण जी को उनकी निर्भीकता व स्पष्टवादिता के लिए सदैव याद किया जाएगा।Prime Minister Narendra Modi also conveyed his condolences on her death. Quoting PM Modi, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted: “Pained by the untimely demise of Kiran Maheshwari Ji. Be it as MP, MLA or Cabinet Minister in the Rajasthan Government, she made numerous efforts to work towards the progress of the state and empower the poor as well as marginalised. Condolences to her family. Om Shanti.” Pained by the untimely demise of Kiran Maheshwari Ji. Be it as MP, MLA or Cabinet Minister in the Rajasthan Government, she made numerous efforts to work towards the progress of the state and empower the poor as well as marginalised. Condolences to her family. Om Shanti: PM ModiBefore Maheshwari, Congress MLA from Bhilwara, Kailash Trivedi, had passed away due to post-Covid-19 complications in October. Trivedi, who, like Maheshwari, breathed his last in Gurugram, had tested positive in September. He had subsequently tested negative but continued to have problems in his lungs, in what doctors described as a post-Covid-19 complication. Also Read | Rajasthan’s Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi dies of post-Covid complicationsEarlier, Uttar Pradesh ministers and BJP leaders Chetan Chauhan and Kamal Rani Varun, too, had passed away due to Covid-19.As of Sunday, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally stood at 262,805, according to government data. This includes 231, 780 recoveries, 28,751 active cases and 2,274 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-bjp-mla-kiran-maheshwari-covid-19-positive-passes-away-personal-loss-says-lok-sabha-speaker/story-xr04Jm0PViMbZYdH2nUelJ.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, will inaugurate Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi on Monday to launch the Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project and participate in Deepotsav celebrations at the Ganges ghats.As the city prepared for the Prime Minister’s visit, security personnel, along with the dog squad, were seen checking boats at the ghats. They were thoroughly checking other locations near Rajghat as well, according to news agency ANI. Modi will inaugurate the six-lane widening project of the Handia (Prayagraj) - Rajatalab (Varanasi) section of National Highway 19 during his visit. The 73-km stretch of the newly widened and six laned NH19, made with a total outlay of Rs 2447 crore, is expected to reduce the travel time between Prayagraj and Varanasi by one hour, the Prime Minister’s office said in a statement.The Prime Minister will also attend Dev Deepawali, a festival of light and fervour in Varanasi celebrated on every Poornima of the Kartik month, i.e. on the full moon of the Hindu calendar month Kartika — 15 days after Diwali. PM Modi will light an earthen lamp on the Raj Ghat of Varanasi, which will be followed by lighting of 11 lakh diyas on both sides of River Ganges.During the tour to his parliamentary constituency, the Prime Minister will also visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project site to review its progress. He will also see the light and sound show at the archaeological site of Sarnath, which he had inaugurated earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-varanasi-today-will-inaugurate-varanasi-prayagraj-highway-project/story-OznDoll2lHk5Gmp9nLT63H.html
30-11-2020||India||Farmers protest LIVE updates - Protesting farmers from Punjab pray near barricades on Guru Nanak Jayanti, light diyas||It has been over four days since farmers from Haryana and Punjab started a protest march against the three farm laws introduced by the central government in September. Delhi and surrounding areas have witnessed violent clashes between the agitating farmers and police as the former was initially denied entry into the national capital. Upon being allowed by Delhi Police to carry out peaceful demonstrations and maintain law and order, the farmers have been camping at the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border and the Tikri border for the past three days. The police had also offered the Sant Nirankari ground for the farmers to continue their agitation. Punjab farmers at Singhu border pray, light diyas on Guru Nanak JayantiScores of protesting farmers from Punjab agitating at the Singhu borders of the national capital offered prayers, lit ‘diyas’, exchanged sweets as well as greeted each other on Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday as they took a pledge to continue their fight against the Centre’s new farm laws. Delhi: Protesting farmers light candles at the Ghazipur border (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border) to mark Guru Nanak Jayanti amid heavy deployment of security personnel pic.twitter.com/KmFe0xbVnG‘Laws are being made for corporates, and people are being exploited’ : BKU Haryana president Constitution provides for rule of the people, by the people, & for the people, but now it has become rule of the corporates, by the corporates & for the corporates. Laws are being made for corporates, & people are being exploited, Gurnam Singh, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) President said to ANI. Constitution provides for rule of the people, by the people, & for the people, but now it has become rule of the corporates, by the corporates & for the corporates. Laws are being made for corporates, & people are being exploited: Gurnam Singh, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) Pres pic.twitter.com/sDBFQMsSBl‘Free our farmers at Burari’: Farm union leaders state condition for talks with the governmentAddressing a press conference at Singhu border, the farm union leaders said they have not received any call from the union government to hold talks. “ We will appear for discussion with government after they freed our farmers sitting at Burari ground. Butta Singh has only received phone call from Home Minister Amit Shah,” the leaders said at the press conference Also Read : Nitish says farmer’s agitation due to misconception, favours talksBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar continued to back the farm bills passed by the Parliament. He urged farmers’ bodies and the government to take up active dialogue to dispel the formers fears. Also Read : Congress launches social media campaign to garner support for agitating farmers“The Modi government has persecuted the farmer - first it brought black laws and then used lathis against them, but it forgot that when the farmer raises his voice, it resonates throughout the country. You also raise your voice against the exploitation of farmers and join the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Farmers’ protest: Concrete barriers at Delhi-Ghaziabad border point as more join protestDelhi Police placed concrete barriers and enhanced security at the Ghazipur-UP border as the number of protesting farmers swelled there while thousands more stayed put at the Delhi-Haryana border for the fifth day Monday to protest against the Centre’s agricultural reform laws.Also Read: Blocked borders fuel concerns of rising price of essential items in DelhiBut the farmers refused this offer and asked for Ramlila Maidan instead and further announced they will Gherao Delhi by blocking three highways which connect the national capital to Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurugram. Security had been beefed up on the Burari ground with police adding that basic are being provided to farmers who are currently protesting on the ground. Also Read: Farmers announce blocking highways connecting Delhi with Ghaziabad, Gurugram and FaridabadMeanwhile, Surendra Yadav, Joint CP, Northern Range, Delhi on Monday morning said the situation is peaceful and control adding that police is in contact with the farmers. Yadav also said that enough force has been deployed. Follow live updates on the ongoing farmers’ agitation here: ‘Would request everyone to follow Covid appropriate behaviour’: Health ministerUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urged farmers to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and following social distancing in view of the ongoing farmers’ protests. Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi urge people to join ‘Speak Up for Farmers’ campaignCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi urged people to join ‘Speak Up for Farmers’ as the agitation against the central government’s three farm laws continued for a fifth consecutive day. Guru Nanak Jayanti: Farmers at Tikri border offer prayers, distribute ‘Prasad’On the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, farmers protesting at the Tikri border were seen offering prayers and distributing ‘Prasad’ among each other and the security personnel deployed at the border.  Delhi: Farmers protesting at Tikri border (Delhi-Haryana border) offer prayers and distribute 'prasad' among each other and security personnel on the occasion of #GuruNanakJayanti pic.twitter.com/2eWZji4z6gMedical camp setup at Singhu Border in view of Covid-19In view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in the country which has infected over 9.4 million people, a medical check up camp has been set up at the Singhu Border where the farmers are continuing with their protests against the three farm laws. “We should conduct Covid-19 test here. If there’s any possibility of a super spreader, the disease might spread to other people which will be disastrous,” a doctor told news agency ANI. Delhi: Medical check-up camp setup at Singhu Border where farmers are protesting against the farm laws. "We should conduct COVID-19 test here. If there's any possibility of a super spreader, the disease might spread to other people which will be disastrous," says a doctor. pic.twitter.com/QwFoqSADh4Tikri, Singhu borders closed for any traffic movement: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police said that Tikri and Singhu borders have been closed for any traffic movement in view of the ongoing farmers protests. The farmers have been camping at these two borders for the past three days. Situation is peaceful and under control, say Delhi PoliceSurendra Yadav, Joint CP, Northern Range, Delhi on Monday morning said the situation is peaceful and control adding that police is in contact with the farmers. Yadav also said that enough force has been deployed.  Situation is peaceful & under control. We are in contact with them (farmers). Our objective is to maintain law & order. We have deployed enough force: Surendra Yadav, Joint CP, Northern Range, Delhi pic.twitter.com/0Qc56KSOypFarmers stay put at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) as their protests continueFarmers are continuing their protests against the central government’s agricultural reforms at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border). Security beefed up on Delhi’s Burari ground, police say basic facilities availableAmid the ongoing farmers’s agitation in Delhi and surrounding areas, the Delhi Police has beefed up security on the Burari ground and said that basic facilities are being provided to the farmers who are currently protesting on the ground, as per news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-21vt2bTjRQYYCvje7yXDeP.html
30-11-2020||India||12 fishermen stranded mid sea as boat engine develops snag||A boat carrying 12 fishermen, which had set sail from Vasai in Maharashtra’s Palghar district four days back, has got stranded in the Arabian sea due to engine failure, an official said on Sunday.Palghar district disaster control cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the fishermen from Vasai had embarked on the fishing expedition.“But when the boat was proceeding towards Gujarat, its engine developed a snag and the boat got struck midway,” he said.“Help from the Navy and the Coast Guard is being sought for the rescue of the fishermen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-fishermen-stranded-mid-sea-as-boat-engine-develops-snag/story-ooLzAz0uU6jwcnmTmsQHIN.html
30-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: BJP only knows ‘jumla’ and ‘hamla’, says KTR on last day of campaign||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president KT Rama Rao on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on the last day of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election campaign saying that the BJP only knew two things: ‘jumla’ (fake promises) and ‘hamla’ (attack). Speaking at campaign rallies at Goshamahal, Sanath Nagar, and Secunderabad constituencies, Rao also asked what the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance had done for the city in the last six years. “Tell me what NDA did to Hyderabad in the last six years? Who brought the prestigious Apple, Amazon, and other major IT companies to Hyderabad? It is the BJP government which cancelled the ITIR project sanctioned by the UPA government for Hyderabad and acted against the hopes of youth in Telangana. BJP knows only two things, first is jumla and second is hamla,” Rao said. “Union Minister Amit Shah is saying ours is Nizam culture. Mahatma Gandhi, who is from your own Gujarat in 1920 said Hyderabad culture is Ganga-Jamuna ‘tehzeeb’ and people coexist here peacefully and the city stands as an example to India,” he added. Commenting on Shah’s statement that no communal riots took place in the county, the TRS leader reminded the home minister that communal clashes took place in Delhi during US President Donald Trump’s visit right under the Centre’s police jurisdiction, and that news was published in the New York Times, Washington Post, damaging the image of Delhi.With the visit of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for campaigning in the elections, KTR mentioned the recent gang-rape in Hathras asking, “You know right what will happen in Telangana when crimes happen against women?”He further said, “Hyderabad has been peaceful for the past six years. There has not been a single incident of communal tension. Today, they only want to divide people in the name of religion. I urge you all not to support such parties.”Rao also reacted strongly to the state BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s “surgical strike” comment saying, “Do surgical strikes on poverty, corruption and on those who commit crimes against women, not on Hyderabad. Today, for a few votes and seats they are spoiling the peace and harmony of Hyderabad.” He further said that the BJP government was on a selling spree, and if given the chance, they would sell GHMC too.The party president further went on to highlight the achievement of the presidents, calling Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao a “futuristic leader” for expanding the Keshavpuram reservoir which would ensure drinking water in Hyderabad for the next several years. He further mentioned the Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR Kit, Annapurna Canteen, Basthi Dawakhana, Ambedkar Overseas scholarships, Jyothirao Phule scholarship, among many others, adding that the TRS government would resume Rs 10,000 financial assistance from December 7 onwards. The GHMC elections are set to take place on December 1, and the city is witnessing a triangular contest among the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.National president JP Nadda recently held a roadshow in Hyderabad on Friday and slammed the opposition parties for terming the upcoming election a “gully ka chunav” (street elections).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-bjp-only-knows-jumla-and-hamla-says-ktr-on-last-day-of-campaign/story-Wvp8n9GFLkkUXb4soMrW1K.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi seeks to quell concerns on farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday sought to dispel concerns about recently enacted farm laws that he said had opened up new opportunities for cultivators, in the backdrop of protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana who have marched to the Capital.“New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers,” Modi said in his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat. Decades-old demands by farmers that political parties at various times had promised would be fulfilled are now being met with Parliament having passed the three farm laws after rigorous brainstorming, Modi said.“These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he said.Farmers want the Modi government to revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. The Prime Minister cited the example of a Maharashtra-based farmer, Jitendra Bhoiji, who used the new law to recover money that was owed to him. After failing to get the amount that was due to him even four months after selling his produce, Bhoji invoked a provision that it was mandatory to pay a farmer within three days of the purchase. “If the payment is not made, the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law there is a provision that the SDM {sub-divisional magistrate} of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” the PM said. The Prime Minister also cited the example of Mohammad Aslam in Rajasthan’s Baran who is creating awareness among farmers by updating them about the day-to-day rates in the local agricultural markets. Aslam is the CEO of a farm producers federation. A third example that the Prime Minister cited was that of Virendra Yadav, who returned from Australia to Haryana‘s Kaithal and has found a solution to farm stubble burning. Instead of burning stubble, which hurts air quality, Yadav has been selling the stubble to paper mills and agro energy plants and has made a profit in two years.With thousands of farmers continuing their protest against the Centre’s new laws, Union home minister Amit Shah said in Hyderabad on Sunday said they were meant for the welfare of farmers and called their agitation apolitical. He told reporters: “The new farm laws are meant for the welfare of farmers. After a long time the farmer is going to come out of a locked system. Whoever wants to oppose it politically, let them do it. I have never said the farmers’ protest is political and would never say (that it is political).”The Congress party, meanwhile, continued to attack the government over the farm laws. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said on Sunday that the new laws were “anti-farmer” and their endorsement by the PM raises questions over the outcome of upcoming talks between the government and farmers’ leaders.“In this cold weather, the agriculture minister is making the farmers wait till December 3 to speak to them…PM Modi in his Mann ki Baat said that the three laws are right for the farmers, then what is the point of talks,” Surjewala said.The Congress leader also demanded an apology from the Bharatiya Janata Party for equating farmers with terrorists.“Chief Minister of Haryana, ML Khattar, called them atanki (terrorists), head of the IT Cell Amit Malviya has dubbed them Khalistani. The Modi government and the Haryana government have filed over 12,000 cases against farmers who had opted for a Gandhian protest,” Surjewala said.He alleged that the government wanted to benefit big business and not small farmers.Surjewala said the Congress wanted all three laws to be suspended and the cases filed against farmers to be taken back. The PM should hold talks with the representatives of farmers protesting in Delhi, he said.“The law says farmers can move around to other states to sell their produce. When they are not able to sell their produce properly in their own area, then how will this benefit them and with contract farming, the government has started another kind of zamindari law. The farmers, under contract farming, won’t be able to fight against the corporate houses, who will become their owners,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-seeks-to-quell-concerns-on-farm-laws/story-0Ex2Y77phXujCkt2wTlTmO.html
30-11-2020||India||Farmers decline Amit Shah’s offer, want panel named||Leaders spearheading the farmers’ agitation have set fresh terms for talks with the Union government, demanding the Centre name and authorise a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for future discussions, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said on Sunday. Nearly 30 leaders of various farmers’ organisations met on Sunday to discuss home minister Amit Shah’s offer to advance the date for the next round of talks scheduled for December 3. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla had on November 28 written addressed to Darshan Pal Singh, the Punjab chief of the Krantikari Kisan Union, along with 31 organisations, reiterating the home minister’s offer for early talks. The AIKSCC said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture,” said Singh. In a reply to the home secretary’s invitation, the farmers’ representatives set new conditions for the next round of talks, calling for involvement of the “highest political level”. “The Prime Minister takes all decisions in the country. Although Union ministers have participated in the last round of talks, we are not sure if they are empowered to take any decisions. We want a Cabinet committee or a ministers’ group duly authorised or notified by the highest political level for further discussions,” said Avik Saha, the AIKSCC’s national secretary. Sunday is the fourth day since farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states set off on their “Dilli chalo” (march to Delhi) campaign to protest a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets in the country. Saha said during the anti-corruption agitation led by Anna Hazare in 2013, a Cabinet panel had been named to carry out negotiations with those leading the protests. “We want a similar mechanism for talks because sometimes, talks are led by the food and agriculture ministers and sometimes, they seem to be led by the home ministry,” Saha said. The latest stand of the farmers could delay the next round of talks, with the government looking forward to resolving the politically challenging agitation. “The AIKSCC has demanded that the government should stop dealing with the issue from the prism of intelligence agencies and home ministry. The government got these statutes rammed through Parliament and farmers expect a response that is political, from the highest levels of the government. Its attempt to invoke Home Ministry only acts as a threat to farmers, rather than arouse confidence in its sincerity,” the AIKCC said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have clashed with police, travelling toward the national Capital, where they are holding protests against the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September. Cultivators on tractors and trucks flung police barricades into a river near Ambala district as they advanced to the national capital, as police stopped them with tear gas and water cannons. The Union home ministry on Friday allowed farmers to assemble at the Capital’s Burari grounds and made a fresh offer for talks. “The farmers clearly want to be sure that ministers who would be negotiating with them should be authorised to take decisions. That seems to be the message,” said political analyst Sanjay Kukreti of the Osmania University. On Sunday, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met at BJP president JP Nadda’s residence in Delhi to discuss the farmers’ protest, officials quoted by news agency PTI said. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations with farmers on November 13. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future. Opposition Congress hit out at the BJP-led central government for the alleged delay in reaching out to farmers.“Why is it that agriculture minister has taken out a date of 3rd December before which no conversation can be held? ... What is the sanctity of 3rd December?... Why is it that no conversation is taking place, no dialogue is taking place with the farmers?” asked party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-decline-amit-shah-s-offer-want-panel-named/story-sAJ4v7OGjkb0thGfM1hIaM.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi is like France and India, the US.Intriguing as it may be to explore the contours of this claim across dimensions, this writer’s import is exclusively about the trajectory of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in these regions.Delhi’s third wave, for instance, is already behind it if the numbers are any indication — and this time (unlike the first and second waves in the Capital), there has been and continues to be adequate testing of the right kind for the numbers to stand scrutiny. The Union territory’s administration would appear to be managing this wave reasonably well — not merely managing the numbers like some regions have been wont to do.The sharp third wave in Delhi merits comparison with the equally sharp second wave in France. The European nation has managed this wave well, although, unlike Delhi, it was forced to re-impose a lockdown to get the soaring numbers under control. Indeed, for some time it appeared as if daily cases in France would exceed those in India, which would have been something given the populations of the two nations. France’s is 67 million, around thrice Delhi’s and 5% of India’s. India’s population is around 1.3 billion.But what’s with India’s trajectory?On Saturday, the country registered 41,799 cases, according to the HT dashboard. It conducted almost 1.24 million tests. To date, India has conducted almost 150 million tests. That’s around 115,000 tests per million of population.According to the NYT database, India’s seven-day average of cases was 42,445 on Saturday. It was 45,622 on November 1. The average dipped a bit — through the Diwali weekend, especially — but has since stabilised. Given that testing has not dropped off significantly in this period (although there are still far more rapid antigen tests being used than should be), this means that the second wave in India is beginning with a long plateau. Sure, another way of looking at it would be that the country is enjoying (although that is the wrong word in the context of the pandemic which has killed almost 140,000 people here) a longish interregnum between the first wave and the second. Thus, while India is back to trending red (which means its 7-day average is off recent lows and inching up), in the database maintained by the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the trajectory of the curve is still relatively flat.Dispatch 212 on November 26 wrote of how the week that starts today, Monday, November 30 will show whether or not the festivities of two weeks ago have had an impact on the number of Covid-19 infections in India, but if that doesn’t happen, the trajectory of the pandemic in the country will be following that in the US. This will hold true even if the number of cases rises (but not by much) on account of the celebrations. From around the third week of August to the first week of October, the US enjoyed a similar relative respite, recording cases in the low 40,000s between the end of the second wave and the beginning of the third in that country. The third wave in the US gathered momentum in the second half of October and then really accelerated through much of November. The seven-day average of cases peaked at around 176,000 on November 25, according to the NYT database, and was at around 163,000 on November 28, but this may well be explained by lower testing and delays in reporting around the Thanksgiving weekend.How long will India continue to see a lull (if it can be called that)? That’s a function of how assiduously people are adhering to mask discipline and social distancing and how diligent local administrations are about testing and tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ON1XPDlnVhV6byYY2mVAgL.html
30-11-2020||India||Ghaziabad: Agitators say will continue stir at UP Gate||Farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday continued their stir from the UP Gate border in Ghaziabad and said that they will camp below the flyover. Government authorities said that they have made arrangements for smooth flow of traffic basic facilities for the farmers.On Sunday afternoon, they once again grouped and broke the barricades put up at the UP-Gate border by the Delhi police. However, they did not proceed to Delhi. “We will stay here and will wait for the plan for meetings with the government. There is no plan yet and we are waiting for government to talk to us. More farmers will come on Monday,” said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of BKU said at UP-Gate protest site on Sunday.Meanwhile, police redirected traffic accordingly. Commuters coming from Indirapuram, Noida and proceeding to Delhi have been asked to take NH-9 flyover at UP Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-agitators-say-will-continue-stir-at-up-gate/story-AKRySr1v75YP4QwxdO58TP.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi, Imran Khan to skip SCO summit today||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu will chair the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s (SCO) council of heads of government summit on Monday, and both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan will not join the virtual meeting. The council of heads of government is the second highest body of SCO and is responsible for handling the grouping’s trade and economic agenda and approving its annual budget. This is the first time India is hosting a meeting of the body since it was admitted eight-member grouping in 2017. Pakistan’s participation in the meeting will be at the lowest level – the country will be represented by parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs Andleeb Abbas. Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan will be represented by their prime ministers. Modi, Khan and Chinese President Xi Jinping had joined the virtual SCO summit, chaired by Russia earlier this month. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India has usually been represented at meetings of the SCO council of heads of government at the level of the external affairs minister, while defence minister Rajnath Singh had attended last year’s meeting in Uzbekistan. “Since India is hosting the meeting this year, the vice president will chair it,” said one of the people. In January, the external affairs ministry had said the SCO council of heads of government meeting is “held annually at the prime minister level” and that India would invite all eight members of SCO and four observer states and other international dialogue partners to the meet in November. Modi is set to visit his constituency of Varanasi on November 30 to launch the Varanasi-Prayagraj highway project and participate in Deepotsav celebrations at the Ganges ghats. Though Khan has joined virtual multilateral meetings hosted by other countries, he skipped the online meeting of leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) hosted by India in March to discuss ways to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. Pakistan’s representative at that meeting had created a flutter by raising the Kashmir issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-imran-khan-to-skip-sco-summit-today/story-OT0X89by1KupilRGkCvLIO.html
30-11-2020||India||Siachen lessons give India an edge||The Indian Army’s decades-long experience in high-altitude warfare -- particularly the lessons learnt in Siachen -- bestow a tremendous advantage on Indian soldiers holding inhospitable and rugged heights in eastern Ladakh to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from altering status quo in the sensitive theatre that has been at the centre of border tensions between India and China for nearly eight months, officials familiar with mountain warfare said on Saturday. The Indian Army has an upper hand over PLA as the latter lacks combat experi ence in high-altitude warfare and has not permanently deployed troops to extreme heights the way India has to secure its farthest frontiers, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. With military and diplomatic talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) deadlocked, India and China are prepared for a long haul in the eastern Ladakh theatre where rival troops are holding towering heights including deployments at an altitude of nearly 20,000 feet in the mountains near Pangong Tso. The Indian Army has perfected its mountain warfare drills over decades and its soldiers possess the tenacity and resilience to overcome the toughest challenges that extreme altitudes pose, said a second official. Apart from the tough physical and mental makeup of soldiers, the Indian Army’s demonstrated ability to support frontline military operations with superior logistics, advances in high-altitude medicine, critical understanding of acclimatisation in mountains and air support are factors that put the army in an advantageous position in eastern Ladakh, experts said. “Conditions at Siachen are infinitely more challenging than eastern Ladakh. The lessons learned in terms of survival, health care, protection from cold injuries and avalanche rescue will be of tremendous help,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The army and air force helicopter pilots are the lifeline of troops deployed at Siachen. “These pilots are very familiar with high-altitude operations and their role in supporting troops in eastern Ladakh will be a great plus for us,” Hooda added. In eastern Ladakh, Indian soldiers are holding positions at heights of almost 20,000 feet in the Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The IAF has decades of air maintenance experience in high-altitude areas --- heights in excess of 15,000 feet --- and standard operating procedures are in place to serve as templates for both helicopters and transport aircraft, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, commenting on the IAF’s role in supporting forward deployed troops in the Ladakh sector. “Hill flying is tricky, and every helipad in the mountains has its own peculiarities. We have a bank of aircrew experienced in such operations. The aircrew is backed up by a dedicated band of technicians who slog continuously to keep helicopters and transport aircraft flying-fit,” Bahadur said. India is determined to hold forward positions in Ladakh till the PLA withdraws and restores status quo ante of early April. With no solution to the border row in sight, the Indian Army has completed the setting up of modern habitat for thousands of soldiers deployed in forward areas to deal with any misadventure by the PLA. Temperatures in some pockets where the Indian Army is holding posts can dip to minus-40 degrees Celsius.At the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on November 26 in the backdrop of the persisting stalemate at LAC, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that India would not allow the PLA to take any unilateral action at the contested border and the government had given full freedom to its armed forces to challenge, with all their might, any attempt to change the situation along the LAC in any manner. The Chinese military is grappling with the difficulties of mobilising and deploying tens of thousands of troops during the harsh winter --- something that it hasn’t done in the past, officials previously told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siachen-lessons-give-india-an-edge/story-uttFIgao8Oi6CQYKOCbB1O.html
30-11-2020||India||Clamping down on Glyphosate availability first step to curb use||The NGO, Pesticide Action Network, recently released a report on how India uses Glyphosate, a herbicide. We know toxics regulation in India- and most parts of the world- is lax. So while the report was a reminder to act, its revelations were no surprise. About 77% of the surveyed farmers used glyphosate to control weeds in crops, but it was not approved for these crops. That apart, Glyphosate is not in the list of residues monitored in India in our food. A common and illegally used toxic chemical is poisoning us, but we don’t even try to monitor it.Meanwhile, the US Environmental Protection Agency, in a draft biological evaluation, says Glyphosate is likely to cause harm to or kill 93% of endangered species there. The press release mentioned the Monarch Butterfly which migrates annually over 3600 kilometers from Canada to Mexico. Glyphosate could end this natural wonder.Let’s come back to India, our own country with extraordinarily rich biodiversity. It is reasonable to assume that our own biodiversity is also imperiled by Glyphosate. Three steps are essential. First, a tight clampdown on its availability. Six states have restricted its use, but this is not enough. Second, weed management must change- MNREGA should include weeding as part of its allowed tasks, to offset labour costs that promote herbicides today. Natural weed-management should be promoted, even by eliminating GM crops causing this. Third, intense awareness about Glyphosate in local languages is key. We must fix the problem fast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clamping-down-on-glyphosate-availability-first-step-to-curb-use/story-wgyJv6In7p6tSdNwSW1vzO.html
30-11-2020||India||Mehbooba calls for dialogue with Pak||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said there was “no place for democracy” under its government. “There is no place for real democracy in BJP’s India. They want to create their own ecosystem. They have their own puppets and B-teams whom they want to install here and that is why they are making so many efforts for DDC elections,” she told reporters a day after the first phase of the first District Development Council elections in the Union territory. Mufti’s PDP and the National Conference have formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to work for the restoration of Article 370, which was nullified last year, along with other regional parties. The constituents of PAGD are jointly contesting the DDC polls, the first elections being held in the erstwhile state since the effective revocation of its special status and bifurcation into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh.The former CM said elections were not the solution to the problems of the region. Instead, she added, the government should hold a dialogue with the people of J&K, and Pakistan. “Election is no solution to Kashmir problem but I am happy that people are voting and saying that India and Pakistan should talk. And talks should happen,” she said.“Despite China taking so much of our land, we are talking to them. It is now 10 rounds of talks with them,” Mufti said, referring to military and diplomatic talks being held with China in the wake of a standoff at along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern Ladakh sector. “And on the other hand, people are dying on our borders, on both the sides, why not talk to Pakistan? Is it about (Pakistan) being a Muslim country that there is no dialogue? Because everything is communal now; Sardar is a Khalistani, Muslim is a Pakistani and Kashmiri is a terrorist,” the PDP chief said.“How many people participate in the elections has got nothing to do with Kashmir issue. The Kashmir issue is there, it is going to be there as long as there is no resolution through dialogue with the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and Pakistan,” she said.Reacting to Mufti’s allegations, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said, “The people of J&K have rejected the Gupkar Gang... There is a wave in favour of BJP in the ongoing DDC elections. Mehbooba Mufti is distraught owing to the verve of BJP activists, particularly youth. She has been rejected by the people...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-calls-for-dialogue-with-pak/story-m5PwvEmOgLEIdb35nA33CI.html
30-11-2020||India||Leaders weigh in on issue in India, abroad||The ongoing stir by thousands of farmers on the borders of the national capital echoed in foreign countries even as the Union government attempted to initiate talks with the protesters and the Opposition criticised the Centre for not defusing the crisis that saw a pitched battle on highways last week.In Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah defended the Centre’s recently enacted farm laws and said they were meant for the welfare of agriculture. “After a long time the farmer is going to come out of a locked system. Whoever wants to oppose it politically let them do it. I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say,” he said.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre was ready to hold talks. “The government has proposed to meet on December 3 for the fourth time...but farmers’ unions should create an atmosphere for it. They should leave the route of agitation and choose a way of talks,” Tomar told ANI.On Sunday, the protests were mentioned by Canadian politician Jagmeet Singh, who criticised the Indian government’s use of force against the farmers. His brother Gurratan Singh, an MLA in the Ontario assembly also joined in, tweeting he felt the “pain and struggle of farmers protesting laws that threaten their livelihoods.” In the United Kingdom, Labour MPs of Indian origin criticised the police measures against the farmers, while many Sikhs held a car rally in Southall. Preet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, saidm “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial farmers bill in India”.Four days ago, farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh and other neighbouring states set off on their “Dilli chalo” campaign to protest a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets in the country. The protesters want the Centre to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets.The protests triggered a bitter war-of-words between Punjab and Haryana chief ministers.Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh flayed Khattar for his allegations that the former did not attend to the latter’s calls to discuss the farm issues. “If at all someone from his office called my residence...Why were official channels not used to get in touch with me?” a statement from the Punjab government quoted him.This came after Khattar alleged that he made efforts to get in touch with Singh but could not get hold of him.Khattar hit back, saying he will hold his Punjab counterpart responsible if farmers’ gathering led to a worsening of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. “...when protestors tried to move forward, we decided not to use force. I don’t consider tear gas and water cannon as a way of force. It is a means of restricting people,” Khattar told ANI.Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda also hit out at Khattar and warned that if farmers’ problems are not resolved, a “bigger movement” will be undertaken. “Until the farmers win this battle, we stand firmly with the demands of the farmers...,” he said. Other opposition parties also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for not resolving the farmers’ issues.“The government does not have any sympathy for the farmers. It is only worried about the corporate houses and how to fill their coffers and hold hostage the resources of the state,” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said.Delhi home minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Satyendar Jain said the Centre should not set any conditions to hold talks with the agitating farmers. “Central government should talk to farmers immediately and unconditionally,” Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.The Shiv Sena expressed sympathy with the farmers. “It is sad they are not being allowed to come to Delhi and are being treated as if they are terrorists and have come from outside the country. The government should consider the demands of farmers sympathetically,” Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-weigh-in-on-issue-in-india-abroad/story-7Iigp0IPRrSH0C2J7CR8bJ.html
30-11-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with three teams working on vaccine today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with three teams that are involved in developing Covid-19 vaccine via video conferencing on Monday, the Prime Minister’s Office said on Sunday.The PMO said that the interaction will be with three teams— Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr Reddy’s.This will be the second such interaction that the PM will have with the teams working to develop the Covid-19 vaccine. On Saturday, the PM was in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of coronavirus vaccines at facilities in these cities.He first visited the Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, where he was briefed about the vaccine development process.He then visited the Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley, located around 20 km from the Hyderabad air station. “At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,” Modi tweeted after his hour-long visit there on Saturday.The final visit was to the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Manjari, in Pune where he interacted with the scientists and other executives, who briefed him on the vaccine’s progress.SII is conducting the phase-three trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, while Bharat Biotech and ICMR have started the phase-three trial of the indigenously developed COVAXIN jab. SII CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla recently announced that India will have the vaccine for vulnerable population by January-February if it gets satisfactory trial results by November or early December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-three-teams-working-on-vaccine-today/story-rSzCssJHLjA8kX49wHnByN.html
30-11-2020||India||CBI retains officer to handle Dabholkar case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has re-employed a superintendent of police who is handling the trial in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case as well as investigations into the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar for six months beyond the completion of his tenure, people familiar with the development said. Nandkumar Nair, who currently heads the agency’s special crime branches in Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram, has been re-hired on a contract basis until May 31, 2021, according to an order issued by the agency’s New Delhi headquarters. He was set to retire on Monday. The people cited above said o condition of anonymity that CBI director Rishi Kumar Shukla wants Nair to take the probe into the murder of Dabholkar in 2013 to its conclusion, due to which he is being retained in the agency beyond his tenture. Dabholkar’s murder has suspected links with the murders of journalist-activist Gauri Lankesh in September 2017, and social activist M M Kalburgi and Communist leader Govind Pansare in 2015. The murders of Kalburgi and Lankesh are being probed by a special investigation team in Karnataka while Maharashtra police is investigating Pansare’s murder. CBI is coordinating with both. Subsequently, the trial in Ishrat Jahan encounter case is at crucial stage and CBI wants Nair to continue, said an official. In October, a special CBI court in Ahmedabad had rejected the discharge pleas of four officers – JG Parmar, Tarun Barot, GL Singhal and Anaju Chaudhary -- who were named in the encounter case by the agency. Jahan, Pranesh Pillai and two others were killed on the outskirts of Ahmedabad on June 15, 2004 by officers of Detection of Crime Branch. In Kerala too, Nair is handling sensitive probes including the murder of two Youth Congress leaders – Kripesh, 19, and Sarath Lal, 24, in Periya (Kasargod) on February 17, 2019, in which leaders of the state’s ruling party, Communist Party of India- Marxist, are accused. The state government had in September this year moved the Supreme Court challenging the CBI probe. Nair could not contacted for his comment. CBI didn’t respond to a query by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-retains-officer-to-handle-dabholkar-case/story-xz0VJc6IkZM45WJ8Yl0DwK.html
30-11-2020||India||SII to sue man over claims of Covishield side effects||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, said on Sunday that it plans to file a lawsuit seeking Rs 100 crore from a 40-year-old man who has demanded that the company pay him Rs 5 crore, claiming that he had developed serious side-effects in the human trials that the company conducted on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate Covishield.The man has served a legal notice on Pune-based SII, claiming to have suffered a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation and a halt to the trial.“The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medial problems on the Covid vaccine trial,” a SII spokesperson said.“The volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent. In spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company... the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive. The Serum Institute of India will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims,” the spokesperson added.The legal notice has been sent to SII, which has collaborated with Oxford University and Astra Zeneca Plc in testing Covishield, the vaccine candidate they developed, the Indian Council of Medical Research, one of the sponsors, and Chennai-based Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, which administered the vaccine to the man.Alleging that the candidate vaccine was not safe, the man who participated in the trial has also sought cancellation of the approval for its testing, manufacture and distribution, failing which, he said, legal action would be taken. The man, according to the notice, suffered acute encephalopathy, a disease that affects the brain, following vaccination and all tests confirmed that the setback in his health was because of the vaccine candidate.When contacted, a spokesperson for Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research said the institute had received the notice, but declined to elaborate.According to the legal notice, the information provided in the Participant Information Sheet (PIS) was absolutely certain that Covishield was safe and the man was hence led to believe the claim and sign up for the trial. He was administered the vaccine candidate on October 1. Although there were no side effects for the first 10 days, he subsequently had episodes like a severe headache and vomiting. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating the adverse event. The DCGI declined to respond to the matter.A senior health ministry official said: all trial subjects across the world have to sign an “informed consent form”, before they undergo any clinical trial. This form also mentions illustrative instances of adverse events that may occur. The trial participant had signed a consent form. A senior faculty member at the institute who did not wish to be named said that the patient was admitted following complaints of a headache. “At the time of discharge, he did not have any major effects or neurological deficits and there was no basis to link the vaccine as the cause,” the senior doctor said, requesting anonymity. “He refused to take the second dose.” The hospital discharge summary accessed by HT states that he was recovering from acute encephalopathy (that alters brain function) with a diagnosis of vitamin D and B12 deficiency. The institute said that all regulatory bodies for the independent clinical trial such as the ICMR, Serum Institute and Central Drug Standard Control Organisation and the ethics committee of the trial were informed. “We are currently preparing our legal response.” Repeated calls and messages to the principal investigator of the trial, Dr S R Ramakrishnan, and the vice chancellor, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Dr P V Vijayaraghavan went unanswered. The institute has been conducting two trials-- on Covishield, developed by Oxford University/ Astra Zeneca and is being produced in a Pune laboratory and Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.ICMR has also picked SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Chennai as one of its clinical trial sites for Covid-19 vaccines. Besides that, the state government is in the second phase of tests on Covishield which is nearing completion. “So far there have been no adverse reactions or events in candidates in the first and second doses that were given,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director, directorate of public health and preventive medicine. “We will start trials for Covaxin soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-sue-man-over-claims-of-covishield-side-effects/story-tvjnCYL1PsKlgqSn31Rp2I.html
30-11-2020||India||Covid-19 death toll in Manipur reaches 273 with 10 casualties||Covid-19 claimed 10 more lives in Manipur to take the death toll to to 273, the government said on Sunday. The 10 included a woman, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department said in a statement. The deceased were in the age group of 30 to 90 years,Manipur also reported 161 fresh cases of Covid-19 with Imphal West recording the highest number at 69 followed by Imphal East (26) and Churachandpur(21).A total of 198 people were discharged from 12 Covid care facilities including 119 from home isolation in the past 24 hours, the statement said.Manipur’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 24,910 while the numbers of active and recovered cases are 3,236 and 21,401respectively. The recovery rate is 85.91%. As of Sunday, 4,74,831 people were screened at various entry points into the state, while 4,18,298 individuals have been tested for the disease.The state health department has also urged the public to self-isolate and contact Covid control room or the chief medical officer for testing on coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-death-toll-in-manipur-reaches-273-with-10-casualties/story-zO9BCQjoWO2VrFpHtRBH2L.html
30-11-2020||India||This lucky mom found her son after 15 years as she recovered lost memories||Time is a cruel thing. A decade and a half of alienation can make a mother and son unrecognisable to each other. But what doesn’t fade is the love in their hearts. When you meet Rama Devi Chowdhary and her son Mitrajit, not for a moment it appears that the two have just been united after a separation of 15 long years, such is their bonding. Their story makes you believe in the power of faith. Criminal lawyer Rama Devi Chowdhary left her home in Kolkata after she had some differences with her husband. She came to Delhi to pursue a career in law. Beginning from Patiala Court, she soon started practising in the Supreme Court. But her career suffered a blow in 2012 when it was discovered during one of her hearings that she was suffering from schizophrenia. The judge directed the police to have her admitted in IHBAS where she was treated for her mental illness for nine months. In 2013, she was shifted to a government shelter. After two years, she came to the home run by Rahab Center For Hope, an NGO that works for abused and trafficked women. Rama Devi began a new life here. In the five years of her stay, Rama Devi slowly opened up in the family like environment. “She would keep herself busy reading and writing. On Independence Day, she would write such wonderful speeches. There was tremendous improvement in her condition,” says Eunice Stephen, founder, Rahab. But the pangs of separation from her child often resurfaced when she was alone. Unable to recollect his name or any other detail that could lead her to the child, she kept her pain to herself. And one day, in the month of June, a miracle happened. In a flashback of memories, Rama Devi was reminded of her little boy’s name - Mitrajit. Longing to meet the son that she had left back home when he was only seven, Rama Devi requested Eunice to help her find Mitrajit. But no record of her husband or his family was available and Eunice didn’t know where to begin. Her efforts to get some information from Rama Devi’s brother in America yielded nothing. Rama Devi’s husband had relocated from Kolkata and no one seemed to have his address. When the shelters where Rama Devi had lived in the past could not help with any information, Eunice and her team decided to look up social media in the hope that they might get some clue about her son. As they typed Mitrajit Chowdhary , they came across several profiles on Facebook. They had absolutely no idea which one of them could be Rama Devi’s son. So messages were sent out to each person. And one of them indeed happened to be Rama Devi’s son Mitrajit! A message flashed on Mitrajit’s phone screen that said, “Hello, do you have a relative called Rama Devi Chowdhary? We have some information about her.” “I stared at the screen for the initial few seconds… it was finally happening…my mother had finally reached out, as I always believed she would one day. Without wasting time, I typed yes,” says Mitrajit When Mitrajit spoke to his mother for the very first time, he was very nervous. “I was shaking. I went blank for a while. She took my name… said Mitrajit, this is mom speaking. It was a lot to sink in,” he says. Mitrajit made a video call the next day. “I could not recognise her... She had all grey hair..she looked so different from the picture that I had of her taken at a family wedding. I kept looking at her, trying to absorb that she was finally right there in front of me. After that, we started talking regularly,” says Mitrajit. Soon after, Mitrajit started planning his trip to Delhi. On 25 November, the two finally met. It took a while for Rama to recognise her son who is now a 22-year-old confident young man working for as an HR executive for a firm in Visakhapatnam. “As I had a closer look, I saw the same childhood face…the only difference is that a beard covers it now,” she says. Mitrajit says he sort of knew that this is how it was going to end. “I was a kid when she left… it was a lot to deal with. All my dad had been able to tell me was that she had gone for her career and that she might return one day. I had no idea what happened to my mother. There was no source to trace her. I would sit by the beach and think about her..about not having a complete family...but something in me always told me that this will change…she will return one day.” Mitrajit is glad that he made a Facebook profile that finally led him to his mother. “Thank god I didn’t use any nickname unlike many friends. It would have been tricky to find me otherwise,” says the boy who used to google up his mother’s name every time he used a computer in the hope to find her whereabouts. Rama Devi and her son are now on their way to Visakhapatnam where she will meet her estranged husband after 15 years. The son can’t be happier that his parents are going to be united once again. “Mitrajit’s father never married, time has healed all differences and it’s such a touching reunion…I wish we are able to unite more such families that are torn apart due to circumstances. We have successfully traced several estranged individuals in the past as well ,” says Eunice who had made it a mission to trace Mitrajit for Rama. Before leaving for Visakhapatnam, the mother-son went to visit Birla temple and enjoyed eating out in the city. She is already acting like a typical mum, stuffing me with food all the time,” says a beaming Mitrajit. Love does find its way through the gloomiest of allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-lucky-mom-found-her-son-after-15-years-as-she-recovered-lost-memories/story-OcIY2h6sQgFFFaoiC5ufcK.html
