26-05-2021||City||How Odisha's model of disaster preparedness came into being||In October 1999, a super cyclone of massive proportions ripped through the entire Odisha coast snuffing away over 10,000 lives while rendering millions homeless. The 1999 cyclone remains etched in our memories as an apocalyptic failure of the administration as the mighty winds wreaked havoc exposing the extreme vulnerability of people to the whims of nature.In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth ₹4,240 crore.A little more than two years ago, on May 3, 2019, Odisha was hit by cyclone Fani with a sustained windspeed of 180-190 km per hour that claimed 64 lives and caused damages worth over ₹24,176 crore. Termed “rarest of the rare” summer cyclone, Fani could have wreaked huge casualties across the districts of Puri and Khurda but for the massive pre-disaster planning undertaken by the state government. As the state readies for cyclone Yaas, scheduled to make landfall on May 26 noon, its expertise and resilience in dealing with disasters have come in for praise.Home to over 4.6 crore people, Odisha, along the Bay of Bengal, often acts as a magnet for all kinds of natural disasters starting from floods, cyclones to droughts. Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones are known to have lashed Odisha — the highest number among other states on the coast.Professor Santosh Kumar of the National Institute of Disaster Management, who has studied the post-disaster response of Odisha in the wake of the 1999 super cyclone as well as the 2019 Fani cyclone, said Odisha has come a long way in the last two decades."Odisha has been able to protect its people. That's the most important part. In terms of bringing down the number of lives lost and the people getting affected, the state has done well. This has never happened in one day. Odisha took a conscious decision and gradually built upon its capacity, particularly at the community level. It has successfully started community-level warning, built multi-purpose cyclone shelters under National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project and built an Early Warning Dissemination System with last-mile connectivity. The capacity to deal with natural disasters has increased tremendously at the community level. If there is a model of preventing largescale deaths in disaster, we can call it the Odisha model," said Prof Kumar.From over 10,000 deaths in the 1999 cyclone, the fatalities have mostly been in double digits in most of the cyclones including the Phailin cyclone in 2013, Hudhud in 2014, Titli in 2018 and Fani in 2019 that swept through Odisha. Experts say timely evacuation due to an early warning system has helped.In October 1999, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued cyclone warnings three days before the cyclone struck the Odisha coast. Compared to that, the prediction for most of the cyclones has been at least 5-6 days prior to its landfall giving adequate time to the administration to take necessary steps."In 1999, the Odisha government learned about the change of path of the super cyclone pretty late and soon after the state’s communication networks collapsed and the situation could no longer be monitored. But now, cyclone warning by the IMD comes pretty early and is accurate with least deviation and observed path and predicted path almost going on the same line. This has not just inspired confidence among the people on the ground but also the officials. This has also prevented a large number of unnecessary evacuation," said prof Kumar.In April 2018, Odisha become the first Indian state to have an early warning system in place for natural disasters such as cyclones and tsunami for people living along its 480 km-long coast. The EWDS is a full-proof communication system to address the existing gap in disseminating disaster warning by strengthening the emergency operation centres in the state. At present, as many as 1,205 villages from 22 blocks in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Ganjam have been covered under the EWDS. As part of the system, watchtowers have been set up at 122 locations within 1.5 km from the coastline for dissemination of cyclone or tsunami warning through sirens and mass messaging.“Establishment of EWDS is part of our robust disaster preparedness strategy aiming to save lives on a priority basis," said Kamal Lochan Mishra, executive director of Odisha State Disaster Management Authority.The specially designed multi-purpose cyclone shelters built on high stilts have also ensured that loss of lives is minimal even during sea surges and persistent water-logging. The 1999 cyclone led to massive sea surges with water ingressing up to 20 km, gobbling villages. In 1999, there were just 23 permanent cyclone shelters in 6 coastal districts that could accommodate about 30,000 people. But learning from its failures, Odisha has built a network of such shelters along the coastline."Odisha has a great community outreach system through which people are being reached on time. It now has a network of over 870 cyclone and flood shelters that can house 1000 people each. Over 450 cyclone shelters have maintenance committees where youth have been involved and trained for search and rescue, first aid medical attention, and for providing cyclone warnings," said Deepak Singh, lead disaster risk management specialist at the World Bank.Apart from the decentralized governance institutional set-up, Odisha also has a disaster-specific institutional mechanism. It has established 16 district-level disaster management planning committees which reach out to 155 block-level disaster management planning committees and 22,000 village-level disaster management committees.The state has raised 20 units of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) that comprises highly trained personnel with multi-disaster tackling capabilities. Equipped with 66 types of sophisticated equipment required for disaster management, including road clearing equipment, branch cutter, tree pruner, concrete cutter, RCC cutter, boat, inflatable tower light, generator, forklift, hydraulic rescue kit, collapse structure search & rescue (CSSR) kit, medical first responder (MFR) kit, ambulance, manikin, high discharge submersible pump, flexi tent, flexi water tank, mountaineering equipment, commando searchlight, diving equipment set, breathing apparatus with a gas mask and chemical cartridge, the force is well-trained in tackling floods, building collapses, cyclones, biological and nuclear disasters.The proliferation of TV and mobile phones have made people aware of cyclones much before it makes landfall. In 1999, the chief secretary did not have a mobile phone and no second line of communications were kept ready. There was no Internet connection in the Odisha secretariat in 1999.Twenty-two years ago, there were not many pucca houses along the coast compared to 2021 when the state government has converted a large number of these houses to pucca ones under state-specific schemes like Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Mo Kudia or central schemes like Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana. In 1999, the panchayats did not stock basic rations like rice, pulses, jaggery and kerosene while in subsequent disasters all panchayats stock basic rations."Like all previous disasters, our goal is not to allow a single person to die. Zero casualty remains our goal," said Pradip Jena, special relief commissioner of Odisha.However, Odisha has fallen short in its post-disaster response as well as preventing large scale damages to its infrastructure and primary sector like agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry.When Cyclone Fani struck Odisha coast, the state suffered losses worth ₹8,138 crore in the power sector due to the snapping of thousands of kilometres of power lines and electrical towers throwing several parts of the cyclone-affected area into darkness for more than two months. More than 5,500 base transceiver stations of various mobile telecom companies were damaged in the cyclone.The damage to the telecom BTS IN cities of Puri, Bhubaneswar, and Cuttack led to mobile connectivity outage in 80% of areas across the three cities and resulted in disconnecting millions of users, including citizens, government officials and first responders, for weeks. Odisha State Wide Area Network, which was set up to connect the state with 30 district headquarters and 284 block headquarters and 61 horizontal offices through data, video and voice communications also failed.Fani hit the housing sector the hardest, damaging nearly 3.62 lakh units of houses across the 14 districts. As per an estimate by the state government, the combined economic losses to the state from the last 3 cyclones - Phailin, Titli, and Fani - was around ₹40,474 crore."Odisha needs to protect its infrastructure from getting hit in future disasters. Both central and state government infrastructures have been repeatedly lost during cyclones. The agriculture and horticulture sector have to be made resilient to such routine disasters. Odisha would hopefully become a model state in that," said Prof Kumar.Last 5 cyclones in OdishaOctober 2013: Extremely severe cyclonic storm Phailin crossed Odisha coast at Gopalpur, accompanied by a storm surge of 5 feet and heavy rainfall. Death toll- 59October 2014: Extremely severe cyclonic storm Hudhud made landfall near Vishakhapatnam and then passed through Odisha. Death toll- 0October 2018: Very severe cyclonic storm Titli made landfall at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh but changed course to wreak much damage in interior districts of Odisha. Death toll-77May 2019: Very severe cyclonic storm Fani made landfall at Puri. Death toll-89May 2020: Severe cyclonic storm Amphan made landfall at Sundarbans. Death toll-3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-yaas-how-odisha-s-model-of-disaster-preparedness-came-into-being-101621969683964.html
26-05-2021||City||Odisha evacuates over 5 lakh people as cyclone Yaas set to make landfall||With the very severe cyclonic storm Yaas set to make landfall near Dhamra of Bhadrak district around May 26 morning, the Odisha government said it has evacuated over 5 lakh people to cyclone shelters and has finalised arrangements for shifting over another 5 lakh people to safe places in four coastal districts."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas is moving at a speed of around 15 kmph and now lies about 160 km off Paradip coast. During landfall, it would have a wind speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The impact will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall at Chandbali. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage due to the cyclone," said IMD DG Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.In a major change in its prediction, the Joint Typhoon Warning Centre (JTWC) has recently changed the landfall place of Cyclone Yaas. In its latest bulletin, the JTWC has observed that Cyclone Yaas will make landfall at the mouth of Budhabalanga river estuary in Balasore district.Severe cyclonic storm Yaas lays over East-central and adjoining West-central Bay of Bengal as it moved northwestwards with a speed of about 17 kmph during the past six hours. The system lays about 160 km south-southeast of Paradip and 250 km south-southeast of Balasore.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the storm is likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and continue to move north-northwestwards before landing very close to Chandbali-Dhamra port by the early morning of May 26.Doppler radar at Paradip has spotted the eye of Cyclone Yaas. The radius of the 'Eye' is said to be 35 kilometres. Areas falling in the route of the eye to suffer massive destruction.Odisha's special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said over 5 lakh people have been shifted to cyclone shelters in Balasore, Bhadrak, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur Jajpur, Kendrapara, Keonjhar, Khordha, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Ganjam, Mayurbhanj, Nayagarh, Puri and Angul so far. The maximum number of people, 1.43 lakh have been shifted in Balasore district, followed by 1.05 lakh from Kendrapara and 94000 from Bhadrak, the SRC data revealed.“We have put four coastal districts- Kendrapara, Jagatisnghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore - on high-risk zone and started preparation accordingly after the meteorological department predicted that the cyclone will hit the coast anywhere near Bhitarkanika, Dhamra and Chandbali. As many as 6,900 cyclone centres are ready for use where 7.50 lakh people can be accommodated,” special relief commissioner PK Jena said.Jena said 710 diesel gensets and 813 tankers have been dispatched while more than 10,000 employees of the energy department have been deployed in the districts likely to be affected for electricity restoration works. Another 2,000 workers will reach their locations by tonight. More than 300 health teams have remained prepared to handle any emergency. In view of the weather warning by IMD, flight operations at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar will be suspended from 11 pm today to 5 am on May 27.As many as 4,000 personnel of NDRF, ODRAF, fire services and state police have been deployed at strategic places. Around 52 NDRF, 50 ODRAF, 206 fire services, 86 teams of the forest department have been pressed into service.As the landfall site is not very far from the Paradip port, the Paradip Port Trust authorities suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday. At least 12 vessels were sent to the deep sea to avoid the path of the storm while all the trucks, dumpers and large cargo handling equipment in the port area have been taken to a safe zone, said PPT chairman Vinit Kumar."The authorities have been in coordination with the Odisha government and the Jagatsinghpur district administration to take all the precautionary measures," Paradip Port Trust Chairman Vinit Kumar told reporters.The Integrated Test Range of the DRDO has taken various measures to protect its facilities at Chandipur and Abdul Kalam Island at Dhamra. The Integrated Test Range (ITR) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has three missile launch pads at Chandipur and one launch complex at Abdul Kalam Island, besides two separate mission control rooms and blockhouses. Though the island will be impacted by the cyclone, the control room and the blockhouse have been designed to withstand wind speeds up to 400 km.Milan Kumar Pal, spokesperson of the ITR facility, said his organisation is prepared for the very severe cyclonic storm, and are implementing the standard operating procedures prepared by DRDO.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 112 teams for deployment in five states and the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, its highest-ever number of teams for deployment in a disaster. Out of these, NDRF has earmarked 52 teams for Odisha followed by 45 teams for West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-evacuates-over-5-lakh-people-as-cyclone-yaas-set-to-make-landfall-101621967692307.html
