01-01-2022||Comment||A New Year, & 75th as a free nation: Let’s do something special||As we bring down the curtains on the year past, it is nice to remember that 2022 will be a special year, one in which we complete 75 years as an independent nation. It is perhaps a good time to reflect on the state of the Union, and where we are headed as a country. A just and democratic polity requires two principal features: the proper distribution of government power within and among its political entities, and a sustained and pervasive public virtue. This forms the basis to strive towards an equitable and inclusive society. In India’s context, the idea of federalism is not merely about the balance of power between the Centre and the states, the allocation of duties and responsibilities between them, or even about a progressive Centre encouraging the states to compete and perform better. It, in fact, serves as the institutional framework that provides the basis for inclusiveness, and for building consensus to navigate the plurality of Indian society. It is important to reflect on the shift from a consensus-based politics to a majoritarian approach over the years from the late 1960s, and the challenges this has thrown up in our efforts at nation-building. It is an opportunity to recognise that federalism is being reconstructed through a variety of measures: statutes, administrative arrangements, and centralisation. Broadly speaking, federalism can devolve power downward to the states or it can disperse power outward to private actors. The year past will be remembered for the manner in which the farm laws were rushed through, and equally for how the government was compelled by sustained agitation by the big farm lobby to withdraw them. This has set us back on agriculture reforms by several years. The abjuring of consensus in more recent times began, arguably, with the remarkable election victory from which the Centre’s authority probably crested in 2019, just before the pandemic broke out. But even at its high watermark, the national State apparatus appeared incomplete, contested, and vulnerable. Today, the public entertains doubts on whether the national government can solve complex social problems — unemployment, poverty, hunger and malnutrition, climate change, and agricultural distress — and rightly or wrongly believes that the solutions tried have largely failed. Although, it must be said, the public trust in state governments is somewhat tenuous and arguably less than in the Centre. Taken together though, the trust deficit creates the perception of a kind of pulmonary embolism in the body politic. The genius of federalism was once an article of faith, as envisaged by the founders and evidenced in the sagacious and prescient Constituent Assembly debates. It was intended to serve both as an instrument of the modern administrative State, and as an institutional arrangement to accommodate the extraordinary diversity of Indian society and the challenges that this diversity poses for national unity. This diversity-accommodating imperative of federalism receives little attention today. Although the plural nature of Indian society and inter-state differences help to explain the remarkable durability of federalism in India, we still lack a national consensus to decide which of those differences the Centre must encourage, or at least tolerate, and which of them it should limit. Hence the importance of consultations with the states and across the political spectrum. The present configuration of the jurisdiction of states has little to commend it besides history, and the current allocation of powers and responsibilities are skewed excessively in favour of the Centre. India’s history and its remarkable social diversity have their just claims on our political structures and practices. Federalism is perhaps far from an ideal system, it nevertheless remains a great source of social strength and political cohesion that helps to bind a congeries of disparate states to the nation by accommodating their passionately parochial interests — and each state can lay claim to this without exception — and yet draw the Indianness in them. India needs an identity based on how our society has evolved; and in forging this identity, our constitutional history is important to more than just a polemical cause. Advancing a homogenising form of Indian nationalism is likely to disrupt the nation-state rather than cement its cultural basis because the Indian identity cannot be unidimensional. Rabindranath Tagore reminds us of the combined role of the ‘little’ and ‘great’ traditions in shaping what he defined loosely as the Indian nation. India’s diversity, to paraphrase Tagore, was her “nature, and you can never coerce nature into your narrow limits of convenience without one day paying dearly for it.” If democracy has struck roots in a multi-ethnic society like India, despite the absence of pre-existing conditions that many argue are necessary, it is because of complementary social and political institutions between the Centre and the states, nurtured and sustained by an alert citizenry in the spirit of federalism. India’s democracy does not lend itself to a copybook description; it is a creative democracy that needs to be reinvigorated time and again. A good way of doing this is through greater dialogue between the Centre and the states, and between the government and its people. There is no other path, going beyond the mere casting of votes, to fostering a shared identity of those who govern and those who are governed. It is a fallacy to assume that democratic conditions automatically maintain themselves. Democracy does sometimes fall on hard times, and to protect it must constitute a daily struggle for all citizens; and in doing so, we must scrutinise claims to our past in the context of the historical present. We must ring in the New Year with the resolve that we will commit ourselves to the responsibility to secure for all Justice, Liberty, Equality, and foster Fraternity. For, after all, society is responsible for generating the values by which it will live, and to progress towards a just and humane one. In the 75th year of our independence, there is no better tribute that we can pay as the price of freedom. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru) Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-new-year-75th-as-a-free-nation-let-s-do-something-special-1066636.html
01-01-2022||First Edit||Hope in the time of viruses of all kinds||When another year infected with a hustling virus has receded, there is little certainty about what the future holds for the world. The virus has moved across the alphabet and the world, mutating and evolving on the way, but its nature is still largely Greek to everyone. It is taking many shapes and forms, evading and dissembling, to resist the fight put up by a much more evolved life-form which thinks of itself as clever and powerful and has through millennia made it its habit the conquest of all that stands and moves. It should be a humbling experience for humankind to find itself unable to get the better of this unprecedented challenge, even as there is no sign of a variant by the name Omega appearing on the horizon, marking the end of the biological history of a particularly troublesome family of micro-life. The dialectics at work is remarkable.  It is not that there was no progress in the fight. Vaccines and drugs have been found and made, after telescoping many years of research and development into a few months, and they may have blunted the virus which was making the rounds. But our very human follies and failures let us down in critical ways. While those who could make and pay for the resistance indulged themselves and tried to protect themselves once, twice and more times, those who could not were left defenceless. The virus made good use of the sway of the selfish gene in individuals, communities and nations, and is shifting shapes to beat us. It is unlikely to give up till we realise that none of us is safe till all of us are safe, and act on that realisation. This is a test for us and it is not yet certain we will pass the test. That brings up the question: While the virus has evolved to stay ahead, have we? Evolution may be noticeable only on longer time scales for species like the homo sapiens, but these are times of a collective threat that calls for tapping all reserve powers of survival. The survival protocols at individual and community levels are known and need to be followed. The more difficult task is to change ourselves so that we care for the neighbour, the neighbour’s neighbour, and others. That caring is the vaccine for the world. It will beat not just this mean virus from the world’s depths but other viruses from our own minds that move at the speed of thought to damage the world we live in. Lost economies can be repaired but a world lost to viruses of exclusion and hatred is difficult to mend. Let the New Year clear the world and our minds of malign viruses of all kinds.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hope-in-the-time-of-viruses-of-all-kinds-1066634.html
01-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||CID to probe into police atrocities on Koraga community at Kota Thattu||Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said he had handed over the case of police atrocities against Koraga community members during a pre-wedding Mehendi ritual at Kota Thattu village to the CID for investigation. Speaking after visiting the victims at the colony, the home minister stated that he and the government are committed to protect the society's most vulnerable community. He stated that he is ashamed of the incident, which has also tarnished the dedication of 1 lakh police officers who work around the clock to maintain law and order and peace in the society. The incident demonstrated how police can be ruthless in their treatment of innocent people. The Minister said that he could never defend or support his department. "I have listened to the unfolding events that upheld the cruelty of police personnel who turned out to be thugs," he said. The minister promised Rs 2 lakh each to the six families who had suffered at the hands of the police. As part of the immediate measures, these families were given Rs 50,000 each on the spot. The minister described the incident as gruesome and claimed that the police went above and beyond their authority. "The incident has hurt me," and added that he has asked the DGP to take immediate action. "The counter-complaint filed by the police constable was done on purpose. The complaint is pointless because the police officer was admitted to the hospital three days after the incident and registered the complaint. Anyone can see that the case is a hoax. He assured the community that the government is on their side and that the case will have no bearing on the people named in the counter-complaint," said the Minister. Further, he said that the PSI was arrogant and didn't think it was necessary to notify the CPI, DySP, or SP before engaging in lathi charge. The action will be taken against the five constables who are currently in the process of being transferred. The police involved will have to pay, and the investigation itself is a severe punishment, said the Minister. The minister later told reporters that the bridegroom and women in the families attending the function were assaulted. Such incidents will not be repeated in the future. The law is equal to all regardless of their status, caste, class, or religion. The government is committed to protect Dalits, the oppressed, and the destitute, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cid-to-probe-into-police-atrocities-on-koraga-community-at-kota-thattu-1066842.html
01-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Family pays Rs 52 bus fare for chick worth Rs 10||A three-member nomadic family was shocked to know that the bus fare for a chick bought at Rs 10 was Rs 52. They boarded a KSRTC bus in Hosanagar town with the chick to go to Shiroor in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district. The bus conductor asked the family to buy ticket and the male member of a family asked him to issue three tickets for Shiroor. The conductor heard cluck of a chick placed in a sack. Surprised by it, the conductor enquired what it is. The family replied that it is a chick. The conductor asked the family to purchase half ticket for it and collected Rs 52 from the family. The other passengers who were travelling in the same bus were discussing the bus fare charged on the chick among themselves during the journey. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/family-pays-rs-52-bus-fare-for-chick-worth-rs-10-1066943.html
01-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Two fresh Covid clusters in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district reported two fresh Covid clusters — Kasaba village in Bantwal taluk and Bejai in Mangaluru. In Kasaba village, samples of 40 people were collected and five tested positive for Covid-19. All had travel history to Bengaluru. In Bejai, Mangaluru five samples were colleceted and four tested positive. The samples were collected prior to a scheduled travel, said Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ashok. Dakshin Kannada saw a spike in Covid-19 cases with the district reporting 48 fresh cases and 12 discharges. On Friday, the district had reported 30 fresh cases. The district has recorded a total of 1,16,430 cases since March 2020. There are 187 active cases undergoing treatment in home isolation and hospitals. The positivity rate in the district is 0.61 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-fresh-covid-clusters-in-dakshina-kannada-1066988.html
01-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Let DKS embrace Islam, Christianity, KSE suggests ||Reacting to KPCC President D K Shivakumar's opposition to the government's decision to lift restrictions imposed on Hindu temples with regard to revenue use, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that let Congress leader embrace Islam or Christianity.  Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said Congress leader is disappointed after the government decided to free temples from its control. "I don't know the reason for it. We are followers of RSS and it is the agenda of RSS. There is nothing to hide," he asserted.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/let-dks-embrace-islam-christianity-kse-suggests-1066993.html
01-01-2022||National||Defence ministry describes Gen Rawat as true patriot; says nation will never forget his exceptional service||India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was an "outstanding" soldier and a "true patriot" whose insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional, the defence ministry said on Friday. The ministry made the comments in a year-end media release. Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, his defence advisor Brigadier LS Lidder and 11 other military personnel were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. "They served the Nation with utmost diligence. General Bipin Rawat was an outstanding soldier. A true patriot, he greatly contributed to modernising the Armed Forces and security apparatus," the ministry said. "His insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional. As India's first CDS, General Bipin Rawat worked on diverse aspects relating to the armed forces, including defence reforms," the ministry said. It further said: "He brought with him a rich experience of serving in the Indian Army. The nation will never forget his exceptional service." As the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Rawat, 63, devised a national security approach to effectively confront future threats and set the ball rolling for implementation of the ambitious plan to modernise the armed forces including restructuring of the military commands. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-describes-gen-rawat-as-true-patriot-says-nation-will-never-forget-his-exceptional-service-1066751.html
01-01-2022||National||Set up 24x7 RAT booths at different locations, encourage self-test: Centre to states, UTs||Amid the new surge in Covid cases, the Centre has asked all states and union territories to set up round-the-clock Rapid Antigen Test booths at different locations, engage medical and paramedical staff, and encourage the use of home test kits for symptomatic individuals. In a letter to all chief secretaries, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said any individual having fever with/without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, body ache, the recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue, and diarrhoea should be considered as a suspect case of Covid-19 unless proven otherwise. "All such individuals must be tested. While awaiting the test results, they should be advised to immediately isolate themselves and follow the home isolation guidelines of Ministry of Health & Family Welfare," the letter said. It said that as of now, India has a network of 3,117 molecular testing laboratories, which includes 2014 RT-PCR, 941 TrueNat, 132 CBNAAT and 30 other testing platforms. The estimated national daily molecular testing capacity is more than 20 lakh per day, the letter to the chief secretaries said. "You are advised to upscale testing for Covid-19 in your State/UT by fully utilizing the existing molecular testing capacity." "In addition, you may also expedite procurement of necessary testing equipment and establish BSL-2 laboratory infrastructure from the funds sanctioned to your State/UT by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, under the Emergency Covid-19 Response Plan (ECRP)," it said The letter said that RTPCR-based testing leads to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of about 5-8 hours. "Therefore, you are encouraged to increase testing by widespread use of rapid antigen tests (RATS) in such specific situations where RTPCR testing poses challenges," the two senior health officials said in the letter. In such specific situations, it is recommended to increase rapid antigen testing for Covid-19 through multiple RAT booths in identified geographies and operationalised on a 24x7 basis to offer widespread testing and easier access to all citizens, they said. "RATS may be allowed at government and private health care facilities including all hospitals, dispensaries, nursing homes, clinics, district hospitals, primary health centers etc," they said. In addition to healthcare facilities, states and union territories are also encouraged to engage appropriate medical and paramedical staff and to set up and operationalse RAT booths at convenient locations, they said. The use of self-tests/home tests may be encouraged for symptomatic individuals, they said, adding seven such home testing kits have been approved so far and two of them are also available on GeM. Most of the test kits/products approved by Indian Council of Medical Research are now available on the GeM portal and can be easily procured from GeM, the letter said. "Appropriate public-private partnership models may also be explored to establish innovative and convenient testing centers to augment testing in an expeditious way. RATS must be conducted in accordance with RAT algorithm defined by ICMR," the letter said. "You may appropriately refine the State procurement procedures for emergency procurement from market to expedite the process," they said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/set-up-24x7-rat-booths-at-different-locations-encourage-self-test-centre-to-states-uts-1066758.html
01-01-2022||National||China's settlements, renaming aimed to gain edge in border talks||China's moves to build villages along its disputed boundary with India and to rename places in Arunachal Pradesh in its own languages are all linked to its ploy to take advantage of a bilateral agreement inked in 2005 and to sway the boundary negotiation in its favour. The Chinese government is also set to bring into force a new land boundary law on Saturday. The law, which was adopted on October 23, emphasises the role of the civilian population in protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China. India has dismissed Beijing’s latest move to assign new names to eight residential places, four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass in Arunachal Pradesh, but it has also been increasingly worried over China's intent to take advantage of the Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for Settlement of the Boundary Question, which India and China had signed in 2005. The Article VII of the 2005 India-China agreement says that the two sides shall safeguard interests of settled populations in the border areas while clinching a deal to resolve the boundary row. The India-China boundary negotiation led by the Special Representatives of the two governments remained stalled since the two sides got engaged in a military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020. But India suspects that China is trying to strengthen its territorial claims in anticipation of resumption of negotiation in future – not only by building villages in the territories of India and Bhutan, but also by renaming places in Arunachal Pradesh. China is clearly preparing to counter India's territorial claims by citing the border villages as well as the habitats named in Mandarin Chinese in Arunachal Pradesh, a source aware of the course of the boundary negotiations told DH. China's new Land Border Law's emphasis on development of villages and towns in the border areas and role of civilians in protecting sovereignty and territorial integrity indicates that it would expand settlements all along its disputed boundaries with India and Bhutan. “Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Tibet) is located in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China. It has been China’s territory since ancient times. China’s ethnic minorities such as the Moinba and Tibetan ethnic groups have lived and worked in this area for a long time, and many place names have been passed down," Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-settlements-renaming-aimed-to-gain-edge-in-border-talks-1066765.html
01-01-2022||National||Prominent citizens, armed forces veterans write to President, PM on hate speech||Five former chiefs of the armed forces and a number of other prominent citizens including bureaucrats have written a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the recent incidents of hate speeches and urged them to take appropriate measures. In a letter, the group of over 100 people also referred to the communal comments made at an event in Haridwar recently and condemned "in no uncertain terms" such "incitement" to violence. "We cannot allow such incitement to violence together with public expressions of hate - which not only constitute serious breaches of internal security but which could also tear apart the social fabric of our nation," they said in the letter. They further said, "In view of the current situation on our borders, any breach of peace and harmony within the Nation will embolden inimical external forces." "The unity and cohesiveness of our men and women in uniform, including the CAPFs and Police Forces, will be seriously affected by allowing such blatant calls for violence against one or the other community in our diverse and plural society," they added. The signatories included former Navy chiefs Admiral (Retd) L Ramdas, Admiral (retd) Vishnu Bhagwat, Admiral (retd) Arun Prakash and Admiral (retd) RK Dhowan.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prominent-citizens-armed-forces-veterans-write-to-president-pm-on-hate-speech-1066768.html
01-01-2022||National||DH Toon | Reality is mimicking cartoons||A cartoonist's job is getting tougher with every passing day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-reality-is-mimicking-cartoons-1066775.html
01-01-2022||National||India logs 22,775 new Covid-19 cases; Omicron tally at 1,431||India has logged 161 fresh Omicron cases, taking their tally in the country to 1,431, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The 1,431 cases of the new variant of the coronavirus have been detected across 23 states and union territories so far, and 488 of these have either recovered or migrated. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of 454 cases, followed by Delhi with 351, Kerala 118 and Gujarat 115. The daily rise in Covid-19 cases crossed the 16,000-mark in the country after around 65 days, taking the infection tally to 3,48,61,579, while the count of active cases increased to 1,04,781, according to the data updated at 8 am. India saw 22,775 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 4,81,080 with 220 daily fatalities, the data stated. A total of 22,431 new coronavirus infections were reported in a span of 24 hours last on October 6, while the active case count was recorded above one lakh last on November 30.   The active cases comprised 0.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.32 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 13,420 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestones of two crore cases on May 4, 2021, and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-22775-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-1431-1066783.html
01-01-2022||National||Shah speaks to J&K L-G over Vaishno Devi shrine deaths||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said he was "deeply pained by the tragic accident" at Mata Vaishno Devi temple and spoke to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who assured that the administration is providing treatment to the injured. At least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured in the stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir. "Deeply pained by the tragic accident at Mata Vaishno Devi temple. In this regard, I have spoken to Lieutenant Governor of J&K Shri Manoj Sinha. The administration is working continuously to provide treatment to the injured. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident," Shah tweeted in Hindi.   माता वैष्णो देवी मंदिर में हुई दुखद दुर्घटना से हृदय अत्यंत व्यथित है। इस संबंध में मैंने J&K के उपराज्यपाल श्री मनोज सिन्हा जी से बात की है। प्रशासन घायलों को उपचार पहुँचाने के लिए निरंतर कार्यरत है। इस हादसे में जान गँवाने वाले लोगों के परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ। The stampede took place near Gate Number 3, outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills. The stampede was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees who had come to pay their obeisance to mark the beginning of the New Year, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shah-speaks-to-jk-l-g-over-vaishno-devi-shrine-deaths-1066786.html
01-01-2022||National||12 dead in Vaishno Devi stampede; J&K L-G Manoj Sinha orders probe||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, in which at least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured. The Lt Governor said he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and briefed him about the incident. "Hon'ble Prime Minister has assured all the help," the office of the LG tweeted. According to officials, the stampede that took place in the early hours of Saturday near Gate Number 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees who were visiting to mark the beginning of the New Year. In a series of tweets, the office of the Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor said, "Deeply pained at the loss of lives due to stampede at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine. My condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers with the injured."   Spoke to Hon'ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji. Briefed him about the incident. A high level inquiry has been ordered into today's stampede. The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members. "Spoke to Hon'ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji. Briefed him about the incident. A high level inquiry has been ordered into today's stampede. The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members," he said. Lt Governor Sinha announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of each deceased and Rs 2 lakh to each injured. "Deeply pained at the loss of lives due to stampede at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine. My condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers with the injured," Sinha said. "Ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and Rs 2 lakh to injured. Shrine board to bear the cost of treatment of injured," tweeted Sinha, who is also chairperson of the board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-dead-in-vaishno-devi-stampede-jk-l-g-manoj-sinha-orders-probe-1066788.html
01-01-2022||National||Omicron-led surge will be 'very fast', warns WHO expert||WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan warned that the surge led by the Omicron Covid-19 variant is "going to be very fast and many are going to be sick". Swaminathan said that the outbreak of the new variant will see the burden shift from hospitals to the out-patients department, from ICUs to home-based care, adding that the biggest challenge India will face will be the sudden need for medical care.  She called for ramping up of teleconsultation services to tackle this sudden surge. "Maybe, this is the time to really scale up the telehealth and telemedicine services to make sure we have enough doctors and nurses in out-patients clinics; make sure we can treat people at home as much as possible or at primary care isolation centres where they get basic care if they don't need advance care." Swaminathan cited data from South Africa and the UK about Omicron's quick spread, saying that number of cases with Omicron compared to Delta and other surges was four times more but the rate of hospitalisation is one-fourth. "The actual number was 40,000 in the previous outbreaks during the peak and it was around 1,40,000 during Omicron. But at the same time, the risk of hospitalisation was one-fourth. So, it evens out - four times more transmissible, one-fourth the risk of hospitalisation. You end up with the same number of people in the hospitals," she said, warning people against getting complacent and treating the new variant like a common cold due to its mild symptoms. The WHO expert cautioned that despite the low severity of the variant, doctors, hospitals, out-patients departments, health care workers, and the infrastructure in India may be overwhelmed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-led-surge-will-be-very-fast-warns-who-expert-1066789.html
01-01-2022||National||China implements new border law, India concerned||India is likely to face more challenges at the northern border as China implements its new border law from Saturday. Sources said that from now, China is likely to dig in its heels at the current disputed positions at the Line of Actual Control and will come up with more model border villages -- to be used both for military and civilian purposes. Making a provocative assertion, China on December 30, 2021, renamed 15 places of Arunachal Pradesh in their map. Major General Ashok Kumar (Retd) told IANS, "The new land border law is the latest attempt by China to unilaterally delineate and demarcate territorial boundaries with India and Bhutan." Explaining how this law has huge implications for India, Major General Kumar said that by bringing in such a law, in conjunction with accelerated construction of 624 "Xiaokong" known as model villages along and inside the disputed land boundaries with India, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has created conditions for a 'militarised solution' to the boundary issue. "It is a hybrid unconventional warfare methodology, applied for taking over illegal control of sovereign spaces of other states and gets converted into a legalistic nation-building exercise which brooks no opposition," he said. On October 23, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislative body, passed a new law citing "protection and exploitation of the country's land border areas". The committee had stated that the new law will come into effect on January 1. The law is not meant specifically for the border with India. China shares its 22,457-kilometre land boundary with 14 countries, including India, the third-longest, after the borders with Mongolia and Russia. The new border law has 62 articles and seven chapters. As per the law, the People's Republic of China shall set up boundary markers on all its land borders to clearly mark the border. The type of marker is to be decided in agreement with the relevant neighbouring state. The law further stated that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) and Chinese People's Armed Police Force will maintain security along the border. This responsibility includes cooperation with local authorities in combating illegal border crossings. The law prohibits activities in the border area that could "endanger national security or affect China's friendly relations with neighbouring countries". This includes construction of any permanent buildings without authorisation from the authority concerned. Further, it stated that citizens and local organisations are mandated to protect and defend the border infrastructure, maintain security and stability of borders and cooperate with government agencies in maintaining border security. The law lays the path for the development of the border region. It states that the People's Republic of China will take up education and propaganda to "solidify the sense of community of China, to promote the spirit of China, to defend the unity and territorial integrity of the country, strengthen citizens' sense of the country and homeland security, and build a common spiritual home for the Chinese nation" among citizens in the border region. The state can take measures "to strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people's life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas". In effect, this suggests a push to settle civilians in the border areas. The law comes amid a border dispute with India. India claims that China has illegally occupied about 38,000 square kilometres of India's territory in Aksai Chin, which borders eastern Ladakh. Pakistan ceded to China about 5,180 square kilometres in 1963 from the Indian territory illegally occupied by it. India and China have been engaged in border disputes for the last 20 months and diplomatic and military talks are on to resolve the issues. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-implements-new-border-law-india-concerned-1066791.html
01-01-2022||National||Former armed forces chiefs write to President, PM seeking actions to curb hate speeches||Five former chiefs of the armed forces and other military veterans joined eminent personalities and civil society activists to write to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to curb the menace of hate speeches, like the ones recently delivered in Haridwar and Delhi, which allegedly called for "genocide of Muslims". “The Constitution (of India) provides for the free practice of religion across faiths. We strongly deplore such polarisation in the name of religion. We urge you, Mr President and Mr Prime Minister, to take immediate steps to curb such attempts, and urge you to condemn such incitement to violence in no uncertain terms,” they wrote in an open letter to Kovind and Modi on Friday. They noted that not only the Muslims but other minorities, including Christians, Dalits and Sikhs, were also being targeted in hate speeches across the country. The signatories of the letter to President and Prime Minister included Admiral L Ramdas, Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat, Admiral Arun Prakash, and Admiral R K Dhowan, four former chiefs of the Indian Navy, Air Chief Marshal S P Tyagi, a former chief of the Indian Air Force, and Lt Gen Vijay Oberoi, former Vice Chief of the Army Staff, apart from several other military veterans and civil society activists. They wrote that they were “seriously perturbed” by the content of speeches made during a three-day religious conclave titled ‘Dharma Sansad’ of Hindu seers and other leaders, held in Haridwar between December 17 and 19. “There were repeated calls for establishing a Hindu Rashtra and, if required, picking up weapons and killing of India's Muslims in the name of protecting Hinduism,” wrote the military veterans and civil society activists. They noted that a large number of persons gathered in Delhi around the same time and publicly took an oath resolving to make India a Hindu nation, by fighting and killing if necessary. They pointed out that more such seditious meetings were being organised in other places. “Regardless of which persons or parties initiated calls for such genocide, Government of India and the judiciary, at the highest level, need to take urgent action. We cannot allow such incitement to violence together with public expressions of hate, which not only constitute serious breaches of internal security, but which could also tear apart the social fabric of our nation.” They pointed out that one of the speakers at the Haridwar conclave made a call to the army and police to pick up weapons and participate in the cleanliness drive (“safai abhiyan”). “This amounts to asking the army to participate in genocide of our own citizens, and is condemnable and unacceptable.” They tacitly referred to the situation along India’s borders with China and Pakistan and warned that any breach of peace and harmony within the nation would embolden inimical external forces. The unity and cohesiveness of our men and women in uniform, including the CAPFs (Central Armed Police Forces) and police forces, will be seriously affected by allowing such blatant calls for violence against one or the other community in our diverse and plural society.” They called upon the government, Parliament and the Supreme Court to act with urgency to protect the integrity and security of the country. They also sent copies of the letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Chief Justice N V Ramana and the current chiefs of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, Gen M Naravane, Admiral R Harikumar, Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-armed-forces-chiefs-write-to-president-pm-seeking-actions-to-curb-hate-speeches-1066794.html
01-01-2022||National||Union minister rushes to take stock of Vaishno Devi stampede||Union Minister Jitendra Singh has rushed to Katra in Jammu and Kashmir to take stock of the situation after a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine killed at least 12 people and injured 20 others. Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), is Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency. "I'm immediately rushing to #Katra to take stock of the situation arising out of the tragedy at Mata #VaishnoDevi Shrine. I look forward to have a detailed discussion with the administration and report it back to Hon’ble PM Sh @NarendraModi,” he tweeted on Saturday. At least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured in a stampede at the famous shrine, triggered by a heavy rush of devotees, officials said Saturday. The stampede took place near Gate Number 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills. In another tweet, Singh said the prime minister is personally monitoring and keeping track of the situation following the stampede at the shrine. "PM has conveyed his sympathies to bereaved families and issued instructions to provide all possible medical aid & assistance to the injured," the minister tweeted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-rushes-to-take-stock-of-vaishno-devi-stampede-1066798.html
01-01-2022||National||India is sending 10 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to Afghanistan||India on Saturday sent 5 lakh doses of the Covaxin doses to Afghanistan as the second consignment of humanitarian aid to the war-torn country, where the Taliban returned to power on August 15 last year. The vaccine doses were handed over to the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Kabul. India will also send another consignment of 5,00,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan in the coming weeks. The Government of India has committed to providing humanitarian assistance to Afghan people consisting of food grains, one million doses of Covid-19 vaccine and essential life-saving drugs, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. India last month delivered 1.6 tons of medical assistance to Afghanistan through the World Health Organization (WHO). “In coming weeks, we would be undertaking the supply of wheat and the remaining medical assistance. In this regard, we are in touch with UN agencies and others for finalizing the modalities for transportation,” said the MEA spokesperson. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-sending-10-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-afghanistan-1066810.html
01-01-2022||National||Centre to set up 157 new medical colleges but facing land availability issues in some states: Bharti Pawar||The Centre has decided to set up 157 new medical colleges in the country to strengthen the health infrastructure but in some states, these projects are hit by issues like the availability of land, Union minister Bharati Pawar said. She said the priority will be given to backward districts to improve the health infrastructure. "The Central government has given a priority to backward districts and we are working there. We are establishing 157 new medical colleges. The government will increase the number of AIIMS to 22 from six. These are time-bound projects. But in many states, these projects are facing issues. In some states, these projects are pending because of the unavailability of land. Work stops for a period of one-two year. But this is not the case in Maharashtra," the minister told PTI on Friday night in Aurangabad. She said the Union government was sanctioning facilities with funds but some issues persist. "The Central government has issued a fund of around Rs 23,000 crore under the second phase of the Covid emergency relief plan and Maharashtra has also got a good share of it to tackle the probable third wave," she said. The minister added that the preference was given to enhance the capacity to produce medical oxygen as the need for this life-saving gas shot up in the second wave of the pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-set-up-157-new-medical-colleges-but-facing-land-availability-issues-in-some-states-bharti-pawar-1066813.html
01-01-2022||National||Drawing parallels between the MSP committee, Jan Lokpal Bill||Even as farmers celebrated their victory by getting the government to repeal its three agriculture laws, parallels with an earlier public protest may point to the future of farmers' demands for minimum support price (MSP) for crops, compensation, etc. In 2011, it was 'Anna Andolan' that had captured the imagination of the whole nation. In 2021, it was the farmers' protest that had dominated the discourse even in a pandemic-induced lockdown year. In April 2011, social activist Anna Hazare had embarked on a fast unto death demanding passage of the Jan Lokpal Bill. Taking into account the popularity of Team Anna, the government agreed to a joint drafting committee, which was formed in April 2011. However, a Few meetings later, when the Ramdev Baba episode at the Ramlila Maidan took place in June, Team Anna members stopped going to the meetings. The bill was passed in Parliament in December 2013, the same month when Arvind Kejriwal, having parted ways with Hazare, had formed a party, contested, and won the Delhi Assembly elections. Much water had flown below the bridge, the government at the Centre had changed when Hazare in March 2018 declared to resume his battle for Jan Lokpal Bill. The NDA government brought in an amendment and passed the bill in both the Houses soon. Since then, nobody has even heard of the Lokpal, in whichever avatar the bill was passed. Even when the farmers' agitation started in 2020, it was 2021 that saw the fruition of their agitation in all respects. The Modi government relented to their demands and in December first week, the three contentious farm Bills were repealed. The farmers were promised that a committee would be formed to discuss MSP, but more than a month after the Prime Minister's announcement, there is no word about it. And that is where the similarities between the Lokpal and three laws begin. So what happens to the MSP committee? The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of protesting farmers, on December 9 decided to suspend its 15-month agitation against the three contentious farm laws passed in 2020. The agitation continued even after the three laws — the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 — were repealed by Parliament as the farmers stuck to their demands seeking legal support for MSP. Manisha Priyam, a political analyst based in Delhi, said, "When the protest is at its peak, the government is bound to listen to the people, albeit unwillingly. But after some time, once things go away from the public eye or glare, things change." In a 2011 special session called by Pranab Mukherjee, a 'Sense of the House' resolution was passed and it was given much importance. Currently, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in power itself, but Lokpal has disappeared from the public eye. It remains to be seen what this government does with the MSP committee. "But what I believe is that the agrarian distrust issue is very important and significant. If the government does not take it up seriously, then, the future will not be easy on this matter. Because it is now a matter of livelihood. The government will have to respond on this matter," Priyam said. Nagender Sharma, a former journalist and legal affairs analyst, who was also the Delhi Chief Minister's advisor said that observing that the government now is a different one and the farmers have already won a critical battle "chances of outcome of this committee are very high because farmers are coming on the back of a victory." Priyam said, "Anna Andolan was about political accountability, which is still vague. Here concrete issues of the lives of people are involved. I think there will be some kind of binding on the government." But then, what will stop the government from going back? "What stops the people from coming back on the streets?," Priyam shot back. Farmers' next step It is a point of debate as to whether it will abide by its promises. Earlier in December last week, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Narendra Tomar had said at Nagpur, "We had moved a step back and then moved forward (on farm laws). Farmers are the backbone of India." When it was perceived that the government wants to bring back the three laws, Tomar clarified that there is no proposal or plan yet. That would be discussed when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will be meeting again to check what the government has done since the farmers wrapped up their tents from around Delhi's borders. When asked about the government bringing back the bills again, Rakesh Tikait, a prominent farm leader, told IANS on phone, "We will see as and when it happens. Why ask about it now?" He, however, sounded a lot more cautious about the committee on MSP. "No names have been sought yet. Nothing has been heard from the government. Nothing heard from the government about (withdrawing) cases in Delhi too." "On January 15, we have the SKM meeting. We will see then," Tikait said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drawing-parallels-between-the-msp-committee-jan-lokpal-bill-1066819.html
01-01-2022||National||Prime Minister Modi releases Rs 20,900 crore to farmers under PM-KISAN scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released funds to the tune of Rs 20,900 crore under PM-KISAN Yojana and utilised the occasion to issue a report card of his government's achievements in an election year and reach out to farmers in the backdrop of a one-year-long farmer agitation that ended last month. From seeking to give a message of confidence on fighting Covid-19 amid the surging new variant Omicron, Modi in his speech talked at length about the 'consistency" in his government policies, the growth rate of economy and strengthening the cultural heritage with moves on the Ram Mandir, Kashi Vishwanath temple and Kedarnath Dham. Modi's address through video conferencing was attended by nine chief ministers and a number of ministers from different states. He also interacted with farmers across the countrym including from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, which has been one of the epicentres of the year-long farm protest. He made a big pitch for natural farming, telling the farmers that it is in their interest and there is a lot of demand for such products in the international market. He released the amount to more than 10.09 crore farmers as the 10th installment of financial aid under the scheme under which a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is given to eligible farmer families in three equal installments. Modi, who also released an equity grant of more than Rs 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), benefiting 1.24 lakh farmers, held a conversation with the beneficiaries. They included farmers from poll-bound UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Gujarat. He said that FPO's "small farmers" are feeling the power of collective strength. He pointed out five benefits of FPOs for small farmers. The government has in the past maintained that the farmer agitation had nothing to do with small farmers having less than two acres of land. "Today, our farmers are benefitting from the schemes like ‘One District One Products’ and markets, both nation and global, are opening for them," he said, projecting a number of initiatives started by the central government with relation to the farm sector. "Confidence of the country’s farmers is the key strength of the country” he said. FPO from Gujarat talked about natural farming and how cow-based agriculture can reduce the expense and stress on soil. Modi talked about "milestones" achieved in the agriculture sector in the recent years. Modi said 2021 was also the year of strengthening India’s cultural heritage. He listed moves like beautification and development of Kashi Vishwanath Dham and Kedarnath Dham, Renovation of Samadhi of Aadi Shankaracharya, restoration of stolen idol of goddess Annapoorna, construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and getting World Heritage status for Dholavira and Durga Puja festival as steps that are strengthening India’s heritage and enhancing its tourism and pilgrimage potential. Modi said on many parameters, the Indian economy is looking better than pre-Covid days. He pointed out that “today the growth rate of our economy is more than 8%. Record foreign investment has come to India. Our forex reserves have reached record levels. Old records have also been surpassed in GST collection. We have also set new records in the matter of exports, especially in agriculture.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-modi-releases-rs-20900-crore-to-farmers-under-pm-kisan-scheme-1066834.html
01-01-2022||National||'Exchequer money keeping them warm': Mayawati takes dig at BJP government||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday took a veiled jibe at the BJP leaders saying the money in the exchequer was keeping them warm even in the cold weather. She also said the BSP has its own style of functioning and it does not want to "copy" other parties. Her response comes two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah said 'behenji', apparently referring to Mayawati, was yet to come out of cold. "Elections are around the corner and she has not come out for campaigning. It seems that she is already afraid," Shah had said during the Jan Vishwas Yatra in Moradabad, Aligarh and Unnao. In her rebuttal, Mayawati told reporters, "When the Congress and BJP are in power, be it at the Centre or in states, they hold public meetings one after the other just a couple of months before the elections. The money in the government exchequer, meant for the poor, is keeping them warm. But, when these parties are not in power, they are just like us. They do not hold public meetings, attend inaugural ceremonies or lay foundation stones before the elections." Regarding the crowd at rallies being organised by the rival parties, Mayawati said, "Half of them are government employees and the others are ticket seekers. We are seeing this in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab." The BSP chief said her party was of the poor and the oppressed, and not of the capitalists. "I am aware of the fact that if I copy other parties and hold public meetings one after the other, my people will not be able to bear the cost," Mayawati said. "If we copy them (rival parties), there could be losses due to paucity of funds during the elections. Our party has a different style of working as far as elections are concerned. We do not want to change this even if the rival parties ridicule us or the press writes about it. Other parties should not worry about us," she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exchequer-money-keeping-them-warm-mayawati-takes-dig-at-bjp-government-1066841.html
01-01-2022||National||India seeks protection from Covid-19 for its citizens in jails in Pakistan||India on Saturday asked Pakistan to protect its citizens currently incarcerated in the jails of the neighbouring country from Covid-19. Islamabad informed New Delhi that 628 Indians or believed-to-be Indians – 577 fishermen and 51 others – were at present incarcerated in the jails in Pakistan. New Delhi asked Islamabad to release and repatriate 358 prisoners – 356 fishermen and two others – currently jailed in Pakistan, but confirmed to be citizens of India. Besides, Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to 182 Indian fishermen and 17 other civilian prisoners, who are in the jails in the country, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). New Delhi asked Islamabad to expeditiously grant visas to the psychiatrists it wanted to send “to assess the mental condition” of the psychologically challenged prisoners incarcerated in the jails in Pakistan. Islamabad had in early 2018 conveyed to New Delhi that it had identified altogether 27 prisoners, who had been psychologically challenged. New Delhi had proposed to send a team of psychiatrists to visit the jails in Pakistan and meet the psychologically challenged prisoners. Islamabad too had on March 7, 2018, agreed to allow the team of psychiatrists from India to visit Pakistan. But, although almost four years passed since then, Islamabad so far did not grant visas to the psychiatrists from India to visit Pakistan, notwithstanding several reminders by New Delhi. New Delhi on Saturday also handed over a list of 355 Pakistani citizens incarcerated in the jails in India. The list included 73 Pakistani fishermen, who were caught by the Indian Coast Guard after they crossed the maritime boundary while fishing in the Arabian Sea. “India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other's country,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in New Delhi. “In this context, India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 68 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan”. The two sides exchanged the lists of each other's citizens held in each other's prisons on Saturday, in keeping with a 2008 bilateral agreement. The agreement provides for exchange of such lists twice a year, on January 1 and July 1. New Delhi called upon Islamabad for early release and repatriation of Indian civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, from the custody of Pakistan. India also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan to visit the jails in the neighbouring country. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan has been requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civil prisoners and fishermen,” said the MEA spokesperson. India and Pakistan on Saturday also exchanged the lists of nuclear installations and facilities covered under the bilateral Agreement on the Prohibition of Attack against Nuclear Installations. The agreement, which was signed on December 31, 1988 and entered into force on January 27, 1991 provides that India and Pakistan would inform each other of the nuclear installations and facilities to be covered under the pact on January 1 every year. “This is the 31th consecutive exchange of such a list between the two countries, the first one having taken place on January 01, 1992,” the MEA stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-protection-from-covid-19-for-its-citizens-in-jails-in-pakistan-1066848.html
01-01-2022||National||Covid-19 cases quadruple in 5 days, spark third wave concerns||The daily Covid-19 count has almost quadrupled over the past five days — even as Omicron cases increased almost threefold in the same period — sparking concerns over the third wave of infections. On Friday, India recorded 22,775 new Covid-19 cases, up from 16,764 new cases on Thursday, 13,154 on Wednesday, 9,195 on Tuesday and just 6,358 on Monday, as per the figures provided by the union health ministry on Saturday. Similarly, the number of Omicron cases has shot up from 653 on Monday to 1,431 on Friday. The tally of Omicron cases is increasing at a rapid rate, since the first case of the infection was reported in India on December 2. While it took nearly 15 days for the case tally to reach 100, it has been increasing faster thereon, crossing the 200-mark on December 21 and crossing the 500-mark on December 27. Even as several states have imposed night curfews and stringent Covid-19 curbs, increased travel and social meetings over the Christmas-New Year period may show their effects in January-end. Swaminathan said that the outbreak of the new variant will see the burden shift from hospitals to the out-patients department, from ICUs to home-based care, adding that the biggest challenge India will face will be the sudden need for medical care. Meanwhile, India’s active Covid-19 caseload is also increasing. Over the past five days, the active load has increased by almost 40 per cent as the number shot up from 75,456 on Tuesday to 104,781 on Friday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-quadruple-in-5-days-spark-third-wave-concerns-1066854.html
01-01-2022||National||Staycations, workations, homestays emerge new watchwords for tourism sector||Staycations, workations and homestays emerged as the tourism sector watchwords in 2021 as tourists preferred safety and functionality over luxury in their post-Covid holiday destinations with the sector struggling to recover from the blow of 2020. With the threat of Omicron looming large in the horizon, fears of a bleak 2022 have come to haunt the stakeholders. Financial situation: In 2019, the Indian tourism and travel ecosystem had supported almost 50 million jobs and nearly $200 billion gross domestic output directly and indirectly. While 2020 was almost a complete washout, 2021 saw pockets of recovery but only in very select parts of hospitality and restaurants in some parts of the country. For tours and travel agents 2021 continued to be another year of despair without business. Aashish Gupta, consulting CEO, FAITH, the policy federation of all the national associations representing the complete tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India, said that the sector was eagerly looking forward to the resumption of flights in December in 2021 to see some business traction. Since March 2020, the inbound tourism has been shut and the flights resumption as was earlier announced was one ray of hope, he said. "This has been the worst ever two years for the tourism industry and all support to tourism businesses is vital," said Gupta. He said that the earnings from the Indian inbound tourists were almost $30 billion pre-pandemic. The period between October and March which is the main season was fully lost in 2020 and half of this season lost in 2021. "In 2022, to salvage some business and have some cash flows to support tourism employment this sector will look forward to a very early review of this decision of extension of flights , if hopefully the variant omicron doesn't pose a serious threat. "Almost all countries would now be competing afresh for inbound tourism and thus it is also critical to restart our global tourism marketing campaign to start creating awareness. Additionally it is also important to create a comprehensive package of export incentives in the upcoming foreign trade policy for foreign earning members of Indian tourism industry," Gupta said. However, some reinvention from the sector has worked wonders, although it is not clear if it has really worked enough in terms of revenue generation. According to OYO's fourth year-end annual index - OYO Travelopedia 2021, 65 per cent of respondents in India have travelled in the past six months and a majority of them visited their loved ones, while some went for a getaway from their daily routines and travelled for leisure. Nearly 27 per cent took a month-long workcation. Hill stations ranked top on the list of spots for these work and travel trips, followed by many who visited their hometowns and beach destinations. In fact the tourism ministry is tailoring its promotional campaigns to highlight staycations, focusing on homestays offering personal care and local experience to tourists post the Covid-19 pandemic, according to officials in the ministry. ''While we saw a demand for such homestays just before the pandemic, now, it is through the roof. We are tailoring our promotional campaigns to promote homestays. Tourists don't want big hotels anymore. They want big open spaces, personalised care and want to experience the local flavour. We are also promoting staycations," Rupinder Brar, Additional Director General in the ministry had told PTI on the sidelines of the Tourism Mart held in Nagaland recently. Demands from the government: In its pre-budget recommendations to the finance ministry, the sector has requested that the industry be allowed to carry forward business losses from the existing eight years to 12 years and to avail the Service Exports from India Scheme/ Export Promotion Capital Goods (SEIS/EPCG) benefits without any capping and rate reductions. It has also urged the government to provide extension on the timeline for export obligation under EPCG scheme and grant export status to the industry, to include hotels and tourism-related sectors in the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), and offer special emphasis for promoting meetings and conferences at hotels. They have also pushed for the long standing demand for granting infrastructure status to the hospitality industry, and provide special tax incentives for domestic travel. The association has also requested the Centre to review its decision to introduce LTC cash vouchers in lieu of LTC fare to government employees for boosting domestic travel and helping the hospitality industry in its path to recovery. What the Tourism Ministry has done: The Ministry of Tourism has been routinely organising promotional activities and campaigns with special focus on social media across states and abroad to revive and support tourism, officials said. A round-the-clock multilingual tourist helpline, e-visa facilities for 156 countries, training for creating a pool of certified tourist facilitators and new regional routes for better air connectivity are among steps being taken to boost the tourism sector, which helps in employment creation. Market development Assistance (MDA) guidelines to promote lndia as a tourist destination have been revised to benefit a larger number of tourism stakeholders, the House was informed. The ministry has also launched the Dekho Apna Desh initiative, encouraging domestic tourism. The ministry has also been organising webinars, quizzes, discussions and roadshows to keep connected with the stakeholders and to encourage citizens to travel within the country. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/staycations-workations-homestays-emerge-new-watchwords-for-tourism-sector-1066860.html
01-01-2022||National||Over 6,000 organisations including Oxfam India denied FCRA licence||Over 12,500 Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) have lost their permission to collect foreign donations – 5,933 of them losing it on the last day of 2021 – as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) either refused renewal of their licence or the outfits did not file applications for one. These organisations include Oxfam India, Biocon Foundation, Azim Premji Foundation, Indian Institute of Management in Bengaluru and Kolkata, Indian Institute of Technology, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, state-run Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre in Uttarakhand and Tuberculosis Association of India. The refusal to renew Mother Theresa-founded Missionaries of Charity’s licence last week had triggered a controversy.  Among the states, Tamil Nadu (1,453), West Bengal (1,382) and Maharashtra (1,282) had the highest number of NGOs whose nod to collect foreign funds expired as of December 31. Karnataka was placed seventh with  736 of its organisations losing the licence. The MHA had earlier extended the validity of licence under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 to collect donations from abroad from September 30 to December 31 and then extended it to March 31. NGOs whose applications were rejected were not covered under this. With this, only 16,829 NGOs have the permission to collect foreign funds and this number could come down if the MHA finds discrepancies in the applications filed by them. On early Friday, this number was 22,762. Altogether, licences of 12,580 organisations expired on December 31. This would mean that there were 29,409 organisations that had the FCRA licence earlier. According to the database, Andhra Pradesh (973), Uttar Pradesh (872), Odisha (840), Karnataka (736), Kerala (700), Delhi (662) and Bihar (629) were in the top ten list of NGOs whose licence expired. In Karnataka, the Karnataka Central Diocese, Citizens Action Group and HD Kumaraswamy Sahrayalaya Trust are in the list of organisations that lose the licence. The VV Giri National Labour Institute considered the government’s think tank on labour and employment issues, based in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida was another prominent organisation that cannot collect foreign funds for its research programmes. In West Bengal, Satyajit Ray Film and TV Institute and School of Women Studies in Jadavpur University are among those who are not allowed to collect foreign funds from now on. The Times of India Relief Fund, Apne Aap Women Worldwide, Bachchon ka Ghar, Common Cause, Children's Book Trust, Subhash Chandra Foundation, Sulabh, Habitat Centre, Lady Shriram College for Women and Delhi Public School Society are among those who have lost the licence to collect foreign funds. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-6000-organisations-including-oxfam-india-denied-fcra-licence-1066864.html
01-01-2022||National||India will fight Covid-19 pandemic with full caution, vigilance: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India will fight the Covid-19 pandemic with full caution and vigilance, and protect its national interests. Speaking at a virtual event to release funds under the PM-KISAN scheme, Modi also highlighted the achievements made by the country in 2021 across various sectors, including, health, defence, and agriculture. He also lauded India's achievement in providing over 145 crore doses of the Covid vaccine. The Prime Minister said coronavirus posed several challenges, but "Corona cannot stop India's pace". He stressed that India will fight the Covid-19 pandemic with "full caution and vigilance" and will also protect its national interests. Modi said that during the pandemic, additional food grains for free were provided to over 80 crore beneficiaries, which cost about Rs 2.6 lakh crore to the central exchequer. He called upon farmers to adopt natural farming, saying there was a lot of demand for such agricultural products in the international market. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-fight-covid-19-pandemic-with-full-caution-vigilance-pm-1066867.html
01-01-2022||National||TN CM seeks people’s cooperation to contain Omicron, to roll out vaccine for 15-18-year-olds soon||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday sought people’s cooperation to entirely eliminate the pandemic and informed that his government will soon roll out a Covid-19 vaccination drive targetting the 15-18 years age group. Utilising New Year’s day to make a fervent appeal to the people of the State to resort to Covid appropriate behaviour and strictly adhere to the government instructions besides follow SOPs on preventing coronavirus and its variants, the Chief Minister said his government’s efforts were all oriented towards ensuring a safe and healthy life for the people. “It is the expectation of all of us that this year 2022 be very good and in order to be good we should not forget past lessons,” Stalin said in a video message to the people. “We have recovered from the first and second wave of coronavirus infection and in fact I took up the reins as Chief Minister and also the responsibility for your well-being when the pandemic was at its peak during the second wave,” the Chief Minister said. His first task as the CM was to contain the second wave and his ministerial colleagues, officials and staff of various departments including health and family welfare and civic bodies and police stood by him in his efforts. “My government was able to contain the pandemic in a short span of time and cooperation from the public was a major factor,” Stalin said in the message. People’s belief in science and their enthusiasm in getting vaccinated against Covid-19 led to massive awareness causing the number of those getting inoculated to swell. “This helped to contain coronavirus and its fatalities to a great extent. I look forward to the same cooperation from you this New Year in combating the coronavirus and its variants including the fast-spreading Omicron,” he urged. Pointing out that the present situation required more precaution, Stalin said while his government is taking all necessary steps including ramping up testing to contain Omicron besides ensuring hassle-free availability of oxygen, beds and medicines, the people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour. “We need your cooperation. Avoid crowding, wear face masks, sanitise your hands frequently, maintain social distancing and strictly follow government instructions on preventing the spread of Covid-19,” he appealed. Also, he urged those who have not been vaccinated to avail the shots. “I earnestly request you not only as Chief Minister but also as your dear brother, as one of you, to strictly follow the guidelines laid down by the government. I wish you all a Happy New Year once again and wish you all a safe and prosperous New Year,” the Chief Minister said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-cm-seeks-people-s-cooperation-to-contain-omicron-to-roll-out-vaccine-for-15-18-year-olds-soon-1066868.html
01-01-2022||National||Court is a service provided by state to all citizens: Chandrachud||The court is yet another service which is provided by the state to all its citizens and initiatives like e-filing and paperless courts are an important step in the decentralisation of justice," Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud said on Saturday. Chandrachud said e-filing of documents makes them more accessible to litigants and lawyers but urged the state government to ensure necessary digital literacy to all. The senior Supreme Court judge was speaking online during an event held here to inaugurate the e-filing, paperless court and e-office projects of the Kerala High Court. Launching the e-filing modules for the High Court, Chandrachud, who is also chairperson of the e-committee of the Supreme Court, urged the Chief Minister to ensure that the state now makes it mandatory to provide for e-filing in all litigation which is initiated by the state. "Our initiatives today at the Kerala High Court emphasise the need to deliver e-services at the doorstep of all our citizens. In other words, the court is yet another service which is provided by the state to all its citizens. These initiatives are an important step in the decentralisation of justice," Chandrachud said. He said e-filing reduces the burden of travel faced by the litigants and members of the bar to courts by instead allowing them to upload documents from the comfort of their homes or their offices. "However, it is important to acknowledge that not everyone may have access to the necessary technological apparatus, a high-speed internet or even the necessary digital literacy to conduct e-filing," he said. "Kerala is a remarkable example in our country in terms of the spread of literacy and education and I do believe that hand-in-hand with the initiative which we are taking up today, we must ensure 100 per cent computer literacy between all advocates and all litigants who come to our courts seeking access to justice," Chandrachud added. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the paperless court while Chief Justice of Kerala High Court S Manikumar launched the e-office in courts. As of today, six courtrooms are fully transformed into paperless smart digital courtrooms and the High Court aims to transform every courtroom into paperless smart digital courtrooms within a couple of months. Some of the facilities that come as part of the smart courtrooms define for itself the magnitude of improvements that they are going to bring in-case display system and the virtual hearing with hybrid facility. Advocates/party in person can safely attend to their cases from the comfort of their home/office with the virtual mode available through a dedicated video conference unit in the smart court. The option to attend the case either physically or virtually opens up an array of opportunities for the advocates to cater to their different cases happening in different courts on the same day without being present in each court physically. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-is-a-service-provided-by-state-to-all-citizens-chandrachud-1066876.html
01-01-2022||National||Indo-Bangladesh border in Tripura will be completely fenced by next year: BSF IG||The India-Bangladesh border in Tripura will be completely fenced by next year to ensure fool-proof security, a top BSF official said on Saturday. Border Security Force Inspector General (Tripura Frontier), Sushanta Kumar Nath, said that 80-85 per cent of the 856-km-long India-Bangladesh international border in the northeastern state has already been fenced. "Substantial fencing work has been done in the Tripura's eastern sector last year, and work on a 31-km porous stretch has been taken up on a priority basis. Single row fencing has gained momentum in the state's western sector, and 10 km was fenced last year," he told reporters. Setting up of floodlights is going hand-in-hand with fencing work, he said. "We are hopeful of completing fencing and setting up of floodlights along the entire stretch of the India-Bangladesh border in the state by next year," he said. Highlighting the BSF's achievement in containing insurgency in Tripura, he said that 31 NLFT insurgents have surrendered to the border guards since 2017. "Two more militants of proscribed outfit National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) surrendered to the BSF today. One of them had undergone arms training," he said. The BSF arrested 218 people for sneaking across the international border, and seized contraband items worth Rs 35.64 crore last year, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-bangladesh-border-in-tripura-will-be-completely-fenced-by-next-year-bsf-ig-1066877.html
01-01-2022||National||Uttar Pradesh man arrested for posting private pics of woman on social media||A 33-year-old man was arrested for allegedly posting private pictures of a woman on social media, police said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Rajesh Singh Suman, a resident of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, they said. According to police, a woman lodged a complaint at the Dwarka South Police Station alleging that Suman was stalking, blackmailing, and threatening her. She said that she came in contact with the accused through matrimonial a website, met him a couple of times, and later shared her private photographs with him, a senior police officer said. However, their marriage got cancelled, following which the accused started blackmailing and threatening the complainant that he would post the photos on social media platforms and with acquaintances, the officer said. The woman alleged that he made fake Facebook and Instagram accounts in her name and started posting her pictures on them, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said the accused was arrested from Aligarh and his phone was also seized. He said Suman was arrested earlier in a similar case lodged at Welcome Police Station in northeast Delhi. Police claimed Suman confessed that he had committed a number of such offenses involving different women and the same were being analysed from his mobile phone data. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-man-arrested-for-posting-private-pics-of-woman-on-social-media-1066881.html
01-01-2022||National||IAF chopper crash: Probe report likely to be submitted to Air HQ next week||The report of the tri-services investigation into the chopper crash, that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others, is set to be submitted to the Air headquarters next week, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. They said the investigation into the December 8 accident near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu has nearly been completed and the voluminous report is being finalised for submission in the next few days. It is learnt that the probe team led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh examined all likely scenarios for the crash, including a possible human error. The experts also investigated if it was a case of disorientation by the crew when the helicopter was preparing for landing. The sources said the findings of the Court of Inquiry and the procedure it followed in the probe are being legally vetted. "The legal vetting is being done to ensure that the probe team followed all the laid down norms and procedures," a source privy to the developments said. When asked about possible causes of the crash, several aviation experts said there were a significant number of air accidents caused by visual disorientation triggered by the loss of situational awareness by pilots. And, bad weather could be a factor contributing to the loss of situational awareness at times, said one of them while refusing to speculate on the Coonoor crash. They said the probe team, led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, investigated all possible angles and is finalising the report, which is expected to be submitted to Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari, in a week's time. However, there are no official details available on the matter. The black box, comprising the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR), of the ill-fated Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) was recovered from the crash site on December 9. The Chief of Defence Staff had left the Palam airbase in an IAF Embraer aircraft at 8.47 am and landed at Sulur airbase at 11.34 am. He took off from Sulur in the Mi-17V5 chopper at around 11.48 am for Wellington. The chopper crashed at around 12.22 pm. Air Marshal Singh, currently heading the Bengaluru-headquartered Training Command of the IAF, is known to be one of the "best available" air crash investigators in the country. Before taking the reins of the Training Command, Singh was the Director General (Inspection and Safety) at the Air headquarters. He had developed various protocols for flight safety while serving in the post. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-probe-report-likely-to-be-submitted-to-air-hq-next-week-1066900.html
01-01-2022||National||IAF to complete deployment of first regiment of S-400 next month||The Indian Air Force is likely to complete the deployment of the first regiment of the S-400 Triumf missile systems at an airbase in Punjab by February, military officials said on Saturday. They said the process of deployment of the missile system has begun and it will take at least six more weeks to complete the deployment. The first regiment of the missile system is being deployed in such a way that it can cover parts of the border with China in the northern sector as well as the frontier with Pakistan. "The transportation of various critical components of the missile systems as well as its peripheral equipment to the site of the deployment is going on," said an official. In total, India will get five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia. In October 2018, India had signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, despite a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. The Biden administration has not yet clarified whether it will impose sanctions on India under the provisions of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for procuring the S-400 missile systems. The CAATSA, which was brought in 2017, provides for punitive actions against any country engaged in transactions with Russian defence and intelligence sectors. The US has already imposed sanctions on Turkey under the CAATSA for the purchase of a batch of S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. Following the US sanctions on Turkey over the procurement of S-400 missile systems, there were apprehensions that Washington may impose similar punitive measures on India. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said last month that the S-400 missile defence deal between India and Russia has a very important meaning for the Indian defence capability and it is being implemented despite the US attempting to "undermine" the cooperation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-to-complete-deployment-of-first-regiment-of-s-400-next-month-1066914.html
01-01-2022||National||Major stampedes at temples, other religious gatherings in India||Hundreds of people have died in stampedes at temples and other Hindu religious gatherings over the years in India. Here is a list of some of such major tragedies that have taken place in the country after 2000: August 27, 2003: 39 people were killed and around 140 injured in a stampede during the holy bath at the Kumbh Mela in Maharashtra's Nashik district January 25, 2005: More than 340 devotees were trampled to death and hundreds injured during an annual pilgrimage at Mandhardevi temple in Maharashtra's Satara district. The accident occurred when some people fell down on the steps made slippery by devotees breaking coconuts. August 3, 2008: 162 dead, 47 injured in stampede triggered by rumours of rockslides at Naina Devi temple in Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh September 30, 2008: Nearly 250 devotees killed and over 60 injured in stampede triggered by rumours of bomb going off at Chamunda Devi temple in Rajasthan's Jodhpur city March 4, 2010: About 63 people were killed in a stampede at Ram Janki Temple of Kripalu Maharaj in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district as people gathered to collect free clothes and food from the self-styled godman. November 8, 2011: At least 20 people were killed in stampede in Haridwar at Har-ki-Pauri ghat on banks of the Ganga river November 19, 2012: Around 20 people were killed and many others injured as a makeshift bridge caved in, triggering a stampede during Chhath Puja at Adalat Ghat on the bank of river Ganga in Patna October 13, 2013: 115 people were killed and over 100 injured in a stampede during Navratri festivities near Ratangarh temple in Madhya Pradesh's Datia district. The stampede was triggered by rumours that a river bridge the devotees were crossing was about to collapse. October 3, 2014: Thirty-two people were killed and 26 others injured in a stampede at Gandhi Maidan in Patna, shortly after the Dussehra celebrations ended. July 14, 2015: Twenty-seven pilgrims died and 20 others were injured in a stampede at a major bathing spot on the banks of the Godavari river where a huge crowd of devotees had gathered on the opening day of 'Pushkaram' festival in Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh. January 1, 2022: At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in a stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir triggered by a heavy rush of devotees. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-stampedes-at-temples-other-religious-gatherings-in-india-1066927.html
01-01-2022||National||Gujarat to launch week-long drive from January 3 to inoculate 15-18 age group against Covid-19||The Gujarat government will begin a special week-long campaign from January 3 to vaccinate 36 lakh children in the age group of 15 to 18 years against Covid-19, a senior official said on Saturday. A mega drive will also be organised on January 7, with a focus on Class 10 students who will be appearing for the board exam this year, additional chief secretary (Health) Manoj Aggarwal said. The special campaign will be undertaken from January 3 to 9 at 3,500 centres prepared for the purpose from 9 am to 6 pm, Aggarwal told reporters. Efforts will be made to ensure that no child is left behind under the mega drive, he said, after reviewing the preparations for the campaign by video-conferencing with municipal commissioners and district collectors. The aim is to cover around 36 lakh children between 15 and 18 years of age. The drive will also cover schools, it is, out-of-school children, institutions for the disabled and mentally-ill children and orphanages, the official said. As per the Centre's guidelines, the beneficiaries in this age group will only be administered Covaxin, and the government has adequate quantity of the vaccine available with it, he said. Registration for vaccination started from January 1, with the option of on-site registration, in which a beneficiary can either provide details of his Aadhaar card, vehicle licence, or even a mobile phone number, which could either be his own or that of his parents, friends, school teacher or principal, Aggarwal said. A special mega campaign will also be conducted across the state on January 7, during which focus will be on children studying in Class 10, so that they don’t face any problem during their board examination, he said. The health department also has a database of 13-14 lakh comorbid adults above 60 years, frontline workers and healthcare workers for the booster dose starting January 10, for which a gap of 39 weeks is required after the second dose, the official added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-to-launch-week-long-drive-from-january-3-to-inoculate-15-18-age-group-against-covid-19-1066930.html
01-01-2022||National||Covid: Govt asks states to set up makeshift hospitals, constitute teams to monitor patients in home isolation||To tackle a possible surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre advised all states and Union territories to initiate the process of setting up makeshift hospitals and to constitute special teams to monitor patients in home isolation. In a letter to all chief secretaries, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said it is imperative to re-emphasise the significance of timely and swift up-gradation of health infrastructure in all states and UTs. "This becomes all the more important since with the sudden increase in cases, we may start seeing a stressed health infrastructure," he said. To address the potential surge in cases with a view to ensuring preparedness, the Centre has asked states to initiate the creation of field or makeshift hospitals to augment the availability of health infrastructure. "This can be done with coordination with DRDO and CSIR as well as the private sector, corporations, NGOs, etc. This will aid the process of rapid creation of field hospitals or temporary hospital set-ups," Bhushan said. The Centre also said that states may also consider leveraging hotel rooms and other accommodations linked with the Covid dedicated hospitals in the government and private sector to cater to patients having mild to moderate symptoms of Covid-19, as was also done in some states during the earlier surge in cases. "A large number of positive cases may be eligible for home isolation. These cases would require effective follow-up and a clearly defined mechanism for prompt shifting to a health facility in case of deterioration in their health situation," Bhushan said. He said it is particularly important that all states should monitor their home isolation protocol and its actual implementation at the field level. "Special teams are constituted to monitor all home isolation cases, call centres/control rooms must aid outbound calling for monitoring such patients and ensuring that all such cases can be shifted to an appropriate health facility through dedicated ambulances," he added. "A mechanism wherein citizens can call and get an ambulance and a bed in a transparent manner needs to be operationalised. The call centres, district or state-level dashboards/portals can play an important role in organising the same," he said. Bhushan said states are also requested to ensure that the existing Covid dedicated health infrastructure is revisited and necessary action to ensure its operational readiness be taken. "A clear focus on rural areas and pediatric cases must also be maintained. States need to regularly review the availability of required logistics, oxygen availability and buffer stock of drugs across all health facilities in the state," he said. To contain the spread of infection, the implementation of containment activities at the field level is essential, he said. "Need for effective contact tracing coupled with the quarantine of contacts, including facility quarantine for high risk and comorbid contacts, shall be taken up. A sufficient number of quarantine facilities shall accordingly be planned across the state," Bhushan said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-govt-asks-states-to-set-up-makeshift-hospitals-constitute-teams-to-monitor-patients-in-home-isolation-1066937.html
01-01-2022||National||LAC stand-off on but Indian, Chinese soldiers exchange sweets on New Years Day||The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army on Saturday exchanged sweets to ring in the new year, including at some of the stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army also exchanged sweets with the Pakistan Army along the Line of Control (LoC) between the two countries in Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of New Year’s Day. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA exchanged greetings and sweets, not only at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point but also at five other locations along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, including K K Pass, Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO), Bottleneck, Konkala, Hotspring and Demchok. The two sides also held brief ceremonies to exchange sweets at Nathu La and Kongra La in Sikkim and Bum La and Wacha Damai in Arunachal Pradesh. This is the first time the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA exchanged sweets on any occasion after the stand-off started along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020. The 21-month-long stand-off brought the relations between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low. The stand-off started in April-May 2020 when the Indian Army had to deploy additional troops in response to the Chinese PLA’s move to amass a large number of troops near the LAC in an obvious attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the disputed boundary and to push the line westward. It reached a flashpoint on June 15, 2020, when 20 Indian Army soldiers and at least four Chinese PLA personnel had been killed in a violent clash at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The negotiations between diplomats and senior military commanders of India and China resulted in the mutual withdrawal of front-line troops by the Chinese PLA and the Indian Army from the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February and from the Gogra Post in August last year. The two sides, however, could not yet agree on disengagement in other remaining face-off points along the LAC. The recent incursion attempts by the Chinese PLA soldiers in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh fuelled speculation about the possibility of the stand-off along the LAC in the western sector spreading to the middle and eastern sectors too. The Indian Army also presented sweets to Pakistan Army at Chilehana-Tithwal crossing point on the LoC, on the occasion of the new year. The Indian Army officials stated that the exchange of sweets displayed India’s will to maintain peace along the LoC with Pakistan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-on-but-indian-chinese-soldiers-exchange-sweets-on-new-years-day-1066945.html
01-01-2022||National||WhatsApp banned 17.5 lakh bad accounts in India in Nov 2021||Meta-owned WhatsApp on Saturday said that it banned 17,59,000 accounts in India in November in compliance with the IT Rules 2021. WhatsApp also received 602 grievance reports in the same month from the country, and took action on 36 of those. "In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, we've published our sixth monthly report for the month of November. This user-safety report contains details of the user complaints received and the corresponding action taken by WhatsApp, as well as WhatsApp's own preventive actions to combat abuse on our platform," a WhatsApp spokesperson said in a statement. "As captured in the latest Monthly Report, WhatsApp banned over 17.5 lakh accounts in the month of November," the spokesperson added. In October, the platform had banned over 20 lakh accounts in India. WhatsApp has more than 40 crore users in India. "Over the years, we have consistently invested in Artificial Intelligence and other state of the art technology, data scientists and experts, and in processes, in order to keep our users safe on our platform," the company said. On the other hand, Meta said that over 1.62 crore content pieces were "actioned" on Facebook across 13 violation categories proactively in India during November. Photo sharing platform Instagram took action against over 32 lakh pieces across 12 categories during the same period proactively. The new IT rules -- which came into effect in May last year -- require large digital platforms (with over 50 lakh users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. "We will continue to bring more transparency to our work and include more information about our efforts in future reports," said WhatsApp. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-banned-175-lakh-bad-accounts-in-india-in-nov-2021-1066955.html
01-01-2022||National||Sourav Ganguly had tested positive for Delta Plus variant of Covid-19: Hospital||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 but was discharged after four days of hospitalisation as the infection was not severe and could be managed in home isolation, a hospital official said on Saturday. Though the former India captain has not been infected with the Omicron variant, his samples taken two days back returned positive for the Delta Plus. "Ganguly's samples tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. We are treating him for that," the official said. The 49-year-old was rushed to the Woodlands Multispeciality hospital on Monday night as a precautionary measure after his RT-PCR test came positive for Covid-19. Ganguly received "Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail therapy" after admission. He was admitted to hospital twice earlier this year and underwent emergency angioplasty after having complained of cardiac issues. His elder brother Snehasish Ganguly had also tested positive for Covid-19 early this year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-had-tested-positive-for-delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-hospital-1066956.html
01-01-2022||National||UP, Maharashtra farmers benefited most from PM Kisan scheme||As many as 2,33,85,266 farmers from Uttar Pradesh benefited with Rs 47,80,18,82,000 as Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released the first instalment of 2022 to the farmers across states as part of the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Maharashtra farmers were next, a total of 1,03,84,298 farmers received Rs 21,37,19,60,000; followed by Madhya Pradesh where 83,43,390 farmers received Rs 16,89,21,18,000; Bihar (81,23,446 farmers, Rs 16,71,68,06,000) and Rajasthan (70,25,125 farmers and Rs 14,65,40,18,000) under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi funds. Even smaller states such as Delhi had 11,842 beneficiaries who received Rs 2,37,62,000 and Union Territories of Puducherry (10,142 farmers received Rs 2,03,70,000), Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu (8,279 farmers, Rs 1,97,34,000) and Chandigarh (379 and Rs 7,70,000). Earlier in the day, a government statement claimed that this release of funds to the farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) scheme was "in line with the continued commitment and resolve to empower grassroots level farmers." During the virtual programme, the Prime Minister also released an equity grant of more than Rs 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), which will benefit more than 1.24 lakh farmers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-maharashtra-farmers-benefited-most-from-pm-kisan-scheme-1066964.html
01-01-2022||National||Bengal logs 4,512 new Covid-19 cases, 9 fresh fatalities||West Bengal, which is witnessing a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases for the last few days, on Saturday reported 4,512 fresh infections, 1,061 more than the previous day, with Kolkata accounting for 2,398 fresh cases, a health bulletin said. West Bengal had on Friday registered 3,451 cases, with the metropolis recording 1,954 infections. The state's caseload rose to 16,42,997. Nine more patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Seven people had died on the previous day. The state's coronavirus death toll rose to 19,773. Of the nine fresh fatalities, two each were reported in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. The state's positivity rate rose to 12.02 per cent from 8.46 per cent on the previous day, while the number of daily tests went down from 40,813 to 37,542, it said. After Kolkata, North 24 Parganas registered the second-highest number of 688 new cases, up from 496 on the previous day, the bulletin said. Apart from Kolkata and North 24 Parganas, other districts that recorded a high number of cases are Howrah (344), South 24 Parganas (198) and Hooghly (165), it said. The recovery rate stood at 97.99 per cent as 1,913 more people were cured of the disease. The state now has 13,300 active cases, while 16,09,924 people have recovered from the disease to date. The state has thus far tested over 2,14,29,414 samples for Covid-19, the bulletin added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-logs-4512-new-covid-19-cases-9-fresh-fatalities-1066966.html
01-01-2022||National||Security interests: Why India won't condemn military junta in Myanmar||“I do not want to ask you for too much. If you cannot help me, do not get involved with the terrorist warlords. It is very shameful,” a Myanmarese based in the United States tweeted, reacting to a post by the Indian embassy in Nay Pyi Taw about Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla’s visit to the neighbouring country on December 22 and 23 last. Shringla’s visit to Nay Pyi Taw was the first high-level engagement between New Delhi and the military junta that took over power in Myanmar on February 1, 2021, overthrowing the government led by the National League for Democracy (NLD) and detaining the State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint. The foreign secretary called on Myanmar Army chief and de facto ruler senior general Min Aung Hlaing during his visit. “This is a blatant affront to Myanmar people. Please note that the military doesn’t represent the people of Myanmar at all. Shameful, India!” another “staunch supporter” of the NLD tweeted, using the handle @AhLynn_Light. He also slammed the Indian embassy for failing to “publicly condemn military coup” and the “crimes against humanity” committed by the Tatmadaw or the Myanmar Army. New Delhi has indeed been very cautious in its response to the military coup in Myanmar. It has been repeatedly calling for an early return to democracy in Myanmar. It also stressed the release of Suu Kyi and other political leaders and activists, whom the junta had put behind bars soon after staging the coup d'état on February 1 last year as well as over the past few months to curb widespread protests against its takeover. It did not join the US and the European Union to respond to the coup with sanctions in Myanmar but rather pledged that it would continue its development projects in the country. India extended its support to the initiative by the Association of South-East Asian Nations to end violence and facilitate dialogue to restore peace in Myanmar. New Delhi’s strategic interests have always been holding it back from condemning the Myanmar Army. India has since long been trying to resist China’s bid to expand its geopolitical influence in the South-East Asian nation. Even when Suu Kyi was held in detention by the military junta for 15 years between 1989 and 2010, New Delhi trod cautiously, avoiding ganging up with the western nations, which used sanctions to facilitate her release and return to democracy. It, however, did warm up to Suu Kyi after her release in 2010, led the NLD to victory in the 2015 elections and took over as the state counselor of the government. New Delhi also refrained from criticising Suu Kyi's government, when it drew flak for failing to stop the ethnic cleansing targeting the minority Rohingyas in Myanmar. Shringla did request a meeting with Suu Kyi, who continued to be held captive in an undisclosed location and was recently sentenced to two years in prison after being convicted of one of the many charges the junta levelled against her. His request was turned down though. Shringla reiterated New Delhi’s call for the early return of democracy in Myanmar. But soon after his visit to Nay Pyi Taw, Hlaing made it clear that he had no plan to hold elections before August 2023. India in March 2020 gifted one of its submarines to Myanmar. It was the first submarine to be acquired by the Myanmar Navy and it signalled a success in New Delhi’s endeavours to limit the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s influence on the military establishment in the neighbouring country. But soon after Shringala’s visit, the Myanmar Navy unveiled another submarine it had received from the PLA. Myanmar army's brutal crackdown to curb protests against its rule has triggered an influx of refugees to Mizoram and Manipur. New Delhi’s reliance on its security cooperation with Myanmar Army to deal with the insurgency in its northeastern states also limited India’s scope to call out the military leaders for atrocities and human rights violations in the neighbouring country. Shringla conveyed New Delhi’s concerns to the military regime over the recent attack that killed a commander of the Assam Rifles, his wife and his son as well as four other soldiers in Churachandpur in Manipur on November 13 last. The attack was carried out by the militants who had sneaked into India from Myanmar. The Myanmar Army purportedly arrested some of the militants after the incident and handed them over to the security agencies of India. New Delhi will obviously be guided by its interests in its engagement with the military junta, even if its cautious approach disappoints democracy activists in Myanmar. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-interests-why-india-wont-condemn-military-junta-in-myanmar-1066970.html
01-01-2022||National||India's Covid vaccination coverage crosses 145 crore||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 145.40 crore with more than 22 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Health ministry said.   The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight, the ministry added. Cumulatively, 50,04,54,035 first doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories and 33,50,59,168 second doses have been given in the same age group since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to health ministry data. The ministry further said that cumulatively 84,54,89,349 first doses have been administered while 60,85,62,479 second doses have been administered. "India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 145.40 Crore (145,40,51,828) today. More than 22 lakh (22,56,362) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today," the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it underlined. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccination-coverage-crosses-145-crore-1066979.html
01-01-2022||National Politics||At 24, Trinamool Congress eyes national stage||Twenty-four years after Mamata Banerjee formed the Trinamool Congress on January 1, 1998, to unseat the Left Front from power in West Bengal, her party has transcended the geographical boundaries of the eastern state and now attempts to expand its footprint across the country to pose a direct challenge to the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. With the national opposition in shambles, the TMC, which Banerjee floated after quitting the Congress, is attempting to grab that space by challenging the grand old party, branding it as "war-weary" and accusing it of failing to put up a fight against the BJP. At the same time, the party is positioning itself as the "real Congress" and the only outfit to oppose the saffron camp tooth and nail, after its landslide victory in this year's assembly elections in West Bengal despite the BJP's massive campaign to unseat her from power. In a bid to project West Bengal Chief Minister as the main opposition face against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the TMC is on a rebranding overdrive, inducting people from diverse geographies and political backgrounds, mooting to change the party's constitution, and its name for a pan-India appeal before it takes a plunge into a massive nationwide campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Banerjee's clarion call for opposition unity to remove the BJP from power has not stopped her from expanding her centre-left party in various states. In the last six months, her party has opened units in Goa, Haryana, Tripura and Meghalaya. The party, which hardly had any meaningful existence in Meghalaya, has emerged as the main opposition party in the northeastern state after 12 of the 17 Congress MLAs led by former chief minister Mukul Sangma joined the TMC. In neighbouring Tripura, the party aims to pose a challenge to the ruling BJP, although the saffron party swept the recently held civic polls in the state. As part of its national expansion strategy, the TMC has inducted Congress leader from Bihar and former BJP MP Kirti Azad, former JD(U) MP Pawan Verma, former Congress Haryana chief Ashok Tanwar, Delhi-based RTI activist Saket Gokhale, former Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev, former Goa chief minister Luizhino Falerio, former Union minister Babul Supriyo among many others. "The TMC wants to shed its regional party tag. None of these recently inducted leaders are mass leaders, but each has his/her own identity and strength. These inductions are part of our national expansion so that we have a pan-India appeal and a holistic view before formulating the 2024 Lok Sabha poll strategy," a senior party leader told PTI. The party has decided to change its constitution and expand its core committee to accommodate more fresh inductees from diverse backgrounds. "The TMC is undergoing a qualitative and quantitative change under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee to emerge as the main opposition force by 2022. We will be the real Congress. There are a lot of proposals that are being discussed on how to emerge as a national party. Talks are on with prospective allies in various states who are opposed to the BJP," Verma told PTI. TMC sources said that the party wants to create its identity without having to carry the "baggage" of being an offshoot of Congress, and also promote the "Bengal model of development" vis-à-vis the "Gujarat model" showcased by the BJP ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. "In the last 10 years, the TMC, through its stint in government, has created a niche for itself where our developmental policies have not only earned national and international recognition, but also have been followed by other states too. We want to replicate the Bengal model nationally," the party's West Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh said. The party is also mulling to change its official name of All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) to something which has a national appeal and is easier to connect with the masses, while also sticking to its roots. "Discussions are underway on changing the party's name but nothing has been finalised yet," TMC MP Sougata Roy said. Born out of the Congress' womb in 1998, the TMC defeated the mighty Left Front in 2011, after two unsuccessful attempts in 2001 and 2006. This is not the first time that the party is attempting to expand nationally. In 2012 too, it had opened several units in northeastern states, which had to be dissolved after the party leaders switched over to the BJP or the grand old party. But this time, the TMC has poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his I-PAC by its side, with which it has extended the contract till 2026. Kishor had played a vital role in ensuring the party's assembly polls victory this year. Kishor has been organising meetings between Banerjee and other opposition leaders, and is also playing an important role in the induction of leaders from varied backgrounds, party sources said. TMC's recent launching of salvos against the Congress and Gandhi family is part of its narrative to create a separate identity in national politics as an opposition party to the BJP without having to play second fiddle to the grand old party, they said. "In national politics, one can see several regional parties that play second fiddle to Congress. The grand old party has failed, it is a spent force. We want to create our own identity," Ghosh said. As part of its image-building exercise, the TMC is coming up with state-specific campaigns projecting Banerjee as a leader associated with "inclusivity and good governance". "The image building exercise has two facets. One is to craft Banerjee's image as a self-made politician who comes from a non-political background, who is not a product of dynasty politics and showcasing her humble origins – how she gave tuitions to students and worked in milk booths. Several movies and documentaries in various languages are being planned," a party leader said. "The second facet is to project the TMC's pro-democracy credentials, which took a hit because of the 2018 panchayat election violence. We want to craft an image of a party that does not support violence and promotes free and fair elections," he said. The BJP and Congress, however, ridiculed TMC's national ambitions as "dwarf's dreams to touch the sky". "The TMC doesn't have any ideology. Its ideology is to poach leaders from other parties to gain ground. It has done this in West Bengal and now want to replicate this Bengal model across the country. But this kind of politics won't yield results," Congress leader in Lok Sabha and state party president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Echoing him, BJP national vice president Dilip Ghosh said that the TMC's national ambitions will fall flat in 2024. "There is a saying that dwarf always dreams of touching the sky. This is the same for TMC and its national ambitions. We have seen it in 2014 and 2019," he said. Political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty however, said that the TMC has a "huge potential" to emerge as a national opposition force, but first, it has to rectify its image, especially regarding democracy and corruption. "There is a huge vacuum in the national opposition space. It may be time-taking, but the TMC has a huge potential to fill this up," he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-24-trinamool-congress-eyes-national-stage-1066802.html
01-01-2022||National Politics||Detention of Farooq Abdullah undemocractic: J&K Congress chief||Congress' Jammu and Kashmir chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Saturday said the "house arrest" of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah was "unethical and undemocratic". Political leaders including Farooq Abdullah were detained ahead of a march by the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to protest against the recommendations of the Delimitation Commission on Jammu and Kashmir. "Keeping under house arrest prominent leader like Dr. Farooq Abdullah ahead of proposed sit-in protest against Delimitation Commission draft is a sham, unethical and against the basic foundation of the Indian democracy which stands guarantee to freedom of speech and freedom of expression to every citizen," Mir said in a statement here. He said the "house arrest" was indeed a "gift" on the New Year's occasion by the government and condemned the "illegal house arrest" of Abdullah and other leaders of the PAGD. The PAGD is an alliance formed by five Jammu and Kashmir-based mainstream political parties, including the National Conference and the PDP, that seeks the restoration of special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. The Congress believes such a "undemocratic move" (detention of leaders) is bound to "further disappoint" the people of Jammu and Kashmir, "who have already lost faith" in the present dispensation, Mir said. "Restraining" leaders from protesting in a peaceful manner is "indicative of hypocrisy on the part of the BJP government," the Congress leader said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/detention-of-farooq-abdullah-undemocractic-jk-congress-chief-1066874.html
01-01-2022||National Politics||Centre deferred GST hike on textiles fearing defeat in upcoming polls, alleges Congress||The Congress on Saturday claimed that the Centre deferred the hike in GST on textiles from 5 per cent to 12 per cent out of fear of losing the upcoming Assembly elections in five states and later in Gujarat, which is a textile hub. Addressing a press conference here on New Year day, the party's national spokesperson Pawan Khera said considering the current scenario of inflation, wishing people a "prosperous year" would be a lie, and handed out a list of items that will become costlier this year, such as footwear, online auto ride booking, FMCG products, ATM service charge, cement, steel, etc. The only way to prevent Prime Minister Narendra Modi from continuing with the price rise on items of daily necessities is by giving him a taste of defeat in the elections, Khera said. "The Centre was going to raise the GST on textile, of which Gujarat is a hub, from January 1, but it decided to defer the move. It was done because of the upcoming elections in five states, and after that in Gujarat (which will go to the polls in December this year)," he said. So, the decision to raise the GST on textile was put on hold out of fear of (defeat) in these elections, he said. The BJP only understands the language of victory and defeat, and has nothing to do with people's prosperity, the spokesperson said. The Centre decided to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel, only after its deposit on seats in the Assembly by-elections in Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh were forfeited. The government also withdrew the controversial farm laws, Khera said. The ruling party also tasted defeat in the urban bodies polls in Karnataka a few days ago, which was also factored in in its decision to put off the hike in GST on textiles, he said. "The indication is clear. He (Prime Minister Modi) only understands the language of vote, victory and defeat. He has nothing to do with running the government, of concern for our prosperity, whatever happens to the country. He will rectify his mistakes only when he is defeated," Khera said. "If we want the mistakes to be corrected, then we will have to give them a reply in a language that they understand — by showing them defeat," he said. Khera also handed out a list of recent decisions taken by the Centre, which the Congress claimed has added burden on the public, such as a hike in GST on footwear, online auto ride bookings, rise in FMCG products, rise in ATM service charges, cement, steel, etc. The GST Council had on September 17 decided to correct the inverted duty structure in the textile sector and decided that a 12 per cent uniform GST rate will be applied on textile products, including readymade garments, except cotton. The decision was put on hold as per an announcement made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-deferred-gst-hike-on-textiles-fearing-defeat-in-upcoming-polls-alleges-congress-1066925.html
01-01-2022||National Politics||No BJP MP from Rajasthan has brought any financial help, central schemes: Congress||Congress leader Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday alleged that none of the BJP MPs from Rajasthan have brought any financial help and central schemes to the state due to which people are suffering. He also said that the state Congress will be organising workshops and training camps for its members and workers, during which, among various subjects, wrong policies of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre will be discussed in detail. The history of the Congress, the role of Congress in the freedom movement, and achievements of previous Congress governments at the Centre will also be discussed during the training camps, Dotasra said. Talking to reporters at the state Congress headquarters, the party's state president said that "25 BJP MPs from Rajasthan have not brought any financial help and central schemes for the state, due to which the people of Rajasthan are suffering". He also said that the public's feedback would be taken at a large level to ensure that the upcoming budget of the Rajasthan government covers all sections of society. Public hearing programmes of ministers in the state Congress committee office would be held for three days in a week on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Dotasra informed. He said that on January 6 and 7, workshops for local civic body members would be organised at the state Congress headquarters. In the workshop, discussions will be held on taking public welfare schemes of the state government to the local level, Dotasra said. Various issues, including wrong economic policies of the BJP-led central government, inflation, unemployment, problems of farmers and problems of traders, will be discussed in the workshops, he said. On January 8 and 9, district-level training camps would be organised by district Congress committees of Bikaner, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Rajsamand and Barmer and on January 15 and 16, in Jaisalmer, Dausa, Sikar, Alwar, Baran and Nagaur, Dotasra said. He said that from January 10 to 12, a workshop would be organised for the district heads and heads of panchayati raj institutions. Dotasra informed that from January 17 to 19, a session of AICC members and members of the state Congress committee from Madhya Pradesh would be organised in Jaipur. Economic, social and political resolutions will be passed in the convention and presented to the state government, he said. Dotasra said that he would personally review the problems and grievances of the members of the state cabinet at the state Congress headquarters every month so that effective implementation and disposal can be done. Former Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee president Arjun Modhwadia and Gujarat in-charge Dr Raghu Sharma were also present along with Dotasra. Modhwadia said that inflation and third wave of coronavirus is the gift given by the Centre. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-bjp-mp-from-rajasthan-has-brought-any-financial-help-central-schemes-congress-1066974.html
01-01-2022||National Politics||Congress’s New Year resolution for PM: ‘Focus on people, not PR’||Sharpening its attack on the government, the Congress Saturday presented a set of New Year resolutions for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministerial colleagues, asking them to work for the welfare of 130 crore Indians and not just some. "New Year Resolution for PM Modi: Focus on people, not PR," the Congress said on Twitter, hoping that the prime minister "realises 130 crore Indians are greater than (>>>) 1". This 2022, we hope PM Modi realises👇 For Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress said "not elections, not criminals, not his party, we hope his duties towards our nation take precedence over all...this 2022". "Protect citizens, not criminals," read the Congress’ resolution for Shah. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi set a "lifelong resolution" for his own party, “Whatever that needs to be done to uphold truth, justice and peoples' rights will be done, earlier too and always in the future.” The Congress asked Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to “aid our annadatas (farmers), not attack them”. “Annadatas satisfy the nation's need, crony capitalists satisfy their own greed; this 2022, we hope BJP chooses the right side," the main opposition party said on Twitter. "Stop holding onions, millennials or acts of god responsible for government failures," read the Congress resolution for Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Sitharaman had in August 2020 blamed the shortfall in GST collections to the Covid pandemic, which she described as "an act of god". "Not silence, not lies, give the nation the truth about Chinese incursions," read the resolution the Congress set for Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. "Since the PM has failed to show 'laal aankh' to the Chinese, here's hoping the Defence Minister will this 2022," the Congress said. "Manage the impending third wave, unlike the last two," read the Congress resolution for Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "And most importantly, we hope BJP focuses on saving lives, not saving face this 2022," the Congress said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-s-new-year-resolution-for-pm-focus-on-people-not-pr-1066987.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||SAD accuses BJP of bid to take control of Delhi gurdwara panel||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday accused the BJP of the bid to take control of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, hours after Manjinder Singh Sirsa withdrew his resignation as the president of the body. Sirsa had earlier quit the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and joined the BJP. Sirsa on Friday said he withdrew his resignation as a stopgap arrangement to address administrative issues and he will continue as the gurdwara panel chief till a new president is elected in the elections in January. In a statement here, the SAD called BJP’s "attempt" a direct interference in religious affairs of the Sikhs. "It is clear that the latest move of Mr Manjinder Singh Sirsa to withdraw his resignation as president of the DSGMC has been done at the behest of the BJP," said SAD leaders Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema. "The party is behind this naked attempt to take over control of the religious body," they said. Terming Sirsa's move as "immoral", the senior SAD leaders said the Sikh community will not "tolerate" this. They also claimed that the move was illegal and unconstitutional. "Sirsa had resigned from the old committee, which will itself cease once the new committee is formed. The constitution of the new committee, to which elections were held a few months back, is already delayed," they said. "Now, instead of forming the new committee, Sirsa is being thrust on the DSGMC with the tacit support of the BJP," they alleged. The SAD leaders alleged such unscrupulous tactics would not help the BJP in any manner whatsoever. "In fact, the move will alienate the Sikh community from the party. The BJP must immediately stop all efforts to take over the management of the DSGMC through proxies like Sirsa," the leaders said. Sirsa, however, in Friday claimed that the resignation tendered by him from the post of the DSGMC president was not accepted due to technical and legal issues. "I withdrew my resignation to address administrative problems like release of salaries of the employees. I will be there till a new chairman is elected in the elections to be held in January next year," he told PTI.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-accuses-bjp-of-bid-to-take-control-of-delhi-gurdwara-panel-1066748.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||12 dead, more than a dozen injured in stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in J&K||At least a dozen pilgrims died and 15 others were injured after a stampede occurred at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in the Katra area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi district on Saturday. The incident occurred at around 2:45 am on the first day of the New Year, when a large number of devotees queued to have ‘darshan’ (glimpse) of sanctum sanctorum inside the cave shrine on Trikuta hills in Katra, officials said. A “minor altercation among some young boys” amid a massive rush of devotees triggered the stampede. Twelve pilgrims lost their lives and 15 were injured in the incident, they said and added the rescue operations started immediately and all the injured were shifted to hospitals, where the condition of four among them is stated to be critical. “Preliminary information from the scene suggests that a minor altercation among some young boys led to the stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in which 12 people unfortunately died," J&K Police chief Dilbag Singh said. Eight of the 12 people killed in the incident were identified as 26-year-old Dheeraj Kumar, 35-year-old Shweta Singh, 24-year-old Viney Kumar, 24-year-old Sonu Pandey, 38-year-old Mamata, 35-year-old Dharmveer Singh, 38-year-old Vaneet Kumar and 30-year-old Arun Partap Singh. Jammu and Kashmir government led by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha ordered a high-level inquiry into the stampede. The inquiry committee headed by J&K Principal Secretary (Home) has been asked to submit its report to the government within a week. The Committee has been asked to point out the lapses and fix the responsibility thereof, besides suggesting the measures to prevent reoccurrence of such incidents in future. While the survivors blamed “mismanagement” and “poor deployment of policemen to regulate pilgrims” for the tragedy, the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board denied the charge, saying all necessary arrangements were made given the expected rush of pilgrims. The pilgrimage resumed after a brief suspension and was going on smoothly with strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs), including Covid-19 guidelines, officials said.   J&K government announced an amount of Rs10 lakh and the Center Rs two lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives in the stampede while the injured will be provided Rs 2.5 lakh. Jitendra Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, visited the shrine to take stock of the situation. “We are exploring the possible use of technology to avoid such incidents in the future,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and J&K LG also expressed their condolences. माता वैष्णो देवी मंदिर में हुई दुखद दुर्घटना से हृदय अत्यंत व्यथित है। इस संबंध में मैंने J&K के उपराज्यपाल श्री मनोज सिन्हा जी से बात की है। प्रशासन घायलों को उपचार पहुँचाने के लिए निरंतर कार्यरत है। इस हादसे में जान गँवाने वाले लोगों के परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ। “Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSinghJi, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation,” Modi tweeted. Amit Shah in a tweet said: “The tragedy due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Bhawan is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. My condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured.” Mata Vaishno Devi is a religious pilgrimage atop a hilltop in Katra town of Jammu that attracts millions of devotees from across the world every year. Ex-gratia of Rs.10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and Rs.2 lakh to injured. Shrine board to bear the cost of treatment of injured.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-dead-more-than-a-dozen-injured-in-stampede-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-in-jk-1066771.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Whackyverse | A perfumer's 'scent of money'||Scent of money A perfumer by the name of Piyush Jain Is suddenly suffering extreme pain. The taxmen found his stash Of two hundred crores in cash. But his faithful old scooter will remain. Kanpur-based businessman Piyush Jain has asked the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) to return the huge stash of cash seized from his premises after deducting tax and penalty. Jain was arrested on charges of tax evasion and is presently in 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/whackyverse-a-perfumers-scent-of-money-1066776.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Prime Minister Modi monitoring situation at Jammu's Mata Vaishno Devi shrine||Following a stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra of Jammu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is monitoring the situation and has conveyed his sympathies to the bereaved families, tweeted Jitendra Singh, Minister of State, Prime Minister's Office. "Prime Minister @narendramodi is personally monitoring and keeping track of the tragic situation arising out of stampede at Mata #VaishnoDevi shrine. Prime Minister has conveyed his sympathies to bereaved families and issued instructions to provide all possible medical aid and assistance to the injured," Jitendra Singh tweeted. Top officials have confirmed that 12 pilgrims have died and 20 others were injured during a stampede at Katra in Jammu. The incident took place at the Bhavan where there was a massive rush of pilgrims on the occasion of New Year. The pilgrimage has been stopped currently and the injured have been moved to the hospital. Vaishno Devi Yatra draws thousands of pilgrims daily to Katra. The rush of pilgrims is particularly high during the Navratras. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-minister-modi-monitoring-situation-at-jammus-mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-1066777.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi shrine helpline numbers issued||The authorities on Saturday announced helpline numbers for families and friends of devotees of Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, wherein 12 people died and 20 injured in a stampede. Helpline numbers of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board: 01991-234804 01991-234053 Other Helpline nos: PCR Katra 01991232010/ 9419145182 PCR Reasi 0199145076/ 9622856295 DC Office Reasi Control room 01991245763/ 9419839557. The PMO announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh each for the best of kin who lost their lives during the stampede. J&K Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha has announced Rs 10 lakh each for the next of kin of those killed in the stampede. The stampede took place around 2.45 am on Saturday, when a large number of devotees entered the Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan without permission slips on the occasion of New Year. Officials said the stampede took place outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-shrine-helpline-numbers-issued-1066780.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi offers condolences to families of Vaishno Devi stampede victims||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi mourned the deaths in a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. "The stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi temple is tragic. I extend my condolences to the families of the deceased," Gandhi said on Twitter.   माता वैष्णोदेवी मंदिर में हुई भगदड़ की दुर्घटना दुखद है।मृतकों के परिवारजनों को मेरी शोक संवेदनाएँ। घायलों के जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना है।🙏 He also wished a speedy recovery to the injured. At least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured in the stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir triggered by a heavy rush of devotees. The stampede took place in the early hours of Saturday near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-offers-condolences-to-families-of-vaishno-devi-stampede-victims-1066782.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||More than 10 ministers, 20 MLAs test positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra||More than 10 ministers and at least 20 MLAs in Maharashtra have tested positive for coronavirus so far, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said Saturday and added that strict restrictions might be clamped if the new Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state. Pawar's warning came a day after Maharashtra reported 8,067 new coronavirus positive cases, a number that was around 50 per cent more higher than that of a day before. "We cut short the Assembly session recently. So far, over 10 ministers and over 20 MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus. Everybody wants to be part of the celebrations of New Year, birthdays and other occasions. Keep in mind that the new variant (Omicron) spreads fast and hence caution is needed. PM Narendra Modi has appealed and some states have announced a night curfew. In Maharashtra, cases are increasing in Mumbai and Pune," he told reporters after visiting the Jaystambh military monument in Perne village on the occasion of the 204th anniversary of the Battle of Koregaon Bhima. Queried on the possibility of more curbs, Pawar said the state government is keeping a tab on the increasing number of patients. "If the number of patients continues to rise then there will be strict restrictions. To avoid strict restrictions, everybody should follow norms," he said. Maharashtra has seen a sharp rise in new daily coronavirus cases over the past 12 days of 2021. The state government, in fresh guidelines issued Thursday night, capped the attendance at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50. Mumbai on Friday reported 5,631 new Covid-19 cases, almost 2,000 more than Thursday, which took the caseload in the city on the last day of the year to 785,110, a civic official had said. This was a rise of 53 per cent over 3,671 cases recorded on Thursday. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Pune city touched 5.9 per cent on Friday after 412 cases were detected, raising the tally within civic limits to 510,218, according to officials. Pawar said the government recently told the state legislature that land may be acquired for the redevelopment of the monument ('Jaystambh') for the convenience of lakhs of people who visit the spot every year to pay tributes on the anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle. He said a committee has been formed to take further action. When asked about the Maharashtra government denying permission for organising a bullock cart race and former MP Shivaji Adhalrao Patil announcing to go ahead with the event, Pawar said, "After the meeting (of the Covid-19 task force), Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state chief secretary to issue orders to all collectors to avoid public gatherings to (stop) another wave of the pandemic. Based on this, the permission might have been denied in the larger interest. Not only Shivaji Adhalrao Patil but those who want to hold the bullock cart race should also consider the looming threat (of the third Covid-19 wave)." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-10-ministers-20-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-1066790.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Raje tries to find 'lost' roots in desert state via temple runs||In a challenge-packed 2021, former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje wasted no time to turn them into opportunities and started religious tours to different temples in the state. Raje's posters were removed from the BJP office in the state capital. She also remained absent from campaigning during by-polls held in three places, namely Vallabhnagar, Dhariyawad and Rajsamand. Her absence and refrainment from party events — coupled with a parallel 'Team Vasundhara Raje 2023' — became a heated topic of discussion in the state politics. The team also released a list of its own district presidents in the state. Further, during the second wave of Covid-19, while the BJP ran 'Seva hi Sangathan' campaign, the Raje team ran 'Vasundhara Jan Rasoi' to serve food to the needy. When her daughter-in-law was unwell and admitted to a renowned hospital in Gurugram, Raje and her followers were also seen conducting special prayers. She continued her religious trips in different parts of the state (often referred to as political yatras) that attracted large crowds. She started her visits in the state to sacred places and paid homage to party workers and their relatives who had died. Her loyalists made all efforts to make these visits successful to give the message to the party that she is still respected by the people of the state. However, by the end of the year, Raje's followers were shocked to see their favourite leader missing from the dais of a mammoth Rajput rally organised in Jaipur, which saw the participation of all Rajput stalwarts, including Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Jaipur Princess Diya Kumari. While a few leaders confirmed to IANS that Raje was not invited to the rally, others said that she did not attend despite being invited. A few leaders confirmed that a strong message was given to the party via the rally that Raje should not be the CM face, while others remained mum on the issue. Meanwhile, the BJP office-bearers confirmed that it was for the first time that Raje was not on the stage of this Kshatriya rally, which was attended by around 4-5 lakh Rajputs. What went wrong over the years as Raje — who was involved in rallies and programmes of the Kshatriya Yuva Sangh in the past and had participated in rallies of Kshatriya Yuvak Sangh in Jaipur in 2008 and in Jodhpur in 2017 — remains unanswered. Has the queen, who once referred to herself as the "daughter of Rajput", lost her charm among the warrior lobby or is she still ruling their hearts? "Let's wait for the coming year," a BJP worker said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raje-tries-to-find-lost-roots-in-desert-state-via-temple-runs-1066803.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||PAGD leaders detained ahead of march against J&K Delimitation Commission||Authorities on Saturday disallowed a proposed protest against the delimitation commission in Srinagar by placing three former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir under house detention. The high-security zone, Gupkar Road in Srinagar, where Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar and Mehbooba Mufti –all former CMs- reside was sealed off with security trucks deployed outside their residences and no one allowed to enter or exit from there, reports said. Omar tweeted and showed how security trucks have been deployed outside the gates of their home. “Good morning & welcome to 2022. A new year with the same J&K police illegally locking people in their homes & an administration so terrified of normal democratic activity. Trucks parked outside our gates to scuttle the peaceful @JKPAGD sit-in protest. Some things never change (sic),” he tweeted.  However, reports said, despite placing the top leadership under house arrest, the second rung leaders and workers of the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) staged protests in Srinagar. “Despite the despotic administration’s attempts to foil our protests, PDP & NC workers managed to hit the streets in Srinagar today to raise their voice against the illegal revocation of Article 370. I salute their courage & resolve,” Mehbooba tweeted.  The PAGD, a grouping of Kashmir parties led by Farooq Abdullah which was formed in October 2020 to strive for restoration of statehood and special status of J&K, had announced a protest against the recently released draft proposal of Delimitation Commission to allocate six additional Assembly seats to Jammu and only one to Kashmir. The Commission’s proposed draft runs contrary to the population ratio of both provinces of the former state as Jammu region has 53.72 lakh and Kashmir division 68.83 lakh population, according to the census of 2011. However, the Commission said that besides population, other considerations like administrative units, area and proximity to the border have been factored in while distributing seats. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-leaders-detained-ahead-of-march-against-jk-delimitation-commission-1066805.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Kejriwal expresses grief over Vaishno Devi shrine stampede||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday expressed grief over the loss of lives in a stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu, and prayed for speedy recovery of the injured. At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede at the famous temple triggered by a heavy rush of devotees, officials said. The stampede occurred in the early hours of Saturday near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop the Trikuta hill, about 50 km from Jammu. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-expresses-grief-over-vaishno-devi-shrine-stampede-1066816.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Suspecting involvement in in 2019 Pulwama attack, J&K police to test slain militant's DNA||A DNA test will be conducted of one of the three militants killed in the Anantnag encounter as his picture resembles that of the last surviving ultra involved in the 2019 Pulwama suicide attack in which 40 CRPF personnel lost their lives, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Vijay Kumar said on Saturday. Kumar, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, said the picture of the slain ultra matched with that of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM)'s top commander Samir Dar. "The picture of one of the killed #terrorists in #AnantnagEncounter on Dec 30th matches with JeM top commander Samir Dar, who was the last surviving terrorist involved in Lethpora #Pulwama #TerrorAttack. We are going for DNA sample matching," the IGP said on Twitter. Police had said that three JeM terrorists were killed and their bodies retrieved from the site of the encounter that took place at Nowgam Dooru area of the South Kashmir district on Thursday. Police had then identified those killed as Sultan alias Rayees alias Mavia (a foreign terrorist), Nisar Ahmad Khanday, a resident of Dudwangan Kapran, and Altaf Ahmad Shah, a resident of Nathipora Dooru. The IGP had said that Shah and Sultan along with another terrorist Suhail Rather were involved in an attack at Zewan Srinagar in which three policemen were killed and 11 others injured. Rather was killed in a separate encounter at Pantah Chowk on Saturday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspecting-involvement-in-in-2019-pulwama-attack-jk-police-to-test-slain-militants-dna-1066823.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi stampede: Survivors blame 'mismanagement', shrine board refutes charge||A sudden rush of devotees at the Vaishno Devi shrine here to mark the beginning of the New Year triggered the stampede that resulted in the death of 12 people, some of the survivors said, blaming "mismanagement" for the tragedy. The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, however, denied the charge, saying all necessary arrangements were made in view of the expected rush, while Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh blamed a minor altercation for the “unfortunate” incident. "Nothing but mismanagement was the cause for this tragic accident. They were aware of the possible rush but allowed the people in unhindered," a pilgrim from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh said while waiting outside a mortuary to identify a dead body. The man, who did not wish to be named, said this situation could have been avoided if the authorities concerned had managed the pilgrimage better. "A similar situation had happened minutes earlier but luckily none was hurt and the situation was controlled. We were part of a group of 10 devotees – all neighbours. A heavy rush triggered the stampede as people were going in and out, and everyone was in a hurry," he said. Many people were resting on the floor, instead of heading back, and it caused more rush at the bhawan, he added. Another man, who lost his friend, Arun Pratab Singh (30), said they had come from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The bhawan was overcrowded, he added. "I had visited the shrine about 10 years ago but was surprised by the heavy rush this time. After the tragedy, we found ourselves helpless and got no help till 6 am," he alleged. Rani Devi of Bihar's Muzaffarpur said they were fortunate to have escaped death. "I saw many people die on the floor and was heartbroken," she said, blaming it on the "uncontrolled rush" of pilgrims at the bhawan. Aditya Sharma, another devotee, said some people who were sleeping on the floor got crushed in the stampede. Following the incident, many pilgrims were seen leaving Katra, the base camp for the shrine, without paying obeisance. "We are from Pathankot. We returned from the bhawan without 'darshan' due to the stampede," said Rekha, who was accompanied by five other family members, including three children. Prem Singh, from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, said there was a complete mess as neither was the number of pilgrims restricted nor were Covid-19 guidelines in force. "It was a free-for-all-like situation. Many people were without mandatory face masks," he said, claiming that police personnel on duty at the X-ray checking point surrendered to the heavy rush and were warning people about the possibility of such an accident. However, many people were seen waiting in long queues to visit the shrine as the pilgrimage continued unaffected. "We have been waiting for five hours but nothing is moving," said Navdeep of Karnal in Haryana. Chief executive officer of the shrine board Ramesh Kumar, who was among the first to reach the scene to take stock of the situation and visit the injured at the Narayana hospital, could not be contacted for comment. Another official of the board, who wished not to be named, said adequate arrangements, including security, were in place due to the expected rush of pilgrims. The DGP said preliminary information from the scene suggests there was an altercation among some young boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede situation. "Police and officials from the civil administration were quick to respond, and the order within the crowd was immediately restored, but by that time, the damage had been done," he told PTI. Senior BJP leader and former legislator Devender Singh Rana, who interacted with the pilgrims here to take stock of the situation, said the incident was the first of its kind to take place at the shrine. "It is a tragic incident and a sad moment for all of us. The whole administration is working to ensure the bodies of the deceased are returned to their families and those injured are given adequate treatment," he said. Rana said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also taken note of the incident and the Lieutenant Governor-led administration is doing its best. "This is no time for allegations or counter-allegations. It is a tragedy that has happened and nobody should play politics over it," he added. At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede that occurred around 2:30 am near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Villagers fulfil 'vow' by shaving their heads for no Covid-19 fatality in 2021||Over 90 residents of a village in Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch district got their heads tonsured and held a mass feast at a temple to thank the deity for ensuring "zero fatality" due to Covid-19 in their village in the year 2021. The ritual was held on Friday to fulfil the vow taken by villagers at the Devnarayan temple when the pandemic was at its peak, a resident said. Villagers, including women, took out a procession in Devri Khawasa village in the Neemuch district, around 400 km away from Bhopal. They danced to the tune of religious songs while holding religious flags in their hands. “About 25-30 villagers were infected when the coronavirus pandemic was at its peak. At that time, people had taken a 'Mannat' (vow) in the ancient temple of Devnarayan ji to tonsure their heads and hold a 'bhandara' (mass feast) if no fatality is reported due to the pandemic in 2021,” Ambalal Patidar, a villager, told reporters. Another resident Amit Gurjar said that in a bid to thank the deity, 90 villagers shaved their heads and organised a feast. “We thanked the deity as no death due to Covid-19 was reported in our village with a population of 2,500 even though some of the infected villagers were critically ill," he claimed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-villagers-fulfil-vow-by-shaving-their-heads-for-no-covid-19-fatality-in-2021-1066836.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Congress grasping at straws for Delhi civic polls||The Congress, which secured the highest vote share in the Chandigarh municipal polls, will be fighting for its existence in the 2022 Delhi municipal polls. Delhi municipal polls are a "straw" for the Congress to help the grand-old-party strengthen its foundation and strategise its future. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said: "Even today, the Congress stands with its ideology. In a contest, one wins while another loses. On this basis, the party is weak but on the basis of ideology, Congress is the biggest party of the country. I have faith in my ideology, leaders and party workers." "The Congress has helped people during the pandemic. Helping people despite facing defeat...We are working on the agenda of our party veterans and 2022 will not be only good for us but for Delhiites too. If we talk about vote share, in the Chandigarh Municipal polls, Congress is number one. Congress has bagged 29.79 per cent votes, the BJP 29.30 per cent while AAP 27.08 per cent. This time the Congress has bagged eight seats while in 2016 municipal polls, it had bagged four, though then the corporation used to have 26 seats instead of 35," he said. In the 2017 Delhi municipal polls, the BJP had bagged the highest vote share, of 38.59 per cent votes in East Delhi, 35.96 per cent in North Delhi and 35.88 per cent votes in South Delhi. The AAP had bagged the highest number of votes 27.98 per cent in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Congress secured the highest votes, at 22.74 per cent, in East Delhi. Delhi Congress media committee chairman Anil Bhardwaj said, "2022 will be the year of change, because as people of Delhi have got only fake promises, inflation, unemployment and disease. Delhi is a place which gives employment to people coming from hundreds of kilometres far away." "The development done during Sheila Dikshit ji's tenure has stopped. People have seen that in the past 15 years, the corporation has become synonymous with corruption. Last time, the BJP changed the candidates. If they were performing well, then what was the need for the change?" Bhardwaj said. He said, "Congress has seen many ups and downs, but it has emerged stronger. Congress will perform well in the municipal polls as people are tired of the BJP and the AAP." In the 2017 municipal polls, the BJP had bagged absolute majority securing 181 seats, the AAP stood second with 48 seats, Congress 30, while others secured 11. Talking about the Delhi Congress, former minister Dr Kiran Walia said, "I am saddened to see Delhi's plight. The AAP and the BJP are adept at campaigning. I have worked in close coordination in the Sheila Dikshit government. We never campaigned then." "Many MLAs wanted campaigning during the opening of new schools but Sheila ji said that till three schools are set up, campaigning will not be held. She did not want extra expenditure. Had there been no metro and buses, what would have happened to Delhi? she said. Earlier, in the Delhi municipal corporation by-polls, of the five wards, AAP won four, while Congress bagged one. But Congress leaders said that since the party's vote percentage has increased in the by-polls, it is likely to benefit in the municipal polls. As municipal polls are nearing, Councillors have also started switching parties. Recently, the Congress received a big jolt when party councillor in North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) Mukesh Goel joined the Aam Aadmi Party. It's not only Congress councillors who have jumped ship to other parties, but a few AAP councillors have also switched to the Congress. In 2012, the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) was divided into three, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). After this exercise, the 2012 municipal polls witnessed a tough contest between the BJP and the Congress. Of the 272 seats, the BJP had bagged 138 seats, the Congress 77, the BSP 13 while others secured 41. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-grasping-at-straws-for-delhi-civic-polls-1066838.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Govt laxity responsible for stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in J&K: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati alleged that the Jammu and Kashmir government's "laxity" led to the stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine early on Saturday. "It is extremely saddening... going by the reports in the media, the laxity of the government is visible. The administration must seriously ponder over this incident so that such situations are not repeated," Mayawati said during a press conference here. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Vaishno Devi stampede: Survivors blame 'mismanagement', shrine board refutes charge Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said according to preliminary information, a minor altercation broke out among some boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede situation. "Police and officials of the civil administration were quick to respond, and the order within the crowd was immediately restored, but by that time, the damage had been done," he said. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-1066829.html The stampede occurred around 2.30 am near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine located atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-laxity-responsible-for-stampede-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-in-jk-mayawati-1066840.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||5 people killed in landslide, more feared trapped at mining site in Haryana||One more body was pulled out from under the debris at a mining site in Dadam here, taking the death toll to five in an accident triggered by a landslide. Four bodies were recovered on Saturday after the incident. Two people were injured. A BJP MP from the area alleged violation of mining parameters at the site. Meanwhile, officials said the rescue operations will continue for the time being to clear the debris and to rule out the possibility of any other person being trapped there. "The body of a worker was pulled out from under the debris late Sunday evening," SHO of Tosham police station Sukhbir said over the phone. The victim was about 50 years of age and belonged to a village near Rohtak. Speaking to reporters in Bhiwani after visiting the accident site, ruling BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendergarh Dharambir Singh alleged violation of several laid down norms for mining at four sites in the Dadam mining zone. He said he will urge Chief Minister Manohal Lal Khattar to order a thorough probe into the landslide and its reasons so that such incidents are not repeated. Speaking to reporters in Panchkula on the sidelines of an event, Khattar, however, said he has directed the mining department to find out whether there was any violation of laid down parameters for mining at the site. "If any violation is found, action will be taken," he said. हरियाणा के भिवानी जिले में माइनिंग साइट पर जो हादसा हुआ है उससे मैं बहुत दुखी हूं । प्रशासन द्वारा रेस्क्यू ऑपरेशन चलाया जा रहा है । गाजियाबाद से NDRF की मधुबन से SDRF की टीम बुलाई गई है। हिसार से आर्मी की एक यूनिट बुलाई गई है । अभी तक 4 लोगों की मृत्यु हुई है । Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner Rippudaman Singh, who visited the site and had been regularly taking stock of the rescue operation, had earlier in the day said the rescue operation at the site was still going on and it was being led by the NDRF. Before the body of the fifth man was pulled out from under the debris, SDM Manish Phogat had said, "At least one more person continues to be trapped under the debris." The SDM had not ruled out the possibility of one more person such as a helper being trapped as their records may not have been maintained. "The rescue operation is likely to continue until Monday afternoon," Phogat said. Shifting big boulders was consuming time, he said. After the incident around 9 am on Saturday, police had said around half a dozen dumper trucks and some machines were buried under the debris. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had said several rescue teams, including those from the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and the Army, were pressed into service. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja Sunday demanded a judicial probe, monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge. In a statement, Selja, a former Union minister, alleged that illegal mining was going on in Dadam and deep digging was going on at the site without permission. She said the Congress demands a financial assistance of Rs 25 lakh for the next of kin of each of those killed in the incident and Rs 10 lakh to those injured. Holding the BJP-JJP government responsible for the incident, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda had on Saturday alleged that there had been a "scam of thousands of crores" in the Dadam mining zone. "Even the Supreme Court has made a serious remark on this matter and illegal mining is being done in this area by flouting all rules but the government is not conducting a fair investigation. The opposition demands that there should be a judicial inquiry into the entire scam," Hooda had said. Senior Congress leader and MLA from Tosham, Kiran Choudhary, has demanded an independent probe, alleging that the mining in the area has been going on in an illegal manner. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala too had alleged that the illegal mining was going on under the Khattar regime and asked the BJP government who was responsible for these deaths.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-people-killed-in-landslide-more-feared-trapped-at-mining-site-in-haryana-1066843.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||India, Pakistan armies exchange sweets on New Year along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||The armies of India and Pakistan exchanged sweets with each other on Saturday to mark the New Year on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. A defence ministry statement said, "At the beginning of the year 2022, to promote mutual trust and tranquility, Indian Army exchanged sweets and greetings with Pakistan Army at Poonch and Mendhar Crossing Points." "Considering the ongoing ceasefire along the India-Pakistan border, this gesture is aimed at further enhancing peace and harmony in Jammu &amp; Kashmir." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-pakistan-armies-exchange-sweets-on-new-year-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1066850.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||2 killed, 3 injured in bus accident in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||Two people were killed after a bus allegedly ran over a man and then collided with a truck on the Delhi-Dehradun National Highway here on Saturday, police said. The Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus first allegedly knocked down Ramdev (75), a factory worker, and then rammed into a truck, under Mansurpur police station limits, they said. The impact of the collision with the truck was such that the bus driver Ram Kumar (29) died and three others, including the conductor, were injured, police said. The case is being investigated, they said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-killed-3-injured-in-bus-accident-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-1066851.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Tax raids at Uttar Pradesh businessmen: Balance sheets from FY 2016-2021 being examined||The Mumbai Income Tax team, which is conducting raids at the premises of Uttar Pradesh businessmen Pushapraj Pampi Jain, Anup Jain, Mahavir Prasad, Faizan Malik, and Malik Mian, have collected a lot of evidence against them and are examining the balance sheets of FY 2016-2021. The raids, which started in the early morning of December 31, are still going on at various places belonging to these five perfume businessmen. On the first day of the new year, perfume businessman Faizan Malik's house was raided. The sources have claimed that gold was found at the house and questioning was going on to know whether tax was paid on the purchase or not. The Income Tax officials are taking the help of local police, which are assisting them in the raid. A large number of police personnel was deployed outside the house of Faizan Malik to avoid any untoward incident. "Mahavir Prasad is a close associate of Pampi Jain. He has an office on Express Road in Kanpur. One Anup Jain's Anand Nagar situated office was also searched by the I-T team," said an official. Pampi Jain's house was closed from inside when the raid was going on and the window panes were covered to prevent outsiders from peeping inside or recording anything from outside. A police team was present inside the room. On Saturday the I-T department called the Chartered Accountants (CA) of Pampi Jain's company. The I-T team wants to gather information regarding the business partner of Pampi Jain with whom he has deals. They will also question the money transactions. Sources have claimed that they have recovered a few incriminating documents, including a pen drive. Another team of Income Tax was present at the Pragati Aroma factory of Pampi Jain which is situated near his house where he makes perfumery compounds. The I-T team, which started the raid on Friday morning, was continuing its action on Saturday as it was going through a lot of documents to get proof against Pampi on tax evasion. Raids were also going on at the premises of Malik Mian who also deals in the perfumery business. An I-T official said on the condition of anonymity that they were checking the balance sheets between FY 2016 and 2021. The official said that once the raid, which was also going on also in Surat, is over, then only they will be able to comment on the entire matter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tax-raids-at-uttar-pradesh-businessmen-balance-sheets-from-fy-2016-2021-being-examined-1066857.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Rajasthan govt transfers 92 officers; 102 promoted||The Rajasthan government promoted 43 IAS, 45 IPS and 14 IFS officers in a late night order on Friday. It also transferred 46 IAS, 37 IPS and nine IFS officers, as per the order from the Department of Personnel. Neeraj K Pawan, who has been facing corruption charges, has been appointed as the Divisional Commissioner of Bikaner. Bhawar Lal Mehra has been given charge as Ajmer Divisional Commissioner. Senior IPS officer Rupinder Singh has been appointed as the Inspector General of Police, Ajmer range. Principal Secretary Abhay Kumar has been promoted to Additional Chief Secretary rank. IPS officer Sunil Kumar Vishnoi has been promoted as the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Sawai Madhopur; Shivraj Meena as the SP of Dholpur; Keshar Singh Shekhawat, SP Kota (City); Shailendra Singh Indoliya, SP Karauli; and Mridul Kachawa DCP South Jaipur. Four IPS officers — Vishal Bansal, S. Sengathir, VK Singh and Hawa Singh Ghumariya — have been promoted to the rank of Assistant Director General of Police. Rajendra Prasad Goyal has been elevated to the Deputy Inspector General rank. IAS officers of the 1998 batch T. Ravikant, Subir Kumar and Vaibhav Galriya have been promoted to the rank of Principal Secretary. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-transfers-92-officers-102-promoted-1066862.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Reproductive choice a dimension of personal liberty: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has permitted a 28-week pregnant woman to undergo medical termination of pregnancy on account of substantial foetal abnormality and said that reproductive choice is a dimension of personal liberty which is enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. Justice Jyoti Singh, while allowing the woman's plea to undergo the procedure, stated that allowing the pregnancy to continue would have a deleterious impact on the petitioner's mental health and she cannot be deprived of the freedom to take a decision to continue or not to continue with the pregnancy in view the medical board's opinion. The judge observed that the lack of compatibility of the foetus with a healthy and normal life was “looming large” as in view of the medical experts, the child would require cardiac surgery in the initial stage of life as well as repeat cardiac surgeries in late adolescence or adulthood, leaving his/her entire life dependent on the clinical condition and quality of medical care. It further noted that the child would be exposed to “intra and post-operative complications and may lead to further complexities” which would adversely impact the quality of the life and the opinion of the experts that the child was “likely to have an average physical growth” came with a caveat that the surgical repair is successful. “The petitioner, in my view, is justified in contending that continuing with the pregnancy, once it is known that the foetus suffers from a rare congenital heart disease, which is a 'substantial foetal abnormality', with attendant complications and risks, would have a deleterious impact on the mental health of the petitioner,”  the court said in its order passed on December 31. The court permitted the petitioner to undergo medical termination of pregnancy at a medical facility of her choice and recorded that the medical board constituted in the case has explained the possible complications of the procedure of termination at this stage to the couple. “As repeatedly held by the Courts…  reproductive choice is a facet of reproductive rights of a woman and a dimension of her 'personal liberty', enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India and thus the petitioner cannot be deprived of the freedom to take a decision to continue or not to continue with the pregnancy, in the backdrop of the foetal abnormalities brought forth in the Medical Opinion of the Board,” the court said. “It is for the petitioner to take the final decision to undergo the procedure of medical termination of pregnancy, which would be at her own risk and consequences,” it clarified. In the present case, the foetus was diagnosed with the existence of Tetralogy of Fallot with Absent Pulmonary Valve Syndrome which includes a hole in the heart along with a poorly developed valve that guards the blood vessel taking blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. The petitioner, represented by advocate Sneha Mukherjee, had moved the court in December for permission to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, claiming that the foetus suffered from abnormalities of the heart and chances of survival were remote. On December 22, the court had asked AIIMS to set up a medical board at the earliest for the examination of the woman. The petitioner had argued that not permitting her to undergo medical termination of pregnancy would put her through financial, emotional as well as physical strain. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reproductive-choice-a-dimension-of-personal-liberty-delhi-hc-1066865.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19 hospitalisations less, whether more curbs needed will be reviewed: Delhi health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said whether further Covid-related restrictions need to be imposed in the national capital will be reviewed as hospital admissions are less, despite a rapid rise in coronavirus cases. According to data shared by the health department on Friday, Delhi reported 1,796 coronavirus cases with a positivity rate of 2.44 per cent and zero deaths. "The virus is spreading fast. But the good part is that there are no serious cases. Be it any variant, Omicron or Delta, the way it can be prevented and treated remains the same. People should step out whenever necessary and wear a mask," Jain told reporters. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Wednesday decided that Covid-related restrictions imposed in Delhi under the ‘yellow alert’ would continue for the time being and authorities would monitor the situation for a while before deciding on fresh curbs. "We have put the restrictions in place. In other states, only a night curfew has been imposed. But in Delhi, we have shut schools, multiplexes, etc. In April and May, when the second (Covid-19) wave had hit Delhi, a large chunk of people was getting admitted. But currently, the hospitalisations are less. Further restrictions will be reviewed," Jain said. On Tuesday, the DDMA had declared a ‘yellow alert’ under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the city amid a spike in cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant. The alert entails restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, opening shops selling non-essential items on an odd-even basis and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, among other things. The GRAP is based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), the cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) for designated four levels of alerts. After the ‘yellow alert’, further restrictions are imposed at advanced stages of ‘amber’, ‘orange’ and ‘red’ with a higher number of new cases and hospitalisations. Earlier this week, Jain had said that Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern has been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hospitalisations-less-whether-more-curbs-needed-will-be-reviewed-delhi-health-minister-1066869.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi stampede: Union Minister Jitendra Singh visits injured devotees||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday visited devotees injured in a stampede at the famous Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district, officials said. At least 12 people, including two women, died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede at the shrine atop the Trikuta hills triggered by a heavy rush of devotees in the early hours of the day, the said. Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, was accompanied by Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh during his visit to the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital at Kakriyal. He enquired about the condition of the devotees undergoing treatment at the facility, the officials said. Of the 15 injured admitted to the hospital, the condition of two was stated to be critical, while four people were discharged. The minister interacted with the injured pilgrims and was also briefed by the doctors, the officials said. J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina and senior party leaders Devender Singh Rana and Surjeet Singh Slathia separately visited the hospital and the Katra base camp nearby, they added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-union-minister-jitendra-singh-visits-injured-devotees-1066870.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Parties in Jammu and Kashmir express grief over Vaishno Devi stampede||Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir expressed grief over the loss of lives in the stampede at the shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi in Jammu on Saturday and urged the administration to take adequate steps to ensure such an incident does not recur. “Deeply saddened by the news from #matavaishnodevi. My condolences to the families of all those who lost their lives in the stampede & prayers for the quick & complete recovery of all those injured, National Conference (NC) vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter. NC chief Farooq Abdullah said it was an extremely tragic incident at the holy place and expressed the hope that authorities will swiftly identify the causes and address them. The BJP's JK unit chief Ravinder Raina and senior party leaders Devender Singh Rana and Surjeet Singh Slathia separately visited the hospital where the injured were admitted and the Katra base camp nearby. Expressing sadness over the incident, Raina said that party workers were assisting the affected people. The PDP faulted the police and administration and said such “mismanagement” has been unheard of in recent times. “Our heartfelt condolences go out to the families who lost their loved ones & pray for speedy recovery of the injured,” the party said in a tweet. Such mismanagement has been unheard of in recent times. “I am also saddened by the tragic accident at Vaishno Devi & neither the administration the nor police are carrying out their duties. Instead, they are engrossed in threatening people into silence. My condolences to the families of those who lost their lives,” PDP president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. I am also saddened by the tragic accident at Vaishno Devi & neither the administration the nor police are carrying out their duties. Instead they are engrossed in threatening people into silence. My condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Congress' J&K unit chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir, Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone and Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari said the incident was unfortunate and expressed their condolences to the bereaved families. “I am deeply pained to learn about the tragic incident of loss of precious lives due to stampede in #MataVaishnoDevi Bhawan, #Katra.  A very unfortunate incident, my heartfelt condolences to bereaved families and prayers for speed recovery of injured,” Bukhari said. Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also expressed grief over the incident. “Deeply saddened by the tragic loss of lives at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan at Katra due to a stampede. My heartfelt condolences with the families of the deceased and my prayers for those who are injured,” Mattu wrote on Twitter. Deeply saddened by the tragic loss of lives at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan at Katra due to a stampede. At least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured in the stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine during a heavy rush of devotees on New Year. The stampede occurred in the early hours of Saturday near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parties-in-jammu-and-kashmir-express-grief-over-vaishno-devi-stampede-1066871.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Centre, J&K admin making efforts to provide relief to injured in Vaishno Devi shrine stampede, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the central government is in constant touch with the J&K Administration and full care is being taken towards the relief work for those injured in the stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. Speaking at a programme to release funds under the PM-KISAN scheme, Modi expressed his condolences and said he has spoken to Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. Earlier in the day, Sinha said a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the stampede in which at least 12 people were killed and 20 others injured. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-jk-admin-making-efforts-to-provide-relief-to-injured-in-vaishno-devi-shrine-stampede-says-pm-modi-1066872.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi pilgrimage going on smoothly with strict adherence to SOPs after stampede, says Official||The Vaishno Devi pilgrimage is going on smoothly with strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs), including Covid-19 guidelines, despite a stampede that claimed 12 lives and left over a dozen injured, a senior government official said on Saturday. Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Raghav Langer said bodies of four victims of the stampede were dispatched to their native places, while the process to send the rest of the bodies was in progress. Langer, along with Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh, visited Katra – the base camp for pilgrims visiting the Vaishno Devi shrine – to take stock of the situation. Langer and Singh are part of a high-level committee formed under instructions of Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha and headed by the principal secretary (home) to inquire into the stampede at the shrine. "The (Vaishno Devi) Yatra has resumed (after the stampede) and is going on smoothly," the divisional commissioner told reporters at Katra as the committee visited the town to begin its probe. On complaints of mismanagement and violation of Covid-19 guidelines, the officer said the Yatra is in progress with strict adherence to the SOPs. On the reasons that led to the stampede, Langer said the L-G has ordered a high-level probe. "The committee has started its work and will share the details as the probe progresses," he said. Langer said the administration and the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board have released helpline numbers to facilitate family members of visiting pilgrims who wanted to get in touch with their dear ones. The divisional commissioner said bodies of all deceased persons have been identified, and relatives of 10 have already been contacted so that the bodies can be dispatched to their home towns. "We are dispatching the bodies of the deceased to their home town with full respect. Two bodies have already been dispatched to Haryana and Nowshera in Rajouri district (J&K). Two more bodies were also sent off to Delhi," he said. The divisional commissioner said the condition of all the injured persons is "stable". "Out of 15 injured admitted to the Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital at Kakriyal, four were discharged and the rest are stable," Langer, who along with other members of the committee visited the hospital to enquire about the condition of the pilgrims, said. He said the priority of the administration is to provide the best possible treatment to the injured. "The condition of all the injured is stable and a team of doctors are monitoring them," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-pilgrimage-going-on-smoothly-with-strict-adherence-to-sops-after-stampede-says-official-1066875.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Defeat BJP to rein in inflation: Congress||The Congress on Saturday slammed the Modi government for an increase in Goods and Services Tax (GST) in several categories from footwear to food delivery and urged voters to defeat the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections to tame inflation. Addressing a press conference here, Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said the Centre had reduced excise on petrol and diesel after the BJP's defeat in bypolls in Himachal Pradesh and some other states and urged voters to usher in a low tax regime by exercising their franchise wisely. Surjewala sought to credit the Congress for the GST Council's decision to defer the increase in GST on textiles from 5 per cent to 12 per cent and claimed that the taxes would be increased once elections to the five states were over. "One has to remember that the proposal to increase GST on textiles has not been taken back, but only deferred. The decision may be put off by another month till the elections are over. Once the elections are over, the tax will be increased," he said. The Congress spokesperson also said footwear, hiring taxis and auto-rickshaws using ride-hailing apps, ordering food using food delivery apps, drawing kits for children and withdrawing cash from ATMs has become costlier from January 1 due to increase in taxes. Surjewala said the prices of tea, pulses, edible oil, cooking gas and even salt have increased since Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014. "Remember, if Modi is there, price rise will stay, the Modi government means high prices. Modi and inflation are harmful for the country," Surjewala said, urging voters to defeat the BJP in the upcoming elections. He said the government was increasing taxes even before the budget was presented and could claim later to have presented a "tax-free budget". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/defeat-bjp-to-rein-in-inflation-congress-1066880.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Will Bhagwant Mann's mass appeal propel AAP to power in Punjab?||From his early days as a profound comic actor and satirist on television to his days as a people's politician, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Bhagwant Mann has come of age.   The Modi juggernaut was unstoppable in 2014 Lok Sabha elections and offered a massive mandate to the saffron party but alongside, a rookie party that until then had no tangible footprints on the national electoral politics left its mark blunting the Modi wave in border state Punjab. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) then won four MP seats in the country, all from Punjab. Ever since, if there’s one person who withstood much of the opposition onslaught and offered wings to the AAP in Punjab, it’s Bhagwant Mann alias Jugnu. A former Punjabi comic actor, Mann has proved his mettle as a politician connecting with people at the grassroots. In 2019, Mann yet again won his MP seat from Punjab. As Punjab goes to polls shortly, AAP is seen as a formidable challenger to mainstream political parties. Mann (48), who is also president of the AAP's Punjab unit, will play a decisive role and will be eying the chief ministerial post if his party comes to power. It has so far resisted naming the CM face. MP Bhagwant Mann has been the one to call a spade a spade, even if it has meant expressing displeasure against his party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In 2018, Mann resigned from the post of party president after Arvind Kejriwal apologised to former Punjab minister and Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia for allegations against him for his involvement in drug trade. Mann then tweeted saying, “I am resigning as a president of AAP Punjab ...but my fight against drug mafia and all kinds of corruption in Punjab will continue as an ‘Aam Aadmi’ of Punjab”. Mann stands vindicated today with the state crime branch booking Majithia in a drug case. In the run to the assembly polls, Kejriwal’s apology, that Mann protested then, has now offered fodder to the opposition parties. Mann has had his share of controversies in politics. He has been targeted as an alcoholic and has often been accused of reeking of alcohol, even as Mann claims to be only a social drinker. Visuals of an MP getting close to Mann to smell him of alcohol while he was speaking in the Lok Sabha had left many amused. Perhaps realising the extent of damage the label was doing to him, his party and his political prospects, Mann in 2019 vowed not to drink and claimed to have turned into a teetotaler, what Kejriwal called "a great sacrifice for the people of Punjab". The MP from Sangrur successfully runs an NGO “Lok Lehar Foundation” that is aimed at helping kids prey to physical deformities resulting from pollution of groundwater in the border areas of Punjab. Mann had earned applause for helping Punjabi youth stranded in Iraq and other parts of the world when he had facilitated their return. The recent spectacular debut of the AAP in capital city Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, where it won a majority of seats, has buoyed hopes of the AAP in Punjab. The party has 20 MLAs in Punjab. Before he jumped into politics, Mann was a popular name in Punjab, especially in the hinterland, for his side-splitting comic acts. His quick-witted jibes and satirical postscripts — targeted at his opponents — are a crowd favourite. Mann, a college dropout, became famous through a popular television comedy contest where he competed with fellow comedian Kapil Sharma. After prolonged estranged bouts in his marriage, Mann and his wife Inderpreet Kaur separated in 2015. He has two children. MP Bhagwant Mann, who is also the president of the Punjab unit of the AAP, has been the one to call a spade a spade, even if it has meant expressing displeasure against his party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. In 2018, Mann resigned from the post of the party president following an apology by Arvind Kejriwal to former Punjab minister and Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia for levelling allegations of his involvement in the drug trade. Mann then tweeted saying, “I am resigning as a president of AAP Punjab ...but my fight against drug mafia and all kinds of corruption in Punjab will continue as an ‘Aam Aadmi’ of Punjab”. Mann stands ‘vindicated’ today with the state crime branch booking Majithia in a drug case. In the run to the assembly polls, Kejriwal’s apology, that Mann protested then, has now offered fodder to the opposition parties. Mann has had his share of controversies in politics. He has been targeted as an alcoholic, even as Mann claims to be only a social drinker. He has often been accused of reeking alcohol. Visuals of an MP getting close to Mann to smell him of alcohol while he was speaking in the Lok Sabha had left many amused. Perhaps realizing the extent of the damage he was doing to himself, his party and his political prospects, Mann in 2019 vowed not to drink and claimed to have turned into a teetotaler, something that Kejriwal commented saying ‘it was a great sacrifice for the people of Punjab’.     The MP from Sangrur successfully runs an NGO “Lok Lehar Foundation” that is aimed at helping kids with physical deformities, essentially as a result of pollution of groundwater in the border areas of Punjab. Mann had earned applause from people for helping Punjabi youth stranded in Iraq and other parts of the world. He had facilitated their return to Punjab. The recent spectacular debut of the AAP in capital city Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, where it won a majority of seats, has buoyed hopes of the AAP in Punjab. The party has 20 MLA in Punjab. Bhagwant Mann’s image as a leader has remained free of the taint of corruption. His lifestyle sans any ostentation and flamboyance makes him a mass leader. In 2014, Mann won his seat with the highest margin. His narrative and public posturing remain simple, straightforward and appealing to the people. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-bhagwant-manns-mass-appeal-propel-aap-to-power-in-punjab-1066884.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||After Uttar Pradesh bananas catch PM’s eye, farmer seeks to treat him to it||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video interaction with farmers across the country during the release of funds under the PM-KISAN scheme on Saturday witnessed a lighter moment when a Lucknow farmer wanted to treat the PM to special bananas grown by him. The farmers at various centres across the country had their agricultural products, including fruits, vegetables and crops displayed on stalls for the Prime Minister to inspect them. As the Lucknow farmer Dharam Chand’s stall caught the PM’s attention, he asked, “You have kept so many products here. Have all these been grown by small farmers?" To this, an elated Dharm Chand, a member of Uttar Pradesh Farmers' Producer Organisation said all the items have indeed been grown by small farmers. Attracted by the size of bananas on the stall, Modi observed that they appear to be quite big. "Sir, this is a branded banana. It is called 'naveen kelaa”. Please give me a chance, please call me, I will bring the banana for you,” an effusive Dharm Chand gushed, triggering laughter among the audience, besides a smile on the PM’s face. "The confidence with which you are speaking -- and the farmers of the country are listening to you -- everybody will get inspiration. You have done value addition to the hard work of farmers and given a new strength (to them)," PM Modi told Dharam Chand approvingly. Replying to the PM’s observation, Dharm Chand said farmers are the capital of the FPOs. "We provide high-yielding seeds to farmers. We also motivate them to do organic farming. We also cultivate flowers," he said. Asked by the PM how flowers are marketed, he said they are sold in the local 'phool mandi' (flower market). On the occasion of the release of the 10th instalment of financial aid under the PM-KISAN scheme, Prime Minister Modi on Saturday released over Rs 20,900 crore to more than 10.09 crore farmers across the country. Modi released the amount to beneficiaries at an event held through video conference. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible farmer families in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The money is transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries. During the virtual event, the Prime Minister also released an equity grant of more than Rs 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), benefiting 1.24 lakh farmers. The virtual event was attended by as many as nine chief ministers, several ministers from different states, and representatives of agricultural institutions. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-uttar-pradesh-bananas-catch-pm-s-eye-farmer-seeks-to-treat-him-to-it-1066887.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||My party is poor: Mayawati on why she is yet to kickstart UP election campaign||Mayawati has been facing criticism from within her party and opponents as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is yet to begin its election campaign as opposed to her rivals who have already kickstarted their campaign. BJP has been holding 'Jan Vishwas Yatras' across the state, while its top leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have been addressing public meetings and launching developmental projects. SP president Akhilesh Yadav has also been holding 'Vijay Rath Yatra' in different parts of the state, besides addressing joint rallies with his alliance partners Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also addressed several public meetings in the state besides holding women meets at different places to woo female voters. Mayawati, however, has not addressed any public meeting in nearly three months. The last time she had addressed a public meeting was in October. The BSP supremo's long absence has prompted her opponents to question her will to fight the election and also termed it as an indication that she has already conceded defeat in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. "We are lagging behind the other parties....our voters are being wooed by our opponents...we need to launch our campaign immediately," said a UP BSP leader while speaking to DH here on Saturday. BJP leader and union minister Amit Shah had said in a rally at Moradabad that Mayawati confined herself to her home as it was very cold outside.  "Almost all the senior leaders of the BSP have left the party.....Mayawati knows that her party does not stand any chance in the forthcoming polls....this is why she has not yet launched her party's election campaign," said a senior SP leader here. Mayawati, however, came out with an explanation for her absence in the electoral field. "My party is poor....it does not have funds like the BJP or others...if I hold rallies like them then it will incur financial burden on us," she said on Saturday. "Besides, our style of campaigning is different from other parties....we do not copy other parties...our workers are active at the grassroots level," she added. BSP won only 19 seats in the 2017 Assembly elections but as many as 15 of its MLAs either shifted allegiance or were expelled on charges of anti-party activities. Senior leaders like Ram Achal Rajbhar, former UP BSP president, and Lalji Verma, once a close confidante of Mayawati, have joined the SP along with half a dozen other BSP legislators. Others switched loyalty to the BJP. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-party-is-poor-mayawati-on-why-she-is-yet-to-kickstart-up-election-campaign-1066892.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Naxals on back boot, large part of Bastar free of their menace: Chhattisgarh CM||Claiming that a major portion of the Bastar region was now free of naxal insurgency, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday hailed the security forces for their successes against the rebels. He was addressing a gathering of state police and paramilitary personnel on the occasion of New Year at Police Parade Ground here. His government has changed Chhattisgarh's image as an insurgency-affected state, Baghel said. “I am happy that our police have been doing excellent work in naxal-affected areas. Naxalism is not just a law and order problem, but also a political and social problem. Security forces have set up camps in Maoist strongholds which pushed the rebels on the back foot,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in an official release. “Now the forest-dwellers, mostly tribals (in naxal-affected areas), consider security personnel as their friends and understand that security personnel have been deployed there for their own safety. "This all could become possible because the police are helping locals, and development works, including the construction of roads, bridges and culverts, are taking place. A major portion of Bastar has got rid of the naxal menace,” Baghel said. Earlier, when it came to Chhattisgarh, people outside the state spoke only about naxalism, "but our government has changed this thinking and this image of the state," he said. Now people look at Bastar with hope of development as amenities like roads, hospitals, schools, PDS (ration) shops are reaching the area, claimed Baghel, who became chief minister in 2018. “Our strategy is to eliminate naxalism and carry out development without shedding blood,” he added. The chief minister on this occasion launched the mobile app 'Abhivyakti' (expression), developed by the state police for women's safety, the release said. The app provides the facility of contacting police immediately in case of emergency. It will be available through 'Dial 112' emergency police service number in the districts of Raipur, Rajnandgaon, Kabirdham, Mahasamund, Durg, Bilaspur, Korba, Raigarh, Janjgir, Surguja and Bastar.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-on-back-boot-large-part-of-bastar-free-of-their-menace-chhattisgarh-cm-1066895.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Registration for vaccination of 15-18 age group begins||Registration for vaccination of children in the 15-18 age group against Covid-19 began on Saturday on the Co-WIN portal as India saw a single-day rise of 22,775 new Covid-19 cases, the highest since October 6. While Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter, asking people to register children in this particular age group for whom vaccination starts on January 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking at a separate event, expressed confidence that Covid cannot impede the pace of India's development even as there are 'challenges" from the pandemic. He said while the country will fight the pandemic with full vigilance and taking all precautions, it will also meet its national interests. He also recalled how India geared up in 2021 to meet the challenge of the pandemic. "On the occasion of New Year, registration is being started on the Co-WIN portal for immunization of children against #Covid19 in the age group of 15 to 18 years from today. I request the family members to register the eligible children for vaccination. #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine," Mandaviya tweeted on a day when the number of active cases surpassed one lakh. New year greetings to everyone. May this year be filled with joy, happiness and good health for everyone. Have a great 2022. With 161 fresh Omicron infections, its tally in the country shot up to 1,431. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,48,61,579, while the active cases increased to 1,04,781. The Central government has already directed all states and union territories to set up round-the-clock Rapid Antigen Test booths at different locations, engage medical and paramedical staff, and encourage the use of home test kits for symptomatic individuals. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday in his missive to states said this is "critical time" to strengthen the efforts in curbing the spread of the infection and asked them to ensure that the existing Covid dedicated health infrastructure is revisited and necessary action be taken to ensure its operational readiness. He said that in order to address a "potential surge in cases" states are advised to initiate creation of field/makeshift hospitals. "States may also consider leveraging hotel rooms and other accommodations linked with the Covid dedicated hospitals in the government and the private sector" to cater to patients having mild to moderate symptoms. "To contain the spread of infection, the implementation of containment activities at the field level is essential," the letter said, which also directed for planning a sufficient number of quarantine facilities across the country. Noting that a sufficient number of cases may require home isolation, the health secretary also asked the states to set up special teams to monitor all home isolation cases. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/registration-for-vaccination-of-15-18-age-group-begins-1066905.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi: Second wave wreaked havoc in 2021, Omicron shadows 2022||The deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc in Delhi early last year, snuffing out many lives, burdening hospitals and doctors beyond their capacities even as the vaccination exercise injected some degree of confidence in a bid to bring life back on track. However, just when the country and the capital city may have thought that they had put their worst behind them, fear of an imminent third wave now looms large with a surge in new infections of Covid, and cases of the new Omicron variant of the virus, which is highly transmissible, might derail the recovery made in the last few months. India has recorded over 1,400 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Maharashtra has recorded the maximum number of 454 Omicron cases followed by Delhi (351), Kerala (118) and Gujarat (115). About 38 per cent of the total samples analysed at various genome sequencing laboratories in Delhi from December 21-28, have been detected with Omicron variant, according to official documents. Of the 468 samples analysed during this period, the Delta variant of coronavirus has been detected in 31 per cent of these samples, and rest 30 per cent constituted other variants, according to the documents. A senior doctor here, on the condition of anonymity, has claimed that Omicron variant of Covid has "begun to spread in the community" as its carriers are mostly asymptomatic. The sharp spike in cases of Covid-19 and of Omicron variant particularly and ensuing restrictions imposed by the government, is serving as a cruel reminder of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country when beds scarcity, oxygen shortage and a huge number of deaths, had given sleepless nights to people and government authorities alike. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, however, has asserted that Delhi is fully prepared to deal with the Covid situation. The second wave had begun from April, 2021 and following a massive spike in cases, lockdown was imposed in the national capital to curb the spread of infection with Delta variant being dreaded more then. Daily cases jumped into the range of several thousands as the wave took a more brutal turn with each passing day. On April 1, the cumulative death toll due to coronavirus infection in Delhi had stood at 11,036, which more than doubled to 24,299 by June 1, according to official data. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had spiralled up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to official figures. And now with daily cases count registering a huge spike in the past few days, and positivity rate rising faster, the government has again brought in restrictions under the 'yellow alert' category of its graded response action plan. Delhi on Friday recorded 1,796 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 22, and zero death while the positivity rate mounted to 2.44 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On Thursday, 1,313 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 1.73 per cent, as per officials figures. The daily cases count had breached the 1000-mark after a gap of seven months. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on December 28 declared 'yellow alert' under which schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms shall be closed, shops dealing in non-essential items will open on odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city. The spike in daily cases has come, months after the Dusshera and Diwali festivities, and days ahead of the New Year. Till restrictions were imposed, people continued to throng markets and held big gatherings, despite health experts cautioning them to not lower their guard. Doctors treating Covid patients at leading government and private facilities in the city have already been saying that a "sense of complacency" has again crept in among a large section of citizens despite witnessing the "horrors of the second wave" of Covid. Health experts have also urged to expedite vaccination and that people who are not yet inoculated against Covid, to get their shots at the earliest. The nationwide vaccination exercise had begun from January 16. Doctors reckon that the vaccination has given some sort of protective layer to people, and though Omicron variant is highly transmissible, most of the cases are asymptomatic, and not needing much hospital admission. First dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to all people eligible for vaccination in Delhi, Kejriwal had said on December 24, as he hailed the healthcare and frontline workers who have been in the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. However, towards the fag end of the year, a large number of these healthcare workers -- resident doctors at various hospitals here -- have been protesting by boycotting work for the last two weeks, demanding expediting of the NEET PG counselling process, which has affected patient care services, amid the Omicron scare.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-second-wave-wreaked-havoc-in-2021-omicron-shadows-2022-1066909.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Bail without reasonings violation of natural justice: SC||The Supreme Court has said that while elaborate reasons may not be assigned for grant of bail, providing such a relief to an accused without reasonings would be violation of principle of natural justice, allowing complainant or prosecution to assail the order in a higher court. "While considering an application for bail, the court has to exercise discretion in a judicious manner and in accordance with the settled principles of law having regard to the crime alleged to be committed by the accused on the one hand and ensuring purity of the trial of the case on the other," a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said. The court explained the legal principles while allowing a plea by the mother of a deceased person, Rupesh Kumar against grant of bail by the Patna High Court to Pappu Kumar and another person in murder and attempt to murder case. In a recent judgement — the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna — said it is not necessary for a court to give elaborate reasons while granting bail, particularly when the case is at the initial stage and the allegations of the offences by the accused would not have been crystalised as such. "There cannot be elaborate details recorded to give an impression that the case is one that would result in a conviction or, by contrast, in an acquittal while passing an order on an application for grant of bail," the court said.  At the same time, a balance would have to be struck between the nature of the allegations made against the accused; severity of the punishment if the allegations are proved beyond reasonable doubt and would result in a conviction; reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being influenced by the accused; tampering of the evidence; the frivolity in the case of the prosecution; criminal antecedents of the accused; and a prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge against the accused, the bench added. Check ou latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bail-without-reasonings-violation-of-natural-justice-sc-1066913.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Kupwara's Jumagund area||A terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. The encounter took place in Jumagund area of the north Kashmir district. "One unidentified terrorist killed in an encounter at Jumagund area of Kupwara. Army & Police are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice," the Kashmir Zone Police said on Twitter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-kupwaras-jumagund-area-1066917.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||BJP targets Samajwadi Party, says those involved in 'red alerts' have been so shamed||The BJP on Saturday took a swipe at the Samajwadi Party, claiming that under the Yogi Adityanath government's rule in Uttar Pradesh, anti-social elements, who used to brazenly engage in "red alerts", are running away. With the BJP and the SP engaged in a war of words over the recent raids on a couple of businessmen over their alleged political links, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said those involved in "red alerts" have been so shamed by the "foul smell of perfumes" that they feel embarrassed showing their face. Samajwadi Party (SP) members sport red caps, and the BJP has often used the jibe of "red alert" to flay the party for its alleged protection to some criminals when it was in power. Terror and hooliganism are the identity of these people, Pradhan said in tweets, mocking SP leader Akhilesh Yadav. He is the BJP's in-charge for the coming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Pradhan said the BJP has humbly taken out "Jan Vishwas" to win over people's confidence. The SP had recently expelled some of its members from the party for their alleged hooliganism.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-targets-samajwadi-party-says-those-involved-in-red-alerts-have-been-so-shamed-1066933.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi threatens dharna against governor for withholding nod to bill for regularising employees||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday threatened to stage a 'dharna' against Governor Banwarilal Purohit for withholding his assent to a bill for regularising 36,000 contractual employees. Channi also accused Purohit of dithering on approving the bill under pressure from the BJP. The Punjab assembly had passed 'the Punjab Protection and Regularization of Contractual Employees Bill-2021' last November. This Bill was aimed at regularising 36,000 employees working on contract or on adhoc, temporary or daily basis in different government departments. Addressing the media here for giving the 100-day report card of his regime, Channi said his government had framed the law for the regularisation of 36,000 contractual employees. “But the governor has stopped the file (relating to the bill) because of some political reasons,” alleged Channi. The CM said he along with ministers had already met the governor on the issue while the chief secretary had also met the governor twice. Channi said he along with ministers will meet the governor again on Monday. “If he does not do it (clear the file) then it is politics. If we have to stage a 'dharna', we will do it but we have to regularise employees. A law has been framed,” he said. “It is his (governor) responsibility to clear the file. Earlier I thought he was busy somewhere. But as I have already met him and the CS visited him, it is now politics. Because there is pressure from the BJP, he should not do politics,” Channi said. Ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, the Channi government has been facing the wrath of his political rivals for not being able to fulfil his promise of regularization of contractual employees. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-threatens-dharna-against-governor-for-withholding-nod-to-bill-for-regularising-employees-1066939.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi BJP to raise issues of rising Covid cases, liquor policy in 2-day Assembly session||The BJP is set to seek answers from Kejriwal government on rising Covid cases, public transport situation, and excise policy, in the coming session of the Delhi Assembly, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said on Saturday. The two-day session will commence from Monday. Bidhuri suggested increasing the length of the session by three more days if all issues are not covered within the original session. "We will seek the government's reply on public issues. It is accountable for increasing cases of corona, public transport, and liquor policy," he said. “The opposition will seek answers from the government on five issues in the two-day session. People want answers on these five issues and the government will not be allowed to run away from discussing these issues in the Assembly,” he said. A meeting of the BJP Legislature Party was held under Bidhuri’s chairmanship, in which issues to be raised in the Assembly were discussed. Other issues for which the notice has been given in the Assembly are death of children due to wrong medicine in Mohalla clinics, and "malpractices" with the farmers of Delhi, Bidhuri said. Bidhuri alleged that even when corona cases are increasing in Delhi, the government machinery has not yet swung into action. He said the government has imposed restrictions but has not made alternate arrangements for the public. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-to-raise-issues-of-rising-covid-cases-liquor-policy-in-2-day-assembly-session-1066948.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||'Modi hai to mehengai hai': Congress' jibe on PM over inflation||The Congress Saturday attacked the Central government over price rise, saying both Prime Minister Narendra "Modi and inflation are harmful for the country". "Modi hai to mehengai hai (If there's Modi, there's inflation)," Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinet said, also criticising the government over the Goods and services Tax terming it 'Gabbar Singh tax'. Talking to reporters here, she said the Modi government's New Year gift to the poor are recession, unemployment and inflation. "Both Modi and inflation are harmful for the country," the Congress spokesman said. She said that 10 years ago when the Congress was in power, the unemployment rate was two per cent, but it has reached about 10 per cent in 2021. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-hai-to-mehengai-hai-congress-jibe-on-pm-over-inflation-1066950.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi government's GST dept unearths Rs 347 crore 'fake billing scam'||The Delhi government's Goods and Services Tax (GST) department on Saturday unearthed a Rs 347-crore "fake billing scam" involving 11 firms and one person was arrested in connection with it, according to an official statement. "The firms were engaged in circular trading and issuing fake bills to claim fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) to evade taxes," the statement said. The proprietor of "Super Steel India Ltd, Mayank Jain, believed to be one of the kingpins of the scam, has been arrested", it said. Jain has been remanded to 14 days judicial custody. More arrests may follow during the course of investigation, the statement said. The enforcement officials from the Delhi State GST Department unearthed the Rs 347-crore "fake GST billing scam" spread across 11 firms, it said. The firms were engaged in issuing "fake or inflated" invoices, without actual supply of goods. They also used to settle unaccounted transactions in cash, the statement said. It was also found that several of the 11 firms belonged to one person and could have been set-up for creating long tax chains to avoid detection under tax laws, it was claimed in the statement. Through a complex data-driven investigation, investigators of the department uncovered that four of the 11 firms had filed the tax returns from computers with the same IP address, six firms had the same contact number and four were using the same email-id, according to the statement.  It said that another two firms even had the same bank account number. In a secret verification conducted by department inspectors, none of the 11 firms were found to be existing at their registered address, the statement said. "The total tax evasion in the chain is expected to be close to Rs 40 crores and  the figure could go up as the upstream and downstream dealers of these firms are further scrutinised," it said. The GST department will also take up investigation of other firms in the business chains of these "suspicious" firms, including those outside Delhi, the statement said.  The department recently established a dedicated 'Fake Firms Investigation' cell to detect and take action in fraudulent ITC cases. Another case of Rs 2.5 crore tax evasion was unearthed and recovered from a prominent mobile phone supplier by the enforcement cell on Friday, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-governments-gst-dept-unearths-rs-347-crore-fake-billing-scam-1066953.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Three-member panel on Vaishno Devi shrine stampede to submit report within a week||The three-member panel set up to probe the stampede at the famous Vaishno Devi shrine has been asked to submit its report to the Jammu and Kashmir government within a week, according to an official order issued on Saturday. The committee headed by the principal secretary (home) was constituted by the Lt Governor Manoj Sinha following the stampede at the shrine atop the Trikuta hills in Reasi district in the early hours of Saturday that left 12 pilgrims dead and over a dozen others injured. In an order issued this evening on behalf of the J&K government, General Administration Department Principal Secretary Manoj Kumar Dwivedi said the high-level panel has been constituted to ascertain the reasons behind the tragic incident. The other two members of the committee are Jammu Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer and Additional Director General of Police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh. "The Committee shall examine in detail the causes/reasons behind the incident (stampede) and point out the lapses and fix the responsibility thereof," the order said. It said the committee would submit its report within a week's time to the government and also suggest appropriate standard operating procedures and measures for preventing the recurrence of such incidents in future.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-member-panel-on-vaishno-devi-shrine-stampede-to-submit-report-within-a-week-1066954.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Will ensure good, free education to children of poor in Punjab, says AAP||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that if voted to power in Punjab, his party will ensure good and free of cost education to the children of the poor and the downtrodden. "It is only through good education that equality can be brought in society and the right to equality as enshrined in the Constitution can be ensured in the true sense," Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is the main opposition party in the state, said. Assembly polls in the state are slated to take place this year. Kejriwal, who is the chief minister of Delhi, also paid obeisance at the Ram Tirath temple, the ashram of Maharishi Valmiki and the birthplace of Lord Ram's sons Luv and Kush here. On his visit, the Sant Samaj honoured Kejriwal. "I guarantee the education of all Dalit children to fulfil the dreams of Maharishi Valmiki and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Equality can be brought in the society only by giving good education to children of the poor and the downtrodden," he said. Addressing the media, Kejriwal said, "Both Maharishi Valmiki and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar gave utmost importance to education. Babasaheb Ambedkar's dream was that every child of India, whether he is poor or rich, should get good education." But it is very unfortunate that today due to the bad condition of government schools, children of Dalits and the poor are not getting good education, he claimed. "All parties made many promises related to better education for Dalit children but did not take any steps to actually make it possible," the AAP leader said Kejriwal made four promises related to the education of Dalit children, sanitation workers, seers and people engaged sewer maintenance. Emphasising on the education of poor and downtrodden children, Kejriwal made the first promise and said, it is only through good education that equality can be brought in society. "Therefore, the AAP, if voted to power, will provide an opportunity to all poor and downtrodden children of Punjab to get good and free education," he said. Kejriwal agreed with the Sant Samaj's demand to dissolve the Ram Tirath temple shrine board. "The AAP will accept the demand of the Sant Samaj and dissolve the shrine board and hand over the responsibility of running the temple to society," he promised. Kejriwal made the third promise for sanitation workers. Temporary sanitation workers of Punjab are forced to work on very low wages. They also have to struggle a lot to meet their daily needs, he said. The AAP will make sure that all the sanitation workers are regularised, Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said, "It is very unfortunate that even in the 21st century, sewer men have to clean drains by hand. In Delhi, we have provided kits to all sewer men. When the AAP forms government, no sewer man in Punjab will have to clean the mess by hand. The kits will be provided to all the sewer men." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-ensure-good-free-education-to-children-of-poor-in-punjab-says-aap-1066965.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt to offer free online yoga classes to Covid patients in home isolation||The Delhi government will provide free and personalised online yoga classes to Covid-19 patients in home isolation to boost their immunity, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. This comes weeks after the Delhi government launched the 'Dilli Ki Yogshala' programme to help the city residents practise yoga regularly under the guidance of trained teachers. Sisodia said as soon as a Covid-19 case will be reported, the patient will receive an SMS from the Delhi government with a link to register for a yoga class. Each class will have about 25-35 people who will be taught by trained yoga instructors. "The number of Covid patients is rising in Delhi, but they are mostly asymptomatic and are being advised to stay in home isolation. Along with medical treatment, we will help them boost their immunity through online yoga sessions," he said during an interaction with yoga instructors of 'Dilli Ki Yogshala'. According to an official statement, the deputy chief minister said the slots for online classes will be released soon and directed officials to prepare a plan of action. People can choose their slot and they will be able to attend classes as per their convenience. Under the pilot project of 'Dilli Ki Yogashala', yoga teachers are already conducting classes at 65 places across the national capital. The vision of the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government is to make yoga a part of every Delhiite's daily life, Sisodia said. "Dilli Ki Yogshala is changing the lives of people in Delhi. It will be launched for all Delhi residents soon and will bring a yoga revolution in the capital," he said. Currently, 61 yoga instructors trained by the Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU) are conducting sessions under 'Dilli Ki Yogshala'. The yoga instructors told Sisodia that 'Dilli Ki Yogshala' has given an opportunity to a large number of housewives to learn yoga, with most attending classes during the afternoon, when they are free.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-offer-free-online-yoga-classes-to-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-1066968.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Army soldier dies by suicide in Gwalior, probe underway||A 20-year-old soldier of the Indian Army allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in a cantonment area in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior district, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in the Murar cantonment area of Gwalior on Friday, an official said. Manish Singh, a resident of Bihar, went missing from his barrack on Friday evening and when he did not return till the next day morning, his colleagues launched a search for him, Murar police station in-charge Shailendra Bhargava said. Singh was found hanging from a tree in a deserted area near the barracks, he said. A preliminary probe has revealed that the deceased had spoken to his mother before taking the extreme step, the official said, adding that the police have seized the deceased soldier's mobile phone and other documents. Further investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause for the suicide, Bhargava said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-soldier-dies-by-suicide-in-gwalior-probe-underway-1066971.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Scuffle between 2 groups caused stampede, only 35K pilgrims allowed due to Covid: Vaishno Devi Board||The Saturday stampede that killed 12 people occurred “due to a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims”, the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said in a statement, emphasising only 35,000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for the yatra against the normal capacity of 50,000 in view of the pandemic. The board said Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the Chairman of the Board, was informed about the stampede at 3 am and he has been continuously monitoring the situation since then. “National Green Tribunal has capped the normal capacity of Yatra per day to 50,000. Pertinently, keeping in view the Covid-19 Pandemic, 35,000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for yatra on 31st December 2021 and for 1st Jan. 2022,” SMVDSB said in a detailed statement on the tragic incident. It said around 2:15 am on January 1, the stampede happened near Gate No 3 at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. “The unfortunate incident, due to a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims, resulted in the stampede. In this ill-fated incident, a total of 12 pilgrims lost their lives and 16 others were injured," it said. The statement said the Board as well as the Reasi District Administration promptly shifted the injured pilgrims immediately to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Kakryal, after providing first aid at Medical Unit Bhawan, for specialised treatment. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scuffle-between-2-groups-caused-stampede-only-35k-pilgrims-allowed-due-to-covid-vaishno-devi-board-1066973.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||5.1 magnitude earthquake hits Jammu and Kashmir; No damage reported||An earthquake of magnitude 5.1 hit Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday but there were no reports of any loss of life or damage to property, officials said. The epicentre of the quake was on the Afghanistan-Tajikistan border, they said. The earthquake of magnitude 5.1, which occurred at 6:45:24 pm, was also felt in J&K, the officials said. It hit at the coordinates of 36.55 degrees north and 71.20 degrees east at a depth of 216 km, they added. There are no reports of loss of life or any damage to property, the officials said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/51-magnitude-earthquake-hits-jammu-and-kashmir-no-damage-reported-1066975.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Rampuri knives used to loot only the poor under Samajwadi Party regime: Yogi Adityanath||During the Samajwadi Party regime in Uttar Pradesh, the famous ‘Rampuri’ knives were used only for grabbing land of the poor while the present state government is promoting it under the ODOP scheme to enrich people, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday. CM Adityanath made the blistering remark in Rampur, the home turf of veteran SP leader Azam Khan while inaugurating some completed projects and laying foundation stones for some new ones, totalling 25 developmental works worth Rs 95 crore. He also mocked SP chief Akhilesh Yadav over his remarks earlier that he too could have been built the Ram temple, saying he could have thought of it only if he had the time after developing graveyards. Referring to the “Rampuri chakku” – a type of famous knife named after Rampur district, Adityanath said the sharp-edged weapon has been included in the one-district-one-product scheme of his government for the betterment of the people of the area. “We follow the 'guru Parampara (tradition)' for using the Rampuri knife under the ODOP of the district). Good people use it to protect the country and religion,” he said. “But wrong people misuse it for looting and capturing the properties of the poor and downtrodden. It became a tool for capturing the land of the poor during the SP govt,” he said. Attacking SP chief Yadav, the chief minister said, “I heard "babua" telling people that he too could have got the Ram Manidir built. He could have surely built the temple had he got time after building graveyards.” “It’s amazing that those who did not hesitate in firing bullets at Hindus in Ayodhya are now talking of getting a Ram mandir built there,” he said. Comparing the performance of his government with that of the previous ones, Adityanath said, “The difference is clear. Before 2017, the accused of Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur riots used to be facilitated the CM’s residence.” “But after 2017, the farmers are honoured and Gurbani is recited there,” he added. “Our government adopted a zero-tolerance policy to eliminate crime and criminals, wrested control of the poor’s property from landgrabbers and razed their illegal properties the ground with bulldozers,” the chief minister said. Targeting Yadav yet again, he said “Babua' was saying “when he will form the government, free electricity would be provided but when his government was there before 2017, he gave no electricity at all”. “It was our government that provided electricity and built toilets,” he added. Earlier on Saturday, Yadav had said if voted to power, his government will give 300 free units of electricity to domestic consumers, and the electricity bill on irrigation will be waived. Referring to the seizure of unaccounted and uncountable bundles of cash during raids by taxation sleuths at some perfume traders and manufacturers, including an SP MLC, CM Yogi made a fierce attack on the SP and asked them to apologize to the public. “We are recovering money from the people who were looting public and buried it in the walls. In the SP government, the youth got cheated and did not get the job," he said. Highlighting the BJP works in the Centre and the state, Adityanath said, “After Modi ji came to power, the Kartarpur corridor associated with Guru Nanak Dev Ji was opened, while the previous governments used to exploit the poor, encourage rioters, inspire terror attacks and drop cases against terrorists.” Questioning the earlier Congress government in the Centre, the CM asked, “Why they did not abrogate the legislative provision in Kashmir during its regime? When the SP and BSP used to support Congress, why didn't they end it? The work of abolishing Article 370 has to be done by the Narendra Modi government.”  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rampuri-knives-used-to-loot-only-the-poor-under-samajwadi-party-regime-yogi-adityanath-1066980.html
01-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi's South district reports highest Covid-19 cases in single day at 372||The national capital's South district has reported the highest number of Covid cases in a single day at 372 while the northeast district had the least at 52, according to official data shared on Saturday, as Delhi sees a major spurt in cases with each passing day. Delhi has so far logged 351 cases of Omicron with it emerging as the dominant variant among samples being genome sequenced here. Out of the 11 districts of the national capital, barring one, all other areas have case figures in three digits.  In a massive surge, Delhi recorded 2,716 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 21, and one died while the positivity rate mounted to 3.64 per cent, according to data shared by the city's health department on Saturday. The daily case count on Saturday breached the 2000-mark after a gap of over seven months. This rise is the highest since May 21 when 3,009 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 4.76 per cent, while 252 deaths were also reported on that day. Out of 2,716 cases reported the previous day, only the northeast district had a case count of less than 100.  South district had the highest number of cases at 372, followed by the west (356), northwest (323), and southeast (314). Shahdara (104) and East districts (173) had cases below 200. Central had 278 cases, New Delhi (263), North (219), and Southwest (262) logged less than 300 cases in a single day. The Delhi government has put special impetus on the 'Test, Track and Treat' strategy with a focus on surveillance, de-alienation of containment zones, isolation of positive cases and close monitoring of home isolation cases so as to break the chain of transmission. Working on the strategy, a number of surveillance teams, comprising officials from the health department, district administrations and civic bodies, have been pressed into contact tracing exercise. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-south-district-reports-highest-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-at-372-1066991.html
01-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Quotes for a Rainbow Nation||Rainbow Nation is a term coined by Nobel laureate, Archbishop, the late Desmond Tutu to describe post-apartheid South Africa. The term was intended to summarise the unity of multi-culturalism and the coming together of people of many different nations. Desmond Tutu was an eloquent and outspoken warrior who was committed to seeing South Africans leave behind the divisive mindset of Black vs White and embracing pluralism. In that sense, India, too, is a Rainbow Nation. In India, there are followers of at least nine religions. Twenty-two languages are officially recognised though there are several more variations of each that are actively spoken in pockets. The beauty of our country is that despite so much diversity, all of us are united under the umbrella of one nation. While most citizens are peace-loving and follow the principle of ‘live and let live’, the shrill voices of a few bigoted, anti-national elements are souring the peace of the country. Ignoring them is a dangerous idea, as they repeatedly take the focus of the country away from progress. Hundreds of Tutu quotes are available over the internet. I have picked a few that seem like the South African icon was directly addressing us Indians, in this critical juncture.  Our maturity will be judged by how well we are able to agree to disagree. Differences are not intended to separate, to alienate. We are different precisely in order to realise our need of one another.  If you want peace, you don’t talk to your friends. You talk to your enemies.  If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor. If an elephant has its foot on the tail of a mouse and you say that you are neutral, the mouse will not appreciate your neutrality. There comes a point where we need to stop just pulling people out of the river. We need to go upstream and find out why they’re falling in.  My father always used to say, Don’t raise your voice. Improve your argument. I can’t control what happens to me, but I can control how I respond to it.  Religion is like a knife: you can either use it to cut bread or stick in someone’s back.  When we see others as the enemy, we risk becoming what we hate.  True peace must be anchored in justice and an unwavering commitment to universal rights for all humans, regardless of ethnicity, religion, gender, national origin or any other identity attribute. How could you have a soccer team if all were goalkeepers? How would it be an orchestra if all were French horns?  The price of freedom is eternal vigilance. The sad reality is that great souls like Desmond Tutu are universally venerated, but seldom listened to. Can we hope 2022 will be different? Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/quotes-for-a-rainbow-nation-1066637.html
01-01-2022||South||Vijayan slams Sangh Parivar over attacks on Christian community||Kerala Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday hit out at the Sangh Parivar over the recent attacks on the Christian community across the country and said such hate crimes will not work in the state. Addressing the CPI-M delegates meeting of the Palakkad district committee, Vijayan said while the Sangh Parivar activists attack Christians in other states, the BJP leaders in Kerala pretend to care for them. Citing data from the Delhi-based United Christians Forum, Vijayan said there were 142 incidents of attack against Christians in the country in 2015 which increased to 478 this year. "The Sangh Parivar has been attacking the Christian community across the country. However, here in our state, the BJP leaders are roaming around pretending to care about the Christians. In Kerala, we maintain a strong secular society. Such attacks will be strongly opposed in the state and such hate crimes will not work here," Vijayan said. He said Kerala has proved that there is an alternative to the BJP. "The people of the country have been pondering over the question of an alternative to the communal ideology of the Sangh Parivar. The country needs a strong ideology to oppose the communal agenda of the BJP. Only the Left parties have a strong ideology to oppose the Sangh Parivar," Vijayan said. He said the Congress cannot become an alternative to the BJP due to the similarity on the financial policy. "During this Christmas, there has been widespread attacks by the Sangh Parivar against the Christian community in the country. On December 24, they burned the effigy of Santa Claus. In Varanasi, Sangh Parivar activists barged into a hospital where Christmas celebrations were happening and raised Jai Sriram slogans alleging that conversions were happening. Many such incidents happened in Uttar Pradesh," he said. The communist leader also listed attacks on the minority community at Ambala in Haryana, where an unidentified gang destroyed the historic church there. "In Kurukshetra, they barged into a church and stopped the Christmas celebrations. They sang Hindu devotional songs there. In Gurugram, Sangh Parivar activists barged into a school where Christmas celebrations were happening," Vijayan said. Vijayan dismissed the Sangh Parivar allegation that the Christian community was enaged in massive conversions. "They claim that conversion is happening on a massive scale. Seven-and-a-half decades are over since we got independence and still the total Christian population is only around 2.3 per cent," Vijayan said. He said if the Christian community, which has been engaged in educational, health services and charitable organisations, were into conversions on a massive scale, then this percentage would have increased. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-slams-sangh-parivar-over-attacks-on-christian-community-1066749.html
01-01-2022||South||5 dead, 10 injured in fire incident at Tamil Nadu cracker factory||At least five people died in a blast at a firecracker unit in Pudupatti near Sivakasi on Saturday morning. Ten people are seriously injured in the blast. The accident took place on Saturday morning and fire and rescue personnel are working to douse the flame. The firecracker unit is owned by Murugan of Padupatti and the explosion took place at the chemical blending unit. Sivakasi fire station officer, K.P. Balamurugan who is leading the rescue operations, said that the fire and rescue personnel have retrieved three bodies and are searching under the debris. Two people died in the hospital and the condition of 10 others who are admitted with injuries is serious. Fire force teams from Sivakasi and Vathirairuppu stations are leading the rescue operations and 20 units are at the premises. The Nathampatti police have registered a case and commenced investigation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-dead-10-injured-in-fire-incident-at-tamil-nadu-cracker-factory-1066804.html
01-01-2022||South||TN CM Stalin asks Centre to upgrade IMD's technology, says it's unable to give timely forecasts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday urged the union government to upgrade technology and enhance capacity of the Regional Meteorological Centre here to ensure timely weather forecast, saying it is unable to predict 'red alert situation' in advance which hindered preparatory action by the state. Pointing to the surprise heavy rainfall here on December 30, Stalin, in a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah quoted extensively from India Meteorological Department-Regional Meteorological Centre's bulletins of that day. By the time an 'orange alert' was issued at 4.15 PM that day, there was heavy downpour already in Chennai and 3 nearby districts, which led to inundation of many places and total disruption of traffic, he said. While rains started lashing Chennai and its suburbs from afternoon and lasted till late night, the CM said the bulletin issued at noon predicted light to moderate showers in some areas of the city and an alert released at 3.40 PM was about light to moderate rain at isolated places in Chennai and nearby districts for 1-2 hours. The state government relied substantially on alerts issued by IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai for gearing up the administration to handle impending disaster situations arising out of intense rainfall, Stalin said. "A timely alert from IMD helps the state and district administration to take up pre-emptive efforts to ensure the safety of people. We have, however, noted that IMD is unable to predict red alert situation sufficiently in advance giving hardly any time." This is an important issue, Stalin said and added that it has a bearing on the ability of the state government to respond to red alert rainfall situations. The shortcoming in the capability of IMD to "provide accurate real time rainfall forecasting on instances like this is often preventing the state and district administration to take up timely mobilisation of emergency management system." "This results in total disruption of normal life, movement of healthcare support systems and also causing loss of lives and damage to critical infrastructure." Such instances underscored the need for making additional investments in advanced weather prediction mechanism and upgradation of technology being used in the IMD, he said. "In this regard, I request the Government of India to do the needful to enhance the capacity of IMD, Chennai to enable it to make predictions of high alert situations earlier and notify the same to the state government well in time." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-stalin-asks-centre-to-upgrade-imds-technology-says-its-unable-to-give-timely-forecasts-1066822.html
01-01-2022||South||Alappuzha murders: Kerala police unable to make headway||The Kerala police are yet to make any breakthrough in the investigation into the killing of BJP state leader and noted lawyer of Alappuzha bar Ranjith Sreenivasan. Sreenivasan was brutally murdered at his residence in front of his mother, wife, and two daughters on December 19. He was first hit with a hammer on his face by a 12-member assailant team of the Social Democratic Party of India, (SDPI). They then attacked him repeatedly with machete and swords killing him instantly. The crime was in retaliation to the killing of SDPI state secretary K S Shan who was hacked to death allegedly by RSS men on December 18 night. He was first hit with a vehicle and then hacked to death. Alleging that while 12 people, including senior leaders of the RSS, were arrested for Shan's murder, only four SDPI men were arrested in the murder of Ranjith Sreenivasan, the BJP claimed that the police and the CPI-M were trying to save the SDPI workers. ADGP of Kerala police Vijay Sakhare admitted that the SDPI criminals were getting support from outside the state and that the killers of Ranjith may be under such support. BJP state president K Surendran while speaking to IANS, said, "It is a clear case of CPM and the Chief Minister directly supporting the killing squad of SDPI as the Left party had entered into a clandestine political deal with the SDPI during the 2021 Assembly elections and now the CPI-M is reciprocating the SDPI by not arresting the criminals involved in the murder." BJP and RSS are planning mammoth protest marches across the state against the SDPI, CPI-M, Police alliance and to expose this before the people of the state of Kerala. However, political observers have dismissed the claims of BJP and said that both the SDPI and RSS are two sides of the same coin and they thrive because of each other. R Rajendran, a political observer from Kannur, told IANS, "It was earlier the killing fields of Kannur but now the killings have shifted to central Kerala. In Kannur, the killings were mainly between the CPI-M and RSS but the victims were mostly from the OBC, Thiyya community but now the situation is different, it is turning into a Hindu-Muslim communal fight that has to be crushed before it gets out of hands." After criticisms against Kerala police started pouring in, the state police have effected a major shakeup with several police officers losing their positions and new faces replacing them. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-murders-kerala-police-unable-to-make-headway-1066844.html
01-01-2022||South||Will submit replies to court, YSRCP rebel MP on CBI charge sheet||A day after the CBI filed a charge sheet against rebel MP of YSR Congress party (YSRCP) K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, his company Ind-Barath Power (Madras) Limited and 15 others in connection with Rs 947. 71 crore loan fraud, he said on Saturday that he would file his reply to the court on all issues raised in the charge sheet. The MP believes that filing of the charge sheet at this stage augurs well as the matter was pending for the last four years. Stating that entire transactions happened through banks, he said they were informed about the outstanding dues from some companies. He called it a civil dispute between the companies and said he would file a counter with clarity. He remarked there was no need to give any importance to the comments of those who will soon be going to jail. He was apparently referring to the reaction of some YSRCP leaders. The CBI on Friday filed a charge sheet against Raju, then chairman and managing director of Ind-Barath and others for allegedly causing loss of Rs 947.71 crore to a consortium of lenders. Ind-Barath's eight sister companies, then director Madhusudahan Reddy, Sekeo Power Limited, its managing director and two chartered accountants M. Srinivasulu Reddy and Pravin Kumar Jabad were also named in the charge sheet. The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi police had registered the case in October 2018 against five persons, including a Hyderabad-based company and its directors. The CBI took over the probe into the case in April 2019 on the orders of the central government. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigation revealed that Ind-Barath through its chairman and managing director Raju had allegedly availed Rs 947.71 crore from a consortium of lenders led by Power Finance Corporation Limited (PFC) and two other lenders, Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd (REC) and India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited (IIFCL), for setting up a thermal power plant at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu. However, the company neither completed the project nor complied with the terms and conditions of loan agreements. The accused, including the borrower company, allegedly transferred/diverted the disbursed project funds to create fixed deposits with Bank of India and UCO Bank and to pay advances to contractors. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-submit-replies-to-court-ysrcp-rebel-mp-on-cbi-charge-sheet-1066853.html
01-01-2022||South||Vice President marks maiden visit to Lakshadweep, stresses on youth empowerment||On his maiden visit to the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said, everyone must try to visit the islands at least once in their lifetime, adding that it boasts of a "unique confluence of ancient cultural heritage and pristine natural beauty" and that he was humbled by the hospitality of the people. While inaugurating two Arts and Science colleges in Kadmat and Androth islands, Naidu said that the courses being offered will help the students of the islands, especially the girl students, overcome the geographical constraints of the region and pursue quality higher education with employment potential. The Vice President, who is on a two-day tour to the islands, was received by UT Administrator Praful Patel and was accorded a guard of honour on his arrival on Friday. The Vice President, who is also the Chancellor of the Pondicherry University to which the colleges are affiliated, emphasized the importance of skill development among students. He advised the administration to start more short courses in skill development to increase the employability of the islands' youth. Observing the immense eco-tourism and fisheries potential of Lakshadweep, Naidu called upon the youth of the islands to utilise the courses offered in aquaculture, tourism, and hospitality and proactively strive for excellence in these sectors where they have a natural advantage. He expressed confidence that the new colleges "will not only serve the aspirations of the youth of the islands, but have a powerful multiplier effect and redefine the socio-economic landscape of the region. The Vice President emphasised that the development of the Lakshadweep islands is integral to the development of the nation. Naidu lauded the resolve of the people and administration of Lakshadweep for enforcing the complete ban on single-use plastic on the islands. He also appreciated the fact that islands are moving towards 100 per cent shift to green energy in a span of two years. He called for a people's movement for continuing the high cleanliness standards of the islands under the 'Swachh Lakshadweep' program. Highlighting the importance of education, Naidu called upon the youth of the islands to also look for innovative solutions for long-standing issues of the islands such as the scarcity of potable water. He said the "real power of education gets unleashed when knowledge, skills and values are applied to bring about a transformation in the lives of the people. Referring to tourism and fisheries as the great strengths of Lakshadweep, Naidu said, "islands should aspire to become the role model for the country in eco-tourism and sustainable fisheries, without risking its fragile and sensitive biodiversity." He noted various initiatives such as submarine optical fibre connectivity, expansion of airports, strengthening of infrastructure and plan to introduce water villas on some islands as laudable efforts. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vice-president-marks-maiden-visit-to-lakshadweep-stresses-on-youth-empowerment-1066903.html
01-01-2022||South||Krishna idol found broken inside park in Coimbatore, local BJP leader demands action||A life-size idol of Lord Krishna was found vandalised in the early hours of Saturday at Bharati Park here prompting local BJP leaders to seek immediate action against the miscreants. Morning walkers noticed broken pieces of the idol strewn across the place and immediately alerted police. Local BJP leaders, including the party's district president R Nandakumar, arrived at the spot and demanded the police must take action against "communal forces" being supported by a few "anti-Hindu" organisations that are reportedly involved in the act. Police removed the broken pieces and an investigation is under way into the incident. The Hindu Munnani, a right-wing outfit, also condemned the incident and announced it will stage a demonstration in the city on Monday over the issue. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishna-idol-found-broken-inside-park-in-coimbatore-local-bjp-leader-demands-action-1066907.html
01-01-2022||South||Case against BJP, RSS leaders for preventing police from discharging duty in Coimbatore||Police on Saturday said they have registered cases against five people, belonging to the BJP and pro-Hindu outfits, on the charge of preventing the police personnel from entering a private school where the RSS was reportedly holding its 'shakha', which drew flak from various organisations. More than 20 organisations objected to RSS organising the Shakha and staged a demonstration in front of the school on Thursday and Friday. A posse of police was deployed in front of the school on Friday after Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) decided to stage a protest over the issue. Shops and traders downed shutters fearing untoward incidents. However, 19 NTK workers assembled near the school and were detained. Police personnel tried to get near the school gate and were blocked by RSS members at the entrance, resulting in a minor scuffle between them. But, the police said they did not act further as they wanted to avoid unnecessary tension. Based on a complaint, police registered cases against the five people, who included local BJP, RSS leaders and Hindu Munnani functionaries, on the charge of preventing government servants from discharging their duty. The organisations, led by Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, submitted a petition to Chief Educational Officer N Geetha seeking action against the school for allowing the Shakha amid the claim by school that no Shakha was being conducted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-bjp-rss-leaders-for-preventing-police-from-discharging-duty-in-coimbatore-1066916.html
01-01-2022||South||Jagan widens welfare ambit with enhanced pension amount for the poor in Andhra Pradesh||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday raised the monthly old age and widow pensions amount from Rs 2,250 to Rs 2,500. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy launched the distribution of enhanced pensions under YSR Pension Kanuka from Prathipadu in Guntur district and released Rs 1,570 crore towards January disbursements. Addressing a public meeting later, Reddy said that “almost every assurance included in YSRCP's election manifesto has been fulfilled in the last 30 months.” “During the TDP rule, pensions were provided to only 39 lakh beneficiaries, handing just Rs 1000 each, with monthly expenditure of Rs 400 crore. We increased the amount to Rs 2,250 soon after forming the government and have been door delivering pensions to about 62 lakh people at a cost of Rs 1,450 crore every month. With the fresh enhancement to Rs 2500, the monthly expenditure goes up to Rs 1,570 crore,” Reddy said. “We have not held back any welfare initiatives despite the financial difficulties caused by Covid-19 crisis.” The CM said that besides providing financial security to older people, widows, and the disabled, the government is also giving pensions to patients suffering from critical illnesses. “Andhra Pradesh is the only state in the country to come up with such an initiative. On YSR Pension Kanuka alone, we have spent over Rs 45,000 crore since its inception, with no scope for corruption.” Accusing the opposition parties as taking an ‘anti-poor’ approach, Reddy said that his decision for upliftment of the poor like the introduction of English medium in schools, house sites distribution, or even the regulation of cinema ticket prices is being politicised. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-widens-welfare-ambit-with-enhanced-pension-amount-for-the-poor-in-andhra-pradesh-1066931.html
01-01-2022||South||Priced at Rs 1 to 1.5 cr, Tirumala temple's Udayasthamana seva the most expensive religious service in the world||Tirumala Venkateshwara temple is where devotees wait in the Vaikuntam complex compartments and move in the serpentine queues for several hours to get a few seconds glimpse of the deity. Those who can afford it, make it a bit quick paying Rs 300 for a special darshan. The temple management is now planning to bring in a seva, arguably the most expensive in the world, which would allow a devotee and his family to sit in the sanctum and other designated areas, watching all the divine rituals beginning from Suprabhatam to the closing Ekanta seva. The ticket price of this seva named Udyasthamana is proposed at an astronomical Rs 1 crore which on Fridays will go further up to Rs 1.5 crore, to include abhishekam. “The devotee and his five family members can sit through all the rituals, arjitha sevas from predawn till night i.e., Suprabhatam, Thomala-seva, archana, kalyanam to pavalimpu seva. This facility can be availed by devotees once in a year for a prescribed number of years by paying the amount,” a TTD official told DH. According to the temple officials, the seva existed earlier too having started in the eighties, for Rs 1 lakh initially and Rs 10 lakh later, but was discontinued in 2010 due to paucity of space and other reasons. “We are drafting the terms and conditions like how many can be allowed, and for how many years the devotee can avail the service. A decision and formal announcement could be made soon,” a senior official told DH. Rs 1 to 1.5 crore might seem like a prohibitive price but officials say that they are receiving several calls everyday to inquire as to when the Udyasthamana seva would commence. Rejecting the criticism that the temple is making money through such exorbitantly priced sevas, officials said the income would be solely used for the construction of a super specialty children heart care hospital the TTD has planned earlier. The Sri Padmavati childrens' cardiac hospital, inaugurated in October during the annual Brahmotsavams, is at present functioning from the Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD) premises in Tirupati. Since November, 45 surgeries have been performed free of cost. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/priced-at-rs-1-to-15-cr-tirumala-temples-udayasthamana-seva-the-most-expensive-religious-service-in-the-world-1066940.html
01-01-2022||South||TDP ready for early polls, says Chandrababu Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) is ready to face an early election as and when it is held in Andhra Pradesh, party chief N Chandrababu Naidu said here on Saturday. For some time now, there has been talk that Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy may do a KCR and go for mid-term polls sometime in 2023, though the election to the State Assembly is due only in April 2024. (In neighbouring Telangana, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao went for a mid-term election to the State Assembly in 2018, months before the due date in 2019, and retained power). “I heard the talk, too. If there is an early election, we are ready to face it,” Chandrababu said in a freewheeling chat with reporters on the occasion of New Year’s Day at the TDP headquarters here. “People expected Jagan to do something better than what we did. So they gave him the one chance he had sought. But the myths are now shattering,” the TDP president said. Chandrababu said people did not take to the streets only because of Covid-19. Thus, Jagan got away with all his wrongdoings. “People are silently bearing the atrocious acts of the Jagan regime but they will account for everything at the polls,” the former Chief Minister said. The TDP chief refused to respond to a question on possible electoral alliances saying it was hypothetical. Coming down heavily on Jagan, Chandrababu said no other Chief Minister left the State economy in tatters. “What is happening in Andhra Pradesh now is economic destruction. I myself am unable to assess the State’s economic situation. Andhra’s brand image has been completely ruined,” the former Chief Minister said. From daily wage earners to industrialists, everybody was migrating from Andhra Pradesh to other States. “Earlier, people used to migrate from Odisha to Andhra Pradesh in search of work. Now, there is reverse migration,” Chandrababu said. The TDP chief alleged that the Chief Minister was threatening everyone by (mis)using the Crime Investigation Department and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. “Some of them are staying silent to safeguard their prestige while some others are leaving the state,” he said. Talking about the internal affairs of the TDP, he said he would hold meetings with the rank and file of all 175 Assembly constituencies. “Ineffective leaders and those who are not working will be kept aside. The party cannot do any sacrifices. So, replacements will happen,” he said. Chandrababu Naidu said the TDP would step up agitation in the coming days on various issues faced by the people and expose the Jagan regime. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-ready-for-early-polls-says-chandrababu-naidu-1066952.html
01-01-2022||South||Telangana's daily Covid-19 tally rises to 317, 12 new Omicron infections detected||Covid-19 cases in Telangana continued to rise with 317 fresh infections being reported on Saturday pushing the statewide tally to 6,82,215, while the death toll went up to 4,029 with two more fatalities, a health bulletin said. The state also reported 12 new cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the tally to 79. As many as 27 people recovered from the new strain, leaving the number of active cases at 52, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 pm on Saturday. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has outnumbered recoveries for the past few days. According to the bulletin, 232 people recovered from the infection and the cumulative number of recoveries till date stands at 6,74,453 leaving 3,733 active cases. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for most of the cases with 217 followed by Rangareddy district reporting 26, it said. Nearly 29,000 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total so far to 2.97 crore. The samples tested per million population were over 7.98 lakh. The case fatality and recovery rates were 0.59 per cent and 98.86 per cent, respectively. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-daily-covid-19-tally-rises-to-317-12-new-omicron-infections-detected-1066976.html
01-01-2022||State||Have a successful business? Buy our land, says Karnataka govt||Karnataka Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said Saturday that a new policy will allow state-owned land to be sold to industrial units that run well for two years, a move the government hopes will increase the flow of investments.  The government is working on a 10-year lease-cum-sale system for Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) land allotted to industries.  “If any industrial unit successfully runs for two years soon after the land allotment, it will qualify to get the clear sale deed title from the KIADB without waiting for ten long years,” Nirani said in a statement, adding that balance sheets over 24 months will be verified to see if the unit’s business was good.  “Rules are being framed for the new scheme and a government order is expected to be issued in a couple of weeks,” he said.  At present, only land measuring over two acres is given to industries on a 99-year lease. “There is no provision for sale of the allotted land,” Nirani said, adding that several major private companies are reluctant to set up industries because of this clause. “This clause is posing difficulties for the industries to obtain loan and capital inflow from banks and financial institutions, and mortgage the leased land. This hampered the flow of investments into the state,” he explained.  Going forward, KIADB will allot lands to private industries or institutions on a 10-year lease-cum-sale basis, he said. This will require amendments to the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Act, which Nirani said the Cabinet has cleared.   “According to KIADB rules, MSMEs have to set up and start production within three years from the date of allotment of land. For large and medium industries, the time frame is five years,” Nirani pointed out. “The amendment will encourage industries to expand further as the allotted land will be theirs if they run operations successfully,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/have-a-successful-business-buy-our-land-says-karnataka-govt-1066934.html
01-01-2022||State||High-level probe into Grama Jyothi scheme, says Karnataka Energy Minister||Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar stated that errant officials would be suspended immediately and high-level probe would be ordered to look into irregularities in the implementation of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana. Speaking to media persons after holding a meeting with officials concerned, here on Saturday, he said, "The flaws are evident in the implementation of the scheme. The installation of feeders under the scheme worth Rs 224 crore has not been done properly and apathy of the officials is evident. Electric poles have not been installed as per the norms and earthing system has not been implemented systematically. Besides, the labour laws have not been followed." "So, I have directed the higher officials to suspend the errant officials immediately. Either Anti Corruption Bureau or the departmental inquiry would be ordered after holding discussions with principal secretary," he added. Referring to the scheme, the officials said, the 60% cost of the scheme is borne by the Centre and 40% by the Mescom. The works of bifurcating agriculture and non-agriculture towers in 11kv routes in rural areas, electricity connection to rural households and mapping are being implemented under the scheme. In order to reduce burden on 145 feeders in rural areas, 68 new feeders have been constructed. Of them, 66 feeders have been launched and bill pertaining to 39 feeders had been cleared. The payment of the remaining works have been held. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, MLCs Ayanur Manjunath, Rudre Gouda S, Mayor Sunita Annappa, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, Mescom Managing Director Prashanth Kumar Mishra were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-level-probe-into-grama-jyothi-scheme-says-karnataka-energy-minister-1066936.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai sets 3-month deadline for automatic land conversion||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday set a three-month deadline for 48 cities to prepare their master plans so that the process of land conversion can be made easier.  Speaking to reporters after holding a meeting with deputy commissioners, Bommai said the absence of master plans in 48 cities is posing hurdles to speedy land conversions. Revenue Minister R Ashoka has already announced the government’s intentions to tweak existing regulations in order to convert agricultural lands for non-agricultural use within a day. “If the master plans are in place, we will be able to do the conversions automatically,” Bommai said. Officials in the revenue department told DH that at present, the land conversions are happening based on affidavits, where the details of a particular case are sent to the Urban Development Department. “If the master plan is ready, this can be done in one day. Without this, clarification has to be sought from town and country planning officials, which will delay the matter,” an official explained. In the meeting with DCs, the CM discussed several revenue issues pending in the state for a long time. One such was the pendency of applications to regularise gomal lands, owing to legal hurdles. The law department will look into an amendment of rules to resolve this deadlock, Bommai said. In addition, there are thousands of revenue cases pending in tahsildar and assistant commissioner courts across the state. These are cases pending for close to two decades. “At the pace it is being resolved, these cases will take another four years to be disposed of. We will appoint more tahsildars, assistant commissioners and support staff to dispose of the cases soon,” Bommai added. DCs have been asked to conduct surveys in their respective districts to identify the extent of actual forests. “We have to re-examine the records as in several places, revenue lands have been identified as deemed forest, creating problems for the poor.” Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-sets-3-month-deadline-for-automatic-land-conversion-1066752.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's 'engineering in Kannada' formula fails to click||The Karnataka government's bold decision to offer engineering education in Kannada medium has failed to take off, with not a single student opting to study courses in the vernacular in the highly competitive field. Initially, three students had opted to pursue engineering in Kannada medium, but sources at the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) told DH that they backed out, apprehensive over their career prospects.  The government had reserved 90 seats at three colleges to offer technical courses in Kannada: SJICT college in Chikkaballapura, MIT in Mysuru and BKIT in Bhalki of Bidar district. But all of them reported 'zero admissions' on Dec 31, 2021 - the last date for admission. Ramya S, Executive Director of KEA, said "during the first round of seat allotment, three students had opted to study the course in Kannada medium". "But none of them have reported to the colleges," she added. The 90 seats will remain vacant for the entire academic year as the medium cannot be changed even if the government considers reallocating these seats. The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) had also prepared the curriculum in Kannada and had trained faculties to teach engineering in Kannada. However, students developed cold feet and chose to opt out at the last minute, saying they were worried about lack of job opportunities in the future. "I opted for Kannada medium, but later I became worried about job opportunities and changed to English medium," one of the students told DH. Students were worried that the move could even hamper their dream of flying to other countries for higher education or for job purposes. Prof GT Raju, principal, SJCIT Chikkaballapura, said, "Two students were allotted seats in our college but they cancelled the seats later." Raju said the situation can change if the state government promotes Kannada medium education by providing reservations in government recruitment. "If it is done, we will definitely get good admissions next year," he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-engineering-in-kannada-formula-fails-to-click-1066753.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bed respite despite Covid-19 spike in Karnataka||Despite a steady uptick in daily Covid-19 cases in the past few days, the rate of hospitalisation in Bengaluru and the state is under control at the moment, officials said. Out of 8,712 active cases in the state, nearly 87 per cent or 7,660 are under home isolation. Bengaluru alone has 7,286 active cases, of which about 200 cases are in government and private hospitals and the rest are being treated under home isolation. During the same time last year, Bengaluru had as many as 654 Covid-positive persons admitted in various hospitals and Covid Care Centres, and another 6,581 patients in home isolation. Officials are also relieved as out of the 66 Omicron cases so far, only 16 were symptomatic and the rest asymptomatic.  Although Covid cases are going up, hospitals in the city still have as many as 1,804 beds in the government quota, a comforting statistic at a time when Covid-19 cases are once again surging amid fears of hospitals getting overwhelmed by the highly transmissible Omicron. State Health Commissioner D Randeep said the "current data is a relief".  "Among the in-patients, only 94 patients require oxygen while about 403 are without oxygen support. As many as 54 patients are in ICUs while 12 are on ventilators," he said. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has suggested for further decongestion of hospitals by asking the state government to house Covid patients in Covid Care Centres or place them under home isolation. TAC Chairman Dr MK Sudarshan said the rate of hospitalisation was higher during the Delta wave as "people rushed to hospitals despite being asymptomatic".  "To prevent patients from unnecessarily occupying hospital beds, we have recommended opening good Covid Care Centres. In the first wave, by the time the lockdown was lifted, we had readied Haj Bhavan, Ravi Shankar Ashram, and Agriculture College." He suggested that Covid patients who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic should be housed in hotels instead of hospitals. Suguna Hospital is one of the designated private hospitals where Covid-positive international travellers can opt to stay.  "Similarly, government CCCs should be kept ready for those who don't have facilities for home isolation," he added However, he acknowledged the highly contagious nature of Omicron. "Only those who have a caregiver as assessed by the triaging team should be permitted home isolation. All patients should be strictly monitored," he said.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bed-respite-despite-covid-19-spike-in-karnataka-1066754.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Former minister urges Karnataka govt to make conversion numbers public||Senior political leader P G R Sindhia has urged the state government to release statistics on the number of people who converted to other religions in Karnataka in the last 10 years. To a query on the Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill which the state government is planning to pass in the Legislative Council, the former minister said, “Before speaking for or against the bill, the state government should place the statistics on the alleged conversion. None are in favour of forceful conversion. A few have been unanimously converted to other religions. However, the ruling party wants to debate on the conversion for the sake of votes.” He slammed individual-oriented politics in the state, which he said is favoured over issue-oriented politics. The credibility of politicians should be increased through their actions and utterances, he noted. "Politicians are merely engaged in mudslinging against each other. It looks like the politics in Karnataka revolves around eight to 10 politicians. Owing to the mudslinging, the credibility of politicians is at stake,” he said. On CM Basavaraj Bommai's remarks on pension for emergency detainees, Sindhia said, “None of the detainees had asked for the pension so far. I do not why the government wants to go for it. If they are planning to implement it, then the government should ensure that it is not misused." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-minister-urges-karnataka-govt-to-make-conversion-numbers-public-1066809.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cuts property guidance value by 10% for next 3 months||Karnataka on Saturday slashed property guidance values by 10% across the state for a period of three months, opening up a lucrative window for homebuyers.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka called it a New Year’s gift for citizens.  “From January 1 to March 31, for all properties that will be bought - dry land, irrigated land, site, building or flat - the guidance value will be reduced by 10%. This gift is valid for three months in all sub-registrar offices,” Ashoka said.  Guidance value is the base price on which property transactions have to take place. Usually, guidance values see an upward revision. In September, Ashoka had revealed the government’s plan to slash guidance values.  “There are many who are sitting on a general power of attorney (GPA) and an agreement. There are those waiting for the right time to register their properties. They can now go ahead and register their properties,” Ashoka said, adding that the discount will benefit lakhs of people.  The minister added that the move will benefit farmers, many of whom hold properties that are not registered.  Transaction on properties is a source of revenue for the government. Before the end of the current fiscal, the government wants to mop up Rs 12,655 crore through stamp duty and registration fees. By the end of October, the government had collected Rs 7,183 crore.  “Slashing guidance value may result in some loss to the treasury, but we expect more property registrations,” Ashoka said, adding that the decision was taken after extensive talks with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the departments of finance and stamps & registration.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cuts-property-guidance-value-by-10-for-next-3-months-1066873.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Education Minister B C Nagesh tests Covid positive||Karnataka Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B C Nagesh on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. He said he has quarantined himself and is taking all necessary precautions. "I've tested positive for Covid-19 today with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself and taken all the necessary precautions and medication required. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest," Nagesh tweeted. ಕೋವಿಡ್-19 ಲಘು ಲಕ್ಷಣಗಳು ಕಾಣಿಸಿದ ಕಾರಣ ನಾನು ಇಂದು ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆಗೆ ಒಳಪಟ್ಟಿದ್ದು, ಕೋವಿಡ್-19 ವರದಿ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಬಂದಿದೆ. ಕ್ವಾರಂಟೈನ್‌ನಲ್ಲಿದ್ದು ಅಗತ್ಯ ವೈದ್ಯಕೀಯ ಚಿಕಿತ್ಸೆ ಪಡೆಯುತ್ತಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ನನ್ನ ಸಂಪರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದ ಎಲ್ಲರೂ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆ ಮಾಡಿಸಿಕೊಳ್ಳಿ. Karnataka has been reporting a spike in Covid-19 cases over the last couple of days. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-education-minister-b-c-nagesh-tests-covid-positive-1066942.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka fresh Covid cases crosses 1,000, with Bengaluru alone accounting for 810 cases||Witnessing a spike for the fourth consecutive day, Karnataka on Saturday reported over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 30,08,370 and the death toll to 38,340. The total number of active cases is now at 9,386. The state today registered 1,033 fresh infections, compared to 832 on Friday, 707 on Thursday and 566 on Wednesday. There were 354 discharges today, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,60,615, a health department bulletin said. Of the new cases, 810 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 218 discharges and 2 deaths. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.86 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.48 per cent. Of the deaths, two are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Mandya, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the second highest of 48 new cases, Mysuru 29, Udupi 28 and Mandya 23. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,64,428 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,80,304 and Tumakuru 1,21,349. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,40,149, followed by Mysuru 1,77,759 and Tumakuru 1,20,144. Cumulatively a total of 5,65,87,422 samples have been tested in the state of which 1,19,225 were tested on Saturday alone.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-fresh-covid-cases-crosses-1000-with-bengaluru-alone-accounting-for-810-cases-1066946.html
01-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Cannot prove spouse's affair with private medical records, says HC||The Dharwad bench of the Karnataka High Court has said that the illicit relationship of a spouse cannot be proved by securing his/her private medical records. The court made the observation while setting aside the order of a family court summoning medical records in a divorce case. The proceedings for the dissolution of marriage was filed by the husband before the family court while the wife had initiated proceedings for maintenance. The man had contended that his wife was having an illicit relationship and there was clear evidence that she became pregnant. It was argued that the documents sought from the hospital were necessary to establish the contention. The trial court allowed the application mainly on the grounds that there was no question of the hospital authorities maintaining secrecy in respect of the medical records of spouses. Challenging this order, the wife contended that the medical records of a person are absolutely private to the person concerned and the same cannot be summoned by anyone, including the husband. It was also argued that summoning the medical records and asking the doctor to adduce evidence is essentially forcing the doctor to violate the oath of secrecy to the patient. Justice N S Sanjay Gowda noted that the power to direct a medical practitioner to act in violation of his/her declaration should be exercised only for strong and compelling reasons and would more or less be exercised only when an element of public interest is involved. "In fact, if this approach is to be accepted, it will amount to the destruction of the entire concept of doctor-and-patient confidentiality and also drag the doctor into a marital dispute," the court said. On the facts of the case, the court noted that the husband had sought divorce on the grounds that the wife had treated him with cruelty and deserted him for a continuous period of two years. “If it is the case of the husband that his wife, by leading an adulterous life, had inflicted cruelty on him, this allegation will have to be proved with cogent evidence in a manner known to law. This allegation cannot be proved by summoning the private medical records of the wife,” the court said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cannot-prove-spouses-affair-with-private-medical-records-says-hc-1067022.html
01-01-2022||West||204th anniversary of Koregaon Bhima battle marked||Undeterred by the rising number of Covid-19 cases and pandemic-related restrictions, thousands of people paid tributes to martyrs at the 'Jaystambh' military monument in Pune district of Maharashtra on Saturday morning to mark the 204th anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle, amid tight security. In contrast, the 203rd anniversary of the historical battle last year was a low-key affair due to pandemic curbs. The 'Jaystambh' (victory pillar), as per a Dalit narrative, is the symbol of victory over casteism. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil and social welfare minister Dhananjay Munde were also among the visitors at the Jaystambh, located near Perne village. As per the Dalit narrative, the British forces that fought the Peshwas at Koregaon Bhima on January 1, 1818, comprised largely of soldiers from the Dalit Mahar community, who waged a "war for freedom" from 'casteism' of the Peshwas. On January 1, lakhs of people, mainly from the Dalit community, visit the Jaystambh, which was erected by the British in memory of the soldiers who fought against the Peshwas in the Battle of Koregaon Bhima. Violence had broken out near Koregaon Bhima village during the 200th commemoration of the historical battle on January 1, 2018. According to police, "provocative" speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune a day before had triggered the violence. This year, a senior police officer said that the district administration had appealed to people above 60 years and children below 10 years to avoid visiting the Jaystambh in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Police personnel were deployed in large numbers near the war memorial. Facilities like Covid-19 testing were also in place, the officer said. As per the order issued by the Pune district administration under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), putting up hoardings or banners in villages around the memorial, posting content that can spread rumours, create hatred in communities, posting misleading information on social media platforms, was prohibited. The order came into effect from midnight of December 30 and will remain in force till 6 am on January 2. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/204th-anniversary-of-koregaon-bhima-battle-marked-1066806.html
01-01-2022||West||Maharashtra warns against complacency over Omicron-led Covid wave||Amid a surge of Covid-19 in the state, the Maharashtra government has warned of an 'explosion' with a possibility of 80 lakh cases and 80,000 deaths. The Maharashtra government has asked officials to be on alert and asked people to not be complacent and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour in the wake of the third wave. “Number of Covid infections in the third wave is going to be very huge. Even if one per cent case fatality is presumed, we can still land up with 80,000 deaths, if there are 80 lakh Covid cases in the third wave,” additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas said in a note to divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and chief executive officers of zilla parishads. “…So do not be lulled by the narrative that the third Covid wave Omicron wave is mild and not fatal. It is equally fatal for those who are not vaccinated and have comorbidities,” he added. Dr Vyas pointed out that genomic sequencing results show that we still have the Delta variant in more than 70 per cent of cases and the figures vary from district to district. Referring to the US, Europe and South Africa where the hospitalisation rate is lesser compared with the rapid increase in the Covid cases, Dr Vyas said medical opinion is divided on whether this is owing to the inherent nature of Omicron or due to the vaccination which was not available in the first and second waves. "There are studies to show that Covid disease even in the present wave has been severe in unvaccinated persons... who are at as much risk (or rather more) as in the second wave (last year)," Dr Vyas cautioned. “The ICU, ventilator, oxygen and general bed requirement for each district is calculated based on Union government guidelines, it is possible that each district may not require this much infrastructure immediately or during the third wave,” he said. The district administrations are advised to prepare the plan with minimum disturbance to non-Covid services and saving resources. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that he was monitoring and assessing the situation and if need be would speak in next few days. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar pointed out that strict restrictions would be enforced if the cases continue to rise in the state. “We have 10 ministers and 20 MLAs who tested Covid-19 positive. Everybody wants to be part of the celebrations of New Year, birthdays and other occasions. Keep in mind that the new variant (Omicron) spreads fast and hence caution is needed,” he said. Pawar pointed out that prime minister Narendra Modi has appealed and some states have announced a night curfew. “In Maharashtra, cases are increasing in Mumbai and Pune….If the number of patients continues to rise then there will be strict restrictions. To avoid strict restrictions everybody should follow norms," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-warns-against-complacency-over-omicron-led-covid-wave-1066817.html
01-01-2022||West||Low-key welcome of New Year in Mumbai amid rise in Covid-19 cases||For the second year in a row, the New Year eve celebrations remained muted in Mumbai in view of the order prohibiting public gatherings at popular places amid the rise in new Covid-19 cases. Mumbaikars' favourite destinations like the Gateway of India, Marine Drive and seafronts at Dadar, Girgaon and Juhu wore almost a deserted look as police personnel deployed at these places and on streets ensured that the prohibitory order was implemented strictly, an official said on Saturday. Police personnel were seen asking people to vacate these spots through the public announcement system before the 5 PM deadline on Friday. "This is an appreciation post for you Mumbai. These deserted and silent streets speak volumes about your concern for the city and its safety. What a perfect welcome to 2022," Mumbai Police tweeted on Friday night. This is an appreciation post for you Mumbai. These deserted & silent streets speak volumes about your concern for the city & its safety What a perfect welcome to 2022 The Bandra-Worli sea link, BMC building, CSMT station etc were illuminated with lights to welcome the New Year. No lighting was done on the state secretariat. Due to the curbs, citizens preferred to ring in the New Year with families and friends at hotels, restaurants, and in some cases, on terraces of their housing societies. Nakabandis or checking of vehicles was conducted at 134 spots by the police. Vehicles were checked and senior police officers patrolled streets, the official added. From Friday night till the early Saturday morning, Traffic Police personnel took blood samples of motorists to check drunk driving and filed cases. Similarly, cases were filed for rash driving, he said. Another official said cases were registered against 1,375 drivers for violation of rules under the Motor Vehicles Act. He said 18 people were found to be driving drunk. Besides, 12 drivers were fined for rash driving, 408 for riding two-wheelers without wearing a helmet and 16 bikers for riding triple seat. Cases were filed against six persons under section 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code. Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order prohibiting people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places between 5 pm and 5 am daily till January 15 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation and the emergence of the Omicron variant. The Maharashtra capital on Friday reported 5,631 new Covid-19 cases, almost 2,000 more than Thursday, which took the caseload in the city on the last day of the year to 7,85,110, as per the civic body. This was a rise of 53 per cent over 3,671 cases recorded on Thursday. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), out of 282 samples sent for genome sequencing, 156 (55 per cent) were found to be of Omicron variant, 89 (32 per cent) of Delta Derivative and 37 (13 per cent) of Delta variant, as of Friday Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/low-key-welcome-of-new-year-in-mumbai-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-1066827.html
01-01-2022||West||Amit Shah expresses grief over landslide at Haryana mining site, speaks to CM||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Saturday expressed grief over a landslide that took place at a mining site in Haryana's Bhiwani in which two people died, and spoke to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar about the accident. At least two people were killed and many are feared trapped after the landslide at the Dadam mining zone on Saturday. "The accident due to a landslide at a mining site in Bhiwani district of Haryana is very sad. I have spoken to Chief Minister @mlkhattar. The local administration is engaged in rescue work, and our priority is to save as many lives as possible. I wish the injured a speedy recovery," Shah tweeted in Hindi. Police said around half a dozen dumper trucks and some machines have been buried under debris after the landslide in Tosham block. Apart from the two dead, more people are feared trapped under the debris, the police said, adding that a rescue operation is underway. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-expresses-grief-over-landslide-at-haryana-mining-site-speaks-to-cm-1066878.html
01-01-2022||West||Mumbai: No property tax on residential properties up to 500 sq ft, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced a complete waiver of property tax on residential properties measuring up to 500 square feet in Mumbai. The decision is politically significant and comes in the run-up to the civic polls in Maharashtra, including the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the biggest and richest civic bodies of the country. Thackeray’s saffron party Shiv Sena had been ruling the BMC for over a quarter of a century. “The decision will be implemented with immediate effect,” Thackeray said at the meeting of the Urban Development Department. More than 16 lakh houses in Mumbai are below 500 sq ft. The meeting was attended any urban development minister Eknath Shinde, ports and textiles minister Aslam Shaikh, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai City district, tourism, environment and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai Suburban district, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, chief secretary Debasish Chakrabarty and municipal commissioner Iabal Singh Chahal. “Before the 2017 elections to BMC we had made the promise…today we have fulfilled it,” said Thackeray, who is the Shiv Sena president. Because of the decision, the BMC may lose a revenue of around Rs 450 crore following the waiver. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-no-property-tax-on-residential-properties-up-to-500-sq-ft-says-uddhav-thackeray-1066898.html
01-01-2022||West||'Will only say Happy New Year,' Wankhede ducks question on NCB tenure||The extension given to Narcotic Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede ended on December 31, but it is understood that he will continue in the post till further orders. Contacted by IANS, Wankhede declined to comment about his postings or extension. The IRS officer, who came into the limelight after arresting Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in connection with a drug case, also refused to say whether the charge sheet in the case will be filed under his watch. "I would like to wish everyone a happy new year," Wankhede said. During the Aryan Khan case, he was given a four-month extension which ended on December 31. Now, the Union Home Ministry will decide whether Wankhede will get a further extension or not. So far, no orders have been issued, and he will continue by default. A section of people has sought Wankhede to be given another extension. The charge sheet in the Aryan Khan case is yet to be filed before the Mumbai court. NCB sources said they have prepared draft charge sheet and wish that it should be filed under Wankhede. They contend that they have digital evidences, testimonies, and drug samples collected during the raid, and are hopeful that their case is strong. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-only-say-happy-new-year-wankhede-ducks-question-on-ncb-tenure-1066910.html
01-01-2022||West||BJP leaders being targeted with fake cases, don't know who to talk to in MVA government, says Danve||Fake cases were being foisted on BJP leaders in Maharashtra out of vindictiveness but there was no one to talk to in the MVA government as the chief minister was "unwell" and the state home minister was "missing", claimed Union Minister Raosaheb Danve on Saturday. The CM had undergone cervical spine surgery on November 12 and was discharged from the hospital on December 2, and he had also missed the winter session of the Maharashtra Assembly between December 22 and 28. Speaking to reporters here, Danve said, "Offences are being registered against BJP leaders out of vindictiveness, but we have faith in the courts. However, if we want to talk on this issue with the state government, we do not know who to approach." "The chief minister is unwell, the home minister is missing and senior police officials are missing," he claimed, though he did not elaborate on his statement or give details on why he felt they were "missing". He also claimed that Congress, NCP, and Shiv Sena, the three main constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi, were not seeing eye to eye on issues like the local body polls and the elections to the post of Assembly speaker. The Union minister of state for railways also said the Centre was planning the makeover of 70 railway stations and tenders for these works will be floated next month. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leaders-being-targeted-with-fake-cases-dont-know-who-to-talk-to-in-mva-government-says-danve-1066918.html
01-01-2022||West||Gujarat's daily Covid cases breach 1,000-mark for first time in nearly 7 months||Gujarat's new Covid-19 cases on Saturday rose by over 60 per cent to 1,069, breaching the 1,000-mark after nearly seven months. The number of Omicron cases also reached 136 with the detection of 23 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Out of 23 new cases, only 11 had travel history. With 559 cases, Ahmedabad is the worst-affected city, followed by Surat, 156; Vadodara, 61; and Rajkot, 41. One case of Covid-19 death was reported in Navsari district in south Gujarat. The total number of active cases in the state also reached 3,927. On Friday, the state had reported 648 cases. A senior health officer said the number of hospitalisations across the state Covid-19 designated hospitals is not more than 30 per cent. He added that "the government has infrastructure in place to treat the patients." Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Manoj Agarwal said that from January 3, the government is set to launch a campaign to vaccinate children between the age group of 15 and 18 years. The drive for booster shots for health workers and senior citizens with comorbid conditions will begin on January 10. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-daily-covid-cases-breach-1000-mark-for-first-time-in-nearly-7-months-1066944.html
01-01-2022||West||Maharashtra records 9,170 new Covid-19 cases, including six Omicron infections||Alarm bells started ringing on the New Year as Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases crossed the 30,000 mark on Saturday even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi government indicated further strengthening of restrictions to control crowds.  During the day, 9,170 cases and 7 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 66,87,991 and 1,41,533, respectively, according to the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  The total active Covid-19 patients now stands at 32,225.  “The growth of the cases is very fast, vertical, exponential…. We need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said.  Asked about possible lockdowns, he said: “We are monitoring the situation constantly. Yes…there would be strengthening of restrictions.”  During the day, 6 new Omicron cases were diagnosed taking the total to 460.  Currently, 2,26,001 people are in home quarantine and 1,064 in institutional quarantine. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-9170-new-covid-19-cases-including-six-omicron-infections-1066951.html
01-01-2022||West||Five visitors to Bhima-Koregaon memorial test positive for Covid-19 in antigen test||Five out of over 5,000 persons who were among those who visited the Jaystambh military monument in the district on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 in rapid antigen tests, officials said. Lakhs of people paid tributes at the monument to mark the 204th anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle. "There was a thermal screening facility in the parking area where people were screened for Covid-19 symptoms and some were tested with antigen kits," said Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Police, Pune Rural. "A total of 5,765 tests were conducted till 5 pm and five people were found positive," he said. Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said two of these persons who tested positive were from Nashik. "We sent them back to Nashik and also informed the district administration there. The remaining three were from Pune district. One lives alone so he was asked to follow home quarantine while the other two were sent in institutional quarantine," Prasad added. All five patients were mostly asymptomatic and will be subjected to RT-PCR tests, he said. Around six lakh people were screened till late in the evening by 300-plus medical professionals at the spot, the CEO said. Asked about people not following Covid-appropriate behavior, Prasad said the administration had appealed that senior citizens and children below 10 years should not attend the event. "But many people turned up with their families and brought senior citizens and children along. A few people who were not wearing masks were offered free masks. Social distancing was not followed at many places," he said. Over 81,000 masks were distributed till 5 pm, said another official. Members of Dalit communities look upon the Jaystambh memorial as a symbol of victory over casteism as the British forces that defeated the Brahmin Peshwa's army at Koregaon Bhima on January 1, 1818, comprised largely of soldiers from the Dalit Mahar community. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-visitors-to-bhima-koregaon-memorial-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-antigen-test-1066986.html
