02-01-2022||Analysis||Report on persecution of Christians off the mark||It is a fact that India is one of the earliest civilisations. Today, we are also proud to be the largest democracy. Freedom of speech, religion, association and more are celebrated tenets of life in India. Close to 80 per cent of the country is Hindu. Roughly 15 per cent are Muslim and 2.3 per cent are Christians. The percentage of Christians has remained steady since Independence, hence their absolute number has grown, along with the increase in India’s overall population.  In the spirit of not taking a defensive or political tone in response to the article, and being respectful of everyone’s time, let me just illustrate three misleading claims from the article: 1 Anti-Christian vigilantes are sweeping through villages, storming churches, burning Christian literature, attacking schools and assaulting worshippers. 2 In 2014, all that changed... Anti-Christian hate crimes have doubled since 2014. 3 A few years ago, after Catholic churches in New Delhi, the capital had been vandalised, Christian leaders pleaded with Modi for help. He was disinterested; mocking them and never addressing the attacks, according to three clergymen who attended an important meeting at the Prime Minister’s residence in December 2014…he acted like a don.  The above passages give the impression that a concentration camp-like, ghettoised persecution of Christians is rampant. This is so far from the truth, that frankly, we are confused and at a loss on how to fittingly respond, except present facts. Christians run the largest number of schools, colleges, orphanages, old age homes and homes for the destitute in this country. Christianity is a powerhouse in India due to these institutions, even though they make up only 2.3 per cent of the population. These institutions have made an immense contribution to the country. If there is one overarching agenda the current government has propagated, it is the welfare and development of the poor, and for Christians, it is natural to align strongly with these goals. Yes, there have been stray incidents. We cannot be blind to these incidents. Those who perpetuate them must be brought to justice.  Regarding the third claim, I was in the delegation of Christian leaders who met the PM on Christmas Day in 2014, a few months after he formed the government. I was there because, as a matter of fact, I organised the meeting. He was extremely cordial, cut a Christmas cake which was shared by everyone in the large delegation. It is a fact that we raised the issue of attack on churches that happened in Delhi prior to the elections in 2014. Eleven churches were attacked under the cover of darkness a few weeks before the elections. I visited all 11 churches. It was widely misreported in the national and global media that BJP elements were behind the attack and this would be the fate of all Christian institutions in this country if Modi came to power. The PM was categorical and emphatic when we raised the issue: he said that the criminals will be brought to justice, irrespective of religious or political affiliations. Investigations revealed that the BJP had nothing to do with the vandalism of any of these churches, that most of the accused belonged to an upstart political party, trying to establish a base in Delhi by laterally positioning themselves as anti-BJP and stoke fears of the BJP. I do not want to name the party behind the attacks. Religious tolerance is a deeply democratic belief that we take seriously.  Stern action  Even a single incident of an attack on a minority group is an attack on us all and unacceptable. The PM did not mince words when he called these extremists “criminals”, and that they would be treated as such. He said that they were an insult to the country and their religion. He instructed the state governments to take stern action. Any such incident is taken very seriously.  The basic tenet of Indian civilisation, which predates most western philosophies, is the belief in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, that humanity is one. The slogan for Modi’s election campaign in 2014 was Sab ka Saath, Sab ka Vikas, which means with everybody, for everybody’s development. Addressing Christian leaders in Delhi on February 16,, 2015, Modi said, “My government will ensure that there is complete freedom of faith. Everyone has the undeniable right to retain or adopt the religion of his or her choice without coercion or undue influence….My government will not allow any religious group, belonging to the majority or the minority, to incite hatred against others, overtly or covertly. Mine will be a government that gives equal respect to all religions. We cannot accept violence against any religion on any pretext and I strongly condemn such violence. My government will act strongly in this regard.” Following the 2014 meeting, I have taken the Cardinals of India to the PM at least three other times; every time he reiterated his commitment to ensuring that Christians were protected in this country. India is a true democracy and therefore everyone has the freedom to accuse the PM or its governing party in any way they feel. However, we take any allegations that violate our democratic systems and beliefs extremely seriously and we thank the NYT for expressing their side of the story. We regret that the story positions India as rife with extremism, when these are isolated incidents, and not a pattern, as they suggest, within a richly diverse country of 1.4 billion people. We also regret that the story is perhaps incurably political, for instance, stating that Madhya Pradesh passed an anti-conversion law in 2021 when a little bit of research would have easily shown that the original bill was introduced and passed in 1968, when Congress, the opposition party was in power. But, again, we do not want to turn this into a political issue, as these are human rights concerns. We only wish to reiterate our everlasting commitment to preserving the rich religious diversity of our beloved land.  (The writer is a former member of IAS and current MP. He was Minister of State (Independent charge) for Tourism during 2017-19) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/report-on-persecution-of-christians-off-the-mark-1067319.html
02-01-2022||First Edit||Covid-19 vaccine for adolescents: Welcome step but questions remain||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of some measures to extend vaccination coverage to more sections and numbers of people has been welcomed, especially because there is a spurt in Covid cases in the past few days. More numbers of Omicron cases are also being reported. The PM announced that healthcare and frontline workers and those over 60 with comorbidities would be eligible for their ‘precaution’ or third dose of vaccine from January 10. Vaccinations were also opened up for adolescents in the 15-18 age group, and these will start from Monday. Almost simultaneously with the Prime Minister’s announcement, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGA) cleared the approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for children above 12 years, subject to some conditions.  There has been increasing demand for a booster dose of vaccines in the light of the assumption that the immunity gained from the earlier doses may have waned. The demand for vaccination of children gained strength after the reopening of schools. While all vulnerable sections of the population need to be protected, there are reasons to wonder whether all relevant factors were taken into consideration when the decision to extend the vaccination programme was taken. The ‘precautionary’ doses for elders and the programme for adolescents will hopefully not affect the availability of vaccines for the general population, which should still get the top-most priority. Over 40 per cent of the eligible adults are yet to get the second dose and over 10 per cent have not got a single dose. Glitches in vaccine production have not been completely removed. Covaxin production is still below the expected level and it is not known when the newly approved vaccines will be available.   A day before the Prime Minister’s announcement, the Union Health Secretary and the ICMR Director had stated that no decision had been taken on vaccination of children and booster doses for senior citizens. Technical and other issues like how long the vaccination-induced immunity would last, which vaccine should be used as the booster, and how effective the vaccines would be against Omicron, were yet to be settled. That is why the Prime Minister’s announcement on vaccination for adolescents came as a surprise. Some experts have questioned its usefulness and have described it as unscientific. It is also not known why only the young in the 15-18 age group would be eligible for vaccination while the government’s technical committee had approved it for all children above 12. While all needy and vulnerable demographic groups should get the vaccination, the main aim of the programme should be speedy and early coverage of the general population and reduction of deaths and hospitalisation. The vulnerability of particular sections of the population will increase if the general population remains vulnerable.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-vaccine-for-adolescents-welcome-step-but-questions-remain-1067321.html
02-01-2022||In Perspective||'Love Jihad' law: Tyranny by procedure||Though the term ‘love jihad’ gained significance among the public in recent years, the idea was always part of right-wing conversations. In line with the right wing’s perceived threat of love jihad, the Uttar Pradesh government passed The UP Unlawful Religious Conversion Prohibition Ordinance, 2020 to prohibit mala fide religious conversions. Against the backdrop of the discussions and deliberations surrounding the political motivation behind the “anti-love jihad law”, there is a need to look at the law through the legal lens, especially when the BJP government in Karnataka has proposed to bring one for the state soon. Even though the object of the UP Ordinance is to prevent religious conversions that are a result of misrepresentation, undue influence, coercion, fraud, allurement or by way of marriage and matter connected or incidental thereto, the procedure for lawful conversion provided in the Ordinance is unreasonable and disproportionately rigorous. Section 2(a)(iii) defines allurement as: “allurement means and includes offer of any temptation in the form of: better lifestyle, divine displeasure or otherwise”. ‘Otherwise’ can include anything from a promise of heaven (out of genuine belief) to money or material benefit. Similarly, section 2(b) widely defines coercion to include ‘psychological pressure’. Leaving the definitions open-ended, especially in a punitive law, only paves way for arbitrariness in the enforcement of the law. In Rev Stanislaus v. State of Madhya Pradesh, the Supreme Court held that the right to convert a person to another religion is not a fundamental right under Article 25. Therefore, the scope for a constitutional challenge to the Ordinance is limited from the perspective of the right to convert.  However, a reasonable contention can be made on the basis of procedural unreasonableness. Section 8 mandates not only the person who is converting to make a declaration to the authority concerned but also the religious convertor to give one month’s prior notice to the authority. Further, the District Magistrate (DM) shall order a police enquiry to determine the veracity of the declaration.  Section 9 requires another declaration to be made by the person after conversion to the DM. The DM, pending the confirmation, shall display a copy of the declaration on the notice board for the public and also record objections to such conversion, if any. The declaration contains personal information such as a permanent address, date of birth, religion, father’s/husband’s name, etc. Section 9 also requires the persons concerned to present themselves before the magistrate to establish their identity and confirm the content of the declaration. A mere reading of the procedure in Section 8 and 9 reveals that it puts significant restrictions on bona fide religious conversions by letting the state and public scrutinise the conversion in addition to a police enquiry on the geniuses and intention of such conversion. Threat to privacy Justice Chandrachud, in the landmark Puttaswamy decision on privacy, defined the right to privacy as the “right to be let alone”. Any restriction placed on the individual’s freedom must be reasonable, just and fair.  If the intention of the Ordinance is to ensure that the conversions take place with free consent and out of free will, then the same can be achieved by virtue of procedure laid down under Section 8, rendering the procedure under Section 9, that empowers the DM to publish personal details of the person converting and details of such conversion for public scrutiny, gross encroachment upon a person’s right to privacy and peaceful practice of one’s religion without the interference of the state or society. Further, inviting objections, if any, from the public also violates the right to privacy especially when the person converting has declared before a DM that he/she is converting out of his/her own free will. The concept of privacy is grounded in the notion of autonomy, dignity and liberty of an individual. Section 8 and 9 divest an individual the right to convert his/her religion without undue interference of the State or society. Irrespective of whether instances of “love jihad” happen or not, the procedure established by law must be proximate to the object. However, the procedure provided in the Ordinance for a lawful conversion goes beyond the object sought and seeps into procedural unreasonableness as it violates a right to privacy, right to autonomy, right to dignity and peaceful practice of one’s religious belief. The object of the Ordinance significantly differs from the object that can be construed from the procedure in Sections 8 and 9. The procedure empowers the DM with powers that result in encroachment into one’s right to privacy, dignity, liberty and right to religion. The Ordinance places the society and State at the centre of the personal and intimate decisions of individuals. The Ordinance fails to maintain the balance between the interest of the state to prevent mala fide conversion and the fundamental rights of an individual to bona fide conversion and practice one’s religion. (Manoj is an advocate; Erinjingat is a student at Ramaiah College of Law, Bengaluru) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/love-jihad-law-tyranny-by-procedure-1067315.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Activist Basti Vaman Shenoy passes away||Konkani activist and founder of World Konkani Centre at Shaktinagar in Mangaluru — Basti Vaman Shenoy — passed away on Sunday. He was 87. Family sources said that Shenoy’s health was deteriorating due to age-related illness for the last couple of months. The mortal remains will be kept at World Konkani Centre for public homage between 9 am and 10 am on January 3 and later will be cremated at his birthplace in Bantwal at 12 noon. Shenoy had been involved with the Konkani Bhasha Mandal since 1980. He was made the organising secretary of the Konkani jatha movement for organising people to demand setting up of Konkani Academy. In 1993, he became the president of Konkani Bhasha Mandal Karnataka. He had played a pivotal role in pressuring the government to set up Konkani Academy. Shenoy organised the first World Konkani Convention in Mangaluru in 1995 and was honoured with the title of ‘Vishwa Konkani Sardar’ (World Leader of Konkani). The convention gave a mandate to establish the World Konkani Centre in Mangaluru, for the preservation and promotion of Konkani language, art and culture. In 1997, Shenoy became the president of Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy and served for two terms till 2001. He initiated efforts to introduce Konkani in the schools as the optional third language. In 2002, he organised the 20th Adhiveshan of All India Konkani Parishad in Mangaluru. In 2004, he became the president of All India Konkani Parishad. In 2008, under the banner of Konkani Language and Cultural Foundation (KLCF), Shenoy initiated Vishwa Konkani Abhiyan aimed at creating opportunities for interaction between Konkani writers and scholars with their counterparts in other languages of the country. The World Konkani Kendra was inaugurated in 2009 which consists of a library, a museum and convention facilities such as board room, seminar hall and auditorium. In 2010, Vishwa Konkani Bhasha Samsthan (World Institute of Konkani Language) and World Konkani Hall of Fame were inaugurated at World Konkani Kendra. Karnataka government had also conferred him a Rajyotsava award in 2010. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activist-basti-vaman-shenoy-passes-away-1067192.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Man dies after tree falls on him in Karnataka||A man died after a tree fell on him while he was checking his car after hearing a noise while driving at Addahole on Shiradi Ghat on Sunday. According to the police, the deceased is Suresh Navada (43), a resident of Bommanahalli in Bengaluru and a native of Pavanje. Working in a software company in Bengaluru, he along with his wife Rashmi Sequeira and two children had visited Pavanje a few days ago and were returning back to Bengaluru when the mishap occurred. When the car reached Addahole on Shiradi Ghat, Navada heard a sound in the car. So he parked the car and got out to check the source of the sound when a huge tree fell on him and crushed him to death. His wife Rashmin and children escaped unhurt. A case has been registered at Uppinangady. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-dies-after-tree-falls-on-him-in-karnataka-1067254.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Conversion charge: Dalit family attacked, seven booked in Belagavi||Seven people have been booked under SC/ST Act for allegedly attacking a Dalit family accusing it of converting neighbours to Christianity at Tukkanatti village in the taluk. The incident is said to have occurred on December 29. According to the complainant, a group of people barged into her house when her family members were holding prayers and assaulted five of her family including three women. “They abused us saying that we are converting people to Christianity. One of the women has suffered burns after they poured hot sambar on her,” she said. All five victims are undergoing treatment at Mudalagi community healthcare centre. Following the complaint, the Mudalagi police booked seven people under SC/ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act and the relevant provisions of IPC, the same day. However no arrests have been made in the case, the police said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/conversion-charge-dalit-family-attacked-seven-booked-in-belagavi-1067340.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Three killed in car-minibus collision in Nagamangala||Three people died and one sustained serious injuries in a car-minibus collision near Kempamakoppalu village on Chamarajanagar-Jewargi national highway on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Sudeep (35), Srija (30) and Sangamma (55). All the three hailed from Somwarpet in Kodagu district and were heading towards Mysuru after visiting Adichunchanagiri in Nagamangala taluk. Shreya (15), who sustained injuries in the accident has been admitted at Adichunchanagiri hospital for treatment. Superintendent of Police N Yatish and other senior police officers visited the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-killed-in-car-minibus-collision-in-nagamangala-1067342.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Park your worries outside, fill in fun & joy at Udupi's sea walkway||A garden laid at the sea walkway near the Malpe beach is fast becoming a tourist hotspot. The garden has come up at a cost of Rs 2 crore. A key feature of the garden is the parking lot developed on 50,000 sqft area, which can accommodate more than 200 cars. The fresh, cool breeze from the sea draws the young and the old alike to the walkway. It has been laid using interlocked stones.  The 250-seater amphi theatre and  the open air gallery, to stage plays, perform music concerts and host sporting activities, are among the key attractions here.  The walkway has been designed in such a way that there is water on either side and the visitors can enjoy the breathtaking views of the Arabian Sea.  The use of bricks for various structures in the park gives a cooling effect. The garden, which is home to 3,000 plant varieties, including flowering, medicinal and decorative ones, gives one an exuberant feeling.  The sculptures in the garden depict the art and traditions of the coastal region, especially the fishermen’s culture. Visitors are often seen clicking selfies near the variety of sculptures.   Drinking water facility and toilets have been set up for the convenience of the tourists. The food court serves a number of dishes. The work on the garden, which kicked off during the lockdown, was completed recently. The Nirmithi Kendra has constructed the sea walkway and the Malpe Beach Development Committee (MBDC) has been entrusted with the responsibility to maintain it.   Sudesh Shetty of MBDC said there are plans to hold cultural activities in the garden to attract tourists during the weekend. Water sports too are in the works, he said. The lighting arrangements create the right ambiance for the night visitors, with light music lighting up the mood.  Among the eight sculptures displayed here, that of mythological bird Jatayu stands out.  A Kairampani boat, a fisherman, fishermen pushing a boat, a giant fish sculpture and a sand castle have also taken shape in the artists’ hands. A variety of slides beckon kids to the play area.  Ashwini Aigal, a frequent visitor to the garden with her four-year-old son Virat, describes it as a wonderful place with a variety of entertainment. “There is also a playground for the children. Slides are an excellent attraction for the children,” she said. Divya Nayak, a shopkeeper from Manipal, said the park was a perfect escape from the daily grind and pollution. She prefers spending her Sunday evenings there with her family. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/park-your-worries-outside-fill-in-fun-joy-at-udupis-sea-walkway-1067360.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Sriramulu accuses Siddaramaiah of double standards||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah’s conflicting stand on the anti-conversion law has only exposed his double standards, Transport Minister B Sriramulu said on Saturday. “Siddaramaiah had signed the draft ant-conversion bill, prepared by the then chairman of the Law Commission, when he was the chief minister. He in fact admitted to it before taking an U-turn. He says something and later contradicts his own words,” Sriramulu said speaking to reporters here. Continuing his tirade against the former chief minister, Sriramulu said, “Siddaramaiah has politically finished S R Patil and B B Chimmanakatti. At this rate he will finish the political careers of Congress leaders in Bagalkot district in no time, he said and added that people of Bagalkot would rise in a revolt soon and send Siddaramaiah packing from the district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sriramulu-accuses-siddaramaiah-of-double-standards-1067034.html
02-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Nothing to hide, gave kin of Covid victims money from my own pocket: Renukacharya||"There is nothing to hide," Honnali MLA M P Renukacharya said on Sunday as he clarified that he had given money "from his own pocket" to the kin of Covid-19 victims in his contituency, seeking their support for the 2024 Assembly polls. Renukacharya, also the Chief Minister's political secretary, was reacting to a video shared by former MLA DG Shantana Gouda showing him distribute Rs 10,000 each to voters in a programme held in Honnali and Nyamathi on Saturday. The Congress leader is unable to bear my popularity in the constituency and shared the video with mediapersons to tarnish my image, Renukacharya said while slamming Shantana Gouda. More than 300 people have died of Covid-19 in the Honnali constituency. Besides issuing the cheque given by the government to the kin of victims, Renukacharya claimed that he voluntarily distributed Rs 10,000 to them in the event. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nothing-to-hide-gave-kin-of-covid-victims-money-from-my-own-pocket-renukacharya-1067146.html
02-01-2022||National||Photos of Muslim women uploaded on app; IT Minister says user blocked||After a woman journalist filed a complaint with the Delhi Police over webpage "Bulli Bai" aimed at demeaning Muslim women, Union Minister for Communications, Ashwini Vaishnaw said that hosting platform GitHub blocked the user behind the app. "Bulli Bai", created on GitHub, popped up on January 1, with a number of pictures of women including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities, accompanied by derogatory content. Late Saturday night, quoting Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi tweet, Vaishnaw said: "GitHub confirmed blocking the user this morning itself. CERT and Police authorities are coordinating further action." Citing Vaishnaw's response, Chaturvedi said: "Sir, Thank you. With due respect I had shared with you that besides blocking the platform punishing the offenders creating such sites is important.I hope @HMOIndia & @GoI_MeitY will support @MumbaiPolice to find these culprits & make them as well as platforms accountable #BulliDeals." Quoting a woman journalist's tweet, Chaturvedi said earlier on Saturday: "I have repeatedly asked Hon. IT Minister @AshwiniVaishnaw ji to take stern action against such rampant misogyny and communal targeting of women through #sullideals like platforms. A shame that it continues to be ignored." "It is very sad that as a Muslim woman you have to start your new year with this sense of fear & disgust. Of course it goes without saying that I am not the only one being targeted in this new version of #sullideals. Screenshot sent by a friend this morning. Happy new year," the journalist had tweeted. "A complaint has been filed by me with the Cyber Cell of Delhi Police for immediate registration of FIR and consequent action against people behind the auctioning of Muslim women on social media." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/photos-of-muslim-women-uploaded-on-app-it-minister-says-user-blocked-1067058.html
02-01-2022||National||Yati Narasimhanand, Sindhu Sagar also booked in Haridwar Dharma Sansad case||Two more names -- Yati Narasimhanand, Sindhu Sagar -- were added Saturday to the FIR lodged in connection with the recent Dharma Sansad in Haridwar where hate speeches were allegedly delivered against Muslims, according to officials. They said section 295 of the Indian Penal Code (destruction, damage of a place of worship or an object held sacred) was also added to the FIR apart from section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language). Haridwar Circle Officer Shekhar Suyal told PTI the names of Ghaziabad's Dasna temple priest Yati Narasimhanand, who was the event organiser, and seer Sindhu Sagar were added to the FIR. Extremely provocative speeches inciting violence against Muslims were allegedly made by the participants at the event held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar for three days from December 16 to 19.  However, the official refused to explain why the new section has been added to the FIR saying it was part of the investigation which cannot be shared telephonically.  The addition of two new names in the FIR takes the number of people booked in the case so far to five -- the other being Waseem Rizvi alias Jitendra Tyagi, Sadhvi Annapurna, Dharamdas, Yati Narasimhanand and Sindhu Sagar. Yati Narasimhanand, the controversial priest of Dasna temple, had been out of the ambit of the probe so far.           Rizvi, who was earlier the president of Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, had changed his name to Jitendra Narayan Tyagi after converting to Hinduism.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yati-narasimhanand-sindhu-sagar-also-booked-in-haridwar-dharma-sansad-case-1067059.html
02-01-2022||National||DH Toon | 2022 must be the year we douse fire of hatred||As we bring down the curtains on the year past, it is nice to remember that 2022 will be a special year, one in which we complete 75 years as an independent nation. It is perhaps a good time to reflect on the state of the Union, and where we are headed as a country||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-2022-must-be-the-year-we-douse-fire-of-hatred-1067073.html
02-01-2022||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases surge to 27,553; Omicron tally at 1,525||In the last 24 hours, India registered 27,553 new Covid-19 cases, a substantial spike amid the ongoing resurgence, with 284 additional deaths, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare announced on Sunday. With the addition of the new fatalities, the total death toll has climbed to 4,81,770. The active caseload has also jumped to 1,22,801 which constitute 0.35 per cent of the country's total positive cases. Meanwhile, the nationwide Omicron infection tally has increased to 1,525, of which 560 have been discharged from hospitals. So far, 23 states have reported cases of the new variant, the Ministry said. The recovery of 9,249 patients in the last 24 hours has increased the cumulative tally to 3,42,84,561. Consequently, India's recovery rate stands at 98.27 per cent. Also in the same period, a total of 10,82,376 tests were conducted across the country, raising the total to 68 crore. Meanwhile, the weekly positivity rate has climbed to 1.35 per cent amid the sudden spike of new cases. The daily positivity rate stands at 2.55 per cent. With the administration of 25,75,225 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid inoculation coverage reached 145.44 crore as of Sunday morning. More than 19.81 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, according to the Ministry. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-surge-to-27553-omicron-tally-at-1525-1067084.html
02-01-2022||National||FIRs registered after Muslim women pics uploaded on app||Photos of 100 influential Muslim women were found to have been uploaded for auction on an app called 'Bulli Bai', which sparked widespread condemnation and forced the Centre's cybersecurity agency to intervene and registration of FIRs in Delhi and Mumbai. The Delhi Police registered an FIR on Sunday after a woman journalist filed a complaint over the app, while the Mumbai Cyber Crime Division has also started probing the incident and registered cases against the app and Twitter handles which promoted it. The app was blocked after police action. This is the second time that such an incident has come to light. Last year in July, a similar app called 'Sulli Deals' was created and pictures of Muslim women were uploaded; and like 'Bulli Bai' it was hosted on GitHub.  Reacting to the matter, Union Minister for IT Ashwini Vaishnaw said that GitHub, the hosting platform, has confirmed blocking the user and that Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), the nodal agency that deals with cyber security threats, and police authorities are coordinating to take further action. "Govt of India is working with police organisations in Delhi and Mumbai on this matter," tweeted Vaishnav on Sunday.  'Bulli Bai' app works the same way as 'Sulli Deals', with Muslim women with a strong presence on Twitter, including journalists, being targeted and their photos uploaded. Several women, including the complainant, posted screenshots of their photos with “lewd context” being used on the webpage. "Bulli Bai looks like another version of 'Sulli Deals'," said an officer from the Delhi Police. Delhi Police cyber unit contacted Twitter India, following which the social media platform blocked the account of the person who first posted about the app. GitHub informed the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) that it received a complaint from Mumbai Police and that their headquarters was in the process of taking action. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi on Saturday had tweeted about the app and demanded stern action against the culprits and tagged Mumbai Police as well. Two FIRs were filed by Delhi Police and Uttar Pradesh Police into the 'Sulli Deals' incident last year. However, police have not shared any details of the investigation so far. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firs-registered-after-muslim-women-pics-uploaded-on-app-1067090.html
02-01-2022||National||Covid-19 pandemic lays bare healthcare inadequacies||In the midst of an unprecedented crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian healthcare industry is undergoing a major transformation as its inadequacies and pitfalls came into the spotlight. At the same time, the pandemic has also paved the way for digital interventions that are likely to alter the healthcare landscape in 2022. The pandemic has reinforced the health sector's importance and the need to strengthen efforts, highlighted by the oxygen shortage and subsequent deaths during the second wave of Covid-19 infections. The older healthcare models need a technological push to provide accessible health services to all. According to the 2021 Global Health Security Index, "All countries remain dangerously unprepared for future epidemic and pandemic threats, including threats potentially more devastating than Covid-19." It measured the capacities of 195 countries to prepare for an epidemic and pandemic. The GHS Index assessed countries across six categories, namely prevention, detection and reporting, rapid response, health system, compliance with international norms and risk environment. Among 195 nations, India ranked 66th with a score of 42.8 and a decline of 0.8 points from the 2019 GHS index. The study underlines that India has improved in the detection and reporting category, but there has been no enhancement of its prevention protocols, health system or rapid response processes. The study says that although countries came up with infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic, many of them are temporary. India scored 29.7, slightly above the global average at 28.4, out of 100 in the prevention category. In the detection and reporting category — which shows major gaps in the reporting capacities for epidemics of potential international concern — India scored 43.5, 11 points above the global average. India scored 30.3 in the rapid response category, which was below the global average of 37.6; besides scoring 46.1 and 47.2, respectively, in the health system and commitment to improving national capacity, financing and global norms categories, with respective ranks of 56 and 92. However, in the risk environment category, India scored slightly above the global average in this category, at 60.2, and ranked 73 in the list. India's preparation for a third Covid wave The Omicron-led third Covid-19 wave is knocking on India's door. However, the government seems to have learnt its second wave lessons by establishing a PSA [Pressure Swing Adsorption] plant in each district hospital. "The PSA plants are being established in each district hospitals, especially in far-flung areas, enabling the hospitals to become self-sufficient in the generation of oxygen for their needs and reducing the burden on the medical oxygen supply grid across the country," said Dr Bharti Pravin Pawar in the Rajya Sabha during the latest session. She said that the online digital solutions 'Oxygen Demand Aggregation system (ODAS)' and 'Oxygen Digital Tracking System (ODTS)' have been developed to ascertain the demand for medical oxygen from all medical facilities and to track their transportation. A Covid Drugs Management Cell (CDMC) has been set up in the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) to oversee the management of smooth supply of drugs used in Covid-19 management, she added in her reply on the question of whether the data on Covid-19 deaths is being used by the government to prepare medical infrastructure for efficient management of the possible third wave in the Rajya Sabha. The Centre is also planning to identify and train at least one 'Oxygen Steward' in each district across the country ahead of a looming Omicron spike. The initiative aims to empower all healthcare workers engaged in oxygen management and administration, with essential knowledge and skills to ensure rational utilisation and avoid wastage of medical oxygen, especially in resource-constrained settings. On the contrary, the recently released fourth edition of the State Health Index of NITI Aayog says that nearly half the states and UTs did not reach the halfway mark in the Composite Overall Index Score, and despite good performances, even the top-ranking states and UTs could benefit from further improvements. As per the report, only five larger states and two smaller states showed a good overall performance and continued to improve on their Health Index Score from the Base Year (2018-19) to Reference Year (2019-20). Way Ahead in 2022 According to the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society's Future of Healthcare Report, around 80 per cent of healthcare systems are aiming to increase their investment in digital healthcare tools in the next five years. The healthcare industry in India is projected to reach $372 billion (over Rs 27 lakh crore) by 2022, according to a report from Invest India. The hospital industry, which accounts for 80 per cent of the healthcare industry in India, is forecast to increase to $132.84 billion (around Rs 10 lakh crore) by FY22 from $61.79 billion (less than Rs 5 lakh crore) in FY17 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 16-17 per cent. With overburdened hospitals, personalised homecare is likely to grow in the 2022 as India continues to reel from the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the government is also planning to increase public health spending to 2.5 per cent of the country's GDP by 2025. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-lays-bare-healthcare-inadequacies-1067094.html
02-01-2022||National||Explained | Months after 'Sulli Deals', 'Bulli Bai' sparks outrage as women demand action||Twitter was up in arms just as the new year began after anonymous accounts were seen auctioning hundreds of Muslim women through an web page on GitHub called ‘Bulli Bai'. "Bulli Bai", created on Github, popped up on January 1, with a number of pictures of women including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities, accompanied by derogatory content. While Twitterverse has been at war over toxic discourses targetting certain communities, this instance is very similar to ‘Sulli files’ that surfaced in July last year. Here’s what we know about the 'Bulli Bai' controversy so far. What happened? "Bulli Bai" was also being promoted by a Twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with the display picture of a "Khalistani supporter", saying women can be 'booked' from the app. This handle was also promoting Khalistani content at the same time. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi flagged the issue on Twitter, tagging Union IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and demanding for strict action.  Mumbai cyber police took cognisance of the matter and launched a probe. They are also taking legal opinion to lodge the case under relevant section of the IPC. Vaishnaw confirmed that GitHub has blocked the creator of the app on Sunday morning and police authorities are taking further action. In July 2021, hundreds of pictures of girls and women were uploaded by an unidentified group on an app called Sulli Deals using GitHub. ‘Sulli’ is supposedly an offensive term used against Muslim women. The Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police had filed an FIR in the case and sent a notice to GitHub, while the Delhi Commission for Women had ordered strict action in the case. To the disappointment of victims, no arrests were made in the case and no perpetrators have been identified so far. Actions and reactions Prompt police action did nothing to assuage the disgust of women who were seen on this app. Many took to Twitter to express their outrage at such acts of “dehumanising” Muslim women for the second time in six months. A woman whose photo was put up online with the offensive hashtag tweeted that Muslim women’s year has unfortunately started with this “sense of fear & disgust". The women also questioned safety of women in the country and slammed India’s “broken” and “dilapidated” justice system, as nothing had come of the FIR filed in the Sulli files case, which had seen similar auctioning of women from the minority community. Twitterati also hit back at the anonymous creators saying that such acts do not “lessen or intimidate” them, even if these are “outrageous”. Delhi Police came under fire as haunting memories of the 'Sulli files' came rushing back to victims, still waiting for the perpetrators to be brought back to justice. Opposition leaders including Shashi Tharoor and Karti Chidambaram also slammed the “anti-Muslim misogyny” online. The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against unknown persons for uploading doctored photos on the site, officials said on Sunday. A journalist had lodged an online complaint and she shared the copy of the complaint on Twitter. The case was registered at the Cyber Police station of the southeast district on Saturday night, the police said. A senior police officer said the case has been registered under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 354 A (sexual harassment and punishment for harassment) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the journalist alleging that she is being targeted by an unidentified group of people on "Bulli Bai" portal. "I was shocked to find out this morning that a website/portal called bullibai.github.io (since deleted) had a doctored picture of me in an improper, unacceptable and clearly lewd context. This needs immediate action, as the same is clearly designed to harass me and other similarly situated independent women and journalists," the woman said in the complaint. "I enclose snapshots of the said tweet directed at me herein as well as of other tweets. The term 'Bulli Bai' itself seems disrespectful and the content of this website/portal (bullibai.github.io) is clearly aimed at insulting Muslim women as the derogatory term 'Bulli' is used exclusively for Muslim women and the entire website seems to have been designed with the intent of embarrassing and insulting Muslim women," she added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-months-after-sulli-deals-bulli-bai-sparks-outrage-as-women-demand-action-1067103.html
02-01-2022||National||Omicron milder, no need to panic, says AIIMS chief||With Covid-19 cases starting to mount in the country, the chief of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, said that there was no need for people without comorbidities to panic and urged them not to block hospital beds. Guleria advised patients to isolate at home, citing low recovery time for the new variant. “Omicron is affecting the upper respiratory tract and more of the airways, rather than the lungs. That is why we see very fewer patients with a drop in oxygen saturation or the other severe symptoms we saw in Delta. What we are seeing here is more of fever, running nose, sore throat, and a lot of body ache and headache. If any of these symptoms persist, they should come forward and get themselves tested. Because then they can isolate themselves and prevent the infection from spreading to other people in the community,” he was quoted by the publication. On Sunday, the Union Health Ministry announced the detection of 1,525 Omicron cases through genomic surveillance, of whom 560 have fully recovered. Guleria said that hospital beds should be left free to those who are more vulnerable to severe disease. “There is no need to panic. It is important to understand that, unlike last time, this new variant doesn’t cause that much of a fall in oxygen saturation. Therefore, the focus in those who don’t have comorbidities should be home isolation. You should work on a home-isolation strategy, and not get into panic situations, blocking beds in hospitals, which is not required. Data also suggests that recovery happens much faster, therefore people will tend to improve faster,” he told the publication. Guleria said that the country was “in a much better position at the beginning of the new year” due to high levels of immunity from past exposure, as well as the extensive vaccination coverage. “It is time to be more vigilant. We are seeing a new variant in the form of Omicron, but we are in a much better position at the beginning of the new year compared to last year. That is because of multiple factors,” he said. Guleria said that a large number of people have also got immunity because of natural infection, and serosurvey data suggests high immunity in the general population. “We are also better prepared in terms of facilities. Whether it is medical oxygen plants, ICU beds, ventilators. So in terms of preparation and our immune response, we are in a better position,” he told the publication. Guleria also warned that indoor events can turn super-spreaders and cause a spike. “More importantly, because this is a very highly infectious variant, avoiding crowds, which can be a super spreading event, is also important. Especially, indoor events, where there is poor ventilation, can be one area where one can see a surge in cases,” he was quoted as saying. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-milder-no-need-to-panic-says-aiims-chief-1067114.html
02-01-2022||National||Centre to formulate national air sports policy||The government plans to formulate a national air sports policy as well as set up an apex body for air sports. The civil aviation ministry has sought comments from the public on the draft National Air Sports Policy (NASP 2022) till January 31. The plan is to promote air sports by making it "safe, affordable, accessible, enjoyable and sustainable", according to the ministry. The policy will cover sports like aerobatics, aeromodelling, amateur-built and experimental aircraft, ballooning, drones, skydiving and vintage aircraft. Under the policy, an Air Sports Federation of India (ASFI) will be established as the apex governing body while associations for each air sport will handle day to day activities. The air sports associations will be accountable to ASFI with respect to the regulatory oversight. Further, ASFI shall represent India at FAI and other global platforms related to air sports.  The Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland is the world governing body for air sports.  "The vision is to make India one of the top air sports nations by 2030," the ministry said. The draft has been prepared by a committee comprising senior officials from the Union government, Indian armed forces, Aero Club of India, National Cade Corps and air sports experts.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-formulate-national-air-sports-policy-1067118.html
02-01-2022||National||Write to us if you suspect you are a Pegasus victim: Supreme Court’s Pegasus panel||People who suspect that their mobile phones were targeted using Pegasus and are willing to cooperate with the investigation can now approach a Supreme Court-appointed committee probing the controversial Israeli spyware. The technical committee — a three-member panel supervised by former Supreme Court judge Justice RV Raveendran — appointed by the apex court in October last year has issued a public notice and set a deadline of January 7 for people to approach it with their submissions.   The Pegasus scandal had triggered a controversy last year and the Israeli spyware was believed to have been used to target Opposition politicians, journalists and Constitutional post-holders, among others. Among the suspected victims were Rahul Gandhi, Abhishek Banerjee, Ashok Lavasa, Anil Ambani and journalists, among others. The panel has asked citizens who have “reasonable cause to suspect” that his or her mobile has been compromised due to “specific usage” of the NSO Group Israel’s Pegasus software to contact them. Those approaching the panel have been asked to provide “reasons as to why you believe your device may have been infected with Pegasus malware”. They should intimate whether they would be in a position to allow the technical committee to examine the device. Such people who suspect her/his device is infected should send an email to the panel at inquiry@pegasus-india-investigation.in before noon of January 7. “In case the committee feels your reasons for suspicion of the device being infected with the malware compel a further investigation, then the committee shall request you to allow examination of your device,” the committee said. It also said the committee will give an acknowledgement for having received the device and also make and give the complainant a digital phone image. The collection point would be in New Delhi and the mobile phone would be delivered back on completion of the investigation. The Supreme Court had constituted the expert panel to investigate whether the Centre used the Pegasus spyware to snoop on citizens, saying that the government cannot always get a “free pass" by raising the spectre of “national security". The members of the panel were National Forensic Sciences University’s Dean Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham’s Professor Prabaharan P and IIT-Bombay Professor Ashwin Anil Gumaste. The apex court order came after the Narendra Modi government ignored demands by the Opposition and activists for an investigation into the revelations based on a whistleblower providing data about possible spying of opposition leaders, constitutional authorities, businessmen, paramilitary officers, lawyers and activists, among others. In November, it is learnt, the committee had requested the petitioners who approached the apex court on Pegasus issue to submit their targeted devices for technical examination. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/write-to-us-if-you-suspect-you-are-a-pegasus-victim-supreme-court-s-pegasus-panel-1067130.html
02-01-2022||National||SpiceJet flight takes off from Rajkot without ATC clearance, DGCA orders probe||A SpiceJet passenger flight took off from Gujarat's Rajkot without the mandatory clearance from the Air Traffic Controller (ATC) on December 30, following which aviation regulator DGCA has ordered a probe into the incident, officials said on Sunday. The pilots of the Rajkot-Delhi flight have been off-rostered pending an inquiry by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), a SpiceJet spokesperson said. The Rajkot-Delhi flight took off at around 9.30 am on December 30 and landed at the Delhi airport at 11.15 am, the officials said. An aircraft has to take multiple permissions from ATC before taking off from an airport. It needs to take permission to push back from the aircraft stand. Then, it has to take permission before starting the engines. Then, it has to take permission to stand in the lineup, and then final permission is given for take off. The pilots did not take requisite clearance from the ATC before taking off from the Rajkot airport on December 30, the officials noted. The DGCA is probing the December 30 incident to find out the reasons for this incident, they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-flight-takes-off-from-rajkot-without-atc-clearance-dgca-orders-probe-1067136.html
02-01-2022||National||Govt's decision to restrict flow of foreign funds affects crucial humanitarian work: Oxfam India||Oxfam India said the government's decision to refuse renewal of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration will severely affect the organisation's ongoing crucial humanitarian and social work in 16 states across the country. This includes setting up of oxygen plants, providing lifesaving medical and diagnostic equipment such as oxygen cylinders and ventilators and delivery of food to the most vulnerable communities during the Covid-19 pandemic, it said in a statement.   According to the list released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Oxfam India's FCRA registration renewal request was denied which means that the organisation would not be able to receive foreign funds for any of its work in India from January 1, 2022. Oxfam India Trust, Jamia Millia Islamia and Tuberculosis Association of India were among prominent NGOs whose registrations became void on Saturday. "Oxfam India has been working in public interest with the government, communities and frontline workers in the country for decades now. The MHA's decision to deny renewal of FCRA registration will severely hamper these collaborations which were providing relief to those who needed it the most during times of crisis," said Amitabh Behar, CEO of Oxfam India.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-decision-to-restrict-flow-of-foreign-funds-affects-crucial-humanitarian-work-oxfam-india-1067142.html
02-01-2022||National||BJP leaders lobbying for Sameer Wankhede’s extension in NCB: Nawab Malik||In a sensational charge, NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Sunday alleged that some influential Maharashtra BJP leaders are lobbying for an extension to Sameer Wankhede in the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The BJP, however, has denied the allegations made by Malik, who is the minority affairs minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  The NCB tenure of Wankhede, an officer of the 2008-batch of the Indian Revenue Service, ended on December 31, 2021.  “Wankhede’s tenure ended on December 31... Why neither has he been relieved from the post nor has it been extended? Why has it been kept hanging?” Malik asked.  He went on to seek details of the vigilance probe against him by the NCB and the outcome of the Special Investigation Team of NCB. “What happened to those probes?” he asked “... some influential BJP leaders from Mumbai and Maharashtra are lobbying with the Ministry of Home Affairs in New Delhi seeking an extension for Wankhede,” Malik alleged, however, he did not name anyone.  Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar refuted the allegations. “Malik has been day in and day out making unsubstantiated allegations... these are baseless,” he said, adding that there are five or six defamation cases against him. BJP’s Mohit Kamboj Bharatiya also said that the allegations made by Malik are baseless and frivolous.  Wankhede was brought in as the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director in the aftermath of the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and was given couple of extensions. In the past, he had worked with NCB, Customs and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.  His current tenure with the NCB ran into controversy particularly after the October 2-3, 2021 Cordelia cruise ship raid in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan were among the 20 arrested persons. Khan has been granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-lobbying-for-sameer-wankhede-s-extension-in-ncb-nawab-malik-1067148.html
02-01-2022||National||PM Modi can't claim to be 'fakir' after Rs 12 cr car in his cavalcade: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not call himself a fakir now with the addition of a "Rs 12 crore" car in his cavalcade. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut also praised former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru for always using an Indian-made car, and late PM Indira Gandhi for not replacing her security guards despite a threat to her life. “On December 28, media reported pictures of a Rs 12 crore car for Prime Minister Modi. A person who calls himself a fakir, a pradhan sevak, uses a foreign made car," Raut said. “The prime minister's security and comfort are important, but from now on, the pradhan sevak should not reiterate that he is a fakir (ascetic),” the Rajya Sabha member said. A Mercedes-Maybach S650 Guard was recently added to the prime minister’s cavalcade by the Special Protection Group. The price quoted for a Maybach car in a section of the media is over Rs 12 crore. However, government sources had said the new car was a replacement of the BMW used by the prime minister as the German carmaker stopped production of the vehicle. Official sources had also said the SPG security detail has a six-year norm to replace vehicles used for the protectee and that Modi has not given any preference on which cars to use. They also said that the car costs about one-third of the price quoted in the media. Raut on Sunday said Modi, who started swadeshi initiatives like 'Make in India' and 'Start-Up India', is using a foreign manufactured car. Praising Jawaharlal Nehru, the Shiv Sena's spokesperson said the country's first prime minister, despite security threat after the partition, always used an Indian-made Ambassador car. He also said that (former PM) Indira Gandhi, despite a threat to her life, did not change Sikh security personnel deployed for her security. Besides, (former prime minister) Rajiv Gandhi mingled with crowd in Tamil Nadu and got killed by the LTTE, he said. “He (Rajiv Gandhi) should not have dared to mingle with the crowd. But, he did,” Raut said. Targeting the Centre over night curbs in the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases again in parts of the country, the Sena leader said the Union government has imposed such restrictions at night, resulting in financial losses. PM Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Samajwadi Party head Akhilesh Yadav address rallies which are attended by lakhs of people. But, the restrictions are only for the common man, Raut said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-cant-claim-to-be-fakir-after-rs-12-cr-car-in-his-cavalcade-sanjay-raut-1067152.html
02-01-2022||National||23 names reiterated by SC collegium for appointment as HC judges pending with govt||Names of 23 candidates recommended by various high court collegiums since 2018 and reiterated by the Supreme Court collegium were pending with the government at the end of 2021, people aware of the process of appointments to the higher judiciary have said. At least seven high courts had recommended these names for appointment as high court (HC) judges, the sources said. They said the 23 names were returned by the government with a request to reconsider. But the Supreme Court (SC) collegium reiterated these names on different occasions. Two of the names — one for appointment as judge of the Karnataka HC and the other for appointment as judge of the Jammu and Kashmir HC — have been reiterated by the SC collegium to the government twice, they noted. Both the candidates are advocates. While the name of the candidate from Jammu and Kashmir was recommended in 2018, the name of the candidate from Karnataka was recommended in 2019. As of December 31, 2021, 23 such names recommended by various HC collegiums since 2018, and later reiterated by the SC collegium after being returned by the executive, were pending with the government. In 2021, a total of 120 high court judges were appointed. In 2016, a record 126 HC judges were appointed. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts is 1,098 and as of December 1, 2021, they were working with 696 judges -- a vacancy of 402. The government has maintained that filling up vacancies in the high courts is a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the Executive and the Judiciary. It requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities both at the state and the central level.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/23-names-reiterated-by-sc-collegium-for-appointment-as-hc-judges-pending-with-govt-1067168.html
02-01-2022||National||PM Modi uses 'sports' to target Oppn in Meerut, rakes up 'migration' of Hindus||Prime minister Narendra Modi, who laid the foundation stone of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district, on Sunday used 'sports' to target his political rivals ahead of the forthcoming state Assembly polls. "2017 se pahle pradesh mein apradhi aur mafia apna-apna khel khelte the... avaidh kabjon ke tournaments hote the" (before 2017 the criminals and mafias used to play their games... they held tournaments of illegal occupation of lands and houses), Modi said while addressing a public meeting after laying the foundation of the varsity. "The result of this kind of play was that the people were forced to abandon their ancestral homes and migrate to other places," the Prime Minister said referring to the alleged migration of scores of Hindu families from the nearby Shamli district after being threatened by the Muslims during the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime. He said that it was impossible for the women to venture out of their homes after evenings during the previous regime as they feared these criminals and mafia elements.  "Yogiji ki sarkar aise logon ke saath ab jail-jail khel rahi hai... jo palayan kar gaye the ab wapas laut rajhen hain" (the government of Yogi Adityanath has sent such people to jail... those who had migrated to other places are now returning home), Modi said adding that the state government was now promoting and encouraging the "real sports".   The Prime Minister also said that the new education policy had accorded due importance to sports and it was no longer an 'extra activity' but a part of the core syllabus. Modi also visited the stalls put by various sports goods manufacturing companies and did some exercises at one of the stalls there. The sports university, which was likely to be completed in two years, would have facilities to train 1,080 students and would have all the modern equipment required for this purpose. A total of Rs 700 crore would be spent on setting up the university. Earlier, the Prime Minister, who arrived in Meerut from Delhi following poor weather conditions, visited the famous Augharnath Temple and paid obeisance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-uses-sports-to-target-oppn-in-meerut-rakes-up-migration-of-hindus-1067169.html
02-01-2022||National||J&K delegation to pitch for global investments at Dubai Expo||A delegation from Jammu and Kashmir led by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will woo business leaders to invest in key sectors like tourism and handicrafts and showcase investment opportunities in the Union Territory during the J&K week starting in Dubai on Monday. The India Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, one of the largest trade and technology exhibitions in the world, gears up to host the J&K week that will conclude on January 13. Lieutenant Governor Sinha, along with other government officials from the Union Territory (UT), will hold various G2B, B2G and G2G meetings and invite global investors to invest across key sectors like tourism, handloom & handicraft, food processing among others. The delegation will participate in various bilateral meetings during the week. A special speech on ‘Development after UT’ will be hosted on January 6 where Sinha will talk about the initiatives taken by his government in ensuring growth across different sectors. Given J&K’s prominence as a tourist destination, the delegation will also participate in a joint session with the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, on January 12 to promote balanced growth of industry and commerce through sustainable utilisation of natural resources and development of human skills in the region. With this vision, the government of J&K is working towards creating an enabling and entrepreneurial friendly environment that will facilitate the sustainable growth and development of industrial enterprises including Cottage and Village industries, according to a statement. The UT is aiming to encourage new investment in industries and facilitate new entrepreneurs. With the focus on growth in these areas, J&K is also working towards encouraging and creating conditions that will enable the promotion of human resource skills, creation of new employment opportunities and development of new designs in the handloom and handicrafts sector, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-delegation-to-pitch-for-global-investments-at-dubai-expo-1067174.html
02-01-2022||National||Parliamentary panel for legal age of marriage has one woman member out of 31||The parliamentary panel assigned to examine the landmark bill which seeks to raise the legal age of marriage for women to 21 has only one woman MP out of 31 members. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, which will have wider influence over society especially females, was introduced in Lok Sabha during the winter session and referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports. The bill, piloted by the Women and Child Development Ministry, seeks to increase the legal age of marriage from 18 to 21. According to the members' list of the parliamentary standing committee, led by senior BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, available on the Rajya Sabha website, TMC MP Sushmita Dev is the only woman among the 31 members. When contacted, Dev said it would have been better if there were more women MPs in the panel. "I wish there were more women MPs in the committee but having said that we will make sure all interest groups are heard," Dev told PTI. Echoing similar sentiments, NCP MP Supriya Sule, who has been raising women-centric issues in parliament, said there should have been more women MPs in the panel which will deliberate on issues related to women. However, she added that the chairman has the power to invite people before the panel. So for more inclusive and wider discussions, he can invite other women MPs. The Department-Related Standing Committees are permanent, while joint and select committees are constituted from time to time to deal with bills and relevant subjects of various ministries. These panels are constituted by both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports is a Rajya Sabha administered Committee. Committees constituted by Lok Sabha have more members from the lower house, while panels formed by Rajya Sabha have more representation from the Upper House. Parties nominate members based on their strength in the House. The proposed law will apply to all communities in the country and, once enacted, will supersede existing marriage and personal laws. The legal age of marriage for women is being raised by the Centre on the recommendations of the Jaya Jaitly Committee that was constituted by the WCD Ministry in June 2020. The introduction of the  Bill was opposed by some members who contended that the move infringed upon several personal laws in violation of fundamental rights and demanded that it be referred to a parliamentary panel for greater scrutiny. The bill seeks to increase the legal age for women to marry to 21 years, as is the provision for men. It seeks to amend seven personal laws — the Indian Christian Marriage Act; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act; the Special Marriage Act; the Hindu Marriage Act; and the Foreign Marriage Act.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-for-legal-age-of-marriage-has-one-woman-member-out-of-31-1067177.html
02-01-2022||National||Centre to hold series of webinars on aspects of clinical management of Covid cases||In view of the rise in coronavirus infections and its Omicron variant, the Centre has decided to hold a series of webinars from January 5 to 19 on various aspects of clinical management of Covid cases in collaboration with AIIMS, Delhi. In a letter to states and Union Territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has requested that all state-level Centres of Excellence (CoEs) and doctors in public and private district-level Covid-19 health facilities along with CDMOs and in-charges of Covid-19 treatment facilities may be directed to attend these webinars. "The growing trajectory of Covid-19 cases and Variant of Concern (VOC) Omicron, in some of the states and Union Territories in the country is a matter of concern," Bhushan said. "While public health action in terms of containment, surveillance, contact tracing, testing, adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination are of prime importance, it is equally crucial that efforts are made by all stakeholders to minimize the mortality due to Covid-19 to a minimum possible level," he said in the letter on Sunday. The Ministry of Health in collaboration with AIIMS, New Delhi, under the Centres of Excellence initiative had earlier held a series of webinars with state-level CoEs (which are medical college hospitals) on various aspects of clinical management of Covid-19 cases. This series of webinars has been well received by the doctors, particularly intensivists and critical care experts. The CoEs of states and Union Territories were urged to hold similar scries of webinars with their district-level counterparts, which was undertaken by many states, the letter highlighted. "In continuation of those efforts, it is proposed to have another series of Centre of Excellence webinar for all state-level Centres of Excellence and district-level public and private Covid healthcare facilities in collaboration with AIIMS, Delhi," the letter said. The letter mentions the schedule of webinars on different aspects of clinical management of Covid-19 cases to be held from January 5 to January 19. These webinars are being planned in dual mode. As all state-level CoEs shall be the prime target for these webinars, these state-level CoEs shall be able to have bidirectional deliberations (audio and video chat mode) with the experts from AIIMS, Delhi, Bhushan said in his letter. "Also, doctors managing Covid-19 cases in dedicated district-level public and private health facilities, CDMOs concerned and in-charges of Covid-19 treatment facilities from districts in your state can join through another link (separate link) wherein the participating doctors will be able to interact with experts through chat mode only," the letter stated. "Therefore, it is requested that all state-level CoEs and doctors in public and private district-level Covid-19 health facilities along with CDMOs and in-charges of Covid-19 treatment facilities may be directed to attend these webinars. The link for joining webinar is being shared separately. "I am sure under your leadership, the health departments will make best use of this opportunity to further refine Covid treatment strategies and will, in turn, undertake similar activities in greater depths to train and re-train clinicians/nurses at district and sub-district level hospital facilities to optimize treatment outcomes," he stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-hold-series-of-webinars-on-aspects-of-clinical-management-of-covid-cases-1067178.html
02-01-2022||National||Leave no stone unturned to manage 'high surge'; Centre tells states as Covid cases spike||Amid rising Covid-19 cases and an uptick in Omicron numbers, Centre on Sunday asked the states to "leave no stone unturned" in ramping up infrastructure to "manage a high surge" and prepare a weekly plan to catch up and exceed the average national vaccination coverage. While Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya held detailed interactions with state health ministers and top state officials asking them to review the implementation of this plan on a daily basis with special emphasis in five poll-bound states of Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Manipur, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a fresh letter to states and Union Territories told them about Centre's plan to hold a series of webinars from January 5 to January 19 on various aspects of clinical management of Covid cases in collaboration with AIIMS, Delhi. A total of 1,525 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 23 states and Union Territories so far. India's Active caseload currently stands at 1,22,801. Case positivity in Delhi itself climbed up to 4.59 per cent, the highest single-day rise since May 20 last year.  Active Covid-19 cases rose from about 2,000 on December 29, 2021, to 6,000 on January 1. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, however, said that there is no need to panic, arguing that the oxygen bed occupancy is less than one per cent in hospitals and is very low as compared to the deadly second wave of coronavirus in April last year. "The growth trajectory of Covid-19 cases and Variant of Concern (VOC) Omicron, in some of the states and Union Territories in the country is a matter of concern. While public health action in terms of containment, surveillance, contact tracing, testing, adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination is of prime importance, it is equally crucial that efforts are made by all stakeholders to minimize the mortality due to Covid-19 to a minimum possible level," Bhushan said in the letter. The Health Minister held a comprehensive and detailed discussion on various aspects of Covid management including ramping up of hospital infrastructure; increased testing, stringent restrictive measures for breaking the chain of transmission and addressing the critical bottlenecks in medical infrastructure were also discussed. The meeting that was held in view of the rising cases of the Omicron variant and the recent decisions to roll out vaccination for the age group 15-18 years and precautionary dose for identified vulnerable categories, was attended by Health Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Haryana, Delhi, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Nagaland,  Assam and Arunachal Pradesh among others. Mandaviya brought to their attention that the States/UTs have only used just over 17% of the available approved funds under Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP-II). States/UTs were exhorted to expedite the physical progress under ECRP-II in terms of ICU beds, oxygen beds, Pediatric ICU/HDU beds. The government stressed the need to ensure the smooth implementation of new vaccination guidelines. They were asked to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines during administration and strive for separate CVCs, separate session sites, separate queues and separate vaccination teams. States/UTs were advised to ensure the orientation of vaccinators and vaccination team members for vaccination of 15-18 years age-group and the identification of dedicated session sites for vaccination of 15-18 years age-group. States/UTs were also advised to share their requirement of vaccine doses through district-wise estimation of beneficiaries using Co-WIN.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leave-no-stone-unturned-to-manage-high-surge-centre-tells-states-as-covid-cases-spike-1067184.html
02-01-2022||National||India's Covid vaccination programme one of world's most successful: Govt||India's vaccination programme against Covid-19 has been one of the most successful and largest in the world, the Union health ministry said on Sunday and termed as misleading some media reports that claimed the country has missed its Covid-19 inoculation targets. Since the start of the national Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 last year, India has administered to over 90 per cent of its eligible citizens first doses and 65 per cent second doses. "In a recently published news article by a reputed international news agency, it has been claimed that India has missed its vaccination target. This is misleading and does not represent the complete picture," the ministry said in a statement. In the fight against the global pandemic, India's national vaccination programme has been one of the most successful and largest vaccination programmes when compared to many developed western nations with significantly low population base to vaccinate, it said. In the vaccination drive, so far, the country has achieved several milestones, which have no precedent in the world, including administering over 100 crore doses in less than nine months, administering 2.51 crore doses in a single day and several times administering one crore doses in a day, the ministry said. "Compared with other developed nations, India has done a better job in administering Covid vaccination to its eligible adult citizen of 93.7 crore (as per the RGI (Registrar General of India)) across all its states and UTs (union territories)," it underlined. "In case of first dose coverage to the eligible population, the US has covered only 73.2 per cent of its population, the UK has covered 75.9 per cent of its population, France has covered 78.3 per cent of its population and Spain has covered 84.7 per cent of its population, the ministry said. India has already covered 90 per cent of its eligible population with first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, it said in the statement. Similarly, for the second dose, the US has covered 61.5 per cent of its population, the UK has covered 69.5 per cent of its population, France has covered 73.2 per cent of its population, and Spain has covered 81 per cent of its population, the ministry said. India has covered over 65 per cent of its eligible population with second dose of vaccine. Over 11 states and UTs have already achieved 100 per cent first dose vaccination coverage, while three states and UTs have already achieved 100 per cent full vaccination against Covid-19 (both first and second dose), it said. Many states and UTs are soon expected to achieve 100 per cent vaccination very quickly,the statement said. Under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, the 'Har Ghar Dastak' (house-to-house) campaign was implemented from November 3 and this includes mobilisation and awareness on vaccination by reaching out to all missed out or dropped out eligible beneficiaries.  "This has also resulted in an increase of first dose coverage by 11.6 per cent  since introduction of the campaign. While the second dose coverage increased by 28.9 per cent in the same period," the statement stated. Keeping in view the global surge in Covid-19 cases, detection of the Omicron variant, scientific evidence, global best practices and the suggestions of the Covid-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) as well as of the Standing Technical Scientific Committee (STSC) of the NTAGI, it was decided to further refine the scientific prioritisation and coverage of Covid-19 vaccination of teenagers in the age-group of 15-18 years to be started from January 3, it said. Further strengthening India's fight against Covid-19, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has given approvals to two additional vaccines. These include Biological-E's Corbevax vaccine and SII's Covovax vaccine for restricted use in emergency situation. This takes the number of vaccines given restricted use in emergency situation in India to eight, the statement said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccination-programme-one-of-worlds-most-successful-govt-1067198.html
02-01-2022||National||Badals warn against 'conspiracies' to control shrines, spoil peace||Akali Dal supremo and five-time Punjab Chief Minister, Parkash Singh Badal, on Sunday warned against "dangerous conspiracies" to install "government stooges" in sacred Gurdhams. "Devious conspiracies are at work to weaken the Khalsa Panth and dilute its separate and unique religious identity. Our sacred Gurdhams and their unique religious ideology are being targeted. The 'qaum' (community) will have to guard against attempts by powerful agencies to create dissensions, disunity and mutual distrust within the community." The elder Badal was addressing a Panthic gathering at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in Sri Harmandar Sahib Complex here to protest the painful incidents of sacrilege, including the outrage at the sanctum sanctorum of Shri Harmandar Sahib. Badal also warned against the "dangerous conspiracy to put Punjab on flames again through communal polarisation". "The hard-earned atmosphere of peace and communal harmony is being put to torch by powers that be. They will finally blame the flames on Punjabis themselves in a repeat of 1980s and 1990s simply to further vested petty political interests," he said during the 'panthic ikath' which demanded a probe into the recent sacrilege incidents by a sitting high court judge. In his remarks, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Badal said the Congress had done politics on the issue of sacrilege for five years and did nothing to nab those behind this heinous act. He said now again a conspiracy was afoot to spoil the peace of the state and create divisions in society for political motives alone. He said despite nabbing culprits who had committed sacrileges at Sri Anandpur Sahib on September 13 and at Sri Darbar Sahib on December 15, both last year, the government had done nothing to uncover the conspiracy behind the two incidents. He said even in the case of the Sri Harmandar Sahib sacrilege, no attempt was made to identify the accused till now. Asking the people how they could expect justice from the Congress which had rolled tanks and guns into Sri Darbar Sahib and had carried out "genocide" against the Sikh community in 1984, the junior Badal said: "It is of utmost importance to strengthen the 'panth' as well as its representative party -- the SAD." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/badals-warn-against-conspiracies-to-control-shrines-spoil-peace-1067218.html
02-01-2022||National||OBC quota stir: Bhim Army chief, others detained in Bhopal||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and a dozen other people were detained on Sunday ahead of their plans to gherao (encircle) Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's residence to seek 27 per cent reservation for the Other Backward Classes, police said. Azad was detained at the airport upon his arrival along with 12 to 13 people, though the exact number of detainees will be known by late evening, Bhopal police commissioner Makarand Deouskar told PTI. Denying that over 150 people were detained, he said Azad was at the airport lounge having his meal. “We have stopped around 1500 protesters and sent them back. We suspect they were going to assemble at Roshanpura square from where they were going to head for the Chief Minister's house," the commissioner added. Meanwhile, OBC Maha Sabha national general secretary Tulsiram Patel said they were planning to give a memorandum to the CM peacefully but the local administration has detained people and the police have manhandled some of them. "The population of OBCs in MP and India was 65 per cent and 85 per cent respectively, but they are not getting reservation according to their numbers. The Centre claims OBCs are getting 27 per cent reservation and the state says it is giving 14 per cent quota. However, OBC communities are not even getting 8 per cent reservation," he claimed. He said the Bhim Army and tribal outfit Jai Yuva Adivasi Shakti were allies in their struggle for OBC quota. In a tweet, MP Congress chief Kamal Nath supported the stir and said the BJP government in the state was quelling the protest by force despite claiming to be well-wishers of OBCs. He asked OBCs, tribals and Dalits to continue the fight and promised the support of the Congress. Hitting back, MP Urban Development Minister Bhupendra Singh said some people were playing politics in the name of OBC quota, adding that the state was trying hard to ensure they get 27 per cent reservation in the panchayat polls.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/obc-quota-stir-bhim-army-chief-others-detained-in-bhopal-1067222.html
02-01-2022||National||SC to hold virtual hearings from January 3 amid spike in Covid cases||The Supreme Court has decided to turn to conducting hearings virtually for two weeks from January 3, following the surge in Covid-19 cases. A decision was taken to suspend the hybrid mode of hearing in view of rising Omicron variant. All hearings would take place through virtual mode only. A circular in this regard was issued on Sunday. In view of "alarming and worrisome" rise in Covid-19 cases here, the Delhi High Court had on Thursday decided to conduct the proceedings through virtual mode only in courts across the national capital between January 3 and 15. Delhi recorded 3,194 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours which was 15 % higher than that of Saturday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hold-virtual-hearings-from-january-3-amid-spike-in-covid-cases-1067225.html
02-01-2022||National||Paramilitary forces prepare for 3rd wave, reactivate Covid care centres||Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases, fuelled by its Omicron variant, the Central Armed Police Forces are stocking required medicines like Remdesivir, as well oxygen supplies and reactivating the dedicated Covid care centres, including the world's largest makeshift Covid hospital in south Delhi. The move came as the alarm bell rang among the various paramilitary forces after 19 coronavirus cases were detected in them. According to the latest data, the Border Security Force (BSF) has reported nine cases, followed by five in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), three in the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), and two in the Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB). No new cases have been reported in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and the National Security Guard (NSG). The data also said that 148 active Covid cases have been reported in the CAPFs as of now, comprising 46 in the BSF, 44 in the CISF, 42 in the CRPF, eight in the SSB, five in the ITBP, two in the NSG and one in NDRF and two in NSG. A total of 88,642 security men in CAPFs have been infected since the advent of pandemic whereas 88,146 personnel have been recovered so far. The death toll has gone to 348 since April 2020. Paramilitary force officials said that amid the rising number of Omicron cases, all the forces have been asked strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols in all units and field formations. The MHA has sought data from all medical directorates of each force regarding the number of beds available, including oxygen beds, commissioning of oxygen supply and medicine stocks at dedicated Covid Health Care Centres across India. Meanwhile, the Sardar Patel Covid Centre, in Delhi's Chhattarpur, is also getting ready for the third wave. This centre was operated by the ITBP with help from doctors and paramedics of all paramilitary forces and the Delhi government. The ITBP has said that there are no patients right now at the centre, which has 650 beds, including 150 for critical care, and 100-150 paramedics and doctors are being arranged in view of the impending situation on short notice. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paramilitary-forces-prepare-for-3rd-wave-reactivate-covid-care-centres-1067231.html
02-01-2022||National||Ensure ecommerce rules are not relaxed: CAIT to Centre||The Confederation of All India Traders has written to the Centre asking it to ensure that no relaxations are provided to the e-commerce firms. The Centre is in the final stages of drafting new e-commerce rules, which is expected to be launched "soon". "... any dilution in the proposed e-commerce rules under CPA (Consumer Protection Act) will percolate a strong feeling across the country that the government has succumbed to some hidden pressures and the e-commerce landscape has been offered to the global e-tailers to twist the e-commerce to their advantage even at the cost of flouting the laws and the policy...," the CAIT said in a letter written to Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. The traders' body alleged that several foreign funded e-commerce companies are indulging in predatory pricing, deep discounting, loss funding, exclusivity, owning inventory, and facilitating illegal items through their channels. "We are of the considered opinion that provisions prohibiting deep discounts and flash sales, making e-marketplaces responsible for the quality of goods sold on their platforms, setting up of robust grievance redressal mechanisms, stoppage of market-distorting discount offers, mis-selling of goods and services, equal treatment of all sellers registered should be the integral and non-compromising points...," the letter said. Besides, the traders' body, through the letter, urged the Centre to provide a level playing field for domestic players. "If the even level playing field is not granted, the traders of the country shall be compelled to wind up their businesses in phase wise manner because of the manipulative and unethical business practices of the e-commerce companies," it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-ecommerce-rules-are-not-relaxed-cait-to-centre-1067242.html
02-01-2022||National||Banaras Railway Station to be major hub for pilgrims visiting Varanasi||Indian Railways is working on making Banaras Railway Station in Varanasi as the largest station dedicated for pilgrims visiting the temple town. Though at present Varanasi Cantonment Railway Station is the major station with highest footfall due to terminating and passing of large number of trains, the national transporter is planning to decongest this station and make Banaras a major hub. The Banaras railway station was earlier known as Manduadih and was renamed early this year. The station was modernised at a cost of Rs 118 crore, providing state of art facilities including an air conditioned waiting hall, improvement of circulation area, provisions of lifts and escalators and food plazas. Modernisation of the station is one of the pet projects of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide better facilities to pilgrims visiting the holy city. Varanasi has been the Prime Minister’s Parliamentary constituency since 2014. The PM, who was in Varanasi city to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor last month, also made a surprise visit to the station during midnight to see the facilities. "Already nine pairs of trains have been shifted to Banaras from Varanasi Cantonment Railway Station, while another five will be shifted soon," Pankaj Kumar Singh, North Eastern Railway spokesperson. At present Banaras Station has 5,000 passengers footfall per day while the railway expects to increase to 50,000 once more trains shifted to this station. Once the modernisation works is completed, the station will have 8 platforms and 16 running lines. Just 6 years ago, the station had only three platforms and one entry. But now it has more platforms and two entries for passengers. To promote local art and culture in Banaras station, paintings have been installed at the station, said the railway official. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banaras-railway-station-to-be-major-hub-for-pilgrims-visiting-varanasi-1067250.html
02-01-2022||National||Over 6.35 lakh teenagers register on Co-WIN app to get Covid vaccines from today||The Co-WIN platform recorded over six lakh registrations till Sunday evening for the age group of 15 to 18 years whose Covid vaccination is set to begin from January 3. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya advised states and Union Territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queue and different vaccination teams for the 15-18 year age group to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines. The vaccine option for this age group would only be Covaxin, according to guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry on December 27. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions on December 24. Mandaviya, who interacted with health ministers and principal secretaries and additional chief secretaries of states and Union Territories on Sunday through a video link, stressed the need to ensure smooth implementation of new vaccination guidelines. He advised them to ensure the orientation of vaccinators and vaccination team members and the identification of dedicated session sites for this category of beneficiaries. The registration for this category of beneficiaries opened on Saturday. According to the guidelines, they can self-register online through an existing account on Co-WIN or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number as is the case with all other categories of beneficiaries. Till 7.50 pm on Sunday, over 6.35 lakh children in the age group of 15 to 18 years have registered in the Co-WIN platform. Beneficiaries in this age group can get themselves registered onsite. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-635-lakh-teenagers-register-on-co-win-app-to-get-covid-vaccines-from-today-1067262.html
02-01-2022||National||Concerted global efforts needed to to save islands: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urged all countries to put in consolidated efforts to limit global temperature levels, so that smaller islands and their sublime beauty stays intact, and their residents do not get displaced. Expressing his deep concern on the effect of climate change and global warming on the small islands, he said that it is unfair that small islands, whose percentage of overall emissions is minimal, pay the price for the negligence of big nations. "Rising sea levels, storm surges, flooding, and coastal erosion pose a great threat to the inhabitants of various islands across the world," he added. The Vice President, who concluded his two day official tour to the Lakshadweep islands, said: "It is a joy to be surrounded by the vast expanse of turquoise blue water, canopy of palm trees, white sand shores, and the clear blue skies." Describing the Lakshadweep islands as the best kept secrets of India, he also lauded the Lakshadweep administration for their consistent efforts towards protecting the coastal environment while promoting tourism. Naidu urged other tourism destinations to emulate Lakshadweep's approach and adopt ecotourism and also called upon tourists to travel responsibly keeping the well-being of the local people and nature in mind. He appreciated the people of Lakshadweep for their role in keeping the islands clean. Pointing to the steady growth in fish production in the Lakshadweep region, the Vice President appreciated the efforts made by the administration for their consistent support to this sector. "To give a boost to the fishing sector, our scientists and researchers must come up with energy efficient fishing systems for responsible fishing," he added. Drawing attention to the natural diversity of India, Naidu said: "We cannot deny that India has the best of everything when it comes to tourism. Be it the mighty Himalayas, the architectural wonders of Rajasthan, the crystal clear lakes in Himachal Pradesh, the spiritual getaways in Uttarakhand, the incredible beaches of Goa, the tranquil backwaters of Kerala, the wildlife sanctuaries in Madhya Pradesh, the tea gardens and breath-taking sights of the hills of the northeast or scenic beauty of the Rann of Kutch." Urging everyone to travel widely in India to experience the diverse and beautiful aspects of the motherland better, he said: "But remember, when you travel, you must take care to travel without harming any aspect of the environment." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerted-global-efforts-needed-to-to-save-islands-venkaiah-naidu-1067278.html
02-01-2022||National||AIR to double broadcast time for programmes in six languages||Starting Monday, All India Radio (AIR) programmes in six neighbourhood languages, including in Dari, Pashto, Baluchi and Mandarin Chinese, will be available to listeners every day in the morning and evening. The AIR's external services division has doubled the time for the programmes aired in Dari, Pashto, Baluchi, Mandarin Chinese, Nepali and Tibetan languages, the public broadcaster said in a statement on Sunday. The programmes in these six languages will be aired on shortwave frequency and also live streamed on YouTube, NewonAir App, DD Free Dish, it said. “The external services division of the All India Radio is expanding its transmission in six neighbourhood languages from January 3, 2022. These languages are Dari, Pashto, Baluchi, Mandarin Chinese, Nepali and Tibetan,” the public broadcaster said. The broadcast timings in each of these six languages has been doubled from the existing 1 hour to 1.5 hours to 3 hours, it said. "The broadcast services in these six languages henceforth will be available every day for one and a half hours each in the morning and evening,” it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-to-double-broadcast-time-for-programmes-in-six-languages-1067293.html
02-01-2022||National||India needs to cut down on Defence imports, give thrust to R&D, says Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday stressed that in order to become fully self-reliant in strategic domains, India needs to cut down on Defence imports and give greater thrust to R&D as well as "private collaboration". Naidu, while inaugurating the 70th anniversary celebrations of the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL) near here, said to achieve "atma-nirbhartha", India needs to allow private collaboration, wherever it is possible, with stringent quality controls. "Our mantra should be atma-nirbhartha—to make India fully self-reliant in all areas, including strategic domains. For instance, we need to keep increasing our indigenous content in the Defence sector and cut down on imports. To achieve that, we need to not only give greater thrust to R & D activities, but also allow private collaboration, wherever it is possible and feasible, with stringent quality controls," Naidu said. The Vice President virtually laid the foundation stone of the "Towed Array Integration Facility", essential for the development of towed array sonar systems, which is critical to underwater defence. The towed array sonar system is expected to enhance the Navy's capabilities to detect quieter enemy submarines underwater. Naidu also inaugurated the Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam memorial at the NPOL premises. Describing the memorial as "truly befitting", he said it will inspire countless people from all walks of life every day. Governor of Kerala Arif Mohhammed Khan, state Industries Minister P Rajeeve, Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden, Director General of Naval Systems and Materials, Samir V Kamat, Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory Director, S Vijayan Pillai, Chief Staff Officer (Training), Headquarters, Southern Naval Command, Rear Admiral T V N Prasanna and others were present during the occasion. Observing that India was strongly marching ahead on its way to becoming a global superpower in the coming decades, Naidu said our scientists from DRDO, ISRO, BARC and other leading R & D organizations were doing excellent work in strengthening the country’s security in Defence, Space and other areas. "But it is also a fact that our country is still one of the largest importers of defence equipment. In this context, the contribution of a small lab like NPOL in empowering the nation in its defence needs is truly commendable," he noted. Naidu hailed the country's scientists and said they were working very closely with the Indian Navy personnel, frequently sailing with them in ships and submarines in order to gain a deeper insight into their requirements and offer customized solutions. Keeping in view the geo-political scenario in our neighbourhood, the Vice President said NPOL's role towards national security is paramount as all warships or conventional submarines in the fleet of the Indian Navy are equipped with NPOL-developed sonars. Formed in the Southern Naval Command in 1952, NPOL later became part of DRDO in 1958. It will be celebrating its 70th year of inception in 2022. Earlier in the day, Naidu visited the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant being constructed at Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) here. Chairman and Managing Director of the CSL, Madhu S Nair, briefed him about the yard's capabilities and strengths and it's contributions in developing indigenous technologies and creating world class capabilities. The Indian Navy made a detailed presentation on the vessel and its capabilities. The Vice President also visited the hangar deck and the flight deck of the vessel. Naidu returned from Lakshadweep this morning and was accompanied by his wife Usha and other family members. The Vice President also inspected a Guard of Honour by the Indian Navy. He will attend a few programmes in Kochi and Kottayam on Monday and will fly back to New Delhi on January 3. Naidu, who reached Kerala on December 31, flew to Lakshadweep on the same day. He attended various programmes in the island over the last two days. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-cut-down-on-defence-imports-give-thrust-to-rd-says-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-1067323.html
02-01-2022||National Politics||AAP's renewed efforts to expand base beyond Delhi marked 2021||The year gone by saw the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) embarking on its avowed mission of expanding its footprints beyond Delhi with a fresh strategy even as on the home front, the party kept up its preparations for the 2022 civic polls in the national capital to wrest power from the ruling BJP. On January 28, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal announced his party's decision to contest the assembly polls in six states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. The party also brought in certain amendments to its constitution to keep it in sync with its national ambitions as some of its clauses were bringing "difficulties" in the party's growth in the states, especially where it was new and being built up from the scratch. The amendments enabled the party's state executive to appoint an interim office bearer in case of a vacancy, its MPs and MLAs become party's national council member "by default" besides being the part of the state council in their respective states. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-ensure-good-free-education-to-children-of-poor-in-punjab-says-aap-1066965.htmlThe changes in the AAP's constitution also allowed more than one person from a family to contest elections on the party's ticket. The party grabbed headlines as Kejriwal and his colleagues began holding political rallies, meetings and other events in poll-bound Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa, promising free education, free and better healthcare services, jobs, unemployment allowance to youth, Rs 1,000 per month to women, 24x7 free electricity et al. "It remained a very significant year for the AAP, especially from the point of view of its expansion as the party decided to contest assembly elections in six states in 2022," senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh told PTI. All leaders and workers of the party are working "tirelessly" to ensure the AAP's victory in the upcoming elections, he said, asserting, "We are going to form our government in Punjab." He claimed that his is receiving a "very good response" from the people in Uttar Pradesh. "We won 83 seats in Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections (held last year), securing 40 lakh votes," he said. Singh, who is in-charge of the AAP's political affairs in Uttar Pradesh, made headlines in 2021 as he raised various issues of corruption in Yogi Adityanath government including alleged corruption in land deals carried out for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The year 2021 also saw the AAP winning 70 seats across 13 districts in panchayat polls in Maharashtra in January, making inroads in Gujarat politics in February bagging 27 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and emerging as the main opposition in the civic body. A week later, the AAP emerged victorious in 42 seats in rural and semi-urban pockets of Gujarat. It won 31 seats in taluka panchayats, nine in municipalities and two district panchayat seats. In March, the AAP won four of the five civic wards in Delhi in a by-poll after which Kejriwal asserted that the people of the national capital are desperate to bring the AAP to power in the three municipal corporations. Towards the end of the year, the AAP became the leading party in the Chandigarh municipal corporation as it won 14 of 35 wards in the civic polls contesting them for the first time. "Amid the prevailing situations in Punjab, we are emerging as the number one party in the state. All the surveys are showing that we are ahead of all others, we will be forming our government if elections are held tomorrow," claimed party spokesperson and co-in charge of its political affairs in Punjab Raghav Chadha. He further claimed that the wind in Punjab is in favour of the AAP this time and that the people of the state are fed up with the Shiromani Akali Dal and the ruling Congress both due to "corruption" in their respective regimes. While the AAP will make its electoral debut in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, it will join the fray for the second time in Goa, Gujarat and Punjab. The party had lost all the seats it had contested in the assembly polls held in Goa and Gujarat in 2017 but made a surprise entry into Punjab politics winning 20 of the 112 seats that it had fought in same year and became the main Opposition party in the state. "If we go by the current mood, I think AAP is on the way of its expansion," noted political analyst and co-director of Lokniti-CSDS Sanjay Kumar told PTI. He said the future of the party will depend on its success in the upcoming polls and it has a "very good chance of winning" in Punjab. "They seem to be a frontrunner in Punjab. There is no doubt about that," he asserted. He noted that the AAP is the only regional party in the country which has support base beyond its parent state. "In my opinion, the AAP has brighter prospects in 2022-23 till 2024 but the party needs to look for local leadership," Kumar suggested. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aaps-renewed-efforts-to-expand-base-beyond-delhi-marked-2021-1067138.html
02-01-2022||National Politics||It's time to speak up, says Rahul Gandhi over 'bulli' deals||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi has slammed the government over inaction over Bulli Bai app that targets women of a particular community and said it's time to speak up against the hate and there should be no fear. Gandhi spoke after profiles of several women of a particular community were posted on Bulli deals. Gandhi said, "The insult of women and communal hatred will only stop when you stand against it in one voice, and the year has changed, so change your fate and it's time to speak up." NCP leader Nawab Malik tweeted, "It's beyond anguishing to see vocal Muslim women being auctioned online in #SulliDeals &amp; I've also had a telephonic conversation with 2 victims. I will write to Home Minister @Dwalsepatil Ji &amp; demand a probe. Maharashtra will always stand with the daughters of the nation!" One of the Congress activists whose profile was posted, has tweeted tagging Delhi police that earlier complaint was ignored. "Hi @DelhiPolice. This lot already harassed me by hosting an auction of me and making disgusting lewd comments on me. I had filed an FIR in May with you, but you've done absolutely nothing. Now they're back with this. Good job protecting women. Will you do anything now at least?" she said in her twitter post. After a complaint from a woman journalist was filed with Delhi Police over web page "Bulli Bai" aimed at demeaning Muslim women, Union Minister for Communications, Ashwini Vaishnaw said that hosting platform GitHub has blocked the bulli bai creator. "Bulli Bai", created on GitHub, popped up on January 1, with a number of pictures of women including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities, accompanied by derogatory content. Late Saturday night, quoting Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi's tweet, Vaishnaw said: "GitHub confirmed blocking the user this morning itself. CERT and Police authorities are coordinating further action." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/its-time-to-speak-up-says-rahul-gandhi-over-bulli-deals-1067154.html
02-01-2022||National Politics||'Rampuri Chaku' enters BJP's Uttar Pradesh election campaign||The flashing blades of the iconic 'Rampuri Chaku' (knives made in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur town),which may be known as the weapon of choice for the villains like Pran, Premnath and K N Singh to threaten the heroine and attack the hero in the Bollywood movies of 60s and 70s, has made an entry into the election campaign in UP. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, while addressing a public meeting at Rampur on Saturday, used 'Rampuri Chaku', albeit in a different way, to 'attack' his rivals. "Rampuri chakus were meant to protect the people but they were used to 'threaten' the common people and grab their lands and other properties during the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime," he said. The chief minister cited Vedic scriptures to say that the arms and weapons were used for protecting the people if they were in the hands of good people. "If they fall in the hands of the wrong people they will be used to loot the properties of the poor and weak," he added. He said that his government made sure that the 'Rampuri Chaku' is not used to threaten the people. "Those who misused it were also paying the price," he said apparently referring to senior SP leader Azam Khan, who hailed from Rampur, and who had been languishing in jail for the past several months on charges ranging from illegally grabbing government land for building Maulana Jauhar Ali University at Rampur to threatening government officials. "We made sure that such people were put in the place where they ought to be," Adityanath added. The 'Rampuri Chakus', a single sided, folding knife between six to ten inches, were initially made by the bladesmith of the Nawabs of Rampur for the employees of the Nawabs. It however shot to fame when they were used to threaten the heroine and attack the hero by the villains in Bollywood movies. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rampuri-chaku-enters-bjps-uttar-pradesh-election-campaign-1067195.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Like Kejriwal, Akhilesh too seeks to lure voters with free power in UP||Resorting to the AAP poll formula for freebies to voters, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday promised completely free electricity for irrigation to farmers and 300 units of free domestic power on forming the government in Uttar Pradesh after the state's assembly elections. Yadav made this promise on his Twitter handle while wishing people a happy new year. "The year 2022 will be a new year with a new light for a new Uttar Pradesh. Three hundred units of electricity for households (domestic consumers) will be given for free and electricity for irrigation will be free," he said in his tweet. The Samajwadi Party too in a separate statement said party president Akhilesh Yadav while exchanging greetings with the leaders and supporters announced that on coming to power, the SP government would provide 300 units of free domestic electricity and free power for irrigation to farmers. The SP statement said this promise will also be included in the party’s manifesto. Yadav made the promise a day ahead of the slated visit of AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to Lucknow on Sunday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), whose government has been claiming to provide up to 200 units of free domestic powers in Delhi, too had made a similar promise for Uttar Pradesh in September 2021. It had promised 300 units of free electricity to all domestic consumers, besides a waiver of outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and a round-the-clock power supply. AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had also announced free electricity for farmers. The AAP has made similar promises in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa where assembly polls are due this year. The party statement said Akhilesh Yadav said that after forming the government in UP, due respect will be given to farmers, the poor, youths and businessmen and the principles of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia and Dr B R Ambedkar will be taken forward. "We have with us the legacy of socialist leaders Janeshwar Mishra and Braj Bhushan Tiwari too,” he said. The former UP chief minister said people have been suffering from inflation and unemployment amid a failed demonetisation and GST regime during the present BJP government. Referring to the seizure of an "unaccounted and uncountable" bundle of currency notes following the recent Income Tax raids at various perfume dealers and manufacturers, including an SP MLC, Akhilesh claimed that all the money belonged to BJP people Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/like-kejriwal-akhilesh-too-seeks-to-lure-voters-with-free-power-in-up-1067032.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Ready to work with Sidhu, says Punjab CM Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said he was ready to work with Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and is ready to make any “sacrifice” for the party. The CM’s comment came in the backdrop of an ongoing cold war between him and Sidhu, with the latter often indulging in criticism of the state government led by his own party. Asked about Sidhu's adverse comments against his government, Channi said he was a “loyal soldier” of the party and was discharging the duty assigned with complete honesty. “I am ready to work with Sidhu Sahab, and I am already doing it. I am always ready to make any sacrifice for the party. I will go by whatever is told to me by the party,” Channi said. “I always welcome criticism. It may come from anyone, even if my brother tries to criticise, I listen to him and correct myself,” he said. Sidhu has been targeting the government in Punjab at public rallies. During one rally he asked people whether they were getting cable TV connection and sand at cheap rates, as promised by the CM. Replying to the comment, Channi said sand was being delivered at the rate Rs 5.50 per cubic feet at quarries and the cable sector was under the Centre's jurisdiction. Channi also said when Sidhu was a minister, he had proposed a law on cable for ending the cable mafia but that “was not up to the mark.” In November, Channi had announced fixed charges for cable TV at Rs 100 for a month. To a question on Sidhu questioning the government over the Bikram Majithia case, Channi said the first step to catch a criminal was to lodge an FIR. The Shiromani Akali Dal leader was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The case was filed against him on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state, said Channi while addressing the media here. Asked why Sidhu was not satisfied with the FIR, Channi said he will be, and added: “Aate Aate aayega dil ko karar, jaate jaate bekrari jaayegi….” Sidhu had earlier said that FIR filed against the Akali leader will result in nothing. Responding to the sacrilege case, Channi said a probe in the matter by a special investigation team was already underway and will be brought to a logical end at the earliest. He said all “big fish” in the drug mafia will also be dealt with severely as per the law of the land. On the recent alleged sacrilege bid inside the Golden Temple, Channi said his government has already offered full support and cooperation to the SGPC who was conducting investigation in the case at their own level. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-to-work-with-sidhu-says-punjab-cm-channi-1067062.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi court stays order directing FIR against cops for alleged custodial torture||A court here has stayed an order directing registration of a first information report (FIR) against several police officials over alleged custodial torture of a man arrested in a robbery case, molestation of his family members, and staging of a dog fight in his house. Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Malik stayed the December 22 order on a revision petition filed by three police constables who claimed that robbery accused Prince Gill cannot be said to be trustworthy in his version as there are 13 criminal cases pending against him.  Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Babru Bhan, in his order last month, directed the DCP of Rohini District to get an FIR registered against SHO Inspector Arvind Kumar, sub-inspector Nimesh, assistant sub-inspector Neeraj Rana, constables Sunny, Arun and Vineet and other erring officials of Begum Pur police station. He had noted that the injuries sustained by Gill in police custody were apparently the result of a "calculated assault after overpowering the accused". Staying the order, ASJ Malik said, "Considering the submissions, let the notice of present revision petition be issued to the respondents. In the meanwhile, operation of the impugned order dated December 22 stands stayed." Gill was apprehended by the police and cash worth Rs 92,000 was recovered from his residence along with the bike, helmet, and fake number plates used during the commission of the alleged robbery in December. However, the alleged incident of custodial torture came to the fore after Gill was produced before the judge after his arrest.  The judge ordered initiation of inquiry against the officials of Begum Pur police station after he found bruises and multiple abrasions on Gill's body and saw him trembling in the courtroom.  The robbery accused, along with his wife Gurpreet Kaur Gill, alleged that a group of policemen barged into their house on the night of December 8 and staged a dog fight.  During the dog fight, their pet was allegedly severely wounded and succumbed to injuries. His wife and mother also claimed that the personnel molested them.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-stays-order-directing-fir-against-cops-for-alleged-custodial-torture-1067064.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||No serious case of Omicron recorded till now, situation under control: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday that as of now, the Covid situation in the national capital is under control. "Delhi government is ready to fight any variant of Covid with full force. We have the appropriate infrastructure to treat patients and stop the spread of Coronavirus," Jain said. The Health Minister said that according to the experts, the Omicron variant is less dangerous than the Delta variant, and hence the patients need not be admitted to the hospital, adding that at present, no Omicron patient is in need of oxygen. "Prevention is better than cure and people need to keep themselves safe at all times," he said. "Delhi has appropriate and enough infrastructure and vaccination centres to vaccinate 3 lakh people per day. Delhi government is fully prepared to vaccinate the teenagers in the 15-18 years age group. We have a full stock of booster dose available for the vaccinating the people of Delhi," he said. He claimed that keeping in view the ongoing situation, more than 3,000 beds have already been prepared for the children. All the healthcare workers are being trained and instructed properly for the treatment of Coronavirus. There is no separate treatment for the different variants of the virus, he said. "People are demanding Omicron test these days. This is to inform them that the information on Omicron is necessary only for the government and policy makers so that it can ensure the system works accordingly. Patients will not get to know anything new about the variant, because the treatment process for other variants is exactly the same as the Omicron variant," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-serious-case-of-omicron-recorded-till-now-situation-under-control-satyendar-jain-1067066.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi yatra continuing smoothly, 27,000 pilgrims offered prayers on Jan 1: Spokesperson||The Mata Vaishno Devi yatra is going on smoothly despite the early Saturday morning stampede that killed 12 people and left several others injured, an official spokesperson said, adding that about 27,000 pilgrims offered prayers at the cave shrine during the day. After the stampede, the rescue operation was launched promptly by a joint team of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, the district administration, police and the CRPF, the government spokesman said in a statement, adding "the situation was brought under control within a span of five minutes". "The yatra is continuing smoothly, with approximately 27,000 pilgrims having done darshan at the holy shrine today (Saturday)," the spokesman said. He said Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairperson of the shrine board, has been personally monitoring the whole situation since early morning and also visited the Super-Specialty Hospital, Kakryal, and enquired about the health of theinjured pilgrims and interacted with them. He also directed the officials to ensure that the ex gratia amount of Rs 10 lakhs for the deceased and Rs 2 lakhs for the injured, already announced by the government, should be released in favour of the legal heirs on priority in a hassle free manner, the spokesman said. Meanwhile, the members of the inquiry committee constituted probe the incident visited the site of the occurrence at Bhawan this evening and took a first-hand account. The officers interacted with the Chief Executive Officer, SMVDSB, Deputy Commissioner Reasi, SP Katra, Commanding Officer CRPF, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Bhawan and other officials and also scrutinized the video footage, the spokesman said. He said the committee mentioned that further details are being sought after which any conclusive findings can be drawn. However, prima facie it appears that some kind of minor scuffle between few pilgrims may have led to the stampede near Gate no.3, where the pathway has a steep gradient, the spokesman said. He said the ADGP and Divisional Commissioner lauded the efforts of the field teams of Shrine Board, district administration, Police and CRPF, who were manning the Bhawan area, for their prompt action and bringing the situation immediately under control, thereby averting any further loss.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-yatra-continuing-smoothly-27000-pilgrims-offered-prayers-on-jan-1-spokesperson-1067068.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Will fight election from wherever the party says: Yogi||Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-fight-election-from-wherever-the-party-says-yogi-1067069.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||CPI(M) condemns detention of PAGD leaders||Leaders of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, including three former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, were put under house arrest earlier in the day. The PAGD -- an amalgam of various mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir including the NC, the PDP, the CPI(M), Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference -- had given the call for a peaceful protest against the Delimitation Commission's recommendations. "The draconian lockdown in J&K intensifies. All political leaders put under house arrest to prevent PAGD public protest against Delimitation Commission proposals. Modi invites these leaders to Delhi for a photo op, makes tall promises & then arrests them. Strongly condemn," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet. Earlier, senior CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, who is also the spokesperson of the PAGD, said it was sad that the Jammu and Kashmir administration was "scared even to allow a peaceful protest". "In Kashmir, New Year began on another disappointing note where Police resumed their work of scuttling the legitimate voices and squeezing democratic space by cracking down on protest against Delimitation Commission. Entire PAGD leadership including me have been put under house arrest," he tweeted. On December 21, the PAGD had termed the proposal by the Delimitation Commission of adding six seats to the Jammu region against only one to the Kashmir Valley "divisive and unacceptable". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cpim-condemns-detention-of-pagd-leaders-1067070.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Jhansi railway station is now 'Virangana Lakshmibai'||The New Year has dawned with the Jhansi railway station being renamed as Virangana Lakshmibai railway . New signages have been put up in place of Jhansi railway station as well as on the main entrance of the station. The station also got its new code abbreviation VGLB against the earlier one JHS. The new numerical code of the station is 13309727. Constructed by the Britishers in late 1880, Jhansi railway station is an important junction connecting the north to the south. Meanwhile, there have been mixed reactions as many people have said that the name of Jhansi should also be included. A 'strong' social media campaign has also started against the change of name while many social groups have submitted their memorandum to the district administration officials as well as to Jhansi MP, Anurag Sharma, requesting to add Jhansi to the new name. A local businessman, Satyadev Tiwari, said "Both Jhansi and Rani Lakshmibai are complementary to each other and dropping the city's name is an insult to Rani who got martyred for her city. All over the world she is famous as Rani Jhansi". BJP MP Anurag Sharma told reporters "It is only the railway station's name that has been changed while the division is still known as Jhansi division." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jhansi-railway-station-is-now-virangana-lakshmibai-1067092.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi's air quality in very 'poor category', city wakes up to cold morning||The air quality of the national capital was in the "very poor" category on Sunday morning with the AQI clocking 398 at 9 am, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Delhiites woke up to a cold morning as the minimum temperature settled at 5 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Meanwhile, the AQI of Delhi's neighbouring Faridabad stood at 332, Ghaziabad at 368, Greater Noida at 314 and Noida at 367, all in the "very poor" category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Weatherman has predicted mainly clear sky with shallow to moderate fog in the morning and the maximum temperature may reach up to 21 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity was 94 per cent at 8.30 am. The IMD has forecast cold to severe cold wave conditions in northwest India till January 3. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to 2 degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-city-wakes-up-to-cold-morning-1067100.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Spike of 3,100 Covid-19 cases expected today but no need to panic: Delhi CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that although the capital is witnessing a sharp spike in the number of daily cases and active cases of coronavirus, there is no need to panic as most patients are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms and do not need hospitalisation. He presented data to show that despite an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, oxygen bed occupancy is less than one per cent in hospitals and is very low as compared to the deadly second wave of coronavirus in April last year.  "Currently, the number of active cases in the city is 6,360 and today (Sunday) 3,100 new cases are expected to be reported. All cases are mild and in most of them patients don't need hospitalisation," the CM said in a virtual press conference.  Active Covid-19 cases spiked from about 2,000 on December 29, 2021 to 6,000 on January 1, but the number of patients in hospitals dipped during this period. On December 29, 2021, as many as 262 beds were occupied, while on January 1, it was only 247, he said. According to the latest health bulletin, Kejriwal said only 82 oxygen beds are occupied and 99.72 per cent are vacant. "There has been no major change in this number over the last three days which means no new patient required oxygen. If the need arises, the Delhi government is prepared with 37,000 such beds," the chief minister said.        "On March 27 last year, Delhi had 6,600 active cases and 1,150 oxygen beds were occupied. As many as 145 patients were on ventilator support compared to five now," he said. While Delhi went on to record around 10 deaths a day in that period, the daily fatality count is zero or one at present, he said.   The capital reported 2,716 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike since May 21, and the positivity rate mounted to 3.64 per cent. "On April 1, when the city last logged around 2,700 cases, around 1,700 oxygen beds were occupied and 231 patients were on ventilator support," he said. "I am presenting this data to show that the coronavirus cases at present are very mild and there is no need to panic. We have to act responsibly, wear masks, wash hands regularly and follow social distancing norms," Kejriwal said. On Saturday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that hospital occupancy is still low and further restrictions will be reviewed soon. While the emergence of the new Omicron variant has sparked fears of a third wave, there has been a constant surge in the Covid-19 tally in the national capital which recorded 7,865 cases in the last seven days. The city on Saturday recorded 351 cases of Omicron.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spike-of-3100-covid-19-cases-expected-today-but-no-need-to-panic-delhi-cm-1067108.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Indore man accuses Vicky Kaushal of illegally using license plate: Report||Soon after Vicky Kaushal and Sara Ali Khan's pictures during a shoot in Indore surfaced on the internet, a resident of the city was quick to notice his number plate being used by the actor. "The vehicle number used in the movie sequence is mine. I don't know if the film unit is aware of it but this is illegal. They can't use my number plate without permission. I have given a memorandum at the station. Action should be taken in the matter," he told ANI. In response to Yadav's complaint, sub-inspector of Indore's Banganga area, Rajendra Soni said that the police would look into the matter. "Action will be taken as per provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. If the film unit is in Indore, we will try probing them," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-man-accuses-vicky-kaushal-of-illegally-using-license-plate-report-1067110.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Light to moderate snowfall in parts of Kashmir||Light to moderate snowfall in most parts of Kashmir pushed the mercury closer to the freezing point, officials said here on Sunday. Light to moderate snowfall was reported from most places of the valley since Saturday night, while a trace of rainfall was reported across Srinagar city, they said. The minimum temperature improved at most places in Kashmir. Srinagar recorded the minimum temperature of 0.3 degrees Celsius, up from the Friday night's minus 2.4 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Gulmarg, the famous skiing resort in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 6.2 degrees Celsius -- almost the same as Friday night's 6.0 degrees Celsius. The officials said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 1.7 degrees Celsius – up from minus 6.1 degrees Celsius on Friday night. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded the minimum temperature of minus 1.0 degrees Celsius, while the nearby south Kashmir town of Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.9 degrees Celsius. The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. The MeT Office has forecast light snowfall over the higher reaches of Kashmir from Saturday evening which may continue till Sunday morning. Also, widespread snow/rain spell of moderate to heavy intensity is most likely during January 4 to 6 with the main activity on January 5 to 6. Heavy snow is expected at some places during the period as well, it said. The weather may affect surface and air transport, the MeT Office said. Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as 'Chilla-i-Kalan' which began on December 21. 'Chilla-i-Kalan' is a period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall. The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/light-to-moderate-snowfall-in-parts-of-kashmir-1067113.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi University closed after 13 students found Covid positive||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi have ordered closure of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University till further orders after 13 students tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. The decision to close the university located at Kakriyal near Katra town, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine, was taken to contain the spread and ensure safety of the students and general public, an order issued by Reasi District Magistrate Charandeep Singh said. The order said the screening for Covid-19 was conducted at the university on December 31, 2021 and January 1, during which a total of 13 students have tested positive. Ordering immediate closure of the university till further orders, Singh, who is also chairman of the district disaster management authority, said "any violation of the order shall invite punitive action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005". Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 169 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the infection count to 3,41,459, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,530. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-university-closed-after-13-students-found-covid-positive-1067119.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Parents in UP wary of sending kids to school||With the continued surged in the number of new Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, parents were now wary of sending their children back to school. "My son's life matters to me more than his education. I have decided not to send my son to school when they reopen on January 17. We face many problems in online teaching but we will still not send our child to school," said Ruchi Arora, a young mother. She said that her eight-year-old son who studies in Class three cannot be expected to follow Covid protocols. "Children play with each other, share their tiffin and do not use sanitizers regularly. In fact, they wear the mask only when the teachers say so. How can we take chances in such a situation?" she asked. Parents are also concerned because most children use buses or rickshaws to go to school. "There are multiple children in rickshaws and school buses. Sanitization is not done properly and there is no supervisor either. We cannot afford to drop and pick up the child in our car because petrol prices have gone up. The risk is therefore greater," said Sunita Kapoor, a mother of three in Prayagraj. Most schools in the state, have now decided to continue in hybrid mode when schools reopen. "The situation is highly unpredictable. Some parents are hoping for physical classes to prevent learning gaps while others are reluctant and want their kids to stay home," said the principal of a private school in Lucknow. "Over the last few days, the attendance has dipped. Parents having children in 15-18 age group are eagerly waiting for the vaccination of their wards before they send them to school. We will resume online classes till the situation eases." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-parents-in-up-wary-of-sending-kids-to-school-1067120.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Haryana landslide: At least one more trapped, rescue ops to continue till Monday||Rescue operation continued at Dadam mining site for the second day on Sunday, where four people were killed in a landslide, a day earlier. "At least one more person continues to be trapped under the debris," Sub-Divisional Magistrate Manish Phogat said, referring to the register that keeps a record of the workers at the site. He did not rule out the possibility of more persons, such as the helpers, being trapped as their records may not have been maintained. "The rescue operation is likely to continue until Monday afternoon," Phogat said. Clearing the big boulders was consuming time, he mentioned. Apart from the four dead, at least two people have sustained injuries, Phogat said.          After the incident at around 9 am on Saturday, police had said around half-a-dozen dumper trucks and some machines were buried under the debris. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had earlier said several rescue teams, including those from the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and the Army, were pressed into service. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Saturday issued directions for bringing cranes, fire brigade and other machinery from the adjoining districts to clear the debris so that the people buried under it could be rescued.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-landslide-at-least-one-more-trapped-rescue-ops-to-continue-till-monday-1067129.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Over five lakh devotees throng Kashi Vishwanath Dham on first day of new year||Kashi Vishwanath Dham, the renovated temple complex which was recently inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saw a record footfall on the first day of the new year with over five lakh devotees thronging the holy place, official sources said on Sunday. Even on Mahashivratri, considered the most auspicious day to visit the temple in Varanasi, the devotees' numbers never exceeded 2.5 lakh, they added. "Local administration was up for a surprise on January 1 when more than 5 lakh people thronged the Kashi Vishwanath temple. For them, this number was unprecedented. They were expecting a best case number of not more than 1 lakh," a source said.  Such a huge number of people turning up on a non-festival day at the temple shows the immense enthusiasm among people across the country to visit the Kashi Vishwanath Dham after Modi inaugurated it, the sources noted.  The local administration in Varanasi is now requesting devotees, especially VIPs, to stagger their visit to the dham to ensure proper crowd management.  The prime minister had last month inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, a project which is spread over five lakh square feet and connects the temple premises to the River Ganga besides providing several facilities to devotees. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-five-lakh-devotees-throng-kashi-vishwanath-dham-on-first-day-of-new-year-1067133.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Ahead of UP polls, BJP starts reaching out to youth through conclaves||In an attempt to reach out to youth ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the BJP has planned a series of events to connect with young voters. BJYM, the party's youth wing, will explain to young voters the work done by the Narendra Modi government in the past seven years. BJYM's [Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha] Uttar Pradesh unit is organising youth conferences in all the districts to highlight the youth-centric policies and schemes of the Modi and the Yogi Adityanath governments. "The Uttar Pradesh BJYM is organising 'Yuva Sammelan' across the state. In the programme, the outfit is talking about numerous government schemes that have successfully benefitted millions of people and are also supportive and encouraging for the youth. Some of the policies are Skill India, Startup India and Mudra loan, among others," a BJYM leader said. On January 12, to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand, the saffron party is organising a youth conference in Varanasi. To make it a grand success, the BJYM has set up various committees at the Centre, state and district levels across the country. The BJYM is expecting one lakh youth to attend the programme. "Youth from all the 403 assembly constituencies of Uttar Pradesh will reach Kashi to attend the youth conference. Youths from other parts of the country will also participate in the programme," the BJYM leader said. The series of events started from December 13, with the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor, will come to an end with the youth conference on January 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dedicated the redeveloped Kashi Vishwanath temple to the nation on December 13. Elections for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly will be held in February-March this year along with Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-up-polls-bjp-starts-reaching-out-to-youth-through-conclaves-1067141.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Sonia dials Baghel, seeks update on Covid-19 preparedness||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday called Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to seek an update on the state's preparedness to tackle the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Gandhi voiced concerns over the sharp increase in coronavirus cases across the country, particularly those of Omicron variant, officials said. Baghel briefed Gandhi on the availability of hospital beds and oxygen in the state. He assured the Congress president that the state was fully prepared to deal with the emerging situation, they said. Chhattisgarh reported 279 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday morning, but is yet to report a patient of the Omicron variant. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonia-dials-baghel-seeks-update-on-covid-19-preparedness-1067144.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||SIT to probe alleged provocative speeches at Dharma Sansad||Days after an FIR was lodged against five people for the alleged hate speeches at Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, BJP-government in poll-bound Uttarakhand on Sunday constituted an SIT to probe the matter promising action if "solid evidence" is found. The Dharma Sansad organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada in Haridwar from December 17-20 during which inflammatory and provocative speeches were allegedly made, calling for the killing of people from the minority community, had led to an outrage on social media and several Opposition leaders condemned it and called for action against the 'hate speech' makers. The issue had kicked up a political storm with Opposition parties slamming the ruling BJP both in the state and the Centre. Trinamool Congress leader Saket Gokhale had lodged a police complaint in Haridwar district while Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had condemned the remarks made at the conclave as "blood-curdling stuff". A group of retired police officers also wrote to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami slamming the event and calling for action. Muslim groups held a protest in Uttarakhand while on December 27 a protest led by Left groups was held at Uttarakhand Sadan in Delhi, which also sought the resignation of the Chief Minister.  This was days after a case was lodged against five persons including Waseem Rizvi who converted to Hinduism, Sadhvi Annapurna and organiser of the Sansad Yati Narasimhananda, the head priest of Dasna temple in Ghaziabad in the Dharm Sansad matter. On Sunday a five-member Special Investigation Team was set up to probe the Dharma Sansad event.  According to PTI, Garhwal DIG KS Nagnyal said, "we have constituted an SIT. It will carry out a probe. If solid evidence against those involved is found appropriate action will be taken." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-to-probe-alleged-provocative-speeches-at-dharma-sansad-1067145.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Shimla, Manali to see snowfall this week||As snow eluded Himachal Pradesh's capital Shimla and the picturesque tourist town of Manali on New Year's Eve, they along with other high hill destinations may experience widespread rain and snow this week, weather officials said on Sunday. "A fresh western disturbance and its associated induced cyclonic circulation is likely to hit Western Himalayan region from January 3," a statement by the meteorological office here said. "Under its influence, precipitation is likely to increase from January 3 in intensity and distribution with fairly widespread to widespread light or moderate rainfall in the plains and low hills and light to moderate rainfall or snowfall in the mid and high hills from January 3 to 6," it said. The Met said isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall is very likely in Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Chamba, Kangra and Mandi districts between January 4 and 5. Light to moderate rainfall is likely in rest parts of the state. In view of chances of thunderstorm and lighting with hailstorm at isolated parts in the state from January 4 to 5, the Met asked the state authorities and the public to take adequate safety measures. Meanwhile, Shimla residents shivered as icy winds brought down the minimum temperature to 5.1 degrees Celsius, while it was 2.6 degrees in Kufri, near here. Peaks overlooking popular tourist sites like Shimla, Dharamsala and Palampur are already wrapped in blanket of snow. Tourists from the plains may begin to descend on Manali, Shimla and Kufri with chances of snowfall this week. "We are hopeful of getting tourists in good numbers in Shimla and nearby areas with chances of snow for the first time this year," Shimla hotelier D.P. Bhatia told IANS. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shimla-manali-to-see-snowfall-this-week-1067149.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||NEET admissions: Centre to persist with Rs 8-lakh income criteria for EWS qualification||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that it has decided to accept the recommendation of a three-member panel to retain the current gross annual family income limit of Rs 8 lakh or less for Economically Weaker Section (EWS). In an affidavit filed in a matter related to admissions for NEET-PG, the Centre said the panel has recommended that “only those families whose annual income is up to Rs eight lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation”. “The central government has decided to accept the recommendations of the committee, including the recommendation of applying the new criteria prospectively,” R Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Empowerment said. On November 30, the government had constituted the member committee, comprising Ajay Bhushan Pandey, former finance secretary, V K Malhotra, member secretary, ICSSR and Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser to Centre, after the assurance given to the top court, which had earlier stayed the admission process. In its report submitted on December 31 to the Centre said, the panel said, “The current gross annual family income limit for EWS of Rs eight lakh or less may be retained. In other words only those families whose annual income is up to Rs eight lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation.” It said that the definition of 'family' and income would remain the same as those in the office memorandum of January 17, 2019. The panel recommended, “EWS may, however exclude, irrespective of income, a person whose family has five acres of agricultural land and above. The residential asset criteria may altogether be removed.” On the issue of applicability of criteria, the panel said that it has deliberated upon the vexed question as to from which year the criteria suggested in the report should be used, adopted and made applicable. The panel said it found that the existing criteria (the criteria applicable prior to this report) is in use since 2019 and the question of desirability of the existing criteria and a possibility of its being revisited arose only recently in the batch of petitions related to admissions in NEET-PG. “By the time this court started examining the said question and the central government decided to revisit the criteria by appointing this committee, the process with respect to some appointments or admissions have taken place or must have been at an irreversible and advanced stage. The existing system which is going on since 2019, if disturbed at the end or fag-end of the process would create more complications than expected both for the beneficiaries as well as for the authorities,” it said. The panel said that in case of admissions to educational institutions, sudden adoption of new criteria inevitably and necessarily would delay the process by several months which would have an inevitable cascading effect on all future admissions and educational activities or teaching or examinations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-admissions-centre-to-persist-with-rs-8-lakh-income-criteria-for-ews-qualification-1067150.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||PM lays foundation stone of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid the foundation stone of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh. The University will be established at Salawa and Kaili villages on the outskirts of the Sardhana town of the district at an estimated cost of about Rs 700 crore. The sports university will be equipped with modern and state of the art sports infrastructure including synthetic hockey ground besides those of football, basketball, volleyball, handball and kabaddi. It will also have a lawn tennis court, gymnasium hall, synthetic running stadium, swimming pool, a multipurpose hall and a cycling velodrome. The university will also house facilities for shooting, squash, gymnastics, weightlifting, archery, canoeing and kayaking, among other facilities. The varsity will have the capacity of training 1,080 sportspersons including 540 female and 540 male ones. The Prime Minister earlier saw exhibits and also tried his hands on a few fitness gadgets. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-lays-foundation-stone-of-major-dhyan-chand-sports-university-in-meerut-1067155.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19 situation permitting, Amarnath Yatra to resume in full swing: Sources||Authorities intend to run annual pilgrimages to the holy cave shrine of Amarnathji in south Kashmir Himalayas this year for two months if the Covid-19 situation doesn’t go out of hand this summer, according to sources. The annual yatra was cancelled in 2020 as well as 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and only symbolic ‘Chhari Mubarak’ was taken to the cave shrine by the Mahant Deependera Giri Ji and other seers. In 2019, it was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, while in 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days. The yatra to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine takes place from the twin routes of Pahalgam in south Kashmir and Baltal in Ganderbal district of central Kashmir from late June to mid-August. In a recent meeting chaired by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also chairman of the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), which manages the affairs of the yatra, it was proposed by some members that the pilgrimage should be conducted for a period of two months this year. “The proposal is likely to be accepted in the next meeting of the SASB which is expected to take place in late January. The feasibility report and cost involved for running a cable car to Amarnath shrine is also in the advanced stage,” sources told DH. “But the government will take the Covid-19 situation into consideration before taking a decision as some of the health experts have suggested that the third wave of Covid could peak in February because of the Omicron variant,” they said. Every year, lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines.  It may be recalled that since the SASB took the control of the yatra in 2001, the number of pilgrims who visited the holy cave were 1.91 lakh during that year, followed by 1.10 lakh in 2002, 1.70 lakh in 2003, four lakh in 2004, 3.88 lakh in 2005, 3.47 lakh in 2006, 2.96 lakh in 2007, 5.33 lakh in 2008, 3.81 lakh in 2009, 4.55 lakh in 2010, 6.21 lakh in 2011, 6.35 lakh in 2012 and 3.54 lakh in 2013, 3.72 lakh in 2014, 3.52 lakh in 2015, 2.21 lakh in 2016, 2.60 lakh in 2017 and 2.85 lakh in 2018. Besides, sources said, it was also revealed in the meeting that efforts will be made to attract the pilgrims to various other religious places in Kashmir, including Mata Kheer Bhawani (Ganderbal), Mattan (Anantnag) and other temples. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-permitting-amarnath-yatra-to-resume-in-full-swing-sources-1067164.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Minor girl injured in attack by stray dogs in Bhopal||A minor girl was injured after some stray dogs attacked her in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, officials said on Sunday. The girl, about two to three years' old, was later rescued by a man and admitted to a hospital, they said. The incident, which took place on Saturday evening in Bag Sewania locality, was captured on a CCTV and the footage went viral on social media platforms. In the clip, five dogs were seen charging at the girl while she was running away in panic after being chased. The canines were seen pulling her down on the road and biting her. A man then came to her rescue and chased away the dogs by hurling stones at them. The girl received wounds on her head and face. She has been admitted to the government-run Hamidia Hospital, police inspector Sanjeev Chouksey said, adding that they came to know about the incident through social media. A policeman was sent to the hospital to enquire about the girl's identity and health. So far, no one has complained to police about the incident, he said. “The girl is two to three years' old. She is being given proper medical treatment. She is alright," Bhopal Municipal Corporation Commissioner KVS Choudary told PTI. Denying that the stray dog menace has gone up in the state capital, he said the canine sterilisation programme was paused only for two-three months last year during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. At least 30 to 40 dogs are being sterilised daily since over a month, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-injured-in-attack-by-stray-dogs-in-bhopal-1067167.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Army foils BAT action along LoC in Kashmir, kills infiltrator||A Pakistani militant was killed as the Indian Army foiled an attack by the Border Action Team (BAT) near the Line of Control (LoC) in the Keran sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday. “Yesterday (Saturday) at 3 pm, a complete breach of ceasefire agreement was noticed when an infiltrator wearing a Pathan suit and a black jacket was trying to enter into this side,” General-officer-Commanding (GoC) of Army’s 28-Division, Major General Abhijit Pendharkar told reporters in Kupwara. “He (intruder) was challenged and subsequently killed,” Pendharkar said, adding that it was a BAT action. Defence experts say that Pakistan's Special Services Group (SSG) forms the core of the BAT. Besides, dreaded terrorists from Lashkar-e-Toiba, Hizbul Mujahideen and Jaish-e-Mohammad outfits are part of the BAT for trans-LoC action up to a depth of one to three kilometres. The BATs were responsible for the brutal killing of several Indian soldiers in recent years along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. The latest incident site is reportedly located on the Pakistani side of the Anti-Infiltration Obstacle System, kept under surveillance by the Indian Army to effectively counter any nefarious activity by the infiltrators or Pakistan Army.                 The GoC identified the slain militant as Muhammad Shabir Malik, a Pakistani national. “An AK-47 rifle and seven magazines were recovered from him. A document showing the slain militant in army uniform was also found in his pocket," he said and added the infiltration route chosen by the militant+ was the same as the one used by five armed militants last year in April, who were killed in the Keran sector. Major General Pendharkar said that a communication has been made with the Pakistani army on hot-line to take back the body of the infiltrator. “There are continuous inputs about possible infiltration bids by militants along the LoC in Keran ahead of the snowfall in the areas but the army was alert and maintaining vigil to thwart all such plans,” he maintained. The army commander said the latest attempt clearly establishes that Pakistan continues to sponsor cross-border terror. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-foils-bat-action-along-loc-in-kashmir-kills-infiltrator-1067172.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Criminals no longer play their games in UP as Yogi plays 'jail-jail' with them: PM Modi||Hitting out at the previous government in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said earlier criminals and the mafia used to play their games, but now the Yogi Adityanath government is playing "jail-jail" with them. Addressing a public meeting after laying the foundation stone for the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University here, Modi said, "During the previous government, criminals used to play their games, the mafia used to play its games. Earlier, there were tournaments of illegal grabbing (of land). People making bad remarks ('phabtiyaan') on daughters used to roam openly." People living in Meerut and adjoining areas can never forget how houses used to be set ablaze, and the earlier government used to indulge in games of criminals and the mafia, he said. The result of these games played by earlier governments was that people were forced to leave their ancestral homes and there was "exodus", the prime minister said. "Now, the government of Yogi (Adityanath) ji is playing 'jail-jail' with such criminals. Five years ago, the daughters of Meerut used to fear leaving their homes after evening. Today, the daughters of Meerut are bringing laurels to the entire country," Modi said. Taking an apparent jibe at Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, Modi said, "The role of the government should be that of a guardian. Capability ('yogyata') should be encouraged. In the event of youths committing a mistake it should not be ignored by saying 'boys make mistakes (ladhko se galtee ho jaati hai)". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/criminals-no-longer-play-their-games-in-up-as-yogi-plays-jail-jail-with-them-pm-modi-1067176.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Bulli Bai case: 'Noted' says NCW chief to woman journalist's complaint||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma on Sunday said that she has 'noted' the complaint filed by a Delhi-based woman journalist of being harassed and insulted on a social media platform. "Noted," the NCW chief wrote on Twitter, tagging the complaint of the woman scribe who belongs to a minority community. The journalist further asked Sharma to let her know about the action being taken against the offenders. The woman journalist in her complaint had stated that she found out on January 1 morning that a website portal called bullibai.github.io (since deleted) had a doctored picture of her in an improper, unacceptable and clearly lewd context. "The term Bulli Bai itself seems disrespectful and the content of this website/portal is clearly aimed at insulting Muslim women as the derogatory term 'Bulli' is used exclusively for Muslim women," read the complaint. She further said that the entire portal is designed to insult Muslim women and investigation is required as to whether there is an organised conspiracy behind the same. "Bulli Bai" was also being promoted by a Twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with its display picture of a "Khalistan supporter", saying women can be booked from the app. This handle was at the same time promoting Khalistan content as well. Notably, the act of targeting the women of minority community comes just six months after derogatory "Sulli Deals" mobile app had surfaced where photos of Muslim women were displayed without their consent. Meanwhile, Delhi Police has registered an FIR against unknown people that are involved in harassing and insulting women of the minority community on social media. "We have registered an FIR under section 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman)," a Delhi Police official told IANS. The FIR was registered at the Cyber Police station of the South East district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulli-bai-case-noted-says-ncw-chief-to-woman-journalists-complaint-1067185.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Army chopper makes safe emergency landing in Haryana village: Police||An Army helicopter, flying from Bathinda in Punjab to Delhi, made an "emergency landing" in an agricultural field in Haryana's Jind district on Sunday and all the three persons onboard are safe, a police official said. There was no immediate statement from the Army. “The Army helicopter, which was flying from Bathinda in Punjab to Delhi made an emergency landing in Jajanwala village in Jind district," Inspector Rajesh Kumar told PTI over phone from Jind. All three onboard are safe, the Station House Officer (SHO) of Narwana police station said. Asked about the reason for the emergency landing, he said, “There could be some technical issue, but Army authorities can speak on this”. After the chopper landed in the fields, many villagers gathered at the site. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chopper-makes-safe-emergency-landing-in-haryana-village-police-1067187.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Hurriyat leaders duped medical, engineering aspirants by promising seats in Pakistan: Police||Some leaders of the Hurriyat Conference, an amalgam of secessionist groups, allegedly "used" Kashmir-based "consultancy" firms to woo prospective students for engineering and medical seats in Pakistan for which a fake 'National Talent Search' examination was conducted, according to a charge sheet filed by the Jammu and Kashmir Police. The charge sheet, filed by the State Investigation Agency (SIA), has highlighted several instances where parents were taken across the border using valid travel documents but were later compelled to pay extra money for their wards' admission to universities and colleges there. "During investigation, it also got reflected that the students/parents were duped by the accused. They were made to visit Pakistan for admissions to MBBS, however, (they) would become hopeless after discovering their admission letters as fake. "Circumstances were created wherein parents/students were put to absolute state of despondency so as to demand extra money to be either wire transferred or delivered to their persons of choice in Kashmir," the charge sheet, accessed by PTI, said. It is the first chargesheet filed by the SIA, a newly carved-out unit of J&K Police, which named nine people, mostly separatists, for allegedly selling MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to spread unrest in the Union territory, officials said. "Parents would comply with such diktats of these Pakistan-based Hurriyat leaders or terrorists of Kashmiri origin (who had exfiltrated to Pakistan for arms training during the outbreak of militancy) to seek admissions to MBBS at Pakistan. "This accumulated money under a well-knitted conspiracy/secrecy would land in the hands of active terrorists, families of killed militants and stone pelters through some Hurriyat leaders and their associates to further terrorist/secessionist activities in Jammu and Kashmir," the SIA said, adding that in a few cases, students and parents were completely duped by the accused and their hard-earned money was never or partly returned. The SIA submitted the charge sheet in a special court here on Thursday against the nine, including Mohammed Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Bhat, a constituent of the Hurriyat Conference. It alleged that some students and their parents were also duped of their money on the pretext of having professional seats arranged in Pakistan. The SIA said students were made to appear in a National Talent Search (NTS) test at Hurriyat office in Pakistan as a "dupe tactic" to make them believe that they were writing a pre-qualifying test which would lead to their admission in professional colleges in Pakistan. It said such tests were mostly facilitated by the people or relatives of the accused, who had exfiltrated to Pakistan and were settled in the country or in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), who were utilising their Kashmir-based contacts to aid and abet terrorism in J&K. During investigation, the SIA said it surfaced that as part of a larger conspiracy, the accused used to motivate gullible parents of students aspiring for professional courses, especially for MBBS, to apply to Pakistan through valley-based consultancies, without their knowledge, assuring cost-effectiveness in comparison with other South Asian or Middle East countries offering such courses. The SIA said it came to light that the accused were affiliated with the Hurriyat chapter of Kashmir and Pakistan and were illegally making money under a planned conspiracy. "...while recording statement, it came to fore that the accumulated money was ploughed into militancy and to create law and order problems by disturbing peace, damaging public property, striking terror among the common masses and creating potential threat to the sovereignty of India. "Money raised through this process was also distributed among the families of killed terrorists as a token of incentive for such families and families of active militants to boost their morale and carry forward anti-national, subversive and radical activities against Union of India," the SIA said. A case was registered in July last year by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police's CID which was later designated the SIA, after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous people, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with educational consultancies and were selling seats of MBBS and other courses in Pakistani colleges and universities. Besides Bhat, chairman of Salvation Movement, a constituent of moderate Hurriyat Conference, the charge sheet named his brother Altaf Ahmad Bhat along with Manzoor Ahmad Shah (both living in Pakistan), a religious leader from Anantnag Qazi Yasir, Fatima Shah, Mohammad Abdullah Shah, Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh and Mohd Iqbal Mir of Mahaz Azadi Front and Syed Khalid Geelani. While five people, including Bhat, were lodged in Central Jail, Altaf Ahmad Bhat, Qazi Yasir and Manzoor Ahmad Bhat were absconding. A process had been initiated by the SIA declaring them absconders. The ninth accused, Geelani, would be charged only for cheating. According to the SIA charge sheet, the accused were demanding huge amounts of money from parents for getting their children admitted in different technical courses in Pakistan and would also arrange recommendation letters from Hurriyat and other valid travel documents from Pakistan Embassy, New Delhi to facilitate their visit to the neighbouring nation for admission. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hurriyat-leaders-duped-medical-engineering-aspirants-by-promising-seats-in-pakistan-police-1067193.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Police will probe Vaishno Devi shrine stampede, take action against those involved in scuffle: DGP||A police probe into the stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine will go on along with the investigation of a high-powered committee, and action will be taken against those involved in the scuffle that led to the incident, Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh said on Sunday. Twelve pilgrims were killed and over a dozen others injured in the stampede at the revered shrine atop the Trikuta hills in Reasi district in the early hours of Saturday after a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims during the New Year rush. The committee headed by Principal Secretary (Home) Shaleen Kabra, with Divisional Commissioner Jammu Rajiv Langar and Additional Director General of Police Mukesh Singh as its members, has been set up by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and has been asked to submit a report within a week. "The committee constituted would look into the causes that led to the stampede," Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. Replying to a question whether police will take action if those involved in the scuffle were identified, he told PTI "yes" and added that "police would do its work simultaneously". He said the government has already set up a three-member committee to inquire into the "unfortunate" incident which was the result of the "irresponsible" behaviour of some people. One of the members of the committee is a senior police officer under whose jurisdiction the shrine comes. The DGP was the first who had indicated that the stampede was a result of a scuffle between some people. This was confirmed late night by the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. The stampede happened around 2:15 am on January 1 near Gate No 3 of the Bhawan. "The unfortunate incident, due to a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims, resulted in the stampede. In this ill-fated incident, a total of 12 pilgrims lost their lives and 16 others were injured," the board had said in the statement. This is the first such tragedy at the revered shrine located atop the Trikuta hills - about 50 km from here - that attracts lakhs of people every year. Singh had personally visited the shrine in the aftermath of the stampede on Saturday and reviewed the situation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-will-probe-vaishno-devi-shrine-stampede-take-action-against-those-involved-in-scuffle-dgp-1067202.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi stampede: Authorities tighten arrangements, pilgrims flock to shrine||Unfazed by the Saturday stampede that left 12 devotees dead, people were flocking to the Mata Vaishno Devi hill shrine where authorities have deployed security personnel in full strength and are greeting pilgrims with chants of "Darshan Karo, Katra Chalo" to encourage them not to linger on after paying obeisance. The yatra that registered a footfall of over 55.77 lakh in 2021, compared to 17 lakh the previous year due to the coronavirus pandemic, was going on smoothly, with visitors expressing satisfaction over the arrangements of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. Twelve people lost their lives and 16 others were injured in the stampede in the early hours of Saturday after a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims during the New Year rush. Many eyewitnesses said that there was overcrowding as people were staying back on the shrine premises after darshan instead of returning to the base camp at Katra. It was the first such tragedy at the revered shrine located atop the Trikuta hills in Reasi district, about 50 km from Jammu. “As we entered the sanctum sanctorum of the Mata to offer our prayers, we were greeted by the words 'Darshan Karo Katra Challo' (pay obeisance and leave for Katra) from the deployed policemen,” Motiya Rani (58), a resident of Panipat in Haryana, told PTI on Sunday. Rani, accompanied by her two sons, their wives and five grandchildren, said the yatra was going on smoothly and they did not face any problem. “I have been visiting Mata to seek her blessings on the first day of every year for many years. I reached Katra on December 31 and was scheduled to visit the shrine on Saturday but the unfortunate incident delayed our visit by a day this time,” she said. People were as usual queuing up at the registration counters, eagerly waiting for their turn to offer prayers. Manoj Kumar (36), a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, said postponing the pilgrimage never came to mind after hearing about the “sad incident”. “What happened yesterday (Saturday) was an unfortunate incident. We have been waiting for this day for a long time and are happy to reach here to offer our prayers and seek the blessings of the presiding deity," he said. “I have been here many times in the past and know this place very well. I was surprised to hear about the tragic loss in the stampede,” Kumar said. The stampede at the shrine occurred at 2.15 AM near a relatively narrow passage at gate number 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine where devotees usually arrive round the clock after trekking for 13 km from the Katra base camp. A high-level inquiry panel headed by Principal Secretary (Home) Shaleen Kabra, with Divisional Commissioner Jammu Rajiv Langar and Additional Director General of Police Mukesh Singh as its members, has been set up by Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha and asked to submit a report within a week. Echoing Rani, 24-year-old Shubam of Laxmi Nagar Delhi said the police and CRPF personnel are managing the yatra and are discouraging people from staying back at the cave shrine after performing ‘darshan’. “We faced no issue and the yatra is going on smoothly,” Shubam, who performed the pilgrimage along with his four friends, said. Dharamveer (54), a resident of Mumbai, said his family was also lucky to have paid obeisance at the shrine without any trouble. “We find nothing wrong with the arrangements. The pilgrims are moving in and out effortlessly. Police and CRPF personnel deployed along the route and at the cave shrine are doing a good job,” Dharamveer said. The National Green Tribunal has put a cap of 50,000 pilgrims per day and keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, the shrine board had allowed 35,000 pilgrims to proceed for yatra on 31st December 2021 and for 1st January 2022. Besides enhancing the security arrangements, authorities have also deployed additional staff to ensure strict adherence of Covid-19 guidelines. Over a dozen persons who were not carrying the mandatory Covid test report were asked to return this morning, an official manning one of the centres enroute the shrine said. More than 27,000 pilgrims visited the cave shrine on the first day of January, while over 55.77 lakh pilgrims offered their prayers at the shrine during the last year, officials said. Only 17 lakh pilgrims, the lowest in over three decades, visited the shrine in 2020 when the shrine, for the first time in its history, remained closed for five months due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and reopened for the pilgrims on August 16, 2020. From 13.95 lakh in 1986 when the Board took over the affairs of the shrine for better management, there has been a steady increase of pilgrim footfalls with each passing year, touching an all-time high of 1.04 crore in 2012 against 1.01 crore the previous year (2011). The pilgrim arrivals at the shrine touched 31.15 lakh in 1991 and reached 74.17 lakh in 2007. However, the number dropped to 67.92 lakh in 2008 which was attributed to the two-month-long Amarnath land row agitation but again went up to 82 lakh in 2009 and 87.2 lakh the next year (2010). The pilgrim arrivals dropped from 93.24 lakh in 2013 to 78.03 lakh in 2014 and further to 77.76 lakh in 2015 and 77.23 lakh in 2016. It increased to 81.78 lakhs in 2017 and 85.87 lakhs in 2018 but dropped to 79.40 in 2019 – the year when the central government revoked special status under Article 370 of the Constitution to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. In 2021, the officials said the highest number of 7,53,561 pilgrims visited the shrine in October followed by 6,46,415 in November, 6,39,162 in September, 6,27,828 in December, 5,25,198 in March, 5,21,970 in August and 5,00,671 in July. The lowest number of 45,155 pilgrims in 2021 visited the shrine in May, while January recorded a footfall of 4,08,061 pilgrims, February (3,89,549), April (3,21,735) and June (1,98,490). While most of the devotees undertake the arduous trek to the shrine, some reach there by helicopter service. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-authorities-tighten-arrangements-pilgrims-flock-to-shrine-1067203.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi witnesses rise in power demand in 2021 after a dip in 2020||Delhi's peak power demand surged to 7,323 MW in 2021, only a shade lower than the all-time high of 7,409 MW in 2019 but considerably higher than the corresponding demand of 6,341 MW in 2020, official statistics on power demand in the national capital reveal. Power distribution companies officials attribute this demand for power in the capital to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 and adverse weather conditions for a prolonged period here. On a day-to-day basis, Delhi saw a rise in power demand on 227 days of 2021 compared to similar days of 2020, implying that on 61 per cent days of 2021, Delhi needed higher power than what was needed in 2020. The national capital did not experience only cold waves at the beginning and end of the year but also witnessed an intense monsoon that persisted till late October. The city recorded 1,512.4 mm of rainfall till December 29, the second-highest ever. "It was a year of extreme weather events and records being broken in the capital each month this year. This, along with the Covid related restrictions and their easing had an impact on the city's power demand," Discom officials said. In 2021, Delhi's peak power demand was higher on 227 days compared to 2020, officials said, adding this implied, in percentage terms, Delhi's peak power demand in 2021 was higher on 61 per cent of days, compared to the corresponding days of 2020. A month-wise analysis shows that Delhi's peak power demand in December 2021 was higher on 58 per cent or 18 corresponding days vis-a-vis those of December 2020. For November 2021, it was higher on 50 per cent days, 58 per cent days in October, 20 per cent in September, 68 per cent in August, 68 per cent in July, 77 per cent June, 65 per cent in May, 93 per cent in April, 77 per cent in March, 36 per cent in February and 74 per cent days in January, they said. Delhi's peak power demand during 2021 was 7,323 MW, 6,431 MW in 2020 and an all-time high of 7,409 MW in 2019. The highest peak power demand recorded in December 2021 was 4,685 MW which was higher than the 4,671 MW recorded on December 30, 2020. The peak demand in December crossed 4,000 MW on 16 occasions during the month, discom officials added. Ensuring reliable supply in any season is as much the function of proper power arrangements as also the forecast of accurate demand and a robust distribution network, they said. The back-bone of BSES' power-supply arrangements during the winter months includes long-term agreements from power plants, including Hydro and Delhi-based gas-fuelled generating stations, said a BSES spokesperson. Additionally, BSES is also receiving over 440 MW of solar power from SECI, 250 MW of wind power, nearly 25 MW from Waste-to-Energy generation. It is also being helped by over 118 MW of roof-top solar power panels installed in South, West, East and Central Delhi, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-witnesses-rise-in-power-demand-in-2021-after-a-dip-in-2020-1067213.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Will build schools, not graveyards if voted to power in UP: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised to build schools and provide employment to the people of Uttar Pradesh instead of building 'kabristan' (graveyard) and 'shamshan' (cremation grounds) if his party was voted to power in the state in forthcoming assembly polls. Addressing his party's first public meeting here, Kejriwal also promised a free trip to Ayodhya, besides providing free electricity to the people if his party came to power in the state. "The biggest BJP leader had said in 2017 that Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav built graveyards in UP and that if he came in power he would build cremation grounds...We will build neither....instead we will build schools and hospitals if we come to power," he said. He also took potshots at Akhilesh without taking his name and said that the SP chief would not be able to provide free electricity. "Only we know how to give free electricity," Kejriwal added. The Delhi CM accused Adityanath of spending crores on advertisements and publicity. "There are 850 hoardings of Adityanath in Delhi whereas there are only 106 hoardings of the AAP government," he claimed. "Support AAP if you (people) want good schools...vote for Adityanath if you want bad schools," he said. Kejriwal said that the Delhi government had so far sent 2,000 people to Ayodhya to pay obeisance at the makeshift Ram Temple. ''The Delhi government is bearing the expenditure of the trip....we will provide the same facility to everyone here also if we are voted to power,'' he remarked. The AAP has decided to go solo in the UP polls and has also finalised the names of more than one hundred candidates. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-build-schools-not-graveyards-if-voted-to-power-in-up-kejriwal-1067215.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||'Bulli Bai' app row: Mehbooba Mufti slams targeting of Muslim women||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday alleged that ''fringe elements'' who were targeting Muslim women online had the ''official patronage''. "Appalling that the criminals behind such derogatory & demeaning actions against Muslim women are given a free run," the former chief minister tweeted. She was reacting after photographs of at least 100 influential Muslim women were uploaded for auction on an app sparking outrage. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has said GitHub, the hosting platform, has confirmed blocking the user and that CERT and police authorities are coordinating further action. Mehbooba, however, alleged, "...it is clear that these fringe elements enjoy the patronage of those in power." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulli-bai-app-row-mehbooba-mufti-slams-targeting-of-muslim-women-1067226.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi records 3,194 new Covid-19 cases; positivity rate jumps to 4.59%||The national capital on Sunday reported 3,194 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 20, and one death while the positivity rate rose to 4.59 per cent, according to data shared by the city's health department. Under Graded Response Action Plan, approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, if the positivity rate is over five per cent for two consecutive days a 'Red' alert can be sounded leading to 'total curfew' and halting of most economic activities. Sunday's tally of coronavirus cases was 17 per cent higher than the 2,716 infections registered a day before. Delhi had reported 3,231 cases on May 20 last year with a positivity rate of 5.50 per cent. As many as 233 deaths were recorded on that day. On Friday and Thursday, 1,796 and 1,313 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 1.73 per cent and 2.44 per cent respectively, according to official figures. The daily case tally on Wednesday, Tuesday and Monday were 923, 496 and 331, respectively. The huge spike in fresh cases in the last few days in Delhi is being recorded amid a significant jump in cases of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus in the city. The death toll due to coronavirus in the city has risen to 25,109. The number of cumulative cases on Sunday stood at 14,54,121. Over 14.19 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. Nine Covid-19 deaths were reported in the city in December last year, and seven in November, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September. A total of 69650 tests -- 59,897 RT-PCR tests -- were conducted the previous day, the bulletin said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-3194-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-jumps-to-459-1067233.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||2 more arrested for killing BJP workers, driver in Lakhimpur Kheri||Two more persons have been arrested in connection with the killing of two BJP workers and a driver during the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence. They were held by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday evening. With this, six persons have been arrested in connection with FIR number 220 which pertains to the killing of BJP workers Shubham Bajpai and Shyam Sundar Nishad and driver Hariom by an agitated mob after a car ran over four farmers. A journalist was also among the eight killed in the violence. "Those arrested on Saturday in FIR number 220 were identified as Kawaljeet Singh of Khairatiya village under Tikunia police station area and Kamaljeet Singh of Babaura under Palia police station," the SIT said in a statement. FIR number 220 invoked several sections of IPC including murder (302). The other four arrested in this case include Vichitra Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh. All the accused are in jail. Violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, 2021, when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle. Ashish Mishra son of Union minister of state for Home Ajay Misra was arrested in the case. Ajay Misra is currently the MP from Kheri Lok Sabha seat. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-arrested-for-killing-bjp-workers-driver-in-lakhimpur-kheri-1067235.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat seeing spike in Covid cases, says CMKhattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonipat, and Ambala districts have been seeing spike in Covid-19 cases. "These districts have been kept in Group A as the risk of spread is high in such districts," he said while reviewing the pandemic situation. The Chief Minister asked the Deputy Commissioners to review the Covid cases on a daily basis. He said the bus stands, mini secretariats, malls, gyms, and other public places should be kept under surveillance and entry of people without vaccination certificates should be strictly restricted. Also the night movement should be strictly observed. There is a provision to impose a fine of Rs 500 on individuals and Rs 5,000 on institutions for violating the Covid-19 guidelines. About 3 lakh vaccination doses are being administered every day and so far about 3.45 crore people have been vaccinated, an official statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurugram-faridabad-sonipat-seeing-spike-in-covid-cases-says-cmkhattar-1067239.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||13 injured as under-construction bridge collapses in J&K's Samba||At least 13 people, mostly labourers, were injured on Sunday when the iron shuttering over an under-construction bridge collapsed in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The major bridge is being constructed by the Border Roads Organisation over the Devika river at Ramgarh-Koulpur, the officials said. They said the iron shuttering connecting two of many pillars caved in around 4.15 pm, injuring 13 people. A rescue operation was immediately launched and the injured, mostly labourers working at the site, were evacuated to hospital, the officials said, adding the condition of two of them was stated to be "serious". They said the seriously injured were referred to the Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu for specialised treatment. The officials said the cause of the accident was not known immediately. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-injured-as-under-construction-bridge-collapses-in-jks-samba-1067247.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Vaishno Devi stampede: BJP J&K in-charge meets injured people||BJP national general secretary and Jammu and Kashmir in-charge Tarun Chugh on Sunday met people who were injured in stampede in Mata Vaishno Devi shrine on Saturday. Twelve people were killed and 14 injured in that stampede. Chugh along with BJP Lok Sabha member from Jammu, Jugal Kishore Sharma and others met the injured admitted in Katra hospital. BJP Jammu and Kashmir in-charge wished speedy recovery to the injured. The stampede occurred when a large number of devotees entered the Mata Vaishno Devi Bhavan without permission slips at around 2.45 am on Saturday. The stampede took place outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed deep grief over the loss of lives. In a tweet, the Prime Minister had said, "Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, A@nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation." PM Modi had also approved an ex-gratia from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the victims of stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. The Prime Minister's office tweeted: "An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhavan. The injured would be given Rs 50,000. PM @narendramodi" Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-stampede-bjp-jk-in-charge-meets-injured-people-1067256.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Channi gave factually incorrect information to media on jobs Bill: Punjab Governor||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday alleged that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi supplied the media with "factually incorrect" information over a jobs bill, the file of which he said was sent back to the CM’s office with some queries. Channi on Saturday had threatened to stage a sit-in against Purohit for withholding assent to the Bill, which aims at regularising around 36,000 contractual employees. He had accused Purohit of dithering on approving the Bill under pressure from the BJP. Purohit said the file regarding regularisation of services of contractual employees was reverted to the Chief Minister’s office with six queries for clarification. This file was duly received by the CMO on December 31 and the reply to queries is awaited, he said in an official statement. The information shared with the media by Channi on Saturday was "factually incorrect", he said. "I advise the chief minister to give reply to the queries raised on the file," said Purohit. "Once the reply comes, the Bill will be re-examined at the Governor's Secretariat," he said. The state Assembly had passed the Punjab Protection and Regularization of Contractual Employees Bill-2021 on November 11. After a lapse of 20 days, the file was sent to the Punjab Raj Bhawan on December 1, said the statement. "During the month of December, the Governor was on tour to various districts of the state. The Governor concluded the tour on December 21 and thereafter on December 23, the CM Punjab came and met him at the Punjab Raj Bhawan. The file was duly studied and reverted with observation/queries to the CMO on December 31, 2021," it said. The Governor’s office has sought to know from the state government about the status of the case related to the Punjab Ad hoc, Contractual, Daily wages, Temporary, Work Charged and Outsourced Employees Welfare Act, 2016, which has been challenged in the High Court. The Bill seeks to replace the 2016 Act. The Governor's Office also pointed out that the opinion of the advocate general had viewed that this Bill continues to remain vulnerable to legal challenge. The state government has been asked to clarify as to how the specific views of the AG have been addressed in the Bill. With the regularisation of contractual employees who were recruited without following reservation rules, will the reservation ratio not get disturbed, the Governor’s Office asked the state government. The Governor’s Office also sought to know how the state government proposed to meet the expenditure on account of regularisation of services. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-gave-factually-incorrect-information-to-media-on-jobs-bill-punjab-governor-1067263.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Man impersonating Army officer arrested in J&K's Samba||A man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly impersonating an Army officer in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Raman Singh, a resident of R S Pura, was in army fatigue when he was noticed by a police patrolling party moving under suspicious circumstances in the Bari Brahmana area, a police spokesperson said. On questioning, the man was unable to produce an army identity card and failed to give any satisfactory answer, the spokesperson said. Singh was grilled by the policemen who grew more suspicious about his motive, he said. He later disclosed that he is not an army officer and was only impersonating a lieutenant, the spokesperson said. A case under relevant sections of the law was registered against the accused and further investigation is on, he said. PTI TAS AQS AQS Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-impersonating-army-officer-arrested-in-jks-samba-1067279.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi's air turns 'severe', people asked to take precautions||Residents of the national capital will have to breathe "severely" polluted air as the air quality further deteriorated in the past 24 hours, as per the data shared by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday evening. "The Air Quality Index was recorded at 404 (readings of 401 and above is 'severe'). PM10 was 401 (351 to 430 is 'very poor') and PM2.5 was 276 (251 and above is 'severe')," the Chief Minister informed on social media. As the PM10 level went over 300, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) has issued a health advisory stating that sensitive people should consider reducing prolonged or heavy exertion and heavy outdoor work. The PM2.5 level was under the "very poor" category. The air quality is categorised as "good" when the AQI is between 0 to 50, "satisfactory" between 51-100, "moderate" between 101-200, "poor" between 201-300, "very poor" between 301-400, "severe" between 401-500, and "hazardous" at over 500. SAFAR advised the sensitive groups to avoid all physical activity outdoors and move activities indoors, and asthmatics should keep relief medicine handy. In its general advisory for all people, it urged people to stop outdoor activity in the early morning and after sunset. "Avoid prolonged or heavy exertion. Go for a short walk instead of a jog and take more breaks. Stop any activity level if you experience any unusual coughing, chest discomfort, wheezing, breathing difficulty, or fatigue. If the room has windows, close them. If the air conditioner provides a fresh air intake option, keep that closed," the advisory read. It further asked people to avoid burning wood, candles or incense. "Keep the room clean - don't vacuum. Do wet mopping to reduce dust. Masks known as N-95 or P-100 respirators may only help if you go out," according to the advisory. Delhi, generally, has good to satisfactory air quality. However, the pollution levels spike during October to February due to various factors including stubble burning, road dust, vehicle pollution, and cold weather, leading to a deterioration in the AQI. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-turns-severe-people-asked-to-take-precautions-1067282.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||People have faith in Yogi, BJP, Modi; Priyanka's door-to-door campaign won't work: Giriraj Singh||The people of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh have faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP, and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's door-to-door visits will not have an impact, Union minister Giriraj Singh said on Sunday. Those who have nothing to show by way of development can go house to house, but the people have faith in Modi, Yogi and BJP, he said when queried on the Congress leader's sustained campaign for Assembly polls scheduled in UP early this year. He said in a democracy, everyone had the right to campaign in his or her own way, adding that Amethi was a pocket borough of the Gandhi family but even the collector's office was built there after Smriti Irani won (defeating Rahul Gandhi in 2019). The BJP will win more seats than what it got in the 2017 UP polls, Singh claimed. On being asked about tax raids going on in UP, an apparent reference to action against a perfumer netting several crore in cash, Singh said "it has nothing to do with Assembly polls", adding that the government's work was to control crime. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-have-faith-in-yogi-bjp-modi-priyankas-door-to-door-campaign-wont-work-giriraj-singh-1067284.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||Prototype of DTC's 1st 100% electric bus arrives, Kejriwal to flag it off soon: Kailash Gahlot||A prototype of an electric bus, to be inducted in the fleet of the DTC, has arrived after a long wait and it will be soon flagged off by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, said Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday. The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) is procuring 300 e-buses whose delivery was due to begin in November last year. It was delayed due to various reasons, including the ongoing pandemic. More e-buses will be inducted into the DTC in the coming months. Approximately 3,500 new electric buses will get added to the DTC and Cluster fleet according to the induction plan of the transport department, officials said. "Congrats Delhi! After a long wait, prototype of DTC's first 100 per cent electric bus has reached Delhi! CM Arvind Kejriwal will soon flag off this electric bus," Gahlot said in a tweet. The transport department in October had in last year floated tenders for induction of 140 low-floor, air-conditioned electric buses, aiming to strengthen the public transport fleet and check air pollution in the city. The DTC Board has also approved the induction of 1,245 low-floor buses, including 1,015 electric buses, to augment the ageing fleet of the public transporter in the national capital, officials said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prototype-of-dtcs-1st-100-electric-bus-arrives-kejriwal-to-flag-it-off-soon-kailash-gahlot-1067292.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||BJP targeting Jain community, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday alleged that the ruling BJP is targeting the minority Jain community and does not want it to prosper. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said this referring to central agencies’ raids on the premises of two perfume traders in the state recently. Both traders—Piyush Jain and Pushpraj Jain—belong to the community. Pushpraj Jain is also a Samajwadi Party (SP) MLC. Embarking on 10th leg of the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra here after paying obeisance to Lord Parshuram at a temple, Yadav said, "The BJP is not only the enemy of development but also of minorities." Referring to the raids on perfume traders in Kanpur and Kannauj, Yadav said, "These people are being raided as the people of Jain community are in minority. These people (BJP) do not want the people from the Jain community to prosper." He also claimed that the money recovered during a raid in Kanpur (on premises of Piyush Jain) was that of the BJP. The money which was kept "inside the walls" and counted belonged to BJP, he alleged. Yadav claimed that the BJP in order to avoid getting itself defamed and justify its wrong decisions is pointing a finger towards the SP people, in an apparent reference to party MLC and perfume trader Pushpraj Jain. The Finance Ministry had said Rs 177 crore was recovered from Piyush Jain’s premises in Kanpur and it was the "biggest ever seizure of cash" by an enforcement agency. BJP leaders have sought to link Piyush Jain with the SP, claiming he had launched the "Samajwadi Attar" (perfume)' with Yadav's support recently. However, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday categorically denied any links between his party and Piyush Jain, and mockingly said the BJP got "its own businessman" raided "by mistake". He said the "Samajwadi Attar" was launched by SP MLC Pushpraj Jain. The SP chief also listed the welfare and development works done by his government and accused the BJP of stalling them. "Every section of society wants a change because in the four-and-half years of the BJP rule, people have got sadness and harassment," Yadav said. He said a stadium after former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee was built by his party’s government here. Taking a swipe at UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, “Can Baba ‘mukhya mantri’ (CM) play cricket? Can the Baba ‘mukhya mantri’ catch the ball like a wicket-keeper? Can the Baba ‘mukhya mantri’ take a catch? Can the Baba ‘mukhya mantri’ do fielding?”  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-targeting-jain-community-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-1067295.html
02-01-2022||North and Central||BJP using central agencies to trigger defections: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday alleged that the BJP is using central agencies to arm-twist and browbeat political opponents, and trigger defections. Addressing a rally organised by local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Sidhu said rival political leaders are being asked to either join the BJP or be put behind bars. The BJP resorted to "bad politics of vote polarisation and using the Enforcement Directorate and other agencies for browbeating opponents to trigger defections", he said. Taking a dig at the BJP for opening its office in Jalandhar, Sidhu said a party which was not seen in the state for five years has now opened its office just to "arm-twist opponents". "The opening of the BJP office meant that either ‘aa jao sadey daftar Jalandhar, nahi ta kar diyange jail de andar’ (either join us or be behind bars)," said Sidhu. He alleged the BJP is playing "dirty games of creating terror among its opponents". Truthful people will remain undeterred by such "tricks" of the BJP, he said. Sidhu said the upcoming Assembly polls in the state are for the next generation and saving Punjab from the mafia. "If you want to save Punjab and the next generation, then vote for us but if you want to make Punjab unlivable, then you can vote for thieves and the mafia," he said. "The polls are a big opportunity for choosing between goodness and the mafia, truth and falsehood," he said. He spoke against his political rivals for offering "lollipops" and making false promises. Sidhu said he gives his word that his 13-point programme is meant for the welfare of the poor. "I promise that I will quit politics if five lakh jobs were not given to skilled or unskilled urban labour under his model," he said. "I am not with the politics of lollipops but for bettering lives of Punjabis," he said, stressing that his model is pro-poor and pro-farmer. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-using-central-agencies-to-trigger-defections-sidhu-1067361.html
02-01-2022||Oasis||Parents are the best advisors ||Many people have developed the habit of advising others on any given situation and all issues under the sun, especially after the influence of social media in our lives. They rely on social media for everything. Their preference is to check the information, remedy or advice given on the socials and then consult the elders, professionals and neighbours for the next course of action. The professionals in their respective fields have to take a backseat due to those who display their knowledge about everything. It may be about medicines, engineering, architecture, cooking, home remedies etc. They are quick in solutions on the issues by citing certain cases, where their friends or relatives had similar complaints or problems. The days are gone when advice was given mostly by our parents, elders and teachers regarding our habits, hygiene, honesty and integrity. Most importantly, our elders and teachers lived up to the advice given by them and led us by practising what they preach. They never had to flaunt their smartness or intelligence for showing us the right way of approaching different situations and stages of our life. Before an aeroplane takes off, they tell you what to do in an emergency. If the plane loses pressure, you are supposed to wear your oxygen mask before you put it on your kid. The first time you see that you will think, if you had a kid, you’d put on his/her mask first. But the more you think about it, the more it will make sense. You have to save yourself first because, if you are not alive, you can’t help your child. Similarly, the advisor should don the mask of honesty and integrity before trying to instil the same in others. Parents are the best advisors in our life. Chapter 6, Verse 20-23 of ‘Proverbs’ in the Holy Bible says, ‘My son, do what your father tells you, and never forget what your mother taught you. Keep their words with you always, locked in your heart. Their teaching will lead you when you travel, protect you at night and advise you during the day. Their correction will teach you how to live.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/parents-are-the-best-advisors-1067318.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||Down the abyss, following Pakistan’s path||In April 1980, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Pakistani military dictator General Zia ul-Haq met for the first time in Salisbury (now Harare) in then Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). Before the meeting, newspapers had published some uncharitable remarks by Zia about India. A contemporary account of the meeting by Inder Malhotra suggests a rather testy exchange: Indira Gandhi, however, was all smiles and courtesy when he arrived. “Madam, please do not believe everything that you read in the newspapers” was Zia’s opening gambit. “Of course not,” replied Mrs Gandhi. “After all, aren’t they calling you a democrat and me a dictator?” In 1980, India had seen two quick democratic changes of government after having overcome an authoritarian spell, whereas Pakistan was under its third military dictator since independence. Having made very different choices at their birth, the two neighbours seemed placed firmly on two diametrically opposite trajectories: one of a secular, liberal, plural democracy, and the other of a religious, military dictatorship. Grounded in this widely accepted reality, Mrs Gandhi’s snub earned no retort from Gen Zia. Soon after Partition, Pakistan’s rulers delineated a national ideology that stood on three pillars: Islam, hostility to India, and the Urdu language. Making being Pakistani synonymous with a good Muslim became a way to overcome diverse ethnic and linguistic identities. But Islam meant different things to different people, as Husain Haqqani wrote, and the State thus controlled the process of religious nationalism. For this, State control over education and media had to be complete. It empowered the conservative religious leaders, and created a nexus between the ‘custodians of Islam’ and the security establishment. Critics and opponents of the establishment and the government were now enemies of Islam. An under-resourced State, driven by its insecurity of a larger neighbour and aspiring to be its equal, meant that the military needed a great power as its benefactor. Jinnah had told Life magazine, “America needs Pakistan more than Pakistan needs America…Pakistan is the pivot of the world, as we are placed… [on] the frontier on which the future position of the world revolves.” By the time of the Salisbury meeting, Pakistan was deep down this path. Zia zealously undertook Islamisation of laws and society, which he claimed was what “99% of the people wanted”. School books were rewritten with an ideological agenda, and children taught, in KK Aziz’s words, “prescribed myths”. This meant that Zia’s ideological influence continued beyond his period in power. But it was increased Soviet involvement in Afghanistan that drew the US into the region, which Zia milked for military and economic aid by renting Pakistan’s strategic location. The US was unconcerned about the rise of violent Islamist fundamentalism as Zia’s Pakistan became a cornerstone of American geopolitical strategy to check, counter and defeat the Soviet Union. Nearly four decades later, history is rhyming. US is again trying to counter fast-growing rival, China. And it is India, though not an US ally like Pakistan, that is the cornerstone of Washington’s Indo-Pacific strategy to check Beijing. Just like the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, the Chinese ingress in Ladakh has pushed matters. If Pakistan then had close ties with Iran and North Korea which were not friendly with the US, India has a robust relationship with Russia today. Many retired diplomats echo Jinnah when they assert that the US needs India more than India needs the US. As India is the pivot of this geopolitical contest, which many describe as the new Cold War, it ought to get even greater diplomatic and military support from the US. Unstated, but implicit in this argument, is India’s economic weakness to sustain a military capable of countering China on its own. Paradoxically, all this is meant to eventually fulfil India’s manifest destiny to be a great power. If there are similarities in the geopolitics surrounding India, the domestic social and political changes since 2014 – heralding a ‘New India’ – provide an even scarier parallel. The Indian State is still constitutionally secular – though no one says it anymore – but the government routinely practices Hinduism as State religion. The judiciary allows a temple to be built at the site of a mosque demolished by a political mob, which is being constructed by the State. The religious ceremony marking the temple’s construction is led by the Prime Minister in full Hindu regalia, merging State and religion. He follows it up with Varanasi. An ethnically, linguistically and religiously diverse society is under the grip of a party that espouses the ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ ideology. It is no longer the trope of ‘cultural nationalism’. Being a Hindu is posited as being a real Indian, and religious minorities are reduced legally to a lesser position. Laws are being enacted which welcome only persecuted non-Muslims from other countries to India – only Afghan Hindus and Sikhs were flown in an aircraft from Kabul last month. The education system is being rewired, with books being rewritten with fabricated history, and invented mythology is peddled over science as part of the Hindutva ideological project. India’s weakly institutionalised democracy is witnessing a co-opting of institutions like the Parliament, judiciary, media, military and bureaucracy for this project. Many had hoped after the Biden administration took charge in Washington that, unlike the Trump era, it will publicly force Delhi to change track. But in a replica of its policies during the Ayub, Zia, Yahya and Musharraf eras, the US has chosen to prioritise its geopolitical concerns and turned a blind eye towards India’s dark turn under Modi. Amidst all this, it must be remembered that while Pakistan never elected its military dictators, Indians have popularly voted in this government twice. Mrs Gandhi’s retort to Zia would sound very different now. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/down-the-abyss-following-pakistan-s-path-1067044.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||A White Paper on AFSPA, please||The central government did it again in Nagaland. Barely had the excitement over the setting up of a committee to review the draconian Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (AFSPA) subsided, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs extended its application for the umpteenth time. For another six months, armed forces will continue to be able to shoot anybody dead on a mere suspicion of carrying fire-arms or explosives in Nagaland. In December, they did just that, resulting in the deaths of 13 coal miners who were returning from a hard day’s work. Except for its composition, very little is known about this review committee. Meanwhile, the MHA, as always, has brazenly dispensed with the formality of publishing reasons for extending AFSPA in Nagaland. In sharp contrast, Gazette notifications extending AFSPA’s application in parts of neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh assiduously name the militant groups and describe the nature of their unlawful activities as justification. No such courtesy for Nagaland, though. In 2018, I had sought details of the decision-making process that precedes AFSPA extension in Nagaland, and copies of materials that form its basis, such as field-level reports and correspondence with the state government seeking its views on the desirability of extension. One would expect a robust consultative process to precede the decision to keep a lethal law hanging like the Damocles’ sword on the heads of the Nagas. I had also sought reasons for AFSPA’s extension despite the existence of the 2015 Framework Agreement (FA) under which the Centre is negotiating peace with various Naga groups. The MHA refused to divulge anything, citing national security concerns and argued that its reply to my previous RTI request for the FA applied to this case as well. Earlier, in 2015, I had sought a copy of the FA also under RTI. Both the Prime Minister’s Office, where it was signed, and the MHA, under which the Centre’s Interlocutor for talks with Naga groups functions, denied having custody of that crucial document. When the Central Information Commission (CIC) threatened the MHA’s PIO with a penalty show-cause notice, the Interlocutor himself landed up at the hearing with a copy of the FA and explained how premature disclosure would jeopardise the delicately placed negotiations. The Interlocutor, now Governor of Tamil Nadu, admitted that the FA had been shown to scores of opinion-makers involved in the peace process, including Nagaland’s MLAs. Despite the RTI Act’s foundational principle that information which cannot be denied to MPs or MLAs must not be denied to a citizen, the CIC ruled against disclosure. In an interesting twist to this tale of sarkari secrets, around the fifth anniversary of its signing, one of the Naga groups unilaterally published what they say is the text of the FA. The Centre has neither confirmed nor denied its veracity, till date. Three days after the Oting incident, I filed another RTI application seeking a copy of the FA and details of the consultation process around it. I also demanded a copy of the Hydari Accord signed with Naga groups in 1947. Once again, the MHA refused access to the FA on national security grounds. It said it did not have a copy of the Hydari Accord! Democracy, it is said, dies a quick death behind closed doors. The mess in Nagaland is living proof of this aphorism. If, in 63 years, AFSPA has not been able to deliver, it is time for citizens across India to demand answers, along with justice for its victims. The Centre must publish a White Paper about AFSPA’s achievements and its impact on people’s lives and minds as the first step toward accountability. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-white-paper-on-afspa-please-1067045.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||‘Basket case’ Uttar Pradesh||Elections, elections, elections. Since 2014, Indian politics has been boxed into the polling booth like it were a vice. National elections aside, the states, municipal, or even bypolls, have been portrayed as if nothing else matters in democracy. True, this view has been stoked due an obsequious mainstream media, cutting across India’s many languages and states. The 24/7/365 narrative framing polls big and small as if they were earth-shaking events that were ends in themselves have swung the public perception away from less-appealing but germane matters like employment, health, education, thus compressing the meaning of politics and governance to the gain, loss, and corralling of political power. Uttar Pradesh, which goes to polls soon, is a lightning-rod case in point. Notwithstanding pliant media or other outreach efforts, there’s only so much spin that can rescue UP. Over the last four-and-a-half years, UP hit headlines with dog-whistling religious fundamentalism, rioting, anti-Romeo squads, the Hathras rape and killing and in-public cover-up, Vikas Dubey gangsterism, an ever-worsening Ganga, Covid corpses floating on it or buried on its banks, workers walking back from cities during the pandemic, or the Gorakhpur hospital deaths due to oxygen paucity well before the pandemic. By the shores of the Ganga and the Yamuna, human civilisation plumbs to its nadir. In return, there were moves to ‘beautify’ Varanasi, build an international airport near Noida. Yogi Adityanath’s supporters have gone further. They say law enforcement has got reinforced under his governance. They say that on invariably all social wellbeing indicators, UP is doing well but gets bad press due to scheming liberal media and ‘anti-nationals’ and their international, well-oiled, elite, networked ilk. This lot goes on and on in the media and social media. And yet, comes along evidence that stops them in their tracks, like the central government-run NITI Aayog’s latest report declaring that Kerala aced the health rankings for the fourth consecutive year, while UP scraped the bottom among all big states. Over the years (and well preceding Yogi Adityanath’s ‘governance’), publicly available information has vivified UP’s basket-case condition, which is why applying bandage to a bleeding state, baffles and annoys this writer. It’s a tough talk we’ve been forced to not have, since our national discourse has thwarted it from happening. It’s an argument made before but needs repeating ad nauseam. UP has more people than any single country of Africa and South America, so India cannot afford to have UP as one state anymore. The question can’t be what is to be done with UP as it is. If we are still asking that question, we are turning our eyes away from the unprintable existential query apropos Indian politics: Why on Earth does UP even exist within the Indian Union? Bundelkhand, Purvanchal, eastern Uttar Pradesh have been demanding to be separate states; Uttarakhand got it. Way back in the 1950s, as part of the States Reorganisation Committee, historian-diplomat K M Panikkar had flagged reservations about UP’s size. UP’s unwarranted heft stalls the possibility of a non-north India-centred politics to emerge nationally. States in the south and some in the west, have performed a lot better over generations than UP. Indeed, states such as Punjab, Chhattisgarh, or Jharkhand, too, have progressed more. With their work profile and grassroots cred, regional parties in the south, west, and east, merit the opportunity to expand India-wide. There are better-performing states that don’t get their due. UP’s Assembly and parliamentary girth have normalised political complacency and unfairness: If you win UP, you win India. In the coming years, such nonsense must end. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/basket-case-uttar-pradesh-1067046.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||Finding an approach to truly meaningful change||It’s the time of New Year resolutions and yearly plans once again. Whether or not we believe in making resolutions, many of us will be thinking about the changes we want to make in our routines so that we can lead better, more productive and happier lives. Undoubtedly, these are important ideals to work toward and resolutions may help us get there. But, as anyone who has experimented with resolutions would know, many a time they take the form of superficial solutions. This is not to disparage resolutions or those who make them, but merely to ask whether there is an approach that can facilitate the emergence of meaningful and deep change in our lives. In fact, this article is a quest to see whether the changes we want to bring about, including those on our wish lists, can be supported with the right attitude or orientation so that the endeavour becomes one of renewal, that of shedding old and encrusted ways of thinking, feeling and acting. Before we come to what that could be, let’s look at how we approach change in the normal course. Say we are inundated by feelings of dissonance between what we set out to do and what we actually end up doing; or there is a general dissatisfaction with ourselves, others and the world at large; or we are gripped by an overall lack of meaning and purpose in what we do. When thinking of change, we try to find quick fixes to these ‘problems’, without contending with what these modes of responding are trying to tell us. For instance, we might want to lose weight, or make more money, or quit smoking, but we don’t look at the reasons underlying these desires, which conceal our fears, our self-doubt, or our longings for a genuine connection with our selves. When we try to deal with change in this manner, our attempts may run out of steam in a matter of days or weeks and leave us wondering whether change is at all possible for someone such as us. Maybe that is why leading the list of resolutions this year should be something that will make it possible to examine our motivation and impulse for change itself. In fact, what we may need are spaces for stillness and reflection in our daily lives from where we can look at ourselves and our life situations with a degree of equanimity and distance. Although this seems like a fairly simple thing to do, it is not easy to do it in the crush of daily living. But taking this small step and reminding ourselves to keep going back to it may be indispensable if we want to come to grips with the stubborn habits that seem to define us. What it does is to call on us to pause sufficiently, and view our thoughts and mental processes as though we were external to it, like a witness. This is analogous to the sakshi bhava or the ‘witness attitude’ of Vedantic thought or the practice of vipassana or ‘insight meditation’ in Buddhism. What may we find if we take this step? In my explorations of my mind, I found certain patterns of thinking about myself and habits of closing myself off that were contributing to a tendency to anxiety and worry. These patterns of thought were so ubiquitous and visceral that they actually seemed to be ‘me’. Allowing myself to view them with some detachment brought me the understanding that I could find the right place for these thoughts in my life without indulging them. This also made it possible for me to attend to the feelings of anxiety that I had grown accustomed to without either denying them or giving in to them completely. Of course, I need to keep returning to this understanding whenever these difficult emotions come up. Maybe, then, finding a measure of freedom from our compulsions, or the right perspective from which to view our losses, is the fundamental change we should aspire for in the New Year. Maybe this is the change that can set the stage for all the other changes we want to make, and allow us to explore our potential in its full scope. Not just in the sense of what we can do but also who we can be. That is, infinitely more than what the habits of thinking and feeling masquerading as our ‘selves’ suggest we are. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/finding-an-approach-to-truly-meaningful-change-1067047.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||New Year thoughts: It’s time to learn from Kolkata||The start of a year is often associated with resolutions -- about improving ourselves after a bout of introspection. Individuals often introspect about the need to do things differently. It is time our governments did, too. In the past, issues like increasing income inequalities, migrants, widespread rural distress, deteriorating air quality indices, and the high levels of social stress have figured less and GDP more in our development debates. These deficiencies have been attributed more to inefficiency of execution and administrative incompetence, rather than being seen as symptoms of design failure. With the passage of time, these deficiencies have become acute, meriting immediate attention and systemic solutions. A curious feature of our development model is the near-universal belief that India resides in its villages. Accordingly, the dominant focus of the State has been on rural upliftment, at the cost of creating attractive high-quality urbanity across the country. Less than 600 of the identified 8,000 urban centres are Class 1 cities but house 70 per cent of the urban population. Further, less than 250 of these have full-fledged municipal corporations. There are only 53 large ‘million-plus’ cities, nine being ‘mega’ in size. Only this group, plus a handful of other cities, provide semblance to a full urban experience. The pyramid not only narrows sharply but is also unbalanced geographically, with a majority of the larger cities being located in the western/southern belt, which coincidentally displays lower inequality indices but has a lower share of the population. Interestingly, the current official urbanisation level is 34 per cent but as per World Bank estimates, based on satellite night lights data, it is 55.3 per cent. This is the share of population living in urban-like density or ‘agglomeration index’, the globally used alternative measure of urban concentration in the absence of consistent cross-country census figures. It suggests that in major centres, population growth occurs outside the fringes of ‘official’ cities in slums and shanty towns and thus fails to get recorded in official statistics. The Indian urbanisation model is often termed ‘messy urbanisation’. As a consequence, despite governance being overseen by large and well-trained centralised bureaucracies, most Indian cities rank at the bottom of the UN Livability index, including our much-pampered capital cities. Each of our major cities have their own unique forms of degradation. The national capital, and 89 of the large cities, choke in their own air with AQI rarely descending below dangerous levels. Elsewhere, erstwhile salubriously pretty cities like Bengaluru, Pune and Indore now choke in traffic jams of their own making. Monsoon floods bring several cities, including Mumbai, to a standstill; Chennai is known for perennial shortage of drinking water, poor street drainage and waterlogging. Our societal stress levels are amongst the highest and get manifested in a ‘million mutinies’ getting provoked at the slightest pretext. Additionally, inequalities, both interpersonal and inter-regional have been going up. The World Inequality Report 2022 pegs India to be amongst the most unequal countries, with a large number of poor persons and an affluent elite. Rural and urban distress both remain high. On the other hand, globally, securing widespread and attractive urbanity has been the prime focus of State attention, as brought out by a variety of World Bank/UN and other reports. Europe has the lowest inequality levels because despite a population of less than 800 million, it has 500-600 important urban centers. The US, with a 350 million population, has over 250 important urban centres. Could the concentrated Indian imbalance be the cause of our problems? It might be useful here to take a small diversion to talk about Kolkata. It had for long figured in the top 3 metros but was often written off as a ‘dying city’ after the Naxalite outbreak of the late 1960s and the large-scale flight of big business. Subsequently, it was battered by the refugee influx of the Bangladesh crisis and the long, business-unfriendly Left Front rule. Yet, despite these handicaps, it retains its third spot, with its GDP estimated at over $150 billion, far ahead of the three shining stars of South India. It has over the years created millions of jobs without having any noticeable USP. Coincidentally, it also experiences lower inequality compared to neighbouring states. Could the Kolkata lesson be that it is important to help a city gain critical mass but subsequently, with appropriate governance models, it will display self-sustaining growth even without pronounced USPs? This may then apply even to the UP/Bihar hinterland, which has long been deprived of high-quality urbanisation, unlike the western/southern states. The question arises as to how to create critical mass. The creation of small states resulted in the explosive growth of Raipur, Ranchi and Dehradun. This model could be replicated. Enhanced creation of municipalities, delegation of financial powers/budgets could be tried. Creation of a parallel national capital centre by shifting several Union ministries/statutory authorities could be considered for that belt, leveraging the ongoing Digital India/high-speed rail-road network development for ensuring seamless connectivity. The possibilities are many, but boldness of execution and strong vision/intent to initiate high-quality urban infrastructure in a more widespread geography is needed at this juncture. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-year-thoughts-it-s-time-to-learn-from-kolkata-1067048.html
02-01-2022||Opinion||Off the record||Mid-term appraisal  When M K Stalin took over as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu in May, he sent out a strong message of “perform or perish” to his cabinet colleagues. And after completing six months, he is believed to have assessed the performance of his ministers. Several have “under-performed”, according to the assessment. Some might lose their portfolios in the next few weeks añd might be shown the door if they continue to underperform till May, ahead of cabinet reshuffle and expansion. This has sent jitters among ministers and excitement among wannabe ministers.  ETB Sivapriyan, Chennai BJP’s booze-for-ballet offer Keen on getting some legislative representation in Andhra Pradesh, the BJP organised a rally last week in Vijayawada named “Praja-agraha Sabha” against YSRCP’s “anti-people policies”. While the leaders’ confidence in their party coming to power in the state has amused many, a promise made by the AP unit chief was appealing to at least one section of voters. Accusing the Jaganmohan Reddy government of selling low-quality liquor at high prices, Somu Veerraju asked “the one crore alcohol consumers in AP” to vote BJP to power so that, “we can give you cheap liquor for Rs 70 only.” “And if the revenues are good, we would further reduce the price to Rs 50,” Somu extended the offer. Meanwhile, Telangana minister KT Rama Rao asked over a tweet: “Wah… What a scheme! What a shame AP BJP stoops to a new low. National policy of BJP to supply cheap liquor at ₹50 or is this bumper offer only for states where the desperation is “high”?” Prasad Nichenametla, Hyderabad VIP complaints and special treatments Recently, Kerala High Court criticised the government for its inaction against a woman police official who insulted a minor girl from a Dalit community by falsely accusing her of mobile phone theft. Video of the public trial of the girl went viral on social media and the cops were criticised. However, there was a difference in the case of the police harassing a foreign national for carrying liquor bottles without bills. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan acted swiftly after state tourism minister Mohammed Riyas, his son-in-law, objected to it, and a cop was suspended later. Arjun Raghunath, Thuruvananthapuram Lock-up party in Assam “If your New Year’s Eve plans include drunk and/or rash driving, this invitation is for you. Entry free. Special performance by DJ Lockup.” This creative campaign of Assam Police warning the drunk drivers for New Year’s eve drew a lot of attention on social media. The campaign was launched as part of the state government’s target of zero road accidents due to drunk and/or rash driving on December 31 night. “On the menu: copcake and other desserts in our custard-y. Location: Nearest police station,” the creative further read. A creative campaign like this and the strict enforcement on the streets including by CM Himanta Biswa Sarma helped the state prevent accidents and deaths due to drunk driving this time. For the records, Assam reported 29 deaths in 69 road accidents on the night of December 31 last year. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Lagaan team in Maharashtra Veteran BJP leader Narayan Rane described the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government as a “Lagaan team”. “We need a proper government… what we have a ‘Lagaan team’… and, there is no chief minister,” said Rane, the minister of micro, small and medium industries in the central government. Rane, a Shiv Sainik-turned-Congressman-turned-BJP leader, is the bete noire of Uddhav, commented after his team defeated MVA partners by winning 11 of the total 19 seats in the Sindhudurg District Central Cooperative Bank (DCCB) in his home turf. “The next goal is to oust MVA from the district and from the state. The agenda is to win all assembly and Lok Sabha seats in the Sindhudurg district,” he said. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-1067317.html
02-01-2022||Panorama||As 2022 arrives, new GST norms hit ecommerce operators||A question that could be troubling many customers right now is, “Would that biryani one likes ordering on Swiggy/Zomato/other ecommerce operators become costlier from January 1, 2022?” The question arises because the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has now shifted the responsibility of paying GST on all restaurant services through ecommerce operators (ECOs) from restaurants to operators. Since only the responsibility to pay the tax has shifted and not the rate, Thalassery Biryani should cost the customer the same Rs 169 in 2021 as well as 2022. The only possibility of food costing more would be when ECOs increase their delivery charges (this could well be ruled out for the present considering the competition in the sector). Ecommerce operators CBIC has come out with a notification as well as responses to 11 questions to provide clarity on what the ECOs should do. Since the restaurant service has been notified under Section 9(5) of the CGST Act, ECOs will need to pay GST with effect from the new year. Accordingly, they would no longer be required to collect tax at source (TCS) and file a separate return in respect of restaurant services on which they pay tax in terms of section 9(5).  On other goods or services supplied through the operators, which are not notified u/s 9(5), operators would continue to pay TCS in terms of section 52 of CGST Act, 2017 in the same manner as at present. As ECOs are already registered in accordance with the CGST Rules, 2017, as suppliers of their own goods or services, there would be no mandatory requirement of taking separate registration by them for payment of tax on restaurant service under section 9(5) of the CGST Act, 2017.  ECOs will be liable to pay GST on any restaurant service supplied through them including by an unregistered person. CBIC has clarified that the aggregate turnover of persons supplying restaurant service through these operators shall be computed as defined in section 2(6) of the CGST Act, 2017 and shall include the aggregate value of supplies made by the restaurant through ECOs. Accordingly, for threshold consideration or any other purpose under GST laws, the person providing restaurant service through ECOs shall account for such services in his aggregate turnover. Operators are not the recipient of restaurant service supplied through them. Since these are not input services to them, these are not to be reported as inward supply (liable to reverse charge). In some cases, ECOs provide their own services as an electronic platform and act as an intermediary, for which they would acquire inputs/input service on which they avail input tax credit (ITC). For these services, ECOs charge commission or fees for the services they provide which is utilised by them for payment of GST on services provided on their own account. The situation in this regard remains unchanged even after ECOs have been made liable to pay tax on restaurant service.  CBIC has clarified that ECOs shall not be required to reverse ITC on account of restaurant services on which they pay GST in terms of section 9(5) of the Act.  An important clarification given by CBIC is that on restaurant service, ECOs shall pay the entire GST liability in cash and no ITC can be utilised for payment of GST on restaurant service supplied through ECOs. On such supplies (other than restaurant services made through ECOs) GST will continue to be billed, collected and deposited in the same manner as is being done at present (ECOs will deposit TCS on such supplies). Considering that liability to pay GST on supplies other than ‘restaurant service’ through the ECOs, and other compliances under the Act, including the issuance of invoice to customers, continues to lie with the respective suppliers (and ECOs being liable only to collect TCS on such supplies), it is advisable that ECOs raise a separate bill on restaurant service in such cases where they provide other supplies to a customer under the same order. Rate increases While customers can rejoice over the fact that restaurant services may not pinch their pockets further, they have other reasons to worry. Effective the new year, the GST rate on fabrics will be raised to 12 per cent from 5 per cent, and for garments of any value, it has been raised to 12 per cent, compared to the previous rate of 5 per cent on items priced up to Rs 1,000. Textiles (including woven fabrics, synthetic yarn, pile fabrics, blankets, tents, accessories such as tablecloths or serviettes, rugs and tapestries) have also seen their rates raised from 5 per cent to 12 per cent, while footwear of any value has seen its rate raised from 5 per cent (up to Rs 1,000/pair) to 12 per cent. The GST Council is scheduled to meet to take a relook at the rates (there is news floating around that the tax rates could be increased by a percentage point). Customers can only hope that this is not true since there seems to be some light at the end of the pandemic tunnel that everyone has been through over the past couple of years (fingers crossed on the impact that Omicron and other new variants could have). If anything, GST rate changes need to consider a host of factors and should not be done on an ad-hoc basis. As has been the case since 2017, GST laws have given customers cause to be reasonably happy for the present but there is always some cause for concern as to what could happen in the future. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-2022-arrives-new-gst-norms-hit-ecommerce-operators-1067314.html
02-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Give resolutions a go!||My goal for 2022 is to accomplish the goals of 2021 which I should have done in 2020 because I promised them in 2019 and planned in 2018. Yes, seriously. The reason is that I am great at giving myself admirable advice but incapable of taking it. There is always someone around to tell me vehemently that I am wrong. Such knowledgeable critics are always right. So my resolutions usually remain struggling and suffocating like potential seeds hidden under deep layers of soil. But now, one seed tentatively seems to have broken open. “Keep the big things big and the little things little” — a nice resolution to start with.   First, I started looking for the biggies to keep them big. As if by magic, a mirror appeared before me. Ah, you are BIG. Now you don’t have to fight your serious stress to become small or little. You can remain big. “Keep big things big...”I chuckled happily. The other big thing according to others is my EGO. Do I let it go, or keep it big? The answer was obvious. Keep big things big... of course, I chuckled again. Thus, my New Year resolutions seemed to be going great to hold on to. But, “keep the little things little” became a bit complicated. The little things that I could think of are the little portions of food on my plate. And I can never keep them little. My doctor says it is bad not to, but my intuitive tummy says, “Good often comes out of bad.” So the inside tussle is going on. The resolution needs to be resolved... if at all. “Drag your thoughts away from your troubles... by the ears, by the heels or any other way you can manage it.” Okay, simple-sounding resolution. But, first I need to find the ears and reach onto the heels of my thoughts that are wound around my troubles. That itself is big trouble. Gosh, for that I need to develop a loving relationship with my body and mind! Body... it’s easy for a narcissist. But mind… yes, I must tread very mindfully!   Every day you have to make a decision to: “Give up, give in or give it your all” — but this resolution got muddled up a bit in its implementation — every day I give up something, then I give in to it by giving it my all. So my decisions remain undecided. Another year passes by, in these shifting paradigms. But I shall stick to the one which stuck with me forever - to be nice to those who do and say what I want. And despite being so nice, I get the name tyrant...! Happy New Year...!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/give-resolutions-a-go-1067322.html
02-01-2022||Second Edit||Centre should have consulted states on Dam Safety Bill||The Dam Safety Bill passed by parliament puts in place a much-needed mechanism for the upkeep and maintenance of large dams. But as in the case of many other legislations, the government did not pay heed to the views of Opposition parties on the Bill. The Opposition had wanted the Bill to be sent to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for further scrutiny. But the government did not agree and the motion for this was defeated. The Bill has a long history. A law for the protection of dams was first proposed as early as 1980s. But there was no agreement on the provisions of a bill drafted for it. A bill was finally introduced in 2010 which also faced opposition. The objections to the current Bill have much to do with the fear of states that their rights and powers with respect to the dams in their territory would be affected. Most of the dams in the country are constructed, operated, managed and maintained by states. So many of them think that the Bill is an encroachment into their jurisdiction and would constrain their powers.  The Bill aims to provide for surveillance, inspection and maintenance of dams and prescribes institutional mechanisms to ensure their safe functioning. A National Committee of Dam Safety comprising the Chairman of the Central Water Commission and Central and state officials will be formed. There will also be state-level water commissions. A National Dam Safety Authority, to be headquartered in Delhi, will also be set up. These bodies have various functions like investigation and collection of data pertaining to the safety and protection of dams. The legislation proposes uniform dam safety standards, aims to evolve policies and regulations and stipulates punishment for violating the rules. It also proposes a system for regular inspections, studies and action plans. There are 5,745 large dams in the country. India has the third-largest number of large dams in the world, after the US and China. About 300 of them are over 100 years old and over 1,000 are over 50 years old. Many of them are built with mud before the age of cement and have been weakened. They need constant care and upkeep. In fact, all the dams need proper maintenance especially because natural disasters are more frequent now, induced by climate change and other factors. Many dam-related mishaps have happened in the country and the latest was the Rishiganga dam failure in Uttarakhand earlier this year. While the legislation was needed to set up mechanisms to deal with them, the Centre should have taken the state governments on board and allowed greater scrutiny of the proposals before finalising them and getting the Bill passed by parliament.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/centre-should-have-consulted-states-on-dam-safety-bill-1067320.html
02-01-2022||South||Kerala cop suspended after foreigner pours liquor on road||The suspension of a police officer in Kerala in connection with a foreigner being intercepted for carrying three liquor bottles without bills has triggered resentment among the police officials. The incident received much attention after a video of the foreigner emptying the liquor bottles in front of the police in protest went viral on social media. On New Year's Eve, a Swedish national Stephen Asberg running homestay at the popular tourist spot Kovalam in Thiruvananthapuram was intercepted by the police as part of routine checking. In the viral video, Asberg could be seen emptying the liquor bottles stating that he forgot to collect bills from the government-run retail outlet from which he bought the liquor. A police official could be also seen telling Asberg that he was not asked to empty the bottle but needed to produce the bill only. Several on social media criticised that the incident as a shame for the Kerala tourism sector. Kerala tourism minister Mohammed Riyaz also expressed his displeasure openly, with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking a report from police higher-ups. Based on the report, a grade sub-inspector, identified as T K Shaji, was placed under suspension on Saturday itself. But the police associations conveyed strong displeasure over the action. Police sources said that there was an instruction from higherups to be vigilant against alcohol and drug abuse on the beach during New Year celebrations as many families used to turn up at the beach. The chances of supply of spurious liquor were there. As part of it, the police asked the foreigner to produce bills for the liquor bottles. The police personnel did not ask him to empty the bottles but was asked only to produce bills. It seems the foreign national deliberately emptied the bottle as he noticed that someone was shooting the incident. The action against police officer who was only discharging his duties was indeed demoralising the entire force, the sources said. Kerala general education minister V Sivankutty even called on the foreigner in person to express the government's regret over the incident. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cop-suspended-after-foreigner-pours-liquor-on-road-1067106.html
02-01-2022||South||Vaiko alleges Tamil Nadu fishermen harassed by Sri Lanka since China started port projects||The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) General Secretary and Member of Parliament, Vaiko, has claimed that the attack on Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu has increased in Sri Lanka since China has started opening ports in the island nation. In a statement, Vaiko said that the fishermen from Tamil Nadu are arrested, whipped, and jailed by Sri Lankan authorities on flimsy charges and has called upon the Government of India to take the issue at the diplomatic level to find a solution at the earliest. The senior MDMK leader also said that his party would not conduct a black flag protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he is arriving at Tamil Nadu on January 12 to inaugurate 11 medical colleges and to participate in Pongal celebrations. He has said that the Union Home Minister Amit Shah had "refused" to meet the delegation from Tamil Nadu to speak regarding NEET and added that "this was not good for democracy". Vaiko, whose party is an alliance partner of the Secular Progressive Alliance led by DMK in the state, also said that he fully agreed with the statement of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol Thirumavalavan that Stalin should take the initiative of opposition leaders against the BJP at the Centre in the next Lok Sabha elections. Vaiko has asserted that the DMK government is taking on the Union government courageously for the needs and demands of the people of the state. He has said that the state has a good pool of doctors and healthcare professionals and has urged the Centre to listen to the demands of the people of Tamil Nadu regarding NEET for admission to medical schools. The MDMK General Secretary also alleged that the BJP has "scant respect for democracy and the parliament". "Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself refuses to occupy his seat in the Lok Sabha," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaiko-alleges-tamil-nadu-fishermen-harassed-by-sri-lanka-since-china-started-port-projects-1067134.html
02-01-2022||South||CPI(M) urges DMK to scrap contract given to French firm for water supply||The CPI(M) on Sunday urged the ruling DMK to immediately fulfil its election promise of cancelling the contract given to French firm Suez for drinking water supply to the people here. The DMK, along with CPI(M) and other parties, was opposing the scheme the previous AIADMK regime brought in some years ago; and the DMK had promised to cancel once it assumes power, said a resolution adopted at the two-day CPI(M) District Unit conference that began here. As the scheme would affect the common people in 100 wards, the DMK should keep its promise and cancel the scheme, but it has not, said the resolution. In another resolution, the Left party urged the Centre to bring down the increasing price of raw materials, which was affecting nearly 50,000 MSMEs in the district. Accusing the Centre of not taking any step to control raw material prices, the party said that instead it was supporting the rise for the benefit of corporates. Also, the party urged the district administration and police not to permit RSS to organise training programmes (shakha) on the premises of educational institutions, as has been case in the city for the last few days. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan, CPI(M) politburo member G Ramakrishnan, Central Committee members A Soundarajan and P Sampath were among those participating in the conference. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-urges-dmk-to-scrap-contract-given-to-french-firm-for-water-supply-1067216.html
02-01-2022||South||UP Assembly elections biggest test for Owaisi and AIMIM||From being confined to seven Assembly seats in its traditional stronghold of Hyderabad to now eyeing 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh, the AIMIM has come a long way during the last eight years. The ensuing Assembly elections in India's biggest state will be crucial for not just the BJP, Samajwadi Party and other key players but will decide the course for Asaduddin Owaisi-led party in the national polity. Unfazed by the criticism from all non-BJP parties, who brand him a "vote-cutter", Owaisi is going all out to emerge as a kingmaker in the politically significant state. The 52-year-old, who in recent times has emerged as the most recognisable Muslim leader in the country, is travelling extensively in Uttar Pradesh to address rallies attracting huge crowds. Known for his excellent oratory skills, the MP from Hyderabad is heard slamming all his opponents from the BJP to the SP and countering Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and SP leader Akhilesh Yadav with his tongue-in-cheek remarks. At a rally in Sharanpur two days ago, Owaisi came out with his abbreviation of Yogi "Raj" in Uttar Pradesh. According to him, "Raj" stands for "Rishwat" (corruption), "Apradh" (crimes), and "Jatiwad" (Casteism). He was responding to Amit Shah using the "NIZAM" acronym, using the names of Muslim leaders of the SP, the BSP, and the Congress to target the SP rule. This was also seen as a taunt aimed at Owaisi as the latter comes from erstwhile Hyderabad State, whose Asaf Jahi rulers were referred as Nizam. "Hum kisi ka qarza baqi nahi rakhtey," Owaisi said amid loud cheers at the well-attended rally. Political analysts say the Lincoln's Inn-educated lawyer has succeeded in reaching out to his target audience in the Hindi belt with equal ease. His message is clear. Uttar Pradesh's 19 per cent Muslims need their own political strength, leadership, and participation so that they get their due rights and there should be an end to discrimination and repression the community is being subjected to. This is not the first time All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is testing its political fortunes in Uttar Pradesh. In 2017, the party had contested 38 of 403 seats but drew a blank. It polled about two lakh votes in the seats it contested and only four of its candidates could save their deposits. However, Owaisi believes that in these five years, his party has become stronger and he is now confident of bagging a big chunk. Like in Maharashtra and Bihar, the AIMIM is keen to have alliance with smaller parties. However, its efforts have not succeeded so far. Owaisi was trying for an alliance with BJP ally-turned rebel Suhaildev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar but the latter struck alliance with the Samajwadi Party. AIMIM leaders say even if alliance with any other party does not materialise, they are in a position to go alone. The year 2021 has not been very good for AIMIM in its attempts to expand the base as it failed to open the account in both West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. In West Bengal, AIMIM contested seven seats. It went alone as the efforts to reach an alliance with Indian Secular Front (ISF) failed. In Tamil Nadu, it fielded candidates in three constituencies under an alliance with T.T.V. Dhinakaran-led AMMK. Aware of the huge challenge it faces in having a pan-India presence, the AIMIM never felt disheartened by the electoral reverses. "Despite defeats in some states, we continue to work there to strengthen the organisation and overcome our shortcomings," a leader said. This strategy worked in Bihar and the party hopes that it will be able to repeat this in Uttar Pradesh. The party had contested six seats in the 2015 Bihar Assembly elections - all in the Seemanchal region, which has a significant Muslim population. However, all six candidates lost, with only one managing to save his deposit. However, five years later, the AIMIM succeeded in Bihar. In 2020 elections, it won five of the 20 seats it contested. It was a huge achievement for the party as this was the second biggest number of seats after Telangana, where it has seven seats. This had come a year after the party failed in its maiden attempt to have a foothold in Jharkhand. It contested 16 of the 81 seats in Jharkhand Assembly elections, but failed to win any. Till 2013, the AIMIM was confined to its traditional stronghold of Hyderabad. Barring a few seats in some urban local bodies in parts of Telangana, Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, the party had no presence outside Hyderabad. The year 2014 saw the party making a serious bid to expand by contesting Maharashtra Assembly elections. It fielded 24 candidates in the 288-member Assembly and made an impressive debut by winning two seats. The party started dreaming big and expanded the base by constituting units in different states. The AIMIM, however, came under attack from the Congress and most of the other non-BJP parties for dividing secular votes. Many termed it the "B-team" of the BJP. However, Owaisi remained unfazed. He dismissed the allegation and questioned the other parties as to what they had done for Muslims in return for their support. Sporting Hyderabadi sherwani and a skull-cap, Owaisi became the voice and face of Muslim community. Participating in the prime time debates on television, he defended his party's efforts to expand its base and argued that there is nothing wrong in Muslims fighting the democratic battle to get the rights which the Constitution has guaranteed them. The year 2019 saw AIMIM receiving a big boost. The party, which had just one Lok Sabha seat (Hyderabad) for the last 35 years, captured the Aurangabad seat in Maharashtra. It also succeeded in retaining its tally of two seats in the Maharashtra Assembly. Established in 1928 with the aim to keep then Hyderabad State independent, the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) was banned after the state's merger with the Indian Union in 1948. However, in 1958 it was revived with a new constitution by Moulana Abdul Wahid Owaisi, grandfather of Asaduddin Owaisi, to champion the cause of Muslims. He named it the AIMIM. The party claims that its biggest achievement was to give a political platform and an identity to the community passing through turbulent times after 'police action' - the operation by Indian Army in 1948 against the Hyderabad State to force it to merge with the Indian Union Often branded as communal by its critics, the AIMIM, however, claims to represent the interests of not just Muslims but all socially and economically backward classes of society. Starting from winning a couple of municipal wards in the old city in the 1960s, the party consolidated its base and went on to capture Assembly seats. In the 1980s, it had five seats in the then 294-member Assembly of undivided Andhra Pradesh. Under Asaduddin Owaisi's father Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi, the AIMIM became a dominant political force. Salahuddin Owaisi represented Hyderabad Lok Sabha seat from 1984 till 2004 when he made way for his elder son due to ill-health. Asaduddin Owaisi, who has never lost an election, further strengthened the party after taking over as its President following the death of his father in 2008, and under him the party emerged on the national political scene. In 2009, the AIMIM won seven assembly seats in Hyderabad, which was its best-ever performance and it continued to hold the seats in Telangana state which was carved out in 2014. The AIMIM claims to be the only party in India to develop a chain of educational institutions including medical and engineering colleges and state-of-the-art hospitals offering services to the poor at subsidised rates. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/up-assembly-elections-biggest-test-for-owaisi-and-aimim-1067219.html
02-01-2022||South||Congress turning into a party supplying leaders to BJP: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Even as CPI leader Binoy Viswam said that the Congress is indispensable for Indian democracy, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Congress is turning into a political party that supplies leaders to the BJP. The Chief Minister, while addressing CPI(M)'s Palakkad district conference, said that several senior leaders of the Congress have found a new address in BJP and have joined the saffron fold without any shame. He also lashed out at the statement of former AICC president Rahul Gandhi on a Hindu leader becoming Prime minister of India. Pinarayi Vijayan meanwhile took stringent action against the dissident activities in the CPI(M) at the Palakkad district conference by stating that dissidence and group activities will not be tolerated in the party. The Chief Minister did not allow an election for the post of district secretary of the Palakkad district committee and wanted party delegates to unanimously select a district secretary. Senior CPI(M) leader from Chittoor in Palakkad district, E N Suresh Babu was declared as the Palakkad district secretary of the party. Chief Minister in his speech said that certain leaders were trying to create an island for themselves and added that such leaders will not have a place in the party. It may be noted that the CPI(M)'s national conference is scheduled to take place in April at Kannur which is the home district of the Chief Minister and CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Presently CPI(M) is holding district conferences and the state conference will take place in February 2022. With the CPI(M) being in power only in Kerala, the party Congress or national congress will be a major show of strength for the Kerala CPI(M). Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-turning-into-a-party-supplying-leaders-to-bjp-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1067261.html
02-01-2022||South||More curbs back in Tamil Nadu as Covid-19 cases on an upward trend ||With the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 increasing at a rapid rate, Tamil Nadu has brought back restrictions including closing beaches for the public and allowing just 50 per cent occupancy in cinema halls to prevent further spread of the novel Coronavirus.  On Sunday, the state reported 1,594 fresh Covid-19 patients, up from 1,498 cases on Saturday, and 1,144 cases on Friday. The state has so far reported 121 Covid-19 patients infected with Omicron variant with 98 have been discharged from hospitals and only 20 receiving treatment. Chennai continues to top the list with 682 cases being reported on Saturday, which is nearly half of the total infections reported in the state.  As the state continues to report a high number of cases every day, the government has brought back curbs like closing schools for classes 1 to 8 till January 10, reducing the capacity in cinema halls to 50 per cent, and closing down beaches for the public on all days.  Health Minister Ma Subramanian termed the current surge in cases across the world as the “beginning of the third wave” of Covid-19 infections and asked people to wear face masks and maintain physical distancing. “The tsunami of Covid-19 infections have begun across the world. Every part of the world reports high number of cases every day. The only way to protect one is to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated,” Subramanian said.  Besides curbs, the government is also increasing the number of tests and conducting special camps to get people vaccinated. “We are identifying people who have not taken their first and second doses of vaccine. We are also convincing the unvaccinated population to get their jabs at the earliest,” a senior government official said.  Over 8.11 crore doses have been administered so far in Tamil Nadu with over 85 per cent of the eligible population receiving its first dose while the second dose coverage is far behind with less than 60 per cent of people taking their second jab. With the vaccination for the 15-18 age group beginning on January 3, the state government has identified 33.46 lakh children who are eligible to get vaccinated.  The government says over 1.15 lakh beds, including those with oxygen support, are ready in Tamil Nadu. As the number of cases in Chennai continues to increase, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is considering converting colleges into Covid Care Centres to isolate Covid-19 patients, if needed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-curbs-back-in-tamil-nadu-as-covid-19-cases-on-an-upward-trend-1067264.html
02-01-2022||South||45 fresh Omicron cases reported in Kerala; vaccines for 15 to 18-year-olds from Monday||As many as 45 fresh Covid Omicron cases were reported in Kerala on Sunday, taking the tally so far to 152. Health department sources said that 2,802 more Covid cases were reported in the state, taking the total active cases to 19,021. Even as night curfew was imposed in the state for four days till Sunday in view of Omicron spread, no decision to extend it was taken yet. Meanwhile, the vaccination of teens in the 15-18 age group will begin in the state from Monday. A total of 15.34 lakh teens fall in the group in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/45-fresh-omicron-cases-reported-in-kerala-vaccines-for-15-to-18-year-olds-from-monday-1067266.html
02-01-2022||South||Zero school dropout drive of municipality in Kerala yielding results||The Sultan Bathery municipality in the Wayanad district of Kerala has launched an initiative to make the region school dropout free. The region has a large tribal and farmer population and was seeing high number of dropout cases, which is why the municipality launched the drive. Earlier, the total number of school dropouts from class one to higher secondary was around 200, which is now brought down to 39. Many students from the region were also found to be engaged as plantation workers. The employers, in some cases the students' parents, have now been warned of action over the charge of child labour should such activities continue. Education standing committee chairman of the municipality Tom Jose told DH that as the tenth and higher secondary public examinations are approaching, the present focus was on them. Eleven students were found to be regularly skipping classes. A team of officials of various departments concerned were formed and a door-to-door campaign at the houses of the school dropouts was being conducted. The campaign would resume once the schools open after Christmas vacation. Jose said that as a result of thrust being given by the municipality for education, the schools in the region recorded a 100% passing rate in the last tenth standard examinations, while the average passing percentage of the district was much low. This was attained not through any special coaching, but also by ensuring that all students attended classes regularly. The school authorities are advised to alert the municipality in case any student regularly skipped classes. A special team from the municipality would visit the houses of such students and address the issue. Counselling would be also arranged to purse students to attend classes regularly. There are around 17 schools in the municipality. Compared to other parts of Wayanad, the school dropout rate in the Sultan Bathery region is relatively low. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/zero-school-dropout-drive-of-municipality-in-kerala-yielding-results-1067276.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Manivannan named secretary of Karnataka minority welfare department||Karnataka government on Saturday posted Capt Manivannan P as secretary of the minority welfare department. Manivannan was earlier secretary of the animal husbandry & fisheries department and he has been replaced by Salma K Fahim. Additional chief secretary (public enterprises) B H Anil Kumar has been given concurrent charge of infrastructure development, replacing Salma. In another order, the government posted M G Hiremath as Belagavi deputy commissioner. KAS officer Noor Jahara Khanum is now Raichur ZP CEO. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manivannan-named-secretary-of-karnataka-minority-welfare-department-1067035.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karjol hits out at Congress over Mekedatu padayatra||Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol on Saturday said the Congress’ foot march demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project is a “meaningless initiative”. Karjol’s attack comes after JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy lashed out at the Congress for its 10-day padayatra starting January 9. Speaking to reporters, Karjol said Congress was politicising the issue. “When they were in power, they did not put any efforts to take the project forward. When they are in opposition, they take up unnecessary campaigns,” he charged. “This is not the first time that the Congress is doing something like this. In 2013, they took out a padayatra for the Krishna river for political gains,” he added. The minister also warned that he would soon release “explosive information” in the public interest which would exposeCongress. Last week, Kumaraswamy had made similar allegations, asking the Congress to lead an all-party delegation to New Delhi instead of taking out the padayatra. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karjol-hits-out-at-congress-over-mekedatu-padayatra-1067038.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||CID to probe into police atrocities on Koragas: Araga||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the investigation into the alleged police excess against members of the Koraga community during a pre-wedding Mehendi ritual at Kota Thattu village will be handed over to the CID. The home minister, after meeting victims at the colony, stressed that the government was committed to ensuring justice to society’s most vulnerable community. Jnanendra said he was ashamed about the incident and it had also tarnished the image of one lakh police officers who work round-the-clock to maintain law, order and peace in society. “The events that unfolded on Monday night has revealed the cruelty of police personnel, who turned out to be thugs,” he said. He said a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each would be given to the six families who were caned by the police. And the first instalment, Rs 50,000 was distributed to the victims’ families on the spot. The minister termed the incident gruesome and said that the police acted beyond their authority. “The counter-complaint was intentionally filed by the police constable. The complaint serves no purpose as the police constable was admitted to hospital three days after the incident,” he said. “Anyone can see that the counter-complaint is not genuine. I promise the Koraga community that the government is on their side and those named in the counter-complaint will come to no harm,” the home minister assured and declared that Sub Inspector Santosh was arrogant and did not bother about informing CPI, DySP or the SP before resorting to caning.  The policemen involved in the incident will have to pay, he added.  The minister later told reporters that the bridegroom and women in the families attending the function were assaulted. Such incidents will not be repeated in the future. The law is equal to all regardless of their status, caste, class or religion, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cid-to-probe-into-police-atrocities-on-koragas-araga-1067039.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rules on live streaming of court hearings notified||The rules for live streaming of court proceedings have been notified with effect from January 1, 2022. The rules titled - Karnataka Rules on Live Streaming and Recording of Court Proceedings, 2021 – will apply to the high court and to the courts and tribunals over which it has supervisory jurisdiction. The notification has listed types of cases excluded from the category of live streaming. These cases include, matters such as matrimonial cases (including transfer petitions arising there under), cases concerning sexual offences, including proceedings instituted under section 376 of IPC, cases concerning gender-based violence against women, Pocso Act as well as Juvenile Justice Act matters. In-camera proceedings, matters where the bench is of the view for reasons to be recorded in writing that publication would be antithetical to the administration of justice. This apart, cases, which in the opinion of the bench may provoke enmity amongst communities likely to result in a breach of law and order, and non-public discussions between advocates and any other matter in which a specific direction is issued by the bench or the Chief Justice, are also excluded from livestreaming. In May 2020, the high court had initiated live streaming of court proceedings on an experimental basis. A PIL petition was filed seeking direction for framing of rules in regard to both live streaming and e-filing. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, had recently directed the Registrar General to notify the date for coming into force of the Rules. The state government was directed to immediately notify the Rules and publish them in the official gazette. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rules-on-live-streaming-of-court-hearings-notified-1067041.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||What’s at the root of CM-change rumours?: ‘Maybe they stem from his insecurity’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will remain in office, the BJP’s executive committee asserted strongly earlier this week, and the whisper campaign that wants him out has been put on mute. The story does not end there. As Bommai and the BJP step into a new year that will put Karnataka in election mode, if it isn’t already in one, there are talks of a ‘big’ Cabinet overhaul after the Sankranti festival.  But why, and how, is Bommai at the receiving end of speculation that the state will get a third BJP chief minister? There is no simple answer, and the buck may end with Bommai himself.  Bommai became the chief minister five months ago, taking the reins from veteran B S Yediyurappa in a state seen as the BJP’s gateway to south India. Bommai kickstarted his innings making welfare his plank, while also projecting himself as the simplest of the netas’ lot.  Generally, the first six months of any new government is dubbed the ‘honeymoon’ period, to settle in and get a hang of things.  Even before this ‘honeymoon’ ended, rumours of a change in leadership became so widespread - as fresh as a week ago - that the bureaucracy smelled something fishy going by Bommai’s body language. “He is always on the edge, shouting at officers,” one officer says.  A senior leader blames Bommai for setting off rumours. “If he won’t assert himself, then Bommai will be seen as easy-going, reinforcing the view that he’s a night watchman.” Poll defeats Karnataka has seen four elections, all of them carrying their own significance, after Bommai became the chief minister. In all four, the BJP’s performance was subpar. This week’s urban local body election results, for example, were disappointing for the BJP and did little to help Bommai’s cause.  The chatter in the BJP reveals some common threads: Bommai is yet to find complete acceptance from within the party, a section of legislators feels he is not taking them into confidence, and he is always surrounded by a coterie that insiders call “bad company”.   Another senior leader says while legislators were not averse to Yediyurappa throwing his weight around, Bommai’s attempts to emulate the former CM’s attitude has met with scorn.  “Is he feeling insecure? One symptom of that is for a person to be confined to a group comprising people who show loyalty,” a senior BJP office-bearer says. “He knows there are people within the party who haven’t accepted him. But the point is that he should be taking everybody along.”  The discontent is simmering. “We are disappointed,” the office-bearer adds. “There isn’t much difference between the Yediyurappa and Bommai governments. The sort of nepotism that plagued the previous administration continues. Native BJP leaders are not getting their due vis-a-vis those who came from the Congress and JD(S).”  Hindutva agenda With welfare on one hand, Bommai is also chasing the Hindutva agenda, making people speculate that he is doing that to keep his chair safe. The latest is the plan to free Hindu temples from state control, which former Congress minister Priyank Kharge says is “another example of CM Bommai trying to fit into RSS”. One cannot rule out the possibility that the whisper campaign against Bommai is the handiwork of the ‘disgruntled’ ministerial aspirants. The 34-member Cabinet has four vacancies.  “The CM himself told me that there are plans to overhaul the Cabinet after Sankranti,” BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a former union minister who was among the first to publicly predict Yediyurappa’s removal, said earlier this week. Yatnal himself is seen as a ministerial aspirant.  As captain, Bommai should be assertive, senior BJP MLC Lehar Singh says. “And, he should put an end to the gossip.”   (With inputs from Akram Mohammed) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/what-s-at-the-root-of-cm-change-rumours-maybe-they-stem-from-his-insecurity-1067043.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Self-defence classes for girls in Karnataka govt schools, PU colleges from this week||More than four lakh girl students studying at various government high schools and pre-university colleges in the state will be trained in self-defence techniques through special classes starting from the first week of this month. The government has released Rs 2 crore for the training under the Samagra Shikshana Karnataka (earlier known as Samagra Shikshana Abhiyana) project. The SSK has issued a circular directing all government schools and pre-university colleges to commence self-defence classes from the first week of this month. The headmasters of schools and the school development monitoring committees have been told to identify the resource persons or training institutes at the local level, to train the girl students. The trainers will be paid Rs 200 per session. All girl students in 4,245 government high schools and 441 government PU colleges will benefit from this. “We have implemented this self-defence training mainly to help girl students get stronger physically and mentally. Self-defence does not mean only teaching karate,” said an official from SSK. “This self-defence programme includes increasing self-confidence among girl students and encouraging them to pursue higher education,” he added. As explained in the circular, the schools and colleges have to conduct two classes per week (45 minutes each) and a total of 20 sessions in three months. SSK has also instructed schools and colleges to conduct health check-ups for students before putting them on training. In case students have health issues, such students should be exempted from the training, the circular said. “When girl students are on self-defence training, teachers must plan other extracurricular classes for boys,” said an official. The training will be implemented under the Rani Lakshmi Bai self-defence training programme. Schools and colleges have to upload photographs and videos of the self-defence training on the Shagun portal. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/self-defence-classes-for-girls-in-karnataka-govt-schools-pu-colleges-from-this-week-1067050.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah urges govt to consider demands of guest lecturers||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah has written to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asking the government to meet the demands of guest lecturers working in state-run first grade colleges. As many as 14,183 guest lecturers have sought salary security for the entire year, while also asking for pay hike.  “This is a reasonable demand. They are lecturers with post graduate and PhD degrees. While their counterparts, who are permanent employees, get 10 times more the salary under UGC, these lecturers are getting only Rs, 10,000-12,000 and that too for only eight months a year,” he pointed out. With the increasing Omicron cases likely to play a dampener to the annual Banashankari fair, Siddaramaiah, also Badami MLA, has urged his constituents to conduct the fair while taking all Covid-related precautions. The fair is scheduled to begin from January 17. Siddaramaiah held a meeting with all the officials, elected representatives and the temple management, in this regard on Saturday. Last year, too, the fair had to be downsized because of Covid. If the fair is not held, several shopkeepers who depend on the annual fair will lose their livelihood, he said, asking them to ensure that all necessary precautions were taken. However, the government’s decision on conducting the fair is yet to be seen. PAC head appointed Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda has been nominated as the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee of the Karnataka legislature. Gowda was picked after former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar turned down this position citing personal reasons. Both Kumar and Siddaramaiah had recommended Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to nominate Gowda. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-urges-govt-to-consider-demands-of-guest-lecturers-1067051.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Political tussle over temples in Karnataka||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka has again stirred the hornets' nest in the state by declaring that it will set more than 35,500 temples that come under the Muzarai department free from government regulations. The Opposition, Congress, has said that it will not allow the BJP to enact such a law. State Congress President DK Shivakumar stated that a decision will be taken on this matter on January 4, after holding a meeting of its senior leaders. The BJP's announcement came during the recent state executive committee meeting in Hubballi right after the Muzarai department took the decision of getting the temples audited. Successive Congress governments and the secular leaders have not dared to touch upon the subject of bringing transparency in temple managements and holding powerful temple authorities responsible for accounts. Even the Siddaramaiah government, branded as anti-Hindu, did not address the issue. The recent decision of freeing temples from government control by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has surprised many. The declaration has kicked off a debate in the state. Congress' Shivakumar has charged that the decision on temples will be a historical blunder. He said that the decision is a conspiracy to hand over the temples to the RSS and BJP leaders. Chakravarthy Sulibele, the founder of Yuva Brigade, told IANS that the BJP has taken a good and wise decision to hand over the temples' managements to the Hindu community. The concept of 'taking control' originated during the time of the Mughals and the Britishers. The Britishers, being an occupying force, even brought legislation such as the 'Endowment Acts' to take control of Hindu temples, he said. "When the government is managing the affairs, there is room for suspicion. Temple administrators take decisions at their convenience rather than the devotees' convenience. Wherever there is less money in the collection boxes before temples, they neglect them totally," he opined. "The administrators will break all traditions when there is a VIP or minister's visit to the temple. In the temples where there is private management, such things are not encouraged. Here, they go against all the traditions to please ministers and block devotees. The total administration should go to community members," he said. However, Shivakumar questioned how temples that come under the Muzarai department be given to community members for administration. He said that it is the wealth of the government, and that collections are in crores at these temples. Actor and Tamil Nadu BJP leader Khushboo Sundar has praised the Karnataka BJP government for taking a stand to free the temples from the control of the government authorities. "It is an extremely important decision as every other religious institution is free, except temples," she said. Chief Minister Bommai stated that Hindu temples have suffered a lot under the control of state authorities and bureaucrats. Several rules and by-laws are detrimental to the development of temples. The new bill will be brought before the cabinet before the budget session. The temple authorities will be under the regulation of the government, but they will be able to utilise their funds for the development of temples without having to wait for the nod of the government, he maintained. After the attacks by Shivakumar, Bommai has stated that "we are not handing over the temples to anyone. The temples are being freed from the regulations of the government. Shivakumar's opinion is against the Hindu temples and Hindu devotees." Siddalnga Prabhu, member of the Rajya Dharmika Parishat, told IANS that it is a good decision, but that the disadvantages are more if one considers the pros and cons of the decision. Presently, deputy commissioners and administrators discuss the issues and there is accountability from the temples, he said. "The temples have properties and we have seen disputes and attempts to take away the land belonging to temples. Giving independence to 'A' and 'B' grade temples is okay as they have a good source of income. But, what about 'C' grade temples," he said. Sources in the Muzarai department told IANS that the matter is yet to be discussed with the ministry. The fears expressed are about the temple money being taken by the government for other purposes. However, the income of temples will be deposited in bank accounts of the temples and it will be utilised for their development. The Muzarai department will take 10 per cent of the income and utilise it for the repair and renovation of 'C' grade temples. Since this is the case, there is no scope for freeing the temples, a senior official in the Muzarai department said. Whenever a structure is registered as a mosque and prayer hall, it comes under the Karnataka State Wakf Board, which is a government body. There is a misconception and the government has to give more clarity on the issue, the official stated. The efforts by the Muzarai department to streamline the system at the famous Kukke Subramanya temple in Dakshina Kannada district is well appreciated by the devotees, the official said. There are 1.80 lakh temples in Karnataka, among which 35,500 temples come under the Muzarai department. As per the records of the Muzarai department, there are 207 'A' grade temples that get an annual income of more than Rs 25 lakh, 139 'B' grade temples that have an income between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 24.99 lakh. These 'A' and 'B' grade temples are required to submit accounts annually, as mandated by the law. Only four temples in the state i.e. Chamundeshwari temple of Mysuru, Yediyur Siddalingeshwara temple, Ghati Subramanya temple and Banashankari temple of Bengaluru are submitting audit reports every year. Barring these temples, cash-rich temples and the managements of those temples having huge incomes through commercial activities and commercial complexes have not submitted accounts. At a time when temple accountability is being sought and powerful temple managements are warned of legal action, the announcement by CM Bommai has raised many questions. With the Opposition Congress' declaration that it won't let it happen — after the Anti-conversion Bill and the ban on cow slaughter — the stage is all set for a 'temple dangal' in the state in the coming days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/political-tussle-over-temples-in-karnataka-1067139.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 1,187 new Covid cases, 923 in Bengaluru||Continuing the rising trend of Covid-19 cases for the second day, Karnataka recorded 1,187 fresh infections and six deaths taking the cumulative cases and fatalities in the state to 30,09,557 and 38,346 respectively, the health department said on Sunday. The department said in its bulletin that 275 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,60,890 while the total active cases stood at 10,292. The spike in cases was driven by Bengaluru Urban, which contributed 923 infections and three deaths. Other districts too registered fresh cases, including 63 in Dakshina Kannada, 54 in Udupi, 20 in Mysuru, 12 each in Belagavi, Tumakuru and Kodagu and 10 in Mandya. Besides the toll in Bengaluru, one death each was reported in Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada districts. There were zero fatalities in 27 districts of the state, including eight districts, which saw zero infections as well. The state's positivity rate for the day was 1.08 per cent and the case fatality rate was 0.5 per cent. A total of 1,08,911 samples were tested in the state, including 91,003 RT-PCR tests, on Sunday that took the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 5.66 crore. There were 19,729 inoculations done taking the total number of vaccinations so far to 8.64 crore, the health department said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-1187-new-covid-cases-923-in-bengaluru-1067255.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Stricter rules for those travelling to Karnataka from Maharashtra||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there was a need for tougher rules for travellers from Maharashtra. Speaking to reporters after holding a review meeting, he said that the checkposts on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border in Belagavi and Vijayapura will check full (two-dose) vaccination and negative RT PCR certificate. "In the last one week, Covid cases are increasing across the country, especially so in Maharashtra. As interaction between people of Karnataka and Mumbai is very high, we have instructed for restrictions. This may cause inconvenience to commuters but their cooperation is necessary," he added. Asked about the partial lockdown restrictions in West Bengal and other states, he said the government's decision will be based on the evolving situation. "A decision will be taken in the next two days," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stricter-rules-for-those-travelling-to-karnataka-from-maharashtra-1067272.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gears up for vaccinating children in 15-18 age group from Monday||With rising Covid-19 cases, the Karnataka government has decided to vaccinate 31.75 lakh children when the drive to vaccinate children between the age group of 15 and 18 commences on Monday, the Health Department said. "The State has targeted 31.75 lakh children in the 15-18 age group. On day one, we plan to vaccinate six lakh-and-odd in more than 4,000 sessions," the department said in a statement. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would spearhead the campaign at the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Higher Primary and Pre-University College at Bairaveshwara Nagara in Moodalapalya in Bengaluru, the department said. It added that Bommai's Cabinet colleagues, who are district-in-charge Ministers, would launch the campaign in their respective districts. All districts have geared up with micro-plan, logistics and staff with an existing stock of 16 lakh doses of Covaxin, the statement read. Schools and colleges would be the centres of vaccination, the department said. Children who miss their vaccination on session days at schools or colleges would be directed to the nearby health centres for the shots. Also, vaccination for children with any co-morbidities would be carried out in the health facility under the supervision of a Medical Officer. The schools conducting online classes can fix a day for vaccination and children have to be called on that particular day to get the dose. Regarding the dropouts, the department said they would be mobilised to visit government hospitals with the support of the labour department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj and Urban Development department. The statement said the Central government would dispatch the required Covaxin doses to the State in a day or two. Further, the department said the In-App Purchase (IAP) and private paediatricians have been asked to support this vaccination drive for children and help in allaying anxiety and apprehension. Monitoring and supervision of the entire campaign would be done by the district and Taluk-level officers of health and education departments to ensure quality implementation. The department has directed the district authorities to create awareness on vaccination for children and address hesitancy or other issues which may be prevalent among parents. The vaccine would be available free of cost at all the government Covid-19 vaccination centres. The children can download their vaccination certificate from Co-WIN portal, the statement read. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gears-up-for-vaccinating-children-in-15-18-age-group-from-monday-1067277.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu: Siddaramaiah dares Karjol to release documents on Congress stand||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, on Sunday, challenged Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol to release documents related to the party’s (Congress’) stand over the Mekedatu project. He was speaking at a programme organised by the Congress to create awareness on the padayatra related to Mekedatu project. Siddaramaiah said, “There was a Congress government earlier. Later, a coalition government came to power. Nothing was done during that period. Now, the Congress party has planned to take out a padayatra seeking speedy implementation of the project. But, Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol has claimed that it is a gimmick. The minster says he has important documents related to the project and that he will release them. Let him release the documents, if any. The people will know about it”, he said.  The comprehensive report on the project was submitted to the union government in 2018. But, the BJP government was not able to get approval for the project even after two and a half years in power, Siddaramaiah said. The union ministry of environment and forests has to give permission for the project. “As it is a drinking water project there will not be any opposition. The Supreme Court has refused to grant an injunction on the application filed by Tamil Nadu questioning the project,” he said. Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project for political reasons. The union government is not approving the project, to favour the neighbouring state. “The BJP men too have started talking in TN’s favour. Tamil Nadu BJP president Annamalai has been staging protests against the Mekedatu project. The BJP Tamil Nadu incharge C T Ravi (former Karnataka minister) too is in favour of that state. That is the reason for the delay in the project,” Siddaramaiah said. The leader of the Opposition called upon the party workers to get ready for the election right away. Comparing BJP to demons, he said, “Demons drinking blood of humans are in the Assembly. Get ready to drive them away”. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-siddaramaiah-dares-karjol-to-release-documents-on-congress-stand-1067344.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu padayatra a political stunt: CM Bommai||Ridiculing the remarks of Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramiah that the BJP is stalling the Mekadatu project to protect the interest of Annamalai, the BJP state president of Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that his government was committed to implement the project.  Speaking to media persons in Dharwad on Sunday, Bommai said, "Padayatra for Mekadatu is a political gimmick, and there is no need for his government to reply to the baseless allegations made by Congress leaders," he said. "Ours is a decision-taking government, and hence there is no need to learn any lesson from Siddaramaiah, Bommai said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-padayatra-a-political-stunt-cm-bommai-1067346.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Key meeting of Karnataka BJP leaders from January 7-9||A key meeting of state BJP leaders and Cabinet ministers will be held from January 7 to 9, to discuss several issues of the government and party, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said on Sunday. He was speaking to reporters in the city. Ravi kept the suspense going on who would lead the party in the next Assembly elections, saying that the central leadership would decide it either before or after the elections in 2023. “The parliamentary committee of the party will take a decision. It can happen prior to the elections or after it. Right now, we will only talk about the achievement of the governments of (former CM) B S Yediyurappa and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai,” he said. Ravi said that the meeting from January 7 to 9 would discuss a lot of issues, including the performance of the party in the various elections held recently. To a question on Cabinet reshuffle, he said everyone has to perform the role mandated by the party leadership.  Commenting on the Mekedatu padayatra planned by the Congress, Ravi said that the exercise had brought to the fore the divisions within the state Congress leadership. “They are under the illusion that they can use this movement to assume power in the state,” he said. On the proposed legislation by Bommai to free temples from government control, Ravi said that he welcomed the decision. “Temples belong to the society. I welcome the CM’s decision to return it to the society,” Ravi said.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/key-meeting-of-karnataka-bjp-leaders-from-january-7-9-1067348.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Andhra Pradesh objects to national project status for Upper Bhadra||Andhra Pradesh has objected to Karnataka's proposal seeking National Project status to the Upper Bhadra Project (UBP), Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol has said. "In the high-level committee meeting held on December 6, the Centre had allowed Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to express their opinions on the proposal. Andhra Pradesh government has raised objection to the project," Karjol said. He was speaking to reporters in Chitradurga on Sunday, after reviewing the progress of Upper Bhadra Project. However, the minister said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had discussed the proposal seeking National Project status for UBP with Jalshakti ministry and it will come up before the Union Cabinet next week. He expressed confidence that UBP will be declared a National Project. Karjol said that Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had been utilizing the waters of Karnataka rivers. "They have drawn several plans without seeking consent. The law experts of Karnataka are preparing objections in this regard," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/andhra-pradesh-objects-to-national-project-status-for-upper-bhadra-1067350.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Demand for NREGA jobs surge for second consecutive year||The demand for employment under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) has witnessed a growing trend, as the number of man-days created under the scheme almost doubled since 2017-18. Job crunch caused by the pandemic-induced economic crisis has forced many to resort to the scheme. During the current fiscal alone 10.68 lakh people were included in the scheme - which was one-sixth of the 58.96 lakh beneficiaries under NREGA in the state. According to data, 13.14 crore man-days was generated in the first nine months of the 2021-22 fiscal, which was higher than the 13-crore target set for the state for the entire fiscal. A similar trend was observed last year, over a surge in demand for jobs in rural areas.   According to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, employment generated was higher than the man-days allotted for Karnataka as more people continued to seek work under the scheme. “Though we had exhausted the man-days allocated to the state for the fiscal, it was increased by 1.4 crore man-days by the Centre due to high demand,” Eshwarappa said, noting that Karnataka had petitioned for more days under the scheme. The Centre has also assured to allocate more funds and man-days if need be, he said. Data shows that while Karnataka generated 11.18 crore man-days in 2019-20, it was 14.82 crore in 2020-21. The increase in demand for the employment scheme was largely due to reverse migration to villages during the Covid waves over the last two years. The number of works taken up using NREGA also saw a marked increase from 3.36 lakh works in 2019-20 to 4.03 lakh in 2020-21. During the current fiscal, the number of works taken up till date is 3.87 lakh with three months still left during the year. New job cards Demand for new job cards continued for the second consecutive year and 4.45 lakh new job cards were distributed this year. These job cards ensured employment to 10.68 lakh people of the state, according to data. Currently, 31.45 lakh families consisting of 58.96 lakh working members are dependent on the scheme. Of them, 29.15 lakh were women, 4.83 lakh senior citizens and around 22,000 specially abled persons. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/demand-for-nrega-jobs-surge-for-second-consecutive-year-1067351.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid cases jump 130% in Karnataka over one week||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka jumped by 130 per cent in the course of last week, data from the government shows. Two weeks ago, the state had recorded 2,160 cases. However, between December 27 and 2 January, the state recorded 4,970 cases, out of which 76 per cent originated from Bengaluru Urban. The high cases, bolstered by the revelation of 1,187 new cases on Sunday, elevated the state’s active caseload to 10,292, amid 257 discharges. The overall case numbers rose this past week even though the state has only marginally increased its testing - 6.99 lakh tests as opposed to 6.74 lakh tests two weeks ago. However, government sources said starting Monday, the state will not only increase the number of daily tests to be done, but will introduce more stringent restrictions, such as stricter adherence to mask wearing and social distancing.  “Even though a night curfew was instituted, there were substantial gatherings of people between December 25 and January 1 during day hours, which may have triggered many of the cases we are seeing now,” said Dr P G Girish, director, directorate of medical education.  He said additional steps are now required to bring the numbers under control. The highest case numbers noted on Sunday were 923 in Bengaluru Urban (the highest such numbers since June 23, when 958 cases were recorded), followed by 63 cases in Dakshina Kannada, 54 in Udupi district and 20 in Mysuru district.  The state also disclosed six new fatalities, three of which were backlog deaths from September and April. The deceased ranged in age from 55 to 74. The most recent was a 55-year-old man from Dakshina Kannada, who perished at a government hospital on January 1, within a day of being diagnosed with the disease. He had symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), but no recorded comorbidities.  Child cases Meanwhile, the state recorded 120 cases of pre-teens (0-9) infected with the novel coronavirus between December 26 and January 1, plus 539 cases of teen infections (10-19). These numbers are higher than the 70 pre-teen and the 377 teen cases recorded two weeks before. However, even though cases have risen, the numbers do not represent a proportional increase of child cases in comparison to adult cases. Vaccinations The state administered 18.26 lakh doses this week, which is less than the 18.97 lakh doses administered the week before. About 15 per cent of this week’s doses were first doses, while 85 per cent were second doses. The vaccinations bring the state’s first dose coverage to 97.45 per cent and second dose coverage to 79.28 per cent.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-cases-jump-130-in-karnataka-over-one-week-1067356.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sets jumbo Covid vaccine target of 6 lakh teens on Day 1||With the launch of vaccinations for children aged 15 to 17 set to start on Monday, the state said it is aiming to vaccinate six lakh-odd children in over 4,000 sessions on the first day. As per the state’s own assessment, it has 31.75 lakh beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group. “With existing stocks of 16 lakh doses of Covaxin, all districts have geared up with a micro plan, logistics, staff, etc,” said a statement from the department of Health and Family Welfare. The second dose is to be administered 28 days later. “Schools and colleges will be vaccination centres and they will provide support staff and space for vaccination,” the statement said. All districts have planned for separate launches by district in-charge ministers and MLAs will launch the drive at the taluk level. Deputy commissioners have conducted preliminary meetings with the health and education departments for coordination and implementation. In Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will kick-off the programme at the BBMP higher primary and pre-university college, Bhairaveshwara Nagar and Moodalapalya at 9.30 am. Several private hospitals in Bengaluru have said that they will be providing Covaxin at Rs 1,410 per dose to children. Rujath Khan, procurement head and head of vaccination drive, Ovum Hospitals, said 60 online bookings have been made already. Three branches of Rainbow Hospital plan to provide over 1,200 vaccine dosesevery day and cover over 250 schools and 600 apartment complexes for on-site vaccinations. The government said children who miss their vaccination on scheduled days at schools or colleges will be directed to nearby health centres for the jabs. Vaccinations for children with comorbidities will be done under supervision. “Schools which are conducting online classes can fix a day for vaccination and children have to be called on that particular day to avail the vaccine dose,” the government said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sets-jumbo-covid-vaccine-target-of-6-lakh-teens-on-day-1-1067358.html
02-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Konkani activist Basti Vaman Shenoy passes away||Basti Vaman Shenoy, Konkani activist and founder of World Konkani Centre at Shaktinagar in Mangaluru, passed away due to age-related illness on Sunday. He was 87. The mortal remains will be kept at World Konkani Centre for public viewing between 9 am and 10 am on Monday. The body will be cremated at his birth place in Bantwal at 12 noon. Shenoy was involved with the Konkani Bhasha Mandal since 1980. He was made the organising secretary of the Konkani jatha movement for mobilising people for Konkani Academy. In 1993, he became the president of Konkani Bhasha Mandal-Karnataka. He had played a vital role in pressuring the government for the setting up of Konkani Academy. Shenoy organised the first World Konkani convention in Mangaluru in 1995. He was honoured with ‘Vishwa Konkani Sardar’ title. The convention gave a mandate to establish the World Konkani Centre in Mangaluru, for the preservation and promotion of Konkani language, art and culture. In 1997, Shenoy became the president of Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy and served for two terms till 2001. He initiated efforts to introduce Konkani in schools as the optional third language. The World Konkani Kendra was inaugurated in 2009 which consists of a library, a museum and convention facilities such as board room, seminar hall and auditorium.  Karnataka government had conferred Rajyotsava award on Shenoy in 2010. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/konkani-activist-basti-vaman-shenoy-passes-away-1067359.html
02-01-2022||West||Mumbai to soon get twin posts for bird watching||Mumbai's western suburbs will soon get twin bird-watching towers, the first of their kind, to observe Flamingos and other migratory birds that visit the island city. The project is an initiative of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and would be located in the Swatantryaveer Savarkar Udyan. The observation posts would be situated just by the Chincholi creek. The construction is expected to start as early as January 26.  “It is a unique project and would take people close to nature,” said BMC corporator Deepak Thakur. “These would be twin towers. The height would be around 6 m and would have a platform of 4.5 x 4.5 m,” he added. People can carry binoculars and spotting scopes on the tower and enjoy nature. According to Thakur, experts and ornithologists have been consulted in designing the project. "It will become a major pillar of nature education for kids in Mumbai," he said, adding that though Mumbai is a busy city with big buildings, it has several green pockets or lungs rich in flora and fauna. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-soon-get-twin-posts-for-bird-watching-1067088.html
02-01-2022||West||'Bulli Bai' case: Maharashtra minister orders immediate action||Taking serious cognisance of misogyny and communal hatred towards Muslim women on Twitter, Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and Information & Technology Satej Patil has ordered immediate and strict action against the perpetrators of the 'Bulli bai' app case. Certain Twitter accounts were 'auctioning' hundreds of Muslim women online after their pictures were uploaded on an app called 'Bulli Bai' using hosting platform GitHub with objectionable hashtags like #BulliBai and #SulliDeals. Mumbai police initiated an inquiry and filed an FIR on Saturday. Patil directed the Mumbai and Maharashtra police to take immediate action. "Digital platforms like these are rife with misogyny and communal hatred aimed at women. This is very disturbing and shameful. Maharashtra Govt. is taking strong actions against such platforms. I have instructed @MahaCyber1 for the same @ they are on it,” Patil tweeted in response on Saturday. The posts angered the Twitterati, and calls for immediate action grew louder. Patil posted an update later in the day saying that an enquiry had already begun and culprits will be brought to justice soon. He also appealed to people to come forward and give information regarding such platforms. “If there’s any more info in this regard, pls feel free to share it with Maharashtra Cyber Police and Mumbai Cyber Cell,” he tweeted. A woman (identity withheld) whose photo was put up online with the offensive hashtag took to Twitter to express her disappointment that Muslim women have to start their new year "with this sense of fear & disgust". "Of course it goes without saying that I am not only one being targeted in this new version of #sullideals. Screenshots sent by a friend this morning,” she tweeted. “They’ve at least 100 influential Indian Muslim womens pics. This was the twitter handle who’d tweeted about it @wannabesigmaf. Have archive links and screenshots of deleted tweets. It’s easier for Twitter to find who’s behind. Can someone file a complaint in @MumbaiPolice?” said another Twitter user. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi demanded stern action against the culprits. “First they came using #SulliDeals, now as #BulliDeals, expect cooperation from @TwitterIndia, as some accounts have been flagged, will help reach the perpetrators sooner, @GoI MeitY @HMOIndia… Considering @CPMumbaiPolice has taken this issue up seriously, expect @TwitterIndia to cooperate and provide them with information needed. Stonewalling the investigation citing intermediary safe harbour will not be helpful to ensure justice is served @shaguftakamran2 @PayalKamat.” This is not the first time Muslim women have been targeted on Twitter. Previously, many women were reportedly ‘auctioned’ on Twitter by anonymous accounts, but no action was taken against them despite FIR filed with Delhi Police. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bulli-bai-case-maharashtra-minister-orders-immediate-action-1067089.html
02-01-2022||West||Mumbai to host India's first water taxi service||The financial capital of Mumbai is set to get a new transportation solution with the commissioning of state-of-the-art water taxi services. The services would be formally launched in January by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the exact dates are being finalised. The project is a joint initiative of Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT), City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB).  Infinity Harbour Services LLP and West Coast Marine will be the two service operators.  From Mumbai, the two points for the services would be the International Cruise Terminal at Ballard Pier and Domestic Cruise Terminal (DCT) at Ferry Wharf. The government is working on various routes from DCT to Nerul, Belapur, Vashi, Airoli, Rewas, Karanja, Dharamtar, Kanhoji Angre Island and Thane. Another route is from ICT to  Elephanta Island, which is a tourist spot and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This will also provide an alternative mode of travel for commuters moving between Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, besides road and rail. The water taxis will take about 30 minutes to complete a single journey, which will significantly lower the commute time between Mumbai and its satellite township. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-host-indias-first-water-taxi-service-1067105.html
02-01-2022||West||Boat ambulances ferry Covid jabs to remote tribal villages in Maharashtra||One cool, lazy weekend afternoon, a tribal boy Vijay Tadavi was busy in a hilly forest, collecting fallen tree branches or twigs for firewood at his tiny dwelling, with the mighty Narmada river quietly flowing more than a kilometre below. Suddenly, he heard the chug of a boat engine and a few minutes later saw the familiar white 'floating ambulance' moving towards his small hamlet, so he picked up his load and headed back home. As the boat moored at a safe spot, several villagers also hurried down to greet and cheer a medical team and quickly queued up to get their life-saver Covid-19 vaccination jabs, fresh out of an iced vaccine pack with 10 vials, each with 10 doses. This is a cruise with a difference on the Narmada river that helps protect and save the lives of thousands -- living in out-of-bounds villages or tribal hamlets near its banks -- from the scourge of the Covid-19 pandemic. The unique service is carried out by dedicated 'Boat Ambulances' in Nandurbar tribal district through which the Narmada flows around 110 km, including 35 km along the Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra boundary. "This region is very remote, undeveloped owing to thick forests and owing to hilly terrain lacks even basic (kuchcha) roads in most parts. It can take hours or days for people to reach the nearest Primary Health Centre. So, we decided to deploy the Boat Ambulances for their medicare and now also for vaccination," Nandurbar District Health Officer Dr Mahendra Chavan told IANS. It was nearly four years ago when one boat ambulance and 3 floating ambulances were launched to deliver medicare to the thousands of tribals living in small villages and tiny hamlets on both banks of the river. However, in early October, the District Health and Education Committee Chairperson Dr Ajit Naik suggested utilising them for an additional purpose -- to send fully equipped medical teams and conduct Covid-19 vaccination for the people, virtually at their doorsteps, on specific routes. The move was a roaring hit, and in the past nearly 100 days around 10,000 eligible people have got their first jabs, in some 35 villages and 70 hamlets, and more are being covered daily. As the government gradually approves inoculating people below 18 years, besides the due second doses and possibly booster jabs, the 'vaccination cruises' up and down the Narmada river will continue for long, say officials. "The boat ambulance has a capacity of up to 15 and the floating ambulances can accommodate around 50 persons There is an OPD, separate quarters for the male/female staffers, a kitchen, toilets, etc. on board, with doctors like Dr Shivaji Pawar, Dr Bhagwan Khedkar, Dr Anil Patil, Dr Girish Rathod, guiding their teams," Dr Chavan said. "There are also nurses, drivers, boatmen, helpers and loaders who sail on these expeditions lasting between 12-18 hours depending on the route, but at times, they stop at some location and stay in the boat for 2-3 days due to heavy workload," Nandurbar Zilla Parishad Vice-President and Shiv Sena leader Ram Raghuvanshi, told IANS. Though encountering resistance and reluctance initially, with gentle counselling by the medicos and special awareness drives, the deprived people slowly accepted the vaccination process. There were times when a tiny group of villagers brought a couple of senior citizens on cots and hauled them back, grateful and smiling, and on some occasions, the medical team stopped a boat with a few people midway in the river and gave them quick jabs, not missing a single opportunity even in the water! At times, surprises were in store with the locals bringing food or fruits for the medicos, but on some lean days the medical teams kill hours, chit-chat, struggle on their mobiles with poor network, before even a handful of persons step out for their jabs. "Fortunately, the vax drive has passed off very smoothly, without any untoward incidents like crocodile attacks, snake bites or scorpion stings, breakdown of any boatsetc," smiled Chavan. After the Maharashtra government launched vaccine delivery by drones last month (IANS - Dec. 17), Additional Chief Secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has indicated that Nandurbar was next for the aerial delivery of vials soon, offering another avenue to reach the people in the back of beyond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/boat-ambulances-ferry-covid-jabs-to-remote-tribal-villages-in-maharashtra-1067137.html
02-01-2022||West||If Uddhav is taking time to recover, give charge of Maharashtra CM to Eknath Shinde: Union Minister||The charge of Maharashtra chief minister should be given to state urban development minister and senior Shiv Sainik Eknath Shinde if incumbent Uddhav Thackeray is taking time to recuperate post-surgery, Union minister Raosaheb Danve said on Sunday. The CM had undergone cervical spine surgery on November 12 and was discharged from hospital on December 2, and he had also missed the winter session of the state legislature between December 22 and 28. Speaking to reporters at Aurangabad railway station after traveling on board a newly-commissioned Jalna-Pune train service, Danve said Shinde is a capable minister. "I am not trying to create trouble in the Sena. I'm just saying if it is taking time for Uddhav Thackeray to recover, then he should hand over the charge of CM to Shinde," the Union minister of state for railways and BJP Lok Sabha MP said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/if-uddhav-is-taking-time-to-recover-give-charge-of-maharashtra-cm-to-eknath-shinde-union-minister-1067182.html
02-01-2022||West||Maharashtra: Union MoS flags off Kisan Rail service, Nanded-Hadapsar express||Union Minister of State Raosaheb Danve on Sunday flagged off a Kisan Rail service from Jalna as well as the Nanded-Hadapsar express with new coaches and revised timings. The Kisan Rail service will help the farming community in Maharashtra's Marathwada region get more markets, the MoS for railways said during the event. He said a survey for track doubling work of the Manmad-Aurangabad route has been taken up, while the doubling of the Aurangabad-Jalna stretch will be looked into in the second phase. A pit line for maintenance and cleaning of trains in Jalna at a cost of Rs 100 crore is being considered, he added. South Central Ralway additional general manager AK Jain several projects are on the anvil to improve rail infrastructure in Marathwada region, with the focus being on freight and parcel transportation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-union-mos-flags-off-kisan-rail-service-nanded-hadapsar-express-1067217.html
02-01-2022||West||TMC-MGP alliance promises credit facility up to Rs 20 lakh sans collateral for Goan youths ahead of polls||The Trinamool Congress has launched a ‘credit card’ in Goa, that promises youth up to Rs 20 lakh if the party comes to power. Last month, the party had promised women in the state a direct transfer of Rs 5,000 per month into their accounts through its ‘Griha Laxmi’ card. Titled ‘Yuva Shakti Card’, the scheme promises a ‘collateral-free credit’ of up to Rs 20 lakh, and was launched on Sunday in the presence of leaders that form ‘Navya Goeank Navi Yuti’ alliance, comprising the Trinamool-Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) leaders in Goa. “Under the Navya Goeank Navi Yuti alliance, Goa government will implement this scheme that will help all the youth in need of funds. The government will take it upon itself to provide the required security collaterals for this credit facility and tie up with a financial institution for the same,” a Trinamool release quoted former Goa deputy CM Sudin Dhavalikar as saying. The credit scheme is projected as a “tool that will empower the youth”. It’s being claimed that the scheme will offer “a collateral-free, universal credit assistance facility”.  The Trinamool in Goa claims that the card will help Goan youth mobilise funds for higher education, skill development, professional training, in startups, or for expanding businesses. “With schemes like this, the TMC-MGP alliance is resolved to work together with the youth to usher in a ‘New Dawn’ in Goa,” the party has claimed. In December, the Trinamool had announced a direct-transfer scheme for women. Named the ‘Griha Laxmi’ card, Trinamool promised Rs 5,000 per month, an assured monthly income support.  Trinamool’s proposed financial sops are being played down as a gimmick by other parties in the state. Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai claimed that the Trinamool is taking things too far. “How a Goan voter will believe this gimmick when there’s nothing on the horizon that Trinamool can form a government? How can a party which has not set its base, can have a card? It’s a credit card for 20 lakh rupees and the guarantor is supposed to be the state. It’s just a piece of paper. I find it to be a gimmick that will not have currency among people,” Sardesai told DH. The Goa BJP, on its social platforms, posted, “Congratulations to the advertising agency which is contesting elections in Goa for rebranding another scheme launched by BJP in Goa. The Chief Minister Rozgar Yojana in Goa provides project finance of upto 25 Lakhs with interest rate as low as 3%.” Goa BJP president Sadanand M Shet Tanavade termed the Trinamool proposal an ‘eyewash’. “They can fool people elsewhere, not in Goa. This is an eyewash. We already have a scheme,” he told DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-mgp-alliance-promises-credit-facility-up-to-rs-20-lakh-sans-collateral-for-goan-youths-ahead-of-polls-1067230.html
02-01-2022||West||Maharashtra reports more than 11,000 new Covid cases including 50 Omicron infections||The Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra shot up rapidly crossing the 24-hour tally past 10,000 even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi ruled out a lockdown at this stage.  Mumbai’s per day tally too shot past the 8,000-mark.  During the last 24 hours, the state recorded 11,877 cases and 9 deaths taking the progressive total to 66,99,868 and 1,41,542, respectively.  The total active Covid-19 cases now stand at 42,024, according to the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department. During the day, 50 new Omicron cases were detected taking the progressive total to 510. Meanwhile, state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope clarified that the government was not looking out at a lockdown at this stage. “There is no need for a lockdown as of now, but there would be more restrictions,  lockdown will be imposed in Maharashtra only if demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tonnes per day,” he said.  Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that the majority of the cases were asymptomatic. “On Sunday, 8,063 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Mumbai out of which 89 % were found to be totally asymptomatic and the total number of active cases in Mumbai are now 29,819.  However, out of 8,063 new cases, only 503 have been hospitalised out of which 56 cases have been put on oxygenated beds.  As of today, 90% of hospital beds in Mumbai are vacant,” Chahal said.  He appealed to all the home quarantined patients to strictly abide by home quarantine guidelines so as to contain the spread of the virus in Mumbai at the earliest possible.  “I also appeal to the citizens at large to strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour.  There is no reason to panic but at the same time, all of us have to be extremely cautious and exercise extreme Covid appropriate behaviour.  Masks are mandatory in the public domain and citizens should refrain from going to crowded places,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-more-than-11000-new-covid-cases-including-50-omicron-infections-1067251.html
02-01-2022||West||Those hiding their identities to trap girls from other communities won't be spared, says Gujarat minister||Some people are hiding their real identities and changing names as part of a conspiracy to lure girls from other communities and police will take strict action against the perpetrators involved, Gujarat minister Harsh Sanghavi said on Sunday. He was speaking during his visit to Bhavnagar district's Palitana town, where police is investigating a case of a man eloping with a girl of a different community. The Gujarat minister of state for home asked parents to take care of their daughters so that they do not fall prey to such acts. "Loving is not wrong. But those who hide their identities, use duplicate documents to trap innocent girls will not be spared, not just in Palitana but anywhere in the state. I am warning all those who are hatching such conspiracies that police will take strict action," Sanghavi told reporters. Incidentally, the BJP government in the state had, in 2021, passed an an amendment to Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act to provide for a prison sentence of up to 10 years for fraudulent or forcible conversion by marriage. The state government had said the amendment sought to curtail an “emerging trend in which women are lured to marriage for the purpose of religious conversion". The Gujarat High Court had, in its interim order, prohibited its application to inter-faith marriages. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/those-hiding-their-identities-to-trap-girls-from-other-communities-wont-be-spared-says-gujarat-minister-1067280.html
02-01-2022||West||Mumbai Cyber department registers FIR against 'Bulli Bai' app developers||Mumbai Cyber police registered an FIR against developers of 'Bulli Bai' app and Twitter handles that promoted this application, an official said on Sunday after photographs of at least 100 influential Muslim women were uploaded for auction on the app triggering widespread outrage. The case was registered on Saturday under sections 354-D (stalking of women), 500 (Punishment for defamation) and other sections of the Information Technology Act, he said. "The West region of Cyber Police registered the FIR against Twitter handle holders and the 'Bulli Bai' app developers hosted on GitHub," the official said. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi on Saturday flagged the 'Bulli Bai' app to Mumbai police as well as Union IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for action, including the arrest of the culprits. Vaishnaw on Sunday tweeted: "Govt. of India is working with police organisations in Delhi and Mumbai on this matter". Mumbai Police had said they have taken cognisance of the matter and that concerned officials have been asked to take action. The uploading of pictures on the 'Bulli Bai' app was similar to the 'Sulli Deals' upload in July last year. The 'Bulli Bai' app worked just the same way as Sulli Deals did. Once opened, a Muslim woman's face was randomly displayed as Bulli Bai. Muslim women with a strong presence on Twitter, including journalists, have been singled out and their photos uploaded. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cyber-department-registers-fir-against-bulli-bai-app-developers-1067281.html
02-01-2022||West||Don't panic, strictly follow Covid-19 norms, says Mumbai civic chief as city logs 8,063 fresh cases||On a day Mumbai reported 8,063 fresh coronavirus positive cases, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Sunday sought to allay apprehensions of citizens, saying that 89 per cent of the infections are asymptomatic and 90 per cent of beds are vacant. He urged people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols. Mask is mandatory in the public domain and citizens should refrain from going to crowded places. All must join hands to tide over this new wave of Covid pandemic, he stressed. “Today 8,063 new Covid cases have been detected in Mumbai out of which 89 per cent were found to be totally asymptomatic and total number of active cases in Mumbai is now 29,819. However, out of 8,063 new cases today, only 503 have been hospitalised out of which 56 cases have been put on oxygenated beds. As of today, 90 per cent of hospital beds in Mumbai are vacant,” Chahal said in a statement. He also appealed to all the home quarantined patients to strictly abide by guidelines to contain the spread of the coronavirus in Mumbai at the earliest. “There is no reason to panic but at the same time all of us have to be extremely cautious and exercise extreme Covid appropriate behaviour,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-panic-strictly-follow-covid-19-norms-says-mumbai-civic-chief-as-city-logs-8063-fresh-cases-1067294.html
02-01-2022||West||Post festive season, Goa's Covid positivity rate touches 10.7% on Sunday||The sizable number of tourists that descended on Goa for the Christmas-New Year festival season may be behind the Covid-19 positivity rate crossing 10 per cent on Sunday, officials said. They said 388 cases were detected on Sunday from 3,604 tests, a positivity rate (cases per 100 test) of 10.7 per cent. The addition during the day took the tally in the coastal state to 1,81,570, while one death increased the toll to 3,523, an official said. So far, 1,76,376 people have been discharged, including 54 on Sunday, leaving the state with an active tally of 1,671, he said. Margao in South Goa leads with 211 active cases, followed by 201 in Panaji, he added. Goa's Covid-19 figures: Positive cases 1,81,182, new cases 310, death toll 3522, discharged 176322, active cases 1338, samples tested till date 16,31,100. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/post-festive-season-goas-covid-positivity-rate-touches-107-on-sunday-1067306.html
