03-01-2022||First Edit||Choking NGOs won’t do any good||The government has in the last few years made it increasingly difficult for non-government organisations (NGOs) to operate in the country and it has consistently made this clear with its statements, policies and actions. The denial of registration for a number of NGOs under the Foreign Currency Regulation Act (FCRA) and rejection of their request for renewal recently was part of that policy. FCRA registration is a mandatory requirement for receiving foreign funds, and the government has used provisions of the law, which were recently made more stringent, to choke these organisations. The country has over 22,000 NGOs with FCRA registrations, and many of them did not apply for renewal of registration. The validity of registrations, set to expire on December 31, was extended till March 31, but 179 NGOs whose registration was rejected after scrutiny and others that did not apply for renewal will cease to exist now.  The government had refused registration for the Kolkata-based Missionaries of Charity, founded by Mother Teresa, recently. Others that lost their registration include Oxfam India, Common Cause, Leprosy Mission and the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Many of these organisations have been doing commendable work in many areas to help and support people, especially poor and destitute people and socially oppressed and underprivileged individuals and communities. The work done by the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata and other parts of the country to help the poor and the homeless, people with special needs, and the sick and the elderly is well-known. It has rendered yeoman service even after the death of Mother Teresa and is doing excellent work in many other countries.  The government has not clearly stated why it refused to renew the registration of the Missionaries of Charity. The Union Home Ministry has said that its decision was based on “adverse reports’’, but has not clarified what these reports are. The working of the charity organisation has remained above board and it has not attracted any adverse financial notice till now. Being a credible and reputed charitable institution, it has received financial contributions from everywhere, including foreign funds. But it has been targeted in the past, obviously for being a Christian organisation in name. The mission has, however, not discriminated against any person in its work and helped needy people of all persuasions. To target such an organisation for adverse actions and to try to choke it is wrong. The vengeful and hostile actions against other organisations are also equally wrong. NGOs work in areas where the government hardly reaches. It is unfortunate that they are not allowed to work. The government’s arguments and actions against them have looked arbitrary and prejudiced, and have not been convincing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/choking-ngos-won-t-do-any-good-1067677.html
03-01-2022||In Perspective||AFSPA: Aberration of democracy||The incidents of December 4-5, leading to the killing of 14 civilians by the armed forces in Nagaland’s Mon have resurrected the debate on the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (AFSPA). The roots of AFSPA can be traced back to the Quit India movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942. Later on, the origin and development of AFSPA is linked to the situations that arose during Partition in certain parts of the country, especially in Bengal, Assam, East Punjab, Delhi and the United Provinces. The Government of India issued ordinances to deal with the internal disturbances in these areas and subsequently the ordinances were replaced by the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958. Initially, AFSPA was made applicable to Assam and Manipur states and later extended to Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland after the formation of these states. In this backdrop, it is imperative to understand the rising demand for the repeal of AFSPA and its actual implications on peace and order in the North-East states. The ongoing discourse has made the following arguments: (i) completely scrap AFSPA, given its colonial roots and human rights violations; (ii) amend AFSPA to make it more humane; (iii) retain AFSPA as a security instrument. The first school of thought is broadly based on the liberal tradition arguing for human rights and individual civil liberties whereas the second argument emanates largely on the basis of judicial pronouncements and the various commissions and committee recommendations. The third argument is situated in the policies of national security. On AFSPA, India’s first Defence Minister Sardar Baldev Singh stated in Parliament, “We have no intention at all to extend the period beyond one year. Some honourable members may have a feeling that perhaps, we will go on extending it beyond one year or even later. I can assure the house that we have absolutely no such desire and it will be extended only if the communal situation does not improve” in December 1947. Union Home Minister Amit Shah stated that the killings are “a case of mistaken identity” and that the “Government of India sincerely regrets this unfortunate incident in Nagaland and expresses its deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives.” The take away lesson from this statement is that the Union government is unwilling to either scrap or amend AFSPA. Successive governments have since 1950 continued to use AFSPA for reasons of electoral politics and politics of insurgency. The end-result of this is that democracy has become the casualty, especially seen from the perspective of the concept of “nation-state” in the North-East states. The fragility of “nation-state” in a diversified and multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society in North-East states is essentially a political problem, and the solutions to the conflicts must evolve from the political domain.  Seen in this context, AFSPA is a democratic aberration as it deviates from the established procedures of rule of law and other principles of democratic governance, especially transparency and accountability. AFSPA denies the citizen’s right and thereby violates Article 21 -- right to life -- of the Constitution. The national security discourse has engulfed the citizen’s constitutional rights, thereby jeopardising the very people’s security for which special laws such as AFSPA were enacted. The porous nature of national borders, the geo-politics of India with its troubled neighbours, and political economy factors are responsible for the retention and continuation of AFSPA by successive ruling dispensations. The incident of Mon district of Nagaland has larger implications on the ongoing peace talks between the Indian State and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM). The question of special privileges to the army under AFSPA is under serious scrutiny as it violates the rule of law, though the Supreme Court has upheld its constitutionality while instituting some checks and balances in the judgement of Extra Judicial Execution Victim Families Association (EEVFAM) Vs. Union of India (2016). AFSPA violates the right to life and the right to equality before the law (Article 14) of the Indian Constitution as well as the right not to be subjected to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, or to deprivation of liberty under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). The AFSPA has no place in a democratic system. The Union government’s claim of having achieved a drastic reduction in the incidents of insurgency in the North-East region seems like a lie in the face of the continuance of AFSPA. The removal of aberrations such as AFSPA from the constitutional scheme of governance will strengthen our democracy. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/afspa-aberration-of-democracy-1067675.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Buses from Maharashtra ferrying passengers without RT-PCR test results denied entry into Karnataka||Buses arriving from Maharashtra without the necessary negative RT-PCR test results of passengers were sent back starting early Monday as the state stepped up its vigil at the state borders following a sharp uptick in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring state. District Police have set up check posts on all roads connecting with Maharashtra and Goa, with health personnel deployed to screen passengers and check their RT-PCR test reports. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi informed that the buses ferrying passengers without RT-PCR test reports were being sent back.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/buses-from-maharashtra-ferrying-passengers-without-rt-pcr-test-results-denied-entry-into-karnataka-1067394.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Prepare blueprint for laying underground power cable in Subramanya: Minister tells Mescom||Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar said that the Energy department is committed to lay underground power cables in the temple town of Subrahmanya. The Minister directed the Mescom MD to prepare a blueprint for the project on laying UG cable at Subrahmanya. Depending on the available funds, all efforts will be made to lay UG power cable, he said after inaugurating development works worth Rs 15 crore initiated through the Mescom at Subrahmanya on Monday. The laying of UG power cables will free the town of live overhead electricity cables. Works worth Rs 1,100 crore will be implemented in the Mescom jurisdiction through Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) of the Central government. The scheme is to improve the quality, reliability and affordability of power supply by increasing the sub stations and other works. Works worth Rs 290 crore will be implemented in Mangaluru. Taking note of the increasing number of complaints over inordinate delays in replacing defunct transformers in rural areas, the Minister said that officials have been directed to fix the problem within 24 hours of receiving complaints. In the last one and a half months, 20,000 defunct transformers have been replaced within 24 hours in the state. Under the Belaku scheme which aimed to power up rural households without requiring a no-objection certificate from the local bodies, the Minister said that 1,700 houses have been provided with electricity out of 2,500 houses without electricity in Dakshina Kannada district. Kumar said: “All houses will be given electricity supply. The government has scrapped the condition of no objection certificate (NOC) from the local bodies concerned before getting an electricity connection. The electricity connections will  be given if the owner has Aadhaar and ration card.” He said 33 kV underground power cable from 33 kV Guttigaru sub station to Subrahmanya sub station has been taken up. “With the cooperation of the consumers, Mescom is not running under losses unlike Hescom and Gescom. The energy department is chalking out projects that will benefit the consumers in the days to come. To overcome the hindrances posed by the forest department for laying power lines, the Minister said that the government has brought in a few amendments to the law pertaining to the forest department to ensure that development works are not affected. MLC Bhoje Gowda urged the Mescom to supply quality electricity to the interior areas where farmers cultivate vegetables from January to April. “Farmers in Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru have been demanding quality electricity in three phases for the pumpsets. The fluctuations in electricity supplied have damaged several irrigation pumpsets. To repair the pumpsets, the farmers have to shell out Rs 6,500 to Rs 7,000.” Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara said that development works should be implemented within a time frame. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prepare-blueprint-for-laying-underground-power-cable-in-subramanya-minister-tells-mescom-1067460.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Three school students from Vijayanagara district positive for Omicron||Three students of a government high school in Hagaribommanahalli tested positive for Omicron variant of Covid-19, Taluk Health Officer Dr Shivaraj said. The school has declared a five-day holiday and the throat and nasal swabs of the students who came in contact with the infected children have been taken for the test, he added. All students of the school were subjected to an RT-PCR test on December 31. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-school-students-from-vijayanagara-district-positive-for-omicron-1067525.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka minister Ashwath Narayan, Congress MP D K Suresh fight at public event in Ramanagara||Karnataka IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Congress’s Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh almost came to blows in full public view at a stage event in Ramanagara on Monday. The incident took place even as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was on stage. The event was organised by the government to unveil the statues of Dr B R Ambedkar and Bengaluru founder Kempegowda. It was Bommai’s first visit to Ramanagara as CM. Things went out of control when Suresh objected to Narayan’s aggressive speech. The Congress MP menacingly charged towards Narayan when security personnel intervened. Suresh was joined by Congress’ Bangalore Rural MLC S Ravi, who even tried to throw the mike to stop Narayan from speaking. Suresh, the lone Congress Lok Sabha MP from Karnataka, sat down on the stage in protest. ಕಾಂಗ್ರೆಸ್ ಸಂಸ್ಕೃತಿ ಎಂದರೆ ಗೂಂಡಾ ಸಂಸ್ಕೃತಿ ಎಂಬುದಕ್ಕೆ ಇದಕ್ಕಿಂತ ಬೇರೆ ಉದಾಹರಣೆ ಬೇರೆ ಬೇಕಿಲ್ಲ. ಒಬ್ಬ ಸಂಸದರಿಗೆ ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿ ಇರುವ ವೇದಿಕೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಹೇಗೆ ವರ್ತಿಸಬೇಕೆಂಬ ಪರಿಜ್ಞಾನವಿಲ್ಲದಿರುವುದು ವಿಪರ್ಯಾಸ. The Vokkaliga-dominated Ramanagara district where the Congress and JD(S) are the main players has been on the BJP’s radar. Narayan, a Vokkaliga, has been trying to help the BJP infiltrate the district and take on Suresh and his brother, KPCC president D K Shivakumar. During his speech, Narayan made veiled attacks on Congress leaders and listed out achievements of the BJP government. “Only getting votes, but doing nothing...that’s not what we’re here to do. We’re here to bring development to the people of Ramanagara. We are not people who’ll lay our hands on someone’s land.” Narayan said. Narayan also flayed sloganeering during the event. “What are you shouting for,” he asked the crowd. “When a chief minister is visiting, are you shouting slogans just to tarnish the reputation of our district? If you are a real man, show what work you have done, instead of forming a gang to disrupt the event,” he said. “We’ll tell you what we’ve done. We’re not here to cheat this district. We’re here to win your confidence and serve.” At this point, Bommai gestured at Narayan to conclude the speech. But, Suresh had had enough. Amid the commotion, Bommai took the mike to assure the crowd that individual egos should not come in the way of respecting Ambedkar and Kempegowda. “I have come here to contribute to development. And, development will happen with everybody’s cooperation and not by one individual,” he said, urging not to mix politics with development. Speaking at the event, Suresh accused Narayan of blocking the establishment of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) in Ramanagara. “If there’s anyone responsible for the delay, it is Narayan who is blocking it,” he said. “If Ramanagara’s silk has become more valuable, it’s not because of the BJP. Despite political differences, we have always worked together in the interest of the people of this district,” he said. Later, Congress workers tore up Narayan’s posters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-minister-ashwath-narayan-congress-mp-d-k-suresh-fight-at-public-event-in-ramanagara-1067484.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Drop Mekedatu padayatra, Somashekar tells Congress||Mysuru in-charge minister S T Somashekar said the Congress party should drop their padayatra demanding the implementation of Mekedatu project. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar said the cases of Covid-19 and Omicron variant are on the rise and Congress leaders must understand the situation. Somashekar, criticising leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, said the leaders are jobless as of now and are thus taking out a padayatra with an eye on the upcoming elections. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/drop-mekedatu-padayatra-somashekar-tells-congress-1067490.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Won't drop Mekedatu padayatra 'at any cost': Congress||The Congress party on Monday clarified that it would take out the proposed padayatra seeking implementation of the Mekedatu drinking project from January 9 at any cost. The 10-day padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru proposes to cover a distance of around 179 kilometre, besides 15 Assembly constituencies. “The BJP government is trying to prevent the padayatra by imposing a lockdown, but we won’t call it off at any cost. We are ready to be imprisoned, but won’t stop the padayatra,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar and the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in a joint press conference here. Shivakumar claimed, “I have been charged with violations of Covid-19 guidelines. Summons are served on me. Violating restrictions, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai attended a wedding ceremony. What action has been initiated against him?”  The party had procured one lakh masks and readied a team of 10 doctors. About 100 doctors would be part of the rally, he said and reiterated, “The party is taking out the padayatra for the benefit of farmers in the region.” PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah held events, violating restrictions. Did participants there wear masks? Siddaramaiah asked. He alleged that the government was delaying the implementation of the project only to strengthen the BJP in Tamil Nadu. “JD (S) leader H D Kumaraswamy is depressed and hence commenting against Congress,” he charged. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar demanded the Congress party to drop the padayatra considering increasing Covid-19 cases. “Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah are jobless now. They are trying to take out the padayatra keeping an eye on next Assembly polls,” he told reporters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wont-drop-mekedatu-padayatra-at-any-cost-congress-1067666.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||What’s your link with Ramanagara? DKS asks Ashwath Narayan||KPCC President D K Shivakumar on Monday sought to know from IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan his link with Ramanagara district. On the argument between the minister and Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh in full public view at a stage event in Ramanagara, Shivakumar asked,”Who is Ashwath Narayan to speak about Ramanagara? He never spoke to us for courtesy at least. What contributions did he make to Ramanagara?” Shivakumar told reporters that JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy elevated Ramanagara as a district headquarters. He got a few buildings constructed. The Congress party developed the district. The BJP neither constructed a building here nor cleaned Vrishabhavathi river.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-s-your-link-with-ramanagara-dks-asks-ashwath-narayan-1067668.html
03-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||C T Ravi dares to Siddarmaiah to debate on Kempanna Commission report||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, on Monday, said the report of the Justice H S Kempanna commission, which probed into the alleged illegal denotification of lands in Arkavathy Layout in Bengaluru, will expose the misdeeds of former chief minister Sidddaramaiah. "The report will tell the truth about how denotification of lands acquired by the Bengaluru Development Authority was done by Siddaramaiah. It will totally expose the corrupt practices of the previous Congress government,” Ravi told reporters here.  Reacting to corruption charges levelled against him by Siddaramaiah, Ravi said, "No corruption case was filed against me on any issue in my life. Let the former chief minister discuss the contents of the report." "I am challenging Siddaramaiah to discuss the contents of the report. Then everybody will know who is corrupt,” Ravi said. However, Ravi evaded a straight answer on why can't the BJP government table the commission report in the Assembly. "Let Siddaramaiah demand this first. Then, the BJP government will respond to it,” he said. The Justice Kempanna commission, which probed the alleged illegal denotification of lands in Arkavathy Layout in Bengaluru by Siddaramaiah, submitted its report to the government in August 2017. The commission was set up by Siddaramaiah after allegations of corruption in denotification of lands were made against the then Congress government. However, the report and the action taken report have not been tabled in the legislature so far.  A public interest litigation was filed in the Karnataka High Court, seeking directions to table the report in the legislature. The court had issued notice to the government, seeking its reply. Earlier in the day, Siddaramaiah alleged that Ravi had accumulated lot of ill-gotten wealth. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/c-t-ravi-dares-to-siddarmaiah-to-debate-on-kempanna-commission-report-1067669.html
03-01-2022||Main Article||Kashi corridor: Highway of faith or narrow lane of communal politics?||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the grand corridor to the Kashi Viswanath temple on December 13, nostalgic memories swept over me. The earliest, from my childhood in the mid-1950s, is of an enterprising Vadyar — a Sri Vaishnava priest — who organised an annual pilgrimage tour by hiring a bus, complete with provisions, cooks and utensils, to visit the holiest of the holy temples of India, from Tirupati to Kashi and Badrinath in the Himalayas. He arranged night halts in Dharmshalas, was fluent in Sanskrit and Hindi, knew the rules of these temples, was well-versed in the Puranas and scriptures and enthralled the pilgrims with legends and lore associated with the deities and the mythic rivers over the 45 days of the tour. The Kashi Viswanath darshan and Ganga ‘snan’ were the high point of the tour. It dawned on me very early the inscrutable hold it had and the centrality of Kashi and Ganga on the lives, sentiments and imagination of Hindus, especially his perennial stream of Brahmin pilgrims.  Later, in my 20s, when I first boarded an Indian Airlines flight, the notes of Shehnai that wafted through the plane as I entered the cabin captivated me, and it has remained a haunting melody since. And that lilting soul-seeping tune by Ustaad Bismillah Khan is, to me, inextricably linked to the Kashi Viswanath temple. The words of the Ustaad, a devout Muslim who said that his music was a gift from Lord Vishwanath, still resonate in my mind.  The third imagery associated with the Ganga is from the heart-stirring song of Ganga beheti hi kyon by Bhupen Hazarika. Bhupen laments, “On your mighty banks, that are home to countless people, despite hearing their anguished cries, O Ganga, how do you — how can you — flow so meekly, silently and unmindfully.” He beseeches: “Morality is destroyed and humanity is corrupted, yet shamelessly, why do you flow? ...O stream of Ganga, yet why do you not turn weak into strong warriors? O Ganga, why do you keep silent?” The song was poignant, and made you wonder, what was the point of all this worship, this ‘holy dip’, this seeking of personal salvation, if it did not cleanse and uplift our society and polity collectively. The glittering inauguration of the Kashi corridor by Modi elicited responses from many quarters on expected lines. Those from the BJP were mesmerised by the grandeur of the ceremony. The believing Hindus were moved to tears of ecstasy by the Vedic chants from the high priests. The intellectuals felt it was gross theatrical extravaganza and the height of narcissism of one man who turned the deeply pious ceremony into a marketing event, divesting it of its religious significance. Politicians were stunned by the sheer audacity of the Prime Minister, who strode through as if he were an emperor. They accused him of using religion for politics with an eye on the forthcoming UP elections.  Some asked if he should not have made the occasion a national event by inviting the opposition parties and the heads of all religions, thereby mirroring to the world the all-embracing ethos of Hinduism. Was that not the resounding message of Swami Vivekananda when he addressed the Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, where he said, “I am proud to belong to a religion that has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance...We accept all religions as true. I am proud to belong to a nation which has sheltered the persecuted and the refugees of all religions and all nations of the earth.”   By turning the ceremonials into a Hindu hegemonic celebration, did it diminish a great religion and its universal appeal, which has drawn people from around the world over millennia for its spirit of enquiry, its quest for truth, that sees the Creator in everything, into a parochial revelry?  Power is the mistress of all politicians. Opposition politicians wear secularism on their sleeves, BJP politicians wear Hindutva on their robes, one to appease the minorities, the other to appease the majority community, to gain power. How are they any different? When BJP paints the Opposition as ‘anti-Hindu’, they panic and start visiting Hindu temples or reciting holy chants to stop alienating Hindus. They are falling into the trap laid by the BJP. They cannot win that communal contest. Their hypocrisy and want of convictions show easily. No one knows what they stand for. At least, people know what the BJP represents. Rahul Gandhi’s recent religious polemic against the Hindutva ideology of the BJP and RSS, as opposed to the Hinduism that he stands for, is a valid and much-needed debate in these toxic times. Yet, why is Rahul Gandhi not taken seriously? Why is Kejriwal, who trounced BJP and Congress in the Delhi elections twice by unprecedented margins solely on the twin planks of governance and development, grovelling before voters chanting mantras and promising pilgrimages? Why is he losing confidence in what he believes in?  Politicians like Nehru, Sardar Patel, Jaya Prakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia needed no validation from others about their ideologies or religious beliefs nor stooped to prove that they were ardent Hindus. Their faith in humanism, fraternity, and equality for all did not waver. The Opposition must ponder deeply and get their ideology and politics right.  Modi invoked the noble qualities of Ram and ideals of Ram Rajya in Ayodhya and paid obeisance to Viswanath in Kashi, with an oblique reference to those invaders like Aurangzeb who desecrated Hindu temples centuries ago. His followers took it as a call for a crusade of war against the minorities, unleashing terror and violence. The open calls for ethnic cleansing by some are the very antithesis of every ideal those deities symbolise. Modi can, and must, put a stop to this hate and violence before it gets out of hand. As he enjoys a huge mandate, his actions, his words, as well his silences, can unleash destructive forces. They can also douse the fire of hatred and heal and unite the country.  Modi can leave a legacy of bringing a sense of pride to Hindus, ‘with malice toward none, with charity for all’. It may also be more prudent politics in the long run. The Hindus are amorphous and detest straight-jacketing into rigid belief systems.  Modi can mix religion with politics if he believes in the ideals and precepts of Gandhi, whom he often invokes. Gandhi, the greatest Hindu that ever lived, said,” Those who believe religion and politics aren’t connected don’t understand either...For me, humanitarian service, or rather service of all that lives, is religion. And I draw no distinction between such religion and politics.” (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/kashi-corridor-highway-of-faith-or-narrow-lane-of-communal-politics-1067672.html
03-01-2022||Mysuru||Minister launches vaccine drive for children in Mysuru||The minister in-charge of the district S T Somashekar launched Covid vaccine drive for children in the age group of 15 and 18 at Maharani PU College in Mysuru on Monday. The district administration and the Health department authorities have identified a total of 1.47 lakh children for vaccination. The minister said vaccination for the targeted children will be covered in one week and the authorities have formed 200 teams for the drive. Somashekar also said the government is ready to take any tough measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will take the final decision over lockdown, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/minister-launches-vaccine-drive-for-children-in-mysuru-1067477.html
03-01-2022||National||Pakistani Hindus to embark on temple tours in India later in January||A delegation of Pakistani Hindus will visit shrines in India later this month, officials said here on Sunday, as the government encourages religious tourism for minorities in the country. Chief of Pakistan Hindu Council Ramesh Kumar called the move a "big step towards normalisation of ties between Indian and Pakistan", setting the tone of the new year. The delegation is expected to reach India on January 20 and a host of temples are scheduled in the itinerary. However, details on which temples would be visited and how many pilgrims would be in the visiting group is yet to be finalised. Kumar said more such exchanges of "religious tourists" are being planned between the countries. Over 200 Hindu pilgrims from India, the US and the Gulf region prayed at the 100-year-old renovated Maharaja Paramhans Ji mandir in northwest Pakistan on Sunday. The group reached the temple in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on Saturday, amidst extensive planning by the local and federal governments - deploying 600 security personnel, setting up shelter areas and easing clearance of travel documents. Among the delegation, 157 'yatris' are from India who performed their rituals and left for holy sites in Hasan Abdal in Punjab province on Sunday. The 'yatris' will stay in Pakistan for four days and are also scheduled to meet the Federal Assembly Speaker Asad Qaiser Similarly, last year in November a group of 60 Pakistani devotees visited Nizamuddin Auliya shrine in New Delhi as part of the annual Urs - commemorating the death anniversary of a Sufi saint. Kumar said these religious exchanges are being organised under the aegis of 'faith tourism' Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-hindus-to-embark-on-temple-tours-in-india-later-in-january-1067362.html
03-01-2022||National||DH Toon | No moral high ground for govt||Over 12,500 Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) have lost their permission to collect foreign donations – 5,933 of them losing it on the last day of 2021 – as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) either refused renewal of their licence or the outfits did not file applications for one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-no-moral-high-ground-for-govt-1067383.html
03-01-2022||National||India sees 33,750 new Covid-19 cases: Highest in over 3 months||India on Monday reported 33,750 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours - the highest since September 18, 2021, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country also recorded 123 deaths in the same duration, taking the total death toll to 481,893. Active cases now stand at 1,45,582. The country's Omicron tally has touched 1,700.  23 states have reported cases of the new strain. Meanwhile 10,846 persons recovered over the past one day taking the total recoveries to 3,42,95,407. India has inoculated 1,45,68,89,306 persons so far under the national immunisation drive, The country will begin vaccinating 15-18-year-olds from Monday. The Co-WIN platform had recorded over six lakh registrations in the age group of 15 to 18 years till Sunday evening Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya advised states and Union Territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queue and different vaccination teams for the 15-18 year age group to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines. The vaccine option for this age group would only be Covaxin. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-33750-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-over-3-months-1067400.html
03-01-2022||National||Mandaviya urges states to better utilise funds under ECRP-II||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday urged states/UTs to better utilise the approved funds under Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP-II) and directed them to expedite the progress in terms of ICU beds, oxygen beds, Paediatric ICU/HDU beds, among others. He also brought attention of the states and UTs to the fact that collectively, they have only used just over 17 per cent of the available approved funds under Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP-II). The states were urged to effectively use IT tools for tele-medicine and tele-consultation, including training and capacity building of human resources, timely availability of ambulances, readiness to operationalise Covid facilities for institutional quarantine, and effective and supervised monitoring of those in home isolation. In a virtual interaction with State Health Ministers and Principal Secretaries to review the Public Health Preparedness to Covid-19 and progress of National vaccination campaign, Mandaviya urged the states to re-invigorate their teams to work at the ground level and strengthen monitoring and containment mechanisms. The meeting was held in view of rising cases of the Omicron variant and the recent decisions to roll out vaccination for the age group of 15-18 years and precautionary dose for identified vulnerable categories. The meeting also discussed the critical bottlenecks in medical infrastructure. The Union Health Minister noted that globally, countries are experiencing 3-4 times the surge in Covid-19 cases in comparison to their earlier peaks. The Omicron variant being highly transmissible, a high surge in case can overwhelm the medical system. He therefore advised the states to leave no stone unturned in ramping up infrastructure to manage a high surge so that India escapes unscathed from this episode of Covid-19. "We have put up a strong fight against Covid earlier and this learning must be used to re-focus on efforts against the Omicron variant", said Mandaviya in the meeting. He stressed on the continued need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour along with renewed and stringent focus on containment measures for addressing the present surge. "We must focus on planning with regard to the 15-18 age group vaccination and precautionary doses for eligible beneficiaries", said Mandaviya while underscoring the critical importance of vaccination drive. He also urged states to ensure that the healthcare workers and frontline workers are fully vaccinated, as they form the vulnerable categories. Stressing the need to ensure smooth implementation of new vaccination guidelines, the minister asked states to ensure the orientation of team members for vaccination of 15-18 years age-group. To avoid mixing-up of vaccines during administration, separate CVCs, separate session sites, separate queue (if at same session where adult vaccination is ongoing) and separate vaccination team (if at same session site) are to be strived for. States/UTs were also advised to share their requirement of vaccine doses through district wise estimation of beneficiaries using CoWIN. They were urged to plan for distribution of Covaxin to identified session sites well in advance and publish sessions for at least 15 days to provide sufficient visibility. State Health Ministers who joined the meet included S Pangnyu Phom from Nagaland, NK Das from Odisha, Dr Prabhuram Choudhary from MP, Ma Subramanian from Tamil Nadu, Keshab Mahanta from Assam, Anil Vij from Haryana, Satyendar Jain from Delhi, Alo Libang from Arunachal Pradesh, Banna Gupta from Jharkhand, Mangal Pandey from Bihar, TS Singhdeo from Chhattisgarh and Chandrima Bhattacharjee, MoS Health from West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-urges-states-to-better-utilise-funds-under-ecrp-ii-1067401.html
03-01-2022||National||SIT arrests farmer for lynching BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri as 90-day probe period draws to a close||A special investigation team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence made another arrest, of a farmer, in connection with the lynching of three BJP workers during the incident that took place on October 3, 2021. Lakhimpur Kheri police and senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said that Gurpreet Singh, 22, had been absconding since the SIT released pictures of the suspects nearly two months ago. Seven farmers have been arrested so far in connection with the incident. The SIT had earlier arrested Vichitra Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Avtaar Singh, Ranjeet Singh, Kamaljeet Singh and Kawaljeet Singh in connection with the lynching of BJP workers. An FIR of murder and rioting was initially registered against 'unidentified farmers' based on a complaint from BJP worker Sumit Jaiswal, who is a co-accused — along with Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish Mishra — in connection with the deaths of four farmers and a journalist during the violence. Jaiswal's complaint did not mention the deaths of the farmers or the journalist, who were allegedly mowed down by Ashish's convoy. The first FIR related to the violence was lodged by police on the basis of a complaint by farmers against Ashish Mishra and others. The SIT has arrested 13 people in that case and has termed the incident as "planned". In November 2021, the Supreme Court had reconstituted the SIT and added new members, IPS officers SB. Shiradkar, Preetinder Singh and Padmaja Chauhan, along with a retired judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court Rakesh Kumar Jain, to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The SIT is expected to file a charge sheet in both cases within two days as the 90-day deadline for the investigation will end Tuesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sit-arrests-farmer-for-lynching-bjp-workers-in-lakhimpur-kheri-as-90-day-probe-period-draws-to-a-close-1067402.html
03-01-2022||National||Omicron tally in India rises to 1,700||A total of 1,700 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 23 states and Union Territories so far, out of which 639 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Monday. Maharashtra has recorded the maximum number of 510 cases, followed by Delhi (351), Kerala (156), Gujarat (136), Tamil Nadu (121) and Rajasthan (120). India's Covid tally rose to 3,49,22,882 with 33,750 fresh cases, while the active cases increased to 1,45,582, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll climbed to 4,81,893 with 123 more fatalities, the data showed. The active cases have increased to 1,45,582 comprising 0.42 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 22,781 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 3.84 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,95,407, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 145.68 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 123 new fatalities include 78 from Kerala and nine from Maharashtra. A total of 4,81,893 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,542 from Maharashtra, 48,113 from Kerala, 38,346 from Karnataka, 36,790 from Tamil  Nadu, 25,109 from Delhi, 22,916 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,781 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-tally-in-india-rises-to-1700-1067418.html
03-01-2022||National||Omicron causing Covid to spread faster than the second wave||On December 19, 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) had said that the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is spreading at a much faster rate than the Deta strain. The WHO director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, had also said that it was more likely for vaccinated and Covid-19-recovered individuals to catch the infection or be reinfected. India is currently the living image of the same, with the Omicron variant spreading rapidly. The variant is already seen to be outpacing other variants across the world. “The Covid world pre-Delta and during the Delta wave was very different from the post-Delta wave. Very small fraction of the population in any country was vaccinated. But now, vaccine coverage has increased and Delta also caused a lot of infections. In India, 67.6 per cent population was antibody positive by July 2021. Now, vaccine-induced as well as hybrid (both infection and vaccination) immunity protects much better from severe disease. Further, the Omicron variant appears to cause milder disease. Altogether, the hospitalisation rates are down everywhere even in face of a more transmissible virus,” Dr Shahid Jameel, noted virologist and former head of INSACOG, told the publication. Cases in the country are spiking again, with India reporting 33,750 fresh infections on Monday - the highest single-day cases logged since September 18, 2021. However, lesser number of deaths are being reported in comparison to the deadly second wave, some indicator that Omicron infections could be milder than Delta.   The rate of spread is another story - a whopping 175 per cent spike in cases in merely one week, according to the publication.  What makes this even more alarming is that the growth rate has changed from negative, just 5 days ago, to surpass the second wave's peak growth rate of 75 per cent. The case curve may reportedly double in a week if this trend persists.  It is also important to note that the national average growth rate fails to represent that difference in rates from state to state with the likes of Delhi and Maharashtra reporting considerably more cases than some other states. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-causing-covid-to-spread-faster-than-the-second-wave-1067422.html
03-01-2022||National||India's unemployment rate hit four-month high in December 2021, says think tank||India's unemployment rate hit a four-month high in December, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showed on Monday. The unemployment rate rose to 7.9 per cent in December from 7.0 per cent in November, its highest since 8.3 per cent in August. Economic activity and consumer sentiment have been hit in the South Asian nation after a rise in cases of the Omicron coronavirus variant and social distancing restrictions in many states. Urban unemployment rate rose to 9.3 per cent in December from 8.2 per cent in the previous month, while the rural unemployment rate was up 7.3 per cent from 6.4 per cent, the data showed. Many economists worry that the Omicron variant could reverse the economic recovery seen in the previous quarter. Mumbai-based CMIE data on unemployment is closely watched by economists and policymakers as the government doesn't release monthly figures. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-unemployment-rate-hit-four-month-high-in-december-2021-says-think-tank-1067428.html
03-01-2022||National||Centre asks SC for early hearing on NEET-PG EWS quota||The Centre on Monday asked the Supreme Court to advance hearing in the matter related to the validity of EWS quota in Post Graduate courses in medical colleges from January 6, in view of urgency. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, who said he would consult with the Chief Justice of India for constitution of the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath to take up the case. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for a party, sought permission to file a response to the affidavit furnished by the Centre. The delay in admission to Post Graduate medical courses has led medicos to resort to protests and agitation here. In its affidavit, the Centre has told the court that it has decided to accept the recommendation of a three-member panel to retain the current gross annual family income limit of Rs 8 lakh or less for Economically Weaker Section (EWS). In an affidavit filed in a matter related to admissions for NEET-PG, the Centre said the panel has recommended that “only those families whose annual income is up to Rs eight lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation”. On November 30, the government had constituted the member committee, comprising Ajay Bhushan Pandey, former finance secretary, V K Malhotra, member secretary, ICSSR and Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser to Centre, after the assurance given to the top court, which had earlier stayed the admission process. In its report submitted on December 31 to the Centre said, the panel said, “The current gross annual family income limit for EWS of Rs 8 lakh or less may be retained. In other words only those families whose annual income is up to Rs eight lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation.”  On October 25, the court had directed the Centre to put on hold counselling for NEET-PG until it decided the validity of OBC and EWS reservation in the All India Quota (AIQ). A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-sc-for-early-hearing-on-neet-pg-ews-quota-1067429.html
03-01-2022||National||Covid-19 vaccination drives for 15-18 age group kicks off||Vaccination of children in the 15-18 age group against Covid-19 began on Monday as inoculation centres across the country started administering the shots to the younger population. The process to vaccinate children has commenced amid a scare of a case spike due to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. In Delhi, where daily cases have registered a record surge in the past few days, vaccination centres at Fortis Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, among other major facilities, began administering the jabs to the younger population, officials said. The vaccine option for this age group would only be Covaxin, according to guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on December 27, 2021. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted emergency-use authorisation to indigenously developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years of age with certain conditions on December 24. The Co-WIN platform had till Sunday evening recorded over six lakh registrations for the 15-18 age group. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has advised states and union territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queues and different vaccination teams for this age group to avoid the mix-up of vaccines. The registration for this category of beneficiaries had opened Saturday.   According to the guidelines, they can self-register online through an existing account on Co-Win or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number, as is the case with all other categories of beneficiaries. According to official documents shared by sources, the cohort size for vaccination in this category in Delhi is 10 lakh, as per the Registrar General of India's figures. Authorities at various hospitals in Delhi where vaccination centres were established since the start of the exercise on January 16 last year said that the infrastructure set up was ready to administer Covid-19 vaccine shots to children after catering to the adult population, including healthcare workers and frontline staff, who were given priority to be the first in line to receive the 'precautionary' jabs. Doctors have urged parents to bring their children for vaccinations as soon as possible to lend them protection amid fears of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drives-for-15-18-age-group-kicks-off-1067450.html
03-01-2022||National||SC rejects West Bengal govt's plea against protection from arrest to Suvendu Adhikari||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea by the West Bengal government against BJP leader and Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, against a single judge bench order of the Calcutta High Court protecting him from arrest. The bench pointed out that the High Court was already seized of the proceedings. “The special leave petitions arise from an interlocutory order, we are not inclined to exercise the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution," the bench said. The court said the parties would be governed by December 13, 2021, order passed in the matter against the single judge bench decision. On December 13, the court had declined to entertain a plea by the state government challenging the Calcutta High Court decision to protect Adhikari from arrest in cases registered against him, after he switched from Trinamool Congress TMC to BJP. Adhikari was accused of indulging in hooliganism, unlawful assembly, and also violating Covid-19 guidelines, amongst other things. He approached the High Court against abuse of the police machinery by registering six FIRs against him at four different police stations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-west-bengal-govts-plea-against-protection-from-arrest-to-suvendu-adhikari-1067458.html
03-01-2022||National||Many J&K police officials having ‘militant links’ may be terminated||Many police officials in Jammu and Kashmir may soon lose their jobs for their alleged involvement in militant activities. Over 160 police personnel, including two inspectors, 11 sub inspectors and 49 assistant sub-inspectors, are on the radar for their alleged involvement in subversive/criminal/corrupt activities, and action against them is on the cards, sources told DH. “Many of these 160-odd police officials have direct or indirect links with militants and separatist elements, and they will soon be terminated from the service,” they said and added that most of these policemen belong to Kashmir region, while seven or eight are from Jammu region. “The track record and credentials of these police personnel are being examined minutely. Their role, if any, in subversive and militant activities is also being looked into,” sources added. A senior police officer said that it was for the first time that such a major exercise had been initiated by the department to weed out the personnel who are involved in subversive and corrupt practices. “The government has taken a decision that there will be no leniency with the officers/officials who are linked to militancy and they will be axed from the services soon,” he said. “The government policy of taking harsh action against pro-terror employees by terminating them from the services has worked well. It has given the desired results. However, there are still some black sheep who are covertly doing what they used to do and action against them will be taken after collection of evidence through the intelligence agencies is complete,” the officer added. Dozens of government employees, including senior officials, were terminated in 2021 under Article 311(2) (C) of the Constitution which was extended to J&K after abrogation of its special status under Article 370 in August 2019. One of its provisions says that retention of a person in public service, if prejudicial to the security of the state, can be terminated without recourse to normal inquiry. Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin’s two sons and former Hurriyat chairman late Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s grandson were among those who were terminated from government jobs in 2021. Tainted deputy superintendent of J&K police Davinder Singh, who was chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for providing support to Hizbul Mujahideen militant outfit, was also dismissed from service in May last year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-jk-police-officials-having-militant-links-may-be-terminated-1067462.html
03-01-2022||National||Jaipur curbs classes till class 8 over Covid-19 fears||In view of rising Covid-19 cases, the Rajasthan government has announced new curbs under which schools for students till class 8 will remain closed in the district till January 9. However, in other places, the district collector and the education department will jointly take a call after watching the situation. As per the new guidelines issued by the State Home Department on Sunday night, the number of guests has been restricted to 100 and 20 at wedding ceremonies and funerals, respectively. Those flouting the norms will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000. Also, as per guidelines, a legal permission from the SDM for the wedding ceremony is mandatory and those flouting it will be fined. While places of worship shall stay open, distribution of 'prasad', worship material or 'chadar' at religious places has been banned. Those who are double-vaccinated will be able to visit temples and will have to wear masks and follow social distancing at all times. Further, every passenger coming from abroad will have to undergo an RT-PCR test at the airport. Every international traveller will have to remain quarantined till his/her report comes negative. However, they will have the option of both home and institutional quarantine, as per the new guidelines. Rajasthan on Sunday registered 355 cases, which took the active caseload to 1,572. Jaipur recorded a total of 224 cases. Its highest active caseload so far stands at 1,012. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaipur-curbs-classes-till-class-8-over-covid-19-fears-1067474.html
03-01-2022||National||'Disheartening': Shiv Sena MP seeks more women representation in panel for marriage age||The chorus for more women representation in the Parliamentary Standing Committee examining the bill proposing the increase of age of marriage of girls grew on Monday with the sole woman member in the panel Sushmita Dev suggesting that all women MPs be allowed to testify before the committee. Shiv Sena Deputy Leader Priyanka Chaturvedi also wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urging him to ensure that more women participate in the discussion around the Bill. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha during the Winter Session that concluded last month and referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports. Parties nominate members based on their strength in the House. At present, BJP has 16 MPs in the 31-member panel while Congress has three and Trinamool Congress, DMK and CPI(M) two each. Samajwadi Party, AIADMK, YSR Congress, Shiv Sena, BJD and JD(U) have one MP each in the panel. The lone woman MP Sushmita from Trinamool Congress became part of the committee on September 27 last year. The panel will be meeting on Wednesday to “decide on the future course of action” as well as for a presentation on reforms in education of performing and fine arts. Sources said the MPs are likely to raise the issue of under-representation of women lawmakers in the panel as well as the procedure to be adopted for discussing the marriage age bill. In her letter to Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Trinamool Congress MP Sushmita cited Rule 84(3) and 275 of the Rules and Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States to urge him to allow all women Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs to participate in the discussions. "...I wish to propose that any woman member of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha be empowered to testify either in writing or in person before the Committee on the issue," Sushmita said. DMK Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi tweeted, "there are a total of 110 female MPs but the government chooses to assign a bill that affects every young woman in the country to a panel that has 30 men and only one woman. Men will continue to decide the rights of women. And women will be made mute spectators." In her letter, Priyanka said it was "disheartening" to note that a bill so "pertinent to women and the Indian society" will be deliberated upon in a committee where the representation is "highly skewed". She requested Naidu to ensure more representation and participation of women in the discussion on the Bill. "It is of utmost importance that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account and that voices of all, especially women are heard and understood by the committee," Priyanka said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disheartening-shiv-sena-mp-seeks-more-women-representation-in-panel-for-marriage-age-1067475.html
03-01-2022||National||How India is vaccinating teenagers amid Omicron spread||Amid rising Omicron cases, the Centre on Monday rolled out Covid vaccination for children aged 15-18. Over 4.5 lakh teenagers have, received their first jab against the infectious disease so far. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that Covid-19 vaccination for children between 15-18 years of age will be rolled out from January 3. According to official estimates, there are approximately 10 crore children in this age group. On January 1, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had requested people to register eligible children in their families. Taking to Twitter, he said: "On the occasion of New Year, registration is being started on the Co-WIN portal for immunisation of children against Covid-19 in the age group of 15 to 18 years from today. I request the family members to register the eligible children for vaccination." Over 8,00,000 children have already registered for their dose in the past few days. According to the guidelines, children can self-register online through an existing account on Co-WIN or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number or using their parent's accounts. Children can also get registered onsite by verifier or vaccinator; and they can walk in to take their shots. Out of the 10 crore children eligible for vaccination, over 4.5 lakh teenagers have already received their first shots. The vaccine used for inoculating children is Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, according to a set of new guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. On December 24, the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI), granted emergency use authorisation to the indigenously-developed Covaxin for children above 12 years of age. Most of the schools and other educational institutions are being used as inoculation centres as well. To avoid mixing-up of Covid vaccines for children and adults during administration, Mandaviya has also advised states and Union territories to make separate Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), separate session sites, separate queue (if adult vaccination is going on at the same centre) and separate immunisation team (if at same session site) for adults and children. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-india-is-vaccinating-teenagers-amid-omicron-spread-1067493.html
03-01-2022||National||Teens remain slow to sign up for Covid-19 vaccine jabs||Fewer than 40 lakh beneficiaries, or 5.4 per cent, of the 7.4 crore teenagers in the 15-18 age group registered for the vaccinations as of Monday afternoon, according to the Co-WIN dashboard. The figure, although a substantial improvement on the 0.97 per cent recorded on Sunday night, remains low despite the registrations being opened last Saturday. According to state-wise statistics that the health ministry circulated to states, on December 28, there are 74,057,000 youngsters in the 15-18 year age group who are eligible for the Covid-19 vaccination. On the night of December 25 — which was also the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in addition to the Christmas festival — Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced vaccinations for the 15-18 age group as well as "precautionary" jabs for healthcare workers, front-line workers and senior citizens. As per the health ministry data, which are projected numbers as provided by the Registrar General of India, maximum beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group are in Uttar Pradesh, at 14,014,000, followed by Bihar, at 8,346,000, Maharashtra, at 6,063,000, West Bengal, at 4,823,000 and Madhya Pradesh, at 48 lakh. The ministry expects the registration to pick up once people realise that the vaccine has no adverse effects among young adults. Vaccine production for 15-18 age group With the government announcing that only the Covaxin vaccine jabs will be given to the 15-18 age group, Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer, is ready with a plan to boost vaccine production. The company will be supplying 7-8 crore vaccine doses every month, starting February, up from the 5-6 crore doses at present. According to the report, the end product will be manufactured at the Hyderabad and Ankleshwar plants while the Bengaluru and Pune plants will manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients. “Bharat Biotech is prepared and ready with its strategies to contribute to India’s vaccination drive, including the drive for teenagers,” the company spokesperson told News18.com. Around 15 crore doses are required for inoculating the adolescent population, especially in the backdrop of the Omicron variant of the Covid-19, which is a fast spreader compared to its predecessors. “We have augmented our production, and are well prepared to support this programme. As stated before, manufacturing scale-up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple, specially designed Bio-Safety Level-3 production facilities in Hyderabad in Telangana, Malur in Karnataka and Ankleshwar in Gujarat and Pune, Maharashtra,” the spokesperson said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teens-remain-slow-to-sign-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-1067502.html
03-01-2022||National||Satya Pal Malik has bitten the hand that fed him: Omar Abdullah||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday said Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik has “bitten the hand that fed him” and asserted that people of Jammu and Kashmir can “certify” his “untrustworthiness”. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was reacting to media reports about Malik claiming to have entered into a verbal duel with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the farmers' protest. Malik, who was the last governor of Jammu and Kashmir before it was bifurcated into union territories in 2019, in a video clip purportedly is saying that when he went to meet the prime minister on the issue of farmers, the latter was "arrogant" and had a fight with him within five minutes.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satya-pal-malik-has-bitten-the-hand-that-fed-him-omar-abdullah-1067515.html
03-01-2022||National||CSC to undertake cultural survey of India’s villages||The Union Ministry of Culture has partnered with the Common Services Centres (CSC), a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY), to undertake the first ever cultural survey of India’s villages. The survey titled ‘Mera Gaon, Meri Dharohar’ seeks to document the cultural identity at the village level by involving citizens to share what makes their village, block, or district unique. The exercise is expected to be completed by mid-2022. As per the agreement signed between the two entities, CSC will develop a mobile application and train the VLEs in conducting the survey. Over 4 lakh Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs), managing the CSCs across the country, will conduct the survey in 6.38 lakh villages and upload the details on to the application. Under the survey, VLEs will conduct meetings with citizens at the villages and then upload interesting facts about their village, its places of interest, customs and traditions, famous personalities, festivals and beliefs, art and culture, etc., on the application. VLEs will also upload photos and videos regarding these aspects of the application. "This survey builds upon a successful track record of CSCs engaging on official enumerations like the 7th Economic Census and some other surveys done for the state governments,” Dinesh Tyagi, Managing Director, CSC, said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-to-undertake-cultural-survey-of-india-s-villages-1067537.html
03-01-2022||National||Reports on expired Covid vaccines being used in India false, misleading: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Monday dismissed media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in the country under its Covid-19 vaccination programme as "false and misleading". "There have been some media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in India under its national Covid-19 vaccination programme. This is false and misleading and based on incomplete information," the ministry said in a statement. On October 25, 2021, in response to Bharat Biotech International Limited's letter, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) approved the extension of the shelf life of Covaxin (Whole Virion, Inactivated Coronavirus Vaccine) from nine months to 12 months, the ministry said. Similarly, the shelf life of Covishield was extended by the drug regulator from six months to 9 months on February 22, 2021. The shelf life of vaccines is extended by the CDSCO on the basis of a comprehensive analysis and examination of the stability study data furnished by the vaccine manufacturers, the ministry said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reports-on-expired-covid-vaccines-being-used-in-india-false-misleading-health-ministry-1067541.html
03-01-2022||National||SC asks govt to decide on man's plea for extradition of daughter who joined ISIS in Afghanistan ||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to decide upon a plea by a man from Kerala for the extradition of his daughter, along with his grandchild, lodged in Afghanistan's Pul-e-Charkhi jail after she had left India to join terrorist organisation ISIS.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai said the Centre should decide the representation made by V J Sebastian Francis within eight weeks. The court allowed the petitioner to approach the High Court if he remained aggrieved with the decision taken by the Centre. The man feared that after exit of the US from Afghanistan, foreign terrorist fighters could be hanged.  The plea filed by Francis said necessary action should be taken by authorities concerned to extradite his daughter Sonia Sebastian alias Ayisha and his granddaughter, who is seven-year-old.   "Internationally, a lenient approach has been taken against the women foreign terrorist fighters...owing to the stand taken by the countries that women only played ancillary roles and therefore could not pose any significant threat to national security," his plea stated.  He claimed the issue was urgent in as many substantial changes, politically and administratively, had been undertaken in Afghanistan, after the exit of the US troops.  The plea contended that the Centre was not facilitating extradition of the detenues which was illegal and unconstitutional. It also violated fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. A case under stringent anti-terror law UAPA was registered against Ayisha, after she left India and the Interpol had also issued a Red Corner notice against her in March 2017.  The plea said after reaching Afghanistan, Ayisha’s husband was killed in the war.  After his death, the woman and the child had to surrender to the Afghan forces on November 15, 2019, along with some other women, said the plea.  The petitioner claimed that his daughter regretted her decision to join ISIS and she wanted to return to India and face a fair trial before a court.  Ayisha had made this statement during an interview with Stratnews Global, which was uploaded as a documentary titled “Khorasan Files: The journey of Indian Islamic State Widows” on YouTube on March 15, 2020.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-govt-to-decide-on-mans-plea-for-extradition-of-daughter-who-joined-isis-in-afghanistan-1067544.html
03-01-2022||National||'PM Modi is very arrogant': Satya Pal Malik||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Monday caused a stir as he trained guns on PM Modi, saying that he was arrogant when questioned about farmers' protest. “When I met the prime minister, we had a fight in the first five minutes. He’s very arrogant. His reply when I told him about the death of 500 farmers was, ‘Did they die because of me?’,” Pal alleged at the sidelines of an event at Dadri on Sunday. Pal said that he was directed to meet home minister Amit Shah, who, he alleged, told him that was how Modi was and that he should continue to meet Shah. Pal has attacked the BJP government time and again, but this is one of the rare instances of training guns on leaders. In November, at an event in Jaipur, Pal said that he was wary of a call from Delhi if he spoke  against the government. He had volunteered to step down then. In March he was part of a rally to protest against the farm laws in Baghpat. He had also alleged that he was removed as Jammu and Kashmir governor because he refused to clear some files. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah should apologise. “They should also tell us by which date will they compensate the families of the 700 who were martyred during the protest, give them a government job and take back the false cases lodged against them,” said Surjewala. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-is-very-arrogant-satya-pal-malik-1067562.html
03-01-2022||National||Will put home ministry at Navjot Singh Sidhu's feet if he wants, says Randhawa||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday said he is ready to give up his home portfolio if state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu wants it. Randhawa's statement came as Sidhu has been questioning his own government for not being able to arrest Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked in a drug case under the NDPS Act. Sidhu said nothing would happen with the registration of an FIR against the Akali leader, saying he would not rest till Majithia is arrested. "If my brother (Sidhu) says that he wants the home ministry, then I will immediately put it at his feet," said Randhawa while talking to reporters here. Ever since he became the home minister, Sidhu has been upset with him, said Randhawa. Majithia was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state. Check out latest videos from DH:  Majithia is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-put-home-ministry-at-navjot-singh-sidhus-feet-if-he-wants-says-randhawa-1067567.html
03-01-2022||National||Over 40 lakh children get Covid-19 vaccine on first day; parents say it is a big relief||As India launched a Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group on Monday, over 40 lakh children received their first dose with many of the beneficiaries and their parents saying they feel a sense of relief, especially in the backdrop of the fresh rise in cases. From setting up attractive selfie points to putting up imaginative posters and colourful balloons, the designated vaccination centres, mostly schools and educational institutes, were decked up to welcome the youngsters. The children, some dressed in school uniforms and others in casuals, were greeted with flowers and were gifted pens and eatables at some places after receiving the vaccine. "Well done Young India! "Over 40 Lakhs between 15-18 age group received their first dose of #Covid19 vaccine on the 1st day of vaccination drive for children, till 8 PM. This is another feather in the cap of India's vaccination drive," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a tweet. Over 51 lakh youngsters had registered on the Co-WIN portal till Monday 8.30 PM after the process started on January 1. An estimated 7.4 crore children are there in this age group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India has taken an important step forward in protecting its youth population against the disease. ''Congrats to all my young friends between the age group of 15-18 who got vaccinated. Congrats to their parents as well. I would urge more youngsters to get vaccinated in the coming days!'' he said on Twitter. The vaccination campaign started on January 16 last year in a staggered manner, and many youngsters like Harmanjot Singh said they were keen to get the jab as soon as it was allowed for their age group. "I was waiting for the day to get my dose of the vaccine as the pandemic forced us to stay at our homes most of the time. We want to get back to regular school and other activities as soon as possible," said Singh, a student of class 11 at a private school in Jammu. With the drive starting mostly from schools, many principals and other officials said they received a positive response from students and their families. “Whenever schools reopened in the midst of the pandemic, I was hesitant to send my son. It will be a relief now that he has received the vaccine,” said Savita Devi, whose son was waiting to get the jab at a Delhi government school. Some students referred to restrictions on travelling and said they did not want to miss out on activities because they are not vaccinated. “This was long-awaited. The third wave is already here and considering how aggressive the second wave was, we were all afraid,” said Ritesh Ghosh, a 17-year-old student. Echoing similar sentiments, Reema Dutta, 15, said there is a sense of relief among people of her age group and they are looking forward to resuming their normal activities once vaccinated against the coronavirus. “We can go outdoors while following Covid protocols once we have received the vaccination. The omicron is already scaring us”, she said. But there were some like Diksha Patel, 17, from Raipur in Chhattisgarh who required some counselling from her family and friends to overcome hesitancy. "On Sunday, our class teacher posted a message on our WhatsApp group about coming to school and getting vaccinated. I was worried as many of my family members fell ill after taking the vaccine during the second wave in April and May last year," Patel, a class 9 student of JR Dani Government High School, said. "However, my mother and other family members spoke to me about the benefits of vaccination, especially in view of rising cases and a possible third wave," she told PTI. Reflecting the urgency in the country as it stares at a possible third Covid-19 wave, leaders on Monday called for taking up the drive on a war footing, while Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope suggested that those in the 12-15 age bracket should also be allowed to get inoculated. On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the inclusion of the 15 to 18 age group in the nationwide Covid immunisation programme from January 3. The vaccine option for this age group would only be Covaxin, according to guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on December 27. Meanwhile, the Centre on Monday dismissed reports alleging expired Covid-19 vaccines are being administered in India as "false and misleading". It clarified that the national regulator had approved the shelf life extension of Covishield and Covaxin in February and October, 2021 respectively. "There have been some media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in India under its national Covid-19 vaccination programme. This is false and misleading and based on incomplete information," the health ministry said in a statement. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,49,22,882 with 33,750 fresh cases, while the active cases increased to 1,45,582, according to the data updated at 8 AM on Monday. "I did not have any fear of vaccination. I will encourage my other friends to come and get themselves vaccinated as soon as possible," said 17-year-old girl Poorvi Nakar in Agra, Uttar Pradesh. In Mumbai, a girl student was the first to receive the vaccine dose at a jumbo Covid-19 centre in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), where the drive was virtually launched by Maharashtra Tourism and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray. Mumbai has witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since the second half of last month. The city's civic body said vaccines will be given free of cost to children of all schools. In neighbouring Pune, the vaccination campaign for children commenced at 40 centres on Monday, the city civic body's chief immunisation officer Dr Suryakant Devkar said. "The beneficiary children were offered a rose, a pen and a mask after the vaccination," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said. Parents accompanied their children to the vaccination centres and the teenagers appeared happy and excited to take to jabs against the viral infection, he said. Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha launched the drive at a government school in Jammu. "In the coming week, the targeted population (8.33 lakh) will be vaccinated," he told reporters. As many as 822 vaccination sites have been set up across 20 districts for the vaccination of the children, officials said, appealing to the youngsters to come forward and get themselves vaccinated. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin urged people to diligently follow precautions as the country entered the next phase of vaccination. "I do not wish to cause trepidation. Experts say the Omicron variant, which has emerged as a new threat, is highly transmissible though its impact is less severe compared to previous Covid variants. So, face-mask and vaccine against Coronavirus would serve as a shield to protect us now," the chief minister said starting the drive. Tamil Nadu hopes to administer the jabs to about 33.46 lakh school children in a month's time Assam, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Odisha, Karnataka, West Bengal, Puducherry, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh were among the states and Union territories that began the drive on Monday. “We have to hold the vaccination drive on a war footing. Crisis management committees, MPs, MLAs, social workers, volunteers, religious leaders, all are requested to appeal to the children to get vaccinated,” Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. In Gujarat, Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel launched the drive at a school in Koba area of the state capital Gandhinagar. The Gujarat health department has prepared around 3,500 centres across the state for the special vaccination campaign, and has said it will extend the daily timings of the drive from the current schedule of 9 AM to 6 PM. Starting the drive from Dimapur District Hospital, Nagaland Health Minister S Pangyu Phom appealed to the people to come forward and get inoculated. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said Pink boards have been put up at Children's Vaccination Centres to avoid confusion. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-40-lakh-children-get-covid-19-vaccine-on-first-day-parents-say-it-is-a-big-relief-1067581.html
03-01-2022||National||Covid: Centre suspends biometric attendance for govt employees as cases rise||The Centre on Monday suspended marking of biometric attendance for all its employees till January 31, as a precautionary measure to check the spread of coronavirus. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said the decision has been taken in the interest of safety and health of the government employees. "Keeping in view the rise in #COVID cases in the last few days, the BIOMETRIC ATTENDANCE for govt officials and employees is being suspended with immediate effect, till further orders. Under leadership of PM Sh @NarendraModi, this decision has been taken in the interest of safety and health of the govt employees," he tweeted. However, all the employees are required to mark their attendance in attendance registers to be maintained manually, an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. "As a precautionary measure, it has been decided to suspend the marking of biometric attendance in the Aadhaar-based biometric attendance system in all ministries/departments of the Government of India, including its attached/subordinate offices, with immediate effect till January 31, 2022," it said. All the heads of departments shall also continue to ensure that all employees wear masks at all times and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly, the order said. The Union government had resumed biometric attendance for employees of all levels from November 8. The employees were previously exempted from biometric attendance due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-centre-suspends-biometric-attendance-for-govt-employees-as-cases-rise-1067593.html
03-01-2022||National||SC reduces jail term of 2 in case of malpractices in Hindi PUC exam||The Supreme Court on Monday reduced the jail term of two persons from two years to six months in a case related to malpractices in Hindi examination at a Bidar's PUC college in 2007. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari took a lenient view against Wilson and another person, after considering the fact that both were of young age at the time of the offence.  Senior advocate Devdatt Kamat and advocate Nishanth Patil, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that they did not even write the examination. Therefore, there cannot be said to be any actual act for the conviction. Needless to state, 'actus reus' (actual act) is a sine qua non for conviction under criminal law, he added.  "Mere possession of an allegedly forged document does not lead to any dishonest gain. This forged document is required to be further used to make gains, in order for conviction to be maintained," their plea stated. The top court, however, said the conviction of the petitioners cannot be interfered with in view of concurrent findings by three courts. On March 15, 2021, the Karnataka High Court had dismissed the revision petition against the convictions and sentence.  According to the prosecution, on July 27, 2007, one of the accused came to the examination centre. Upon asking for hall ticket, he behaved unnaturally. On further probe, it was alleged he had come to write the examination in place of another accused by impersonating him. A case of cheating and forgery was lodged against the three persons but one of them, accused of fabricating hall ticket, got acquitted by the trial court. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reduces-jail-term-of-2-in-case-of-malpractices-in-hindi-puc-exam-1067601.html
03-01-2022||National||Census unlikely anytime soon as fear of 3rd wave of Covid-19 looms large||The decennial census, supposed to be held in 2020-21 but postponed due to the Covid pandemic, will not be held anytime soon. The Centre has directed the states not to alter the boundaries of the districts and other civil and police units till June 2022 — a mandatory requirement three months prior to the country's biggest enumeration exercise. With the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic looming large, Union Home Ministry officials said so far, no decision has been taken on when to conduct the census and then update the National Population Register (NPR). The Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India has conveyed to the states that the central government has put a ban on the alteration of boundaries of districts, sub-divisions, taluks, police stations, etc. till June 2022, an official from the Home Ministry said. Ban on alteration of boundaries of administrative and police units, at least three months prior, is mandatory for conducting the census operations. Since the boundaries of the administrative and police units have been freezed till June 2022, there is no question of launching the census operations before October, the official said. India's Covid tally rose to 3,49,22,882 with 33,750 fresh cases, while the active cases increased to 1,45,582, according to the data updated at 8 am on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,81,893 with 123 more fatalities, the data showed. The active cases have increased to 1,45,582, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the health ministry said. The central government had first ordered freezing of the boundaries of the administrative units from January 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. Subsequently, after the outbreak of the pandemic, it was extended till December 31, 2020. The ban on alteration of the administrative boundaries was again extended till December 31, 2021 and now till June 30, 2022. The total number of districts in the country in 2011, when the last census was conducted, was around 640. India now has about 100 more districts. The number of statutory towns stands at 4,657 — up from 4,041 in 2011 and the number of census towns is 5,050 — up from 3,892 in 2011. However, the number of villages has gone down from 6,40,934 in 2011 to 6,39,083 now. The housing listing phase of the Census and the exercise to update the NPR were scheduled to be carried out across the country from April 1 to September 30, 2020 but postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. According to the earlier schedule, the census would have its reference date as March 1, 2021 and the snow-bound Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, it would have been October 1, 2020. In March 2020, when the Covid lockdown was announced, the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India was all set for the first phase of the census and updation of the NPR that was scheduled to begin from April 1, 2020. Even though some state governments opposed the NPR update, all offered full support to the census exercise. While the census exercise was estimated to cost Rs 8,700 crore, the Union Cabinet had approved Rs 3,941.35 crore for the NPR exercise. The census is the largest single source of a variety of statistical information on different characteristics of the people of India. With a history of more than 130 years, this reliable, time tested exercise has been bringing out a veritable wealth of statistics every 10 years. The rich diversity of the people of India is truly brought out by the decennial census which has become one of the tools to understand and study India. The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars. The NPR is a register of usual residents of the country. It is being prepared at the local (village and sub-town), subdistrict or sub-division, district, state and national levels under provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The data for NPR was last collected in 2010 along with the house listing phase of the Census 2011. The data was updated during 2015 by conducting door to door surveys. While updating the register in 2015, the government had asked for details like Aadhaar and their mobile number. This time, the information related to their driving licence and voter ID card may also be gathered, the officials said. Though information regarding the place of birth of parents will be sought, it is up to the residents whether to respond to the question as it is voluntary. For the purposes of the NPR, a usual resident is defined as a person who has resided in a local area for the past six months or more, or a person who intends to reside in that area for the next six months. The law compulsorily seeks to register every citizen of India and issue a national identity card. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/census-unlikely-anytime-soon-as-fear-of-3rd-wave-of-covid-19-looms-large-1067604.html
03-01-2022||National||China building bridge over Pangong Tso to counter India's attempts to gain strategic edge||China is building a new bridge linking the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso closer to its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or the de facto boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. Though the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is building the bridge on its side of the LAC, it is apparently intended to pre-empt any future move by the Indian Army to gain an edge and has caused unease in the security establishment in New Delhi. The Indian Army had carried out an overnight operation on August 29 and 30, 2020, occupying several dominating heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso overlooking key positions of the PLA. The PLA had earlier built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops near Finger 4 on the northern bank – thus denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit at Finger 8, which also marked the LAC as perceived by New Delhi. But the Indian Army’s August 29-30, 2020 move on the southern bank of Pangong Tso had given it a strategic advantage over the Chinese Army and later helped it in negotiating a deal for mutual withdrawal of troops by the two sides from the both banks of the lake. A source in New Delhi said that China’s recent move to build the bridge over Pangong Tso was apparently aimed at enabling the PLA to respond quickly to any move by the Indian Army to gain an edge on the southern bank of the lake. 🇨🇳China’s national flag rise over Galwan Valley on the New Year Day of 2022. The northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso were among the scenes of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the PLA since April-May 2020. The protracted negotiations between the two sides however resulted in mutual withdrawal of frontline troops from both banks of the lake in February 2021. This was followed by mutual withdrawal of troops from another face-off point known as Gogra Post in August 2021. The stand-off in other places along the LAC in eastern Ladakh is still continuing though, with Indian Army deploying over 50,000 troops to counter any aggressive and unilateral move by the PLA to amass a large number of soldiers in order to change the status quo and push LAC westward. The soldiers of the Indian Army exchanged sweets and greetings with the PLA personnel on the New Year's Day on Saturday, not only on the designated Chushul-Moldo meeting point on the LAC, but also at some other locations, where the two sides could not yet resolve the stand-off. Beijing, however, also sent out a message to New Delhi on the first day of 2022 – by releasing a video showing PLA personnel unfurling the national flag of the country in Galwan Valley near the China-India LAC in eastern Ladakh. The spot where the flag was unfurled was apparently on China’s side of the LAC, but not very far from the scene where the PLA had a violent fact-off with the soldiers of India on June 15, 2020. The Indian Army had lost 20 soldiers in the clash and the Chinese PLA had acknowledged the death of four of its personnel. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-building-bridge-over-pangong-tso-to-counter-indias-attempts-to-gain-strategic-edge-1067611.html
03-01-2022||National||Centre allows work from home for 50% of its staff below under secretary-level as Covid cases rise||The Centre has allowed 50 per cent of its employees below the level of Under Secretary to work from home amid rising coronavirus cases, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday. Persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees have been exempted from attending the offices, it said. Central government officers/staff will have to follow staggered timing to avoid overcrowding in the offices, the order said. All the officers/staff residing in Covid containment zones have also been exempted from coming to office till containment zones are de-notified, it said in the order issued to all central government departments. "Physical attendance of government servants below the level of Under Secretary shall be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual strength and the remaining 50 per cent shall work from home,” the order said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-work-from-home-for-50-of-its-staff-below-under-secretary-level-as-covid-cases-rise-1067614.html
03-01-2022||National||Supreme Court suspends bail granted to accused in lynching case||The Supreme Court on Monday suspended the bail granted to an accused in a case of lynching a police officer in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district in the name of cow slaughter. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said the matter is quite serious where under the pretext of the cow slaughter, a police officer has been lynched. "Prima facie, it is a case of people taking law into their own hand," the court said. After hearing senior advocate Sanjay R Hegde, appearing for Rajni Singh, wife of deceased inspector Subodh Kumar, the court directed Yogeshraj, a Bajrang Dal leader, to surrender within seven days. The court stayed the bail order in the case, arising out of order of September 25, 2019 by the Allahabad High Court. The top court also sought a report from the trial court at Bulandshahr as to how much time it would take to frame charges against the accused in the matter. It also expressed surprise that charges have yet not been framed in the case. The court posted the matter for consideration after three weeks. The police officer was shot dead when a mob went on a rampage over allegations of cow slaughter on December 3, 2018. He was also the investigating officer in lynching case of Mohammad Akhlaq in September, 2015 of Dadri, near the national capital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-suspends-bail-granted-to-accused-in-lynching-case-1067634.html
03-01-2022||National||Shah holds high-level meeting to review security challenges||Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday held a high-level meeting to review the prevailing threat scenario and emerging security challenges in the country and stressed on the need for coordination and synergy among central and state agencies. The meeting was attended by top security officials, chiefs Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, paramilitary forces, intelligence wings of armed forces, revenue and financial intelligence agencies. Directors General of Police in states and union territories attended the meeting through video conferencing. A Ministry of Home Affairs spokesperson said  Shah reviewed the prevailing threat scenario in the country and the emerging security challenges and stressed on the need for working in synergy. The meeting analysed the trends in prominent theatres like Jammu and Kashmir, north-east and naxal-infested states besides looking at global terror groups. Shah highlighted the continued threats of terrorism and global terror groups, terror financing, narco-terrorism, organised crime-terror nexus, illicit use of cyber space and movement of foreign terrorists. He stressed upon the need for better coordination and synergy among the central and state security agencies in countering the ever-changing counter-terrorism and security challenges. One of the concerns before the security establishment would be Jammu and Kashmir where civilians bore the brunt of terrorism with several of them, including minority Kashmiri Pandits and people from other states, falling to the bullets of the terrorists. The government has been citing statistics showing decrease in terror incidents to claim that the situation in Kashmir has improved. The north-east could be another hotspot for the security establishment as the recent killing of civilians in Nagaland's Mon district by Army personnel in what Shah described as mistaken firing in Parliament has raised the tempers. It has led to a chorus demanding the repeal of Armed Forces (Secial Powers) Act. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shah-holds-high-level-meeting-to-review-security-challenges-1067641.html
03-01-2022||National Politics||AAP to miss majority by a whisker in Punjab, emerge as Opposition in Goa, Uttarakhand: Poll||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) could come close to a majority in Punjab and make an entry in the Assemblies of Uttarakhand and Goa, a poll conducted for Times Now Navbharat by VETO has suggested. According to the survey, AAP is expected to win 53-57 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly, falling short of 59-seat majority mark by at least two seats. The Congress will emerge second, the poll said, winning 41 to 45 seats, while the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is likely to win only 14-17 seats. The BJP and Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress will fail to make an impact, the report said. In Uttarakhand's 70-member Assembly, AAP could win 4-6 seats, and the Congress 12-16 seats, thereby reducing BJP's count in the house from a comfortable 56 in 2017 to a more narrow 42-48 seats this year. While AAP may not form the government in Goa, it will however finish ahead of the Congress, with a projected 7-11 seats, as opposed to the grand old party's mere 4-6 seats. With an expected 18-22 seats, the BJP may not be able to form a government on its own. The Trinamool Congress, which is making its Goa foray, is not expected to garner even 2 per cent of the votes, the report stated. The projections, if proven to be correct, will bode well for the AAP, who have rekindled their ambition to become a national outfit after successive failed attempts in other states over the past few years. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-to-miss-majority-by-a-whisker-in-punjab-emerge-as-opposition-in-goa-uttarakhand-poll-1067478.html
03-01-2022||National Politics||Communal conspiracy against India's composite culture won't succeed: Union minister Naqvi on 'Bulli Bai' app||Amid an outrage over Muslim women being targeted through a dodgy app, senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi slammed those behind the incident and said any "cyber criminal communal conspiracy" against the country's composite culture will not succeed. Speaking to reporters, Naqvi, who is the Union minister for Minority Affairs, noted that the government has been acting in the matter and said such targeting of women are unacceptable. Stern action is being taken against such criminals and their "communal conspiracy" will be exposed soon, he said. Photographs of at least 100 influential Muslim women were uploaded for "auction" on an app, sparking widespread outrage, with IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw informing on Saturday that GitHub, the hosting platform, has confirmed blocking the app (Bulli Bai) and that CERT and police authorities are coordinating further action into the matter. Naqvi said some people with nefarious designs are involved in a conspiracy to "defame" India but the country will never allow such elements to succeed in their evil acts. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/communal-conspiracy-against-indias-composite-culture-wont-succeed-union-minister-naqvi-on-bulli-bai-app-1067486.html
03-01-2022||National Politics||Congress targets PM Modi after Meghalaya Governor's 'arrogant' remark about him||After Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "arrogant", senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge asked on Monday whether Malik's remarks were true. Kharge also shared a video clip on Twitter of Malik from a function at Charkhi Dadri in Haryana, where he is saying that when he went to meet the prime minister on the issue of farmers, the latter was "arrogant" and had a fight with him within five minutes. Malik claimed in the video that Modi was not ready to accept that the farmers who were protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre last year died due to him and instead, asked him to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "Meghalaya's Governor Sri. Satya Pal Malik is on record saying PM was 'arrogant' on the issue of Farmers and Home Minister Amit Shah called the PM as 'mad'. Constitutional authorities speaking about each other with such contempt!" Kharge wrote on Twitter. "Narendra Modi ji is this true?" the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha asked. Malik is also heard saying in the video clip that when he met Shah, the latter told him that "people have clouded his (Modi's) vision" and he should keep meeting the prime minister. The Congress also shared Malik's comments on its Twitter handle and alleged that it was due to Modi's arrogance that so many farmers died. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-targets-pm-modi-after-meghalaya-governors-arrogant-remark-about-him-1067491.html
03-01-2022||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Polls: More Brahmin leaders, BJP MLA join SP||Days after several high profile 'Brahmin' leaders, including an MLA each from the BJP and a BSP, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's hometown of Gorakhpur, joined the Samajwadi Party (SP), some more influential 'Brahmin' leaders joined the SP on Monday in what was being perceived as a major political gain for the party ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. BSP Lok Sabha member Ritesh Pandey's father Rakesh Pandey, an ex-MP, joined the SP in the presence of party supremo Akhilesh Yadav. Another former MLA Brijesh Mishra, also a Brahmin, joined the party along with his supporters. BJP legislator from Baharaich district Madhuri Verma, a key face in the influential 'Kurmi' community, also joined the SP in a jolt to the saffron party ahead of the polls. Rakesh Pandey, who had represented the Ambedkar Nagar seat in the previous Lok Sabha, was considered an important 'Brahmin' leader from the 'Poorvanchal' (eastern) region of UP. In 2014, his son replaced him as a BSP nominee after the former expressed his inability to contest the poll. Pandey's departure was being perceived as a huge setback to the BSP, which had been trying desperately to woo the Brahmin community. It came as a shot in the arm for the SP, which had opened up its doors for the Brahmin leaders in a bid to expand its support base in the community. Barely a few days ago Pandit Hari Shankar Tewari, one of the tallest 'Brahmin' leaders in 'Poorvanchal' (eastern region) and a six term MLA in the state assembly from Chillupar seat in Gorakhpur, and his two sons, one of whom was a BSP MLA and another a former MP had joined the SP. BJP lawmaker from Khalilabad assembly seat, which was in the Gorakhpur division, Digvijay Narayan Chaube, a Brahmin, had also joined the SP along with several other prominent  Brahmin faces from the eastern region of the state. The influx of so many senior Brahmin leaders into the SP was certain to trigger unease within the saffron party, which had launched frantic efforts to 'douse' the perceived anger among the electorally influential Brahmin community and bring them back into its fold. The BJP has formed a 16-member committee headed by party's Rajya Sabha member Shiv Pratap Shukla to reach out to the community and apprise them about the various measures initiated by the centre and the state government for the welfare of the community. BJP made Ajai Kumar Mishra, a Brahmin MP from Lakhimpur Kheri, a minister in the union cabinet and also made a key Brahmin Congress leader Jitin Prasada to cross over and made him a minister in Yogi Adityanath cabinet. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-polls-more-brahmin-leaders-bjp-mla-join-sp-1067517.html
03-01-2022||National Politics||Congress targets BJP's 'failures' in song for Uttarakhand polls||Congress on Monday released its theme song for the Uttarakhand Assembly elections targeting the ruling BJP for changing three Chief Ministers and highlighting its "failures", claiming that its "double engine" model of development has not worked for the hill state. With the punchline 'Teen Tigada, Kaam Bigada', the campaign song released by top Uttarakhand Congress leader Harish Rawat claims to defeat the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections. The punch line, which could be loosely translated as 'when something is shared among three, it spoils the game', refers to the BJP changing Chief Ministers. As the state unit presented a united face at the launch of the theme song here, Rawat said the people of Uttarakhand had made up their mind to oust the BJP from power. Rawat had earlier attacked his own party following factionalism in the state unit and said he was contemplating retiring from politics. A meeting that followed his outburst put him in charge of the campaign and central leadership asked the state leaders to provide all support to Rawat while not announcing him as the Chief Ministerial face. Asked who will be the face of the Congress, he said, "people. They are clearly asking for a change in Uttarakhand...People want a change in Uttarakhand and they are openly saying so." "Today, we are seeking change not only for power but preservation of democracy to fight for the concept of development which has been distorted. The Centre has acknowledged the failure of the 'double engine' government by changing chief ministers thrice," he said. Referring to the BJP changing its Chief Ministers, Rawat said one of the Chief Ministers, who also held the Finance portfolio, was removed when was piloting the state budget. "This is an insult to parliamentary conventions and people were not told why changes happened. In 2013, the change of chief ministers happened because of failure to handle the Kedarnath tragedy," he said referring to his return to Uttarakhand as Chief Minister. "The double engine governance model failed in the state. Why the second chief minister was appointed remains a mystery. Only two people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, know the reason. The third chief minister was also going to become a casualty but managed to stay. Uttarakhand is feeling a sense of insult," Rawat said. Asked about 'one family, one ticket formula', Rawat said no one has said that and these things are decided by the party and the Congress Working Committee. He said this is not done at the state level. Congress Uttarakhand in-charge Devendra Yadav said that some decisions on one family, one ticket have been taken in Punjab and that they would discuss these matters and decide. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-targets-bjps-failures-in-song-for-uttarakhand-polls-1067557.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Women of Punjab will defeat conspiracies to weaken SAD: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said women of Punjab would repose their faith in her party which has "always safeguarded" their aspirations and defeat the "conspiracies to weaken" it. Addressing a gathering of women in the border belt area, she asserted that conspiracies to weaken the SAD were nothing new and were always done ahead of elections in Punjab. "You have today proven that when women decide to take a stand no one can come in the way. It is now clear that just like West Bengal, where women played a big role in Mamata Banerjee's victory, the women of Punjab will also be instrumental in the victory of the SAD-BSP alliance in the forthcoming assembly elections," Badal said. "In 2012, you witnessed the formation of the People's Party of Punjab (PPP) which was dissolved after the polls and became a part of the Congress party," the former union minister said. Now again, the Congress and the BJP were trying their best to target the SAD, she alleged. "The Congress has politicised the sacrilege issue for five years. It is now refusing to take action in the case of recent sacrilege incidents committed at the Sri Darbar Sahib. The BJP is directly interfering in the internal matters of the Sikh community," Badal said. She alleged that Congressmen had committed the "biggest sacrilege" when they joined hands with Amarinder Singh to take a false oath on the eve of the 2017 elections. The BJP had used former Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa to take over control of the Sikh institution, Badal claimed.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-of-punjab-will-defeat-conspiracies-to-weaken-sad-harsimrat-kaur-badal-1067377.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||DRDO Covid hospital to restart in Varanasi as cases rise||With a sharp rise in the Covid cases in Varanasi and neighbouring districts in the past few days, officials have contacted the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to restart its temporary Covid hospital in the city. Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, "The Covid-19 situation is still under control and there is no need for panic. But, as the figures of Covid-19 cases have started increasing in Varanasi and surrounding districts, we have intensified the efforts for reviving all arrangements which had helped in tackling the second wave." He said, "The DRDO officials have also been contacted to operationalise the temporary Covid hospital with ICU facilities at the amphitheatre of Banaras Hindu University as a precautionary measure. The DRDO's team will be in the city by Tuesday." The 500-bed DRDO temporary hospital -- which was named Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid Hospital -- was started for Covid patients at the amphitheatre ground in May 2021 to meet the increased demand of the requirement of the ICU beds as many critical Covid-19 patients needed level-2 and level-3 facilities. The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) specialists, doctors, nursing and other medical staff, had been moved from across the country on a war footing to run the hospital in coordination with BHU and the civil administration. This facility of DRDO was closed after June 16, 2021, after the requirement of level-3 facilities decreased. The commissioner further said, "The Covid-19 vaccine first dose coverage in Varanasi district is 95 per cent while the average of four districts in the division is 80 per cent. Now, focus is on mobilising people, who have taken first dose, to get their second dose also." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drdo-covid-hospital-to-restart-in-varanasi-as-cases-rise-1067405.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Third wave of Covid will end in April, says IIT Kanpur professor||Professor Manindra Agarwal of IIT Kanpur has said that the third wave of the pandemic will end by April. The scientist, however, warned that rallies during elections can prove to be super spreader for Corona infection, as it is not easy to follow the Covid guidelines in such gatherings. Prof Agarwal said that as a large number of people reach the election rallies without following the guidelines, the risk of infection increases to a great extent. In such a situation, there is a need to be careful. If there are rallies, the transition can pick up ahead of time. According to Prof Agarwal, who bases his predictions of the epidemic on the basis of his mathematical model, the third wave will come in India in January and in March, 1.8 lakh cases can come daily. "It will be a matter of relief that only 1 in 10 will need a hospital. Two lakh beds will be needed in the middle of March," he said. He further said that 80 per cent of the population in Africa and India is below 45 years of age. Natural immunity is up to 80 per cent in both countries. In both countries the delta variant has been due to mutants. Like South Africa, India too is less likely to have a major impact, he claimed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/third-wave-of-covid-will-end-in-april-says-iit-kanpur-professor-1067415.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Need to hold vaccination on war footing: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan laid emphasis on conducting vaccination against the viral infection on a war footing as the drive to inoculate children in the 15 to 18 years age group began on Monday. Chouhan also sought the participation of the elected representatives, volunteers and religious leaders to encourage children to get vaccinated. The vaccination for this age group is to be held in the premises of schools only, the CM said in a statement. “We have to hold the vaccination drive on a war footing. Crisis management committees, MPs, MLAs, social workers, volunteers, religious leaders, all are requested to appeal to the children to get vaccinated,” he said. In Bhopal, the administration has planned to provide jabs to over 40,000 students in this age group between January 3 and 6 across 1,086 schools of the district, Collector Avinash Lavania said on Sunday. Madhya Pradesh Immunisation Officer Dr Santosh Shukla had earlier said there are 36 lakh registered school children in the 15-18 age group in the state. “We have plans to administer doses to 12 lakh children on Monday. The state had earlier set a record of 30 lakh doses in a single day. But, with children we can't be hasty. After covering school children, we will target school dropouts,” he had said. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday advised states and Union Territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queue and different vaccination teams for the 15-18 year age group to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines. The vaccine option for this age group would only be Covaxin, according to guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry on December 27. The Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorisation to the indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions on December 24. On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh reported 151 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the state to 7,94,240, while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,533. The recovery count stood at 7,83,099, leaving the state with 608 active Covid-19 cases, as per official statistics.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-hold-vaccination-on-war-footing-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1067421.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Here's what would change if Delhi is put on 'red alert'||The alarm bells seem to be ringing in Delhi as the national capital reached a Covid positivity rate of 4.59 per cent, just shy of 5 per cent, which would move the city's alert level two notches up, from 'yellow' to 'red'. Delhi on Sunday reported 3,194 new Covid-19 cases, but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has implored people not to panic as most cases are 'mild or asymptomatic.' However, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Monday morning that 4,000 cases are expected to be reported in the day, with a positivity rate higher than 6 per cent.  Either way, the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) prepared by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will be implemented across the city should the positivity rate cross 5 per cent. Currently, the 'yellow alert' imposed in Delhi includes a night curfew and shutting down of educational institutes, move halls, gyms, etc. Here's what a red alert would entail: *A night, as well as a weekend curfew, will be put in place to restrict the movement of people. Certain categories of people will be exempted from the same. *Malls, weekly markets, shops, establishments that deal with on-essential goods will have to shut. *Restaurants and bars will have to shut. *Hotels and lodges can operate with room service to in-house guests. However, banquets or conferences will not be permitted. *Barbershops and beauty salons too will have to close down. *Government offices, other than those providing essential or emergency services, will not be allowed to function. The GRAP will allow emergency services to run with 100 per cent staff.  *For weddings and funerals, no more than 15 people will be allowed to gather, as opposed to the limit of 20 people in place currently.    Meanwhile, Delhi's tally of Omicron infections has touched 351.    Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heres-what-would-change-if-delhi-is-put-on-red-alert-1067434.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||UP raids: Income Tax team takes Pampi Jain to Kanpur||The team of Income Tax department, which was conducting raids at the premises of Uttar Pradesh-based perfume businessman Pushapraj Pampi Jain and of his associates, on Monday took him to Kanpur. According to the information, the I-T team will open the locks of his different premises in front of him. "If the team finds any lock, the key of which hasn't been given to them by Jain, it will be broken. Pampi Jain is being taken so that the locks (of those without the key or keys) could be broken in front of him and the raid could continue," said an official. The official said that they were taking Pampi Jain to Kanpur where they will conduct a search at different premises. While being taken to Kanpur, Pampi Jain told reporters in Kannauj that the I-T team had not found anything against him and "everything was cool". He, in fact said, "It was fun." The sources have claimed that the team has recovered a few documents, which showed he made business transactions of Rs 40 crore in the Middle East. The companies based in the Middle East reportedly sold perfumery compounds. "There were a few Kolkata-based shell companies, which have connections with Pampi Jain. Transaction of around Rs 10 crore was made through these shell companies," the source said. Pampi Jain is an MLC of Samajwadi Party. Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has attacked the Centre over the raid, saying that it was being done at the behest of BJP because they are facing a tough time in the state. Akhilesh Yadav recently launched Pampi Jain's 'Samajwadi Party Perfume'. The I-T department also conducted raids at the premises of Mahavir Prasad, who is a close associate of Pampi Jain. Prasad has an office on the Express Road in Kanpur. One Anup Jain's Anand Nagar situated office was also searched by the I-T team. The Chartered Accounts of Pampi Jain were also questioned regarding different money transactions. Other perfume businessman Malik Mian and his son Faizan Malik's premises were also raided. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-raids-income-tax-team-takes-pampi-jain-to-kanpur-1067438.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||SIT files 5,000-page charge sheet in Lakhimpur Kheri case; Ashish Mishra prime accused||Almost three months after eight people were killed in violence during a farmers' protest at Lakhimpur Kheri district, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing filed a charge sheet on Monday in which union Minister of State Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish was named the key accused. According to the police sources, the charge sheet that runs into 5,000 pages has named 17 persons, including Ashish. As many as 14 of them have been arrested and were currently lodged in jail. "Ashish Mishra has been made the key accused in the case," said a senior police official in Lakhimpur Kheri. Police sources said that the prosecution had also listed 208 witnesses who would be deposing in the court. Sources said that the SIT had stated that Ashish was present on the scene of violence. The SIT had earlier said that the violence was part of a 'pre-planned conspiracy' and that the accused persons had perpetrated the crime deliberately. It had approached the district court in Lakhimpur Kheri, where the matter was being heard, seeking to invoke stringent sections of the IPC in the case, including those of murder and criminal conspiracy. Saying the incident was not a case of rash driving, the SIT invoked sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 120B (Criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and some others in the case. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district in October when hundreds of farmers held protests against Ajay Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. While both Ashish and his father Ajay Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them, the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend of his. The incident had triggered nationwide outrage and the Opposition parties had demanded sacking of Ajay Mishra from the union cabinet. The BJP government, however, rejected the demand for the sacking, apparently fearing a backlash from the Brahmin community in the forthcoming assembly polls in UP. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-files-5000-page-charge-sheet-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-ashish-mishra-prime-accused-1067446.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Internal rift widens in Punjab Congress ahead of polls||Ahead of the Assembly polls, the internal rift in Punjab Congress has widened with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu attacking his own government and ministers, including Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. According to sources, party leaders in Delhi are unhappy with the state of affairs in Punjab and have asked the state leaders to put up a united front and refrain from speaking against each other. Sidhu has been critical of state Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who reportedly has offered to quit his portfolio, for not arresting SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case. The Congress leaders have been saying the government will take action against him but only an FIR has been lodged. Former Akali minister and brother-in-law of Sukhbir Badal, Bikram Singh Majithia was booked on December 21, under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. As per the FIR, Majihtia was booked for allowing drug smuggling through use of his property or conveyance, financing the distribution or sale of drugs and hatching a criminal conspiracy for smuggling. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi had said last month that his government won't allow any drug trafficker to go scot-free and that the law will take its own course in Majithia's case. Channi had reiterated his government's firm commitment to completely eradicate the menace of drugs. But a restless Sidhu has been demanding immediate action against Majithia and has accused the home minister of "complacency" adding to the troubles in the state unit. Though the Congress leadership in Delhi is trying to fix internal problems of the states going to polls but there seems to be no end to the toubles as after Punjab, problems erupted in Uttarakhand. Now Punjab, Goa, and Manipur units are also witnessing exodus of MLAs. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/internal-rift-widens-in-punjab-congress-ahead-of-polls-1067449.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||'Bulli Bai' case: Delhi Police writes to Twitter to remove objectionable content||After blocking the controversial app 'Bulli Bai' for posting prominent Muslim women photos, Delhi Police on Monday sought details from the GitHub platform and Twitter about perpetrators.   As part of the investigation, the police approached GitHub seeking details about the developer of the 'Bulli Bai' application which is available on its platform. The police also wanted to know the intention and purpose behind the creation of such an application and its whereabouts, said an official from the Delhi Police. Mumbai Cyber Crime Police also registered an FIR and is probing the matter. Separately, the National Commission for Women had also written to the Delhi Police to expedite its action in the case related to the app to ensure that such crimes do not recur. The Delhi Police on Saturday night registered an FIR against unknown persons following a complaint from a journalist against Bulli Bai' app. Pictures of hundreds of Muslim women including prominent personalities for "auction" on the Bulli Bai app, which received strong demand for action against culprits.  IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday said that the government is working with police in Delhi and Mumbai, where cases have been registered in the matter. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), the country's nodal agency on cyber security, and police are coordinating further action in the matter, the Minister tweeted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulli-bai-case-delhi-police-writes-to-twitter-to-remove-objectionable-content-1067451.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Six days after joining BJP, Punjab MLA returns to Congress||Just six days after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Punjab MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi has parted ways with the saffron party and rejoined the Congress. Laddi on Monday said he returned to the Congress fold on Sunday night in the presence of AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Chaudhary, and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Laddi, the legislator from Sri Hargobindpur, along with Qadian MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa, had joined the BJP on December 28, 2021 in New Delhi, in the presence of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is the Punjab in-charge of the party.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-days-after-joining-bjp-punjab-mla-returns-to-congress-1067454.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Omicron accounts for 84% of Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the last 2 days: Health Minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that 84 per cent of the national capital's Covid-19 cases over the past 2 days were of the Omicron variant. "84 per cent of the Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi in the past 2 days were of the Omicron variant. Delhi is expected to report around 4,000 cases today with the positivity rate rising to 6.5 per cent. Currently, 202 patients are admitted in Delhi hospitals," Jain said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omicron-accounts-for-84-of-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-the-last-2-days-health-minister-satyendar-jain-1067455.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir begins vaccination drive for teens aged 15-18||Vaccination for teens in the age group of 15 to 18 years started in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday along with the rest of the country amid a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, fuelled by the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. J&K Additional Chief Secretary Health and Medical Education department Vivek Bharadwaj kick-started the drive at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Kothi Bagh in Srinagar, officials said. 822 vaccination sites have been set up across 20 districts of the union territory. “8.33 lakh children (15-18 years) will be vaccinated in J&K and a plan has been already devised to vaccinate one lakh children on a daily basis,” Bharadwaj told reporters. He said that the administration was fully prepared to tackle any eventuality as the number of beds including ICU, ventilators and oxygen has been increased by many times compared to the time when the second wave of Covid-19 hit the UT in April-May last year. Official figures reveal that since May 2021 the administration has increased the bed capacity for Covid patients across J&K by 100 per cent. Similarly, the number of ventilators commissioned in hospitals too has witnessed an uptick. In May 2021 there were 8,820 isolation beds designated for Covid patients across J&K in hospitals. Now the number of such hospital beds has gone up to 19,783, the figures reveal. Director School Education, Tasaduq Hussian, who was also present on the occasion, said that supplementary exams were available for all those students who missed it due to being Covid positive. In Jammu, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive for children from Government Higher Secondary School (Boys), Gandhi Nagar. A large number of schools and other educational institutions are being used as vaccination centres in the UT. On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that vaccination for the 15-18-year age group will begin from January 3. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-begins-vaccination-drive-for-teens-aged-15-18-1067464.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||No shortage of medical staff in Delhi hospitals: Satyendar Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain Monday informed the Delhi Assembly that there was no shortage of medical staff in state-run hospitals and clinics at a time when the national capital is seeing an uptick in coronavirus cases.  He was replying to a question by BJP MLA OP Sharma. While Jain stated there was no shortage of doctors, nurses, paramedics and non-medical staff in dispensaries, hospitals and clinics, the government also issued a list of posts lying vacant, with the minister saying that the government is taking steps to fill them. The government was also asked about the steps being taken to fill the vacant posts. The government informed the assembly that they have been sending letters to UPSC and DSSSB demanding that the vacant posts be filled. According to numbers shared by the government, of the 1,236 sanctioned posts of specialists in state-run medical facilities, 932 have been filled with regular candidates and 43 with contractual employees, while 261 posts are lying vacant. There are 1,357 sanctioned posts of General Duty Medical Officer, of which 1,219 posts have been filled while 44 posts have been filled up by contractual employees. Eighty-four posts are lying vacant.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-shortage-of-medical-staff-in-delhi-hospitals-satyendar-jain-1067485.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Complaint filed against Delhi BJP chief for causing inconvenience to public||A Delhi-based lawyer on Monday wrote to Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana seeking penal action against Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta for causing inconvenience to the public by obstructing traffic at several spots across the national capital. "These deliberate and malicious acts of the accused is an offence under section 141, 145, 186, 188, 283, 425, 34 of the IPC and therefore penal action should be taken against Adesh Kumar Gupta, President of Delhi BJP and other known persons who were actively involved in this illegal traffic jam," Advocate Vineet Jindal wrote. The BJP Delhi was protesting against the Arvind Kejriwal-led government's new excise policy and obstructed traffic in at least 15 spots in the city. The opposition party has alleged that the new policy will encourage opening of liquor shops in every nook and corner of the national capital, giving the city a bad name. The protests were staged at ITO, Chandini Chowk, Akshardham cross mall road, Keshavpuram, Vikas Marg, Civil Lines, Shahadra, Signature Bridge, Karol Bagh, South and South West Delhi, among other locations. Jindal told IANS that the traffic jam caused massive inconvenience to the commuters and even he was himself stuck in the jam near Azadpur in north west Delhi for more than 2 hours. Pertinently, no effort was made by Delhi BJP to inform the residents about where they were going to protest and organise chakka jam, he said. "The act of Delhi BJP is also an offence to obstruct the public servant in performing their duty by causing obstruction in traffic even after several requests by the traffic police officers to stop their protest," the letter to the Delhi Police chief read. Jindal, in his letter, also pointed out that the members of Delhi BJP "wilfully disobeyed" the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in wake of Omicron variant of novel coronavirus. Notably, as per DDMA guidelines, no social gathering or rally is allowed in these pandemic times. Since the introduction of the new excise policy, the BJP has been protesting against the Kejriwal-led government. Under this policy, nearly 850 liquor shops are supposed to open up across the city as the state government made an exit from the liquor business.Reacting to Monday's protests, Sisodia tweeted: "BJP is furious over the implementation of the new excise policy because Kejriwal government has put a stoppage to the theft to Rs 35,000 crore in Delhi. This money is now being received by the government which will use it for the benefit of masses, earlier this money used to go to the pockets of BJP leaders and liquor mafia." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/complaint-filed-against-delhi-bjp-chief-for-causing-inconvenience-to-public-1067492.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Cache of arms, drugs recovered by BSF along India-Pak border in Jammu||A cache of arms and drugs concealed in a bag was recovered by the Border Security Force (BSF) during the zero line patrolling (ZLP) near the International Border (IB) in Jammu, officials said on Monday. "During special ZLP in the AOR of 98 Bn BSF at about 1010 hrs dt 03 Jan 2022, BSF troops recovered a white colour sack bag filled with some Arms /Amns which was hidden in sarkanda near IB near BP 35," BSF said in a tweet. The recovery included three AK 47 rifles, five packets of heroin, four pistols, four AK magazines, 14 rounds of AK 47 and seven rounds of 9 mm ball. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cache-of-arms-drugs-recovered-by-bsf-along-india-pak-border-in-jammu-1067496.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Stray dog attack: Human rights panel seeks reply from Bhopal civic chief||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission has sought a response from Bhopal municipal commissioner and health department officials within a week in connection with the incident of a minor girl attacked by stray dogs in the state capital. The commission on Sunday also asked officials concerned to furnish details of the compensation provided to the father of the victim and her current health report, according to a statement issued by the commission. The girl, about two to three years old, was injured after some stray dogs attacked her on Saturday evening in Bag Sewania locality here. She was later rescued by a man and admitted to hospital, officials earlier said. The incident was captured on a CCTV and the footage went viral on social media platforms. The human rights commission has also sought a reply from the authorities on the steps taken to contain the canine population in the city, under the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001. It has also asked for the ward-wise number of stray dogs sterilised during the last year and the number of rabied canines removed from streets in the city. The panel has also sought details of dog bite incidents, action taken in such cases, and monthly reports of meetings of the monitoring committee, as per the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stray-dog-attack-human-rights-panel-seeks-reply-from-bhopal-civic-chief-1067497.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||'Inspired' by Lord Krishna, BJP MP wants Yogi Adityanath to contest from Mathura||A BJP MP has written to party president J P Nadda urging the latter to declare Uttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath the party's nominee from Mathura seat. In his letter to Nadda, BJP Rajya Sabha member Harnath Singh Yadav said that Lord Krishna himself had 'inspired' him to write to the party president and urge him to make Adityanath the saffron party's nominee from Mathura seat. "Lord Krishna inspired me to write this letter to you to request for Adityanath's nomination from Mathura," Yadav said in the letter to Nadda. Adityanath had evaded a direct reply when asked by the reporters if he would be contesting the forthcoming assembly polls and said that he would abide by the party leadership's direction. The UP BJP leadership appeared to be divided on nominating Adityanath as a candidate in the polls. While one section of the party wanted him to contest, another section was opposed to it. The chief minister, who was currently a member of the legislative council, may contest from Ayodhya or Gorakhpur if at all he does take a plunge in the electoral battle. "Both are considered to be among the safest seats for the BJP," said a BJP leader here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inspired-by-lord-krishna-bjp-mp-wants-yogi-adityanath-to-contest-from-mathura-1067506.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Two LeT militants, including Pakistani, killed in Srinagar gunfights||One of the longest surviving and most wanted militants of Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit and a Pakistani terrorist were killed in two separate gunfights with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Monday. A police spokesperson said that based on ‘specific input’ regarding the presence of militants in the Harwan/Shalimar area of Srinagar, a search operation was launched. “The search party was fired upon indiscriminately by hiding terrorist, which was effectively retaliated leading to a brief shootout and elimination of a dreaded terrorist Saleem Parray, linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT,” he said. Soon after the first shootout, another operation was carried out by the police, CRPF and Army in Gasu, Zakoora on Srinagar outskirts, the police said. “During the said operation, one foreign terrorist identified as Hafiz @ Hamza of Pakistan linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT was neutralised.” Police said Saleem Parray was a categorised militant, active since 2016 and “involved in several civilian killings. Besides, he was also involved in throat slitting of many civilians in the Hajin area. He was also involved in providing logistic support to the terrorists operating in the area to carry terror attacks.” “Parray had spread a reign of terror by abducting civilians and killing/torturing them in the name of informers. He was also involved in reviving the terror folds of proscribed terror outfit LeT in Hajan and its adjoining area,” the police said and added last year he had figured in the most wanted list of militants in Kashmir. The second slain militant was identified as Hafiz alias Hamza, a Pakistani national who police said was involved in several militancy related crimes including the recent killing of two policemen in Bandipora on 10/12/21. “After this terror crime, he shifted to Harwan area of Srinagar due to frequent cordon and search operations in Bandipora area. He was also involved in killing of a CRPF personnel at Hajin Bandipora and killing of a civilian in Soura area of Srinagar,” police added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-let-militants-including-pakistani-killed-in-srinagar-gunfights-1067508.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Lockdown last option, says Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday chaired an emergency meeting of ministers, senior officials and asked district level authorities to increase testing and also impose restrictions on major public events to prevent crowding. Coronavirus cases are rising rapidly and it seems a third wave of infections is approaching, the CM said, but added that a lockdown will be the last option after various curbs and measures are implemented. "Districts should remain alert. The number of daily tests must increase and all arrangements must be in place in hospitals," he said. Later, talking to reporters after the meeting, Baghel said officials have been told to coordinate with all departments, business sector, industry associations and other organisations before taking further decisions to deal with the outbreak. The third wave seems to be different from the first and second ones and less dangerous but alertness will have to be maintained as the infection was spreading in Delhi, Mumbai etc, the CM said. "A lockdown will be the last option. As of now, efforts are being made to increase testing at airports, railway stations and bus stands as well as adherence to quarantine and isolation practices. If the cases continue to rise even after such efforts, then in the last stage we will head for a lockdown," he said. On Sunday, Chhattisgarh had reported 290 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 10,08,756, including 13,601 deaths, leaving the state with an active caseload of 1,273. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-last-option-says-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-1067514.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu promises Rs 2,000, 8 LPG cylinders to women homemakers in Punjab||Advancing the race to lure voters with promises of freebies ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday promised Rs 2,000 per month for women homemakers if his party is voted to power. Sidhu also promised eight free cooking gas cylinders to homemakers every year. The state Congress chief also promised two-wheelers to girls taking admission in colleges for further studies, Rs 20,000 to those passing 12th class, Rs 15,000 to the ones passing 10th standard and Rs 5,000 to the others passing fifth grade. Sidhu’s promises virtually outdo those of Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who has promised Rs 1,000 to all women in Punjab, besides up to 300 units of free domestic power every month if his party is voted to power in the poll-bound state. Sidhu made these announcements in a rally organised in Punjab's Barnala district. Addressing the rally, Sidhu made the promises while stressing the need for empowering women in the state. “Women homemakers will be given Rs 2,000 per month and eight (LPG) cylinders free by the Punjab government,” he said. Announcing his second promise, Sidhu said girls, be it from villages or urban areas, after passing fifth class will be given Rs 5,000. “As an incentive, girls who pass class 10th standard will be given Rs 15,000 and girls after passing 12th standard and wish to go to colleges for higher studies will be given Rs 20,000,” he said. He further promised computers for girls for pursuing higher studies. He promised that the girls will also be given two-wheelers to enable them to go to college. Transfer of properties in the name of women will be done free of charge, he further said. He also promised to set up 28 skill development centres for women across the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-promises-rs-2000-8-lpg-cylinders-to-women-homemakers-in-punjab-1067531.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||DCW summons Delhi Police in connection with probe into 'Bulli Bai', 'Sulli Deal' cases||The Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) on Monday asked police officials to appear before it later this week in connection with a probe into objectionable content on 'Bulli Bai' and 'Sulli Deal' apps. The DCW, in a statement, said it has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports regarding pictures of many Muslim women being been uploaded on 'GitHub' platform without their consent. It has asked the Delhi Police to appear before it and provide a list of people arrested in both the 'Sulli deal' and 'Bulli Bai' cases. The commission said non-arrest of culprits in such a serious matter is appalling and that this "callous attitude of the law enforcement agency has emboldened the culprits and others who are continuing to sell women and girls online". "It was reported that doctored photos of hundreds of Muslim women and girls were uploaded by an unidentified group of persons on an app using internet platform 'GitHub' and were shared with the term, 'Bulli deal of the day'," it said. The commission said in 2021, pictures of many Muslim women and girls were uploaded on the same 'GitHub' platform under the name "Sulli Deals". "In that matter, while the Delhi Police had registered an FIR in July last year after DCW's intervention, it is yet to make any arrests," it said. The DCW has sought details of action taken against the 'GitHub' app by the Delhi Police along with steps taken in preventing such platforms from uploading "derogatory" and "illegal" content in the future. "The Delhi Police has also been asked to inform whether any guidelines with respect to such incidents have been formed by them?” the commission said. The police have been directed to appear before the commission on January 6 with the complete case files of both the matters. DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal said, "I am of the view that these incidents are happening due to the callous behaviour of the Delhi Police in matters related to Cyber Crime. Why have no arrests been made till date in the Sulli Deals matter? Delhi Police must make arrests in both 'Sulli Deal' and 'Bulli Bai' matters urgently and get their act together in other cases related to cyber crime! Have issued summons to them. Shall ensure accountability!" Photographs of at least 100 influential Muslim women were uploaded for "auction" on an app, sparking widespread outrage. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had informed on Saturday that GitHub, the hosting platform, confirmed blocking the app (Bulli Bai) and that CERT and police authorities were coordinating further action into the matter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-summons-delhi-police-in-connection-with-probe-into-bulli-bai-sulli-deal-cases-1067532.html
03-01-2022||North and Central||3-year-old girl was raped, killed by grandmother's lover: Noida cops||The Noida Police on Monday arrested a 55-year-old man for allegedly raping and killing his 50-year-old girlfriend's three-year-old granddaughter as the couple believed she was a "hindrance to their marriage", officials said. The grandmother has also been detained for her role in the matter which was reported on December 25 after the child had gone "missing", the police said, as it busted the blind murder case. The girl's body was recovered from an under-construction building near Ilahabas village on December 28, with the police launching a probe after it suspected that the child was sexually assaulted as well, officials said. They said the girl had been living with her grandmother as her father had been in jail for the last two years while her mother had been living in her home district of Budaun due to a dispute between the couple. "The woman had on December 25 informed the local Phase 2 police station that her granddaughter had gone missing on December 24. An FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code section 363 (missing) and search launched for the child," a police spokesperson said. "After investigation and post-mortem report, sexual assault against the child was confirmed. It was also confirmed that there had been an attempt to hide the evidence as the body was hidden under a log of plywood in the under-construction building," the official said. With thorough investigation, the grandmother, who had reported the incident to the police, broke down during the questioning and confessed to her relationship with the man, the police claimed. "The man hails from Bulandshahr district but had been staying near Sector 88 in Noida for a long time. He has a criminal mentality. He along with his girlfriend had conspired the murder of the child, believing she was hindrance to their marriage," the spokesperson said. The accused was arrested on Monday from Sector 88, while the woman has been detained and further legal proceedings are being carried out, the police said. Charges under IPC section 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), among others, as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have been added in the case, the police added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-year-old-girl-was-raped-killed-by-grandmothers-lover-noida-cops-1067598.html
03-01-2022||Oasis||The motionless mind||Eckhart Tolle, the German-born spiritual teacher stated, “All problems are illusions of the mind.” It's always the mind over matter – it matters to keep the mind under control. To still the mind is a task of Himalayan proportions. What is the mind? Is it a body part? The mind is a collection of thoughts and is considered the 6th sense organ of the subtle body. It is not a body part but the inputs from the other five sense organs as well as its own create thoughts, emotions, etc. The lure of the external world is ominous. External sensory organs of our body help us grasp outside knowledge. Ear helps us hear. Skin feels touch, eyes see, the tongue tastes, and the nose smells. They are natural tools to grasp external knowledge of things. The more in pursuit of the external objects, the more the lure which makes it a perfect Catch-22 situation. The mantra is to turn the senses inwards, a 180-degree turn. This process starts with an analysis of thoughts, understanding the root cause of actions and hence behaviour, and commencing the refinement process. It benefits to reduce the number of thoughts arising in our mind and to dwell on a single thought in a conscious manner for an extended period of time. When that single thought is to understand and further the realisation of self or the Atman, it has a profound effect that yields better results for the seeker. Brahma Satya Jagat Mithya by Advaita guru Sri Adi Shankaracharya elucidates that the knowledge of Brahma as the Adishtana is the only truth and permanent, while the viewed external world which the mind perceives is Mithya — illusory and impermanent. Among a few tools, meditation helps to tame the mind. Bhakti is another path that allows the seeker to find ways to merge with the Supreme Power with a singular focus devoid of external pleasures. An ideal end state is considered a 'no mind' state. Mind is responsible for the travails in our life journey but when programmed to stay ‘still’ eases the path to enable the seeker to realise the ultimate truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-motionless-mind-1067673.html
03-01-2022||Opinion||Uttar Pradesh polls and the Covid night curfew's political purpose||Has Covid-19 turned into an owl? The people of Uttar Pradesh are asking this question as the Yogi Adityanath government has enforced a night curfew to prevent the spread of the latest coronavirus variant – Omicron. Restrictions on the movement of people and gatherings remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am, while political parties are free to hold their rallies and mega shows and people have the freedom to party throughout the day. It is no wonder that some have asked, "is Omicron nocturnal and a day-sleeper?" The night curfew in the country's most populous state came into place on Christmas night on December 25, compelling people to avoid midnight and post-midnight celebrations and gatherings. Ironically, earlier on the same day, the UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, remained busy distributing tablets and smartphones to more than 60,000 youth who had gathered at a specially organised event under one roof of Lucknow's Ekana cricket stadium. Over the last few days of 2021, one has witnessed numerous political rallies of all major political parties, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi leaving others far behind. Modi visited UP and addressed four big rallies between December 21 and 28, and another on January 2.  Starting from the mega show of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inauguration in his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi, rallies were held in Prayagraj and Gorakhpur, followed by Kanpur and the laying of the foundation stone of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut on January 2. Not only did the PM draw massive crowds, but the chaos and congestion created across Kanpur on December 28 threw all coronavirus precautions to the winds. Chief Minister Adityanath was not left too far behind Modi in holding public events in different cities of the state, drawing thousands of people. Interestingly, according to a study, the post-11pm traffic on Lucknow's roads is less than five per cent of what one finds on those same roads during the day. Night gatherings were limited mainly to weddings. The night curfew permits marriages with a ceiling of 200 people on the gathering.   So what was it the government intendeds to achieve by enforcing a strict night curfew? Nothing in terms of corona prevention. But it seems to serve specific political purposes.  After all, such a move does help send a message far and wide that the government is genuinely concerned about the welfare of the people of the state. In the bargain, the government may succeed in substantiating its tall and allegedly false claims, echoed systematically on the mainstream media and social media platforms, about how well it had carried out corona management during the lethal second wave.  The blitzkrieg carried out by the Yogi Adityanath administration to spread the falsehood of "unprecedented and unparalleled" corona management has yet to heal the scars left by the deadly pandemic. The sufferings of the people during that dark phase are still fresh in their minds. The political and administrative dispensation leaves no stones unturned to persuade people to believe what is far from the truth.  It may be worth mentioning here that the Yogi Adityanath government did not hesitate to outrightly deny on the floor of the state assembly that "no one in the state died due to shortage of oxygen" – something that only a blind and deaf person could be made to believe. The sight of people queuing up through the night to procure oxygen cylinders for their dying kin and the wailing of family members losing their near and dear ones in hospitals due to the unavailability of oxygen remains a stark reminder of the government's utter failure on this count.  The vast difference between the death toll shown in the government's daily press releases and the actual record of Covid bodies cremated or buried in crematoriums and graveyards speaks volumes about the administration's blatant effort to conceal the hard truth.  The government has gone overboard to create an impression that all is well in the state and that the Yogi Adityanath government has "transformed" Uttar Pradesh. Every official effort was directed towards establishing how Adityanath had fallen heavy on the state's criminals to ensure "good" law and order – when the move was clearly selective against criminals belonging to the Muslim community, while those from the majority community were allowed to have a field day. Another thing widely publicised in newspapers and on television channels across the length and breadth of the country was about how Adityanath has carried out "unprecedented development" in four and a half years. While the government might have succeeded in making people believe the unbelievable, reports from different parts of the state convey that the ruling dispensation's propaganda bid about oxygen shortage was proving counter-productive. Hence, the sudden hype intends to give the impression that the government was vigilant and proactive in preventing the third wave – when several international reports have explicitly suggested that Omicron did not seem to be a "killer" variant.  If the scare is real, why just a night curfew and not a lockdown? Undoubtedly, the night curfew appears to be more of a facade because it does not seem to serve any meaningful purpose.  (Sharat Pradhan is a journalist and author based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uttar-pradesh-polls-and-the-covid-night-curfews-political-purpose-1067393.html
03-01-2022||Opinion||The second drone age is here and it’s a free-for-all||By Ruth Pollard The pandemic has already given the future a distinctly dystopian look. And then there’s this: the burgeoning of the “second drone age.” That’s how experts are describing the international drone market — which ranges from tiny startups selling $1,000-to-$2,000 off-the-shelf technology that can be easily weaponized by terrorist groups like the Taliban, to high-tech unmanned vehicles that can carry laser-guided munitions and Hellfire missiles. It’s an even more highly autonomised proliferation of the first age of drones, which has been dominated by the US since its first attack using a remotely piloted craft in 2001. Now, it’s an ungoverned, unregulated space with billions of dollars to be made and thousands of lives at stake. The deadly shortcomings of this high-tech violence were placed squarely in the public eye with the US drone strike in Kabul on August 29 that targeted terrorists but instead killed 10 Afghan civilians, including seven children. It was a failure of military intelligence and, like so many other civilian fatalities of the US air wars, including those featured in a New York Times investigation published in December, there was no finding of wrongdoing against those involved. The transformation of defense operations has been far-reaching: 102 countries now run active military drone programs. It’s replaced thousands of troops on the ground with controllers behind computers located in bases far away from the air strikes they are launching. In the US, fewer troop deaths mean less pressure at the ballot box and less congressional oversight. It allows leaders of many countries and the proxies that support them to get away with what amounts to murder, often of their own citizens, as we’ve seen in the conflicts in Syria and Yemen. All of this is happening without any overarching regulatory regime to protect civilian populations and uphold humanitarian laws, or to examine the operational and tactical ramifications of this remote-control warfare.  That’s what worries experts like Paul Lushenko, a US Army lieutenant colonel and a Ph.D scholar at Cornell University. Drones are not just a form of war but a tool of unregulated intra-state political violence, Lushenko told me, representing a “dystopian view of what’s developing right now.”  Lushenko, who co-edited the newly released Drones and Global Order: Implications of Remote Warfare for International Society with Srinjoy Bose, a senior lecturer in international relations at the University of New South Wales, and William Maley, an emeritus professor at the Australian National University, is just one of many advocating for better regulation and more public scrutiny of drone operations. The US withdrawal from Afghanistan in August provides an ideal moment for that post-mortem, he notes. There has been some attempt at oversight. The Missile Technology Control Regime, an informal political understanding among 35 members, seeks to limit the proliferation of and trade in missiles and missile technology — which arguably covers attack drones. But there’s no enforcement mechanism, Lushenko says. It’s certainly not equipped to regulate armed and networked drones, which can take as many as 200 people to operate, including those controlling them from the US, as well as launching them from bases abroad. Drones are a gateway technology, Agnes Callamard noted in June as she marked the end of her five years as the United Nations special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions. They’ve opened the door to weaponized artificial intelligence, algorithmic and robotic warfare, and loosened human control over the deployment of lethal force. Today’s armed drones, she wrote, are tomorrow’s killer robots. She says the absence of a control mechanism for a new generation of weapons of mass destruction represents a significant threat. Callamard, now the secretary general of Amnesty International, has called for a specific “Drone Technology Control Regime” and says nations should establish a multilateral process to develop standards for the design, export, and use of drones as well as stricter controls on the transfer of military technologies. Sales agreements, she says, should include civilian protection and adherence to international human rights and humanitarian law.  This gaping hole in international oversight has allowed major powers like the US to flout global norms (like the US drone strike that killed the commander of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ elite Quds force, Qassem Soleimani, in Iraq in January 2020). Large-scale manufacturers now negotiate sales directly with prospective buyers who have clear military and security uses in mind. It’s seen Turkey emerge as a drone superpower in the sector, which market intelligence firm BIS Research estimated was worth $28.5 billion in 2021. The US has already expressed its concerns over Turkey’s sale of weaponized drones to Ethiopia, where the government of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali is suspected of using them against rebel forces in the Tigray region in a civil war that’s killed thousands of civilians and forced more than 2 million people to flee their homes. The conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region saw Azerbaijan emerge as the clear victor using Russian, Turkish, Israeli, and indigenous drones to overpower its neighbor’s less sophisticated military.  All this illustrates the size of the logistical challenges facing the Biden administration and its plans for an “over-the-horizon” strategy in Afghanistan. The policy depends on other countries agreeing to house US bases to enable Washington to continue its counterterrorism efforts, including the use of armed drones. But without regulation and oversight, the only certainty here is that the technology will continue to advance everywhere. There will be more civilian casualties — and no one will be held accountable. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-second-drone-age-is-here-and-it-s-a-free-for-all-1067411.html
03-01-2022||Opinion||Christians under attack: Bigotry and secularism are two sides of the same coin||Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Dr S Jaishankar, Jyotiraditya Scindia are all Union ministers who've studied in Christian institutions. Yet, not one of them has felt disturbed enough to express concern over the ongoing attacks on Christians in states ruled by their party. When Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two sons were burnt alive by Bajrang Dal leader Dara Singh in Odisha on January 23, 1999, then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee not only condemned the "ghastly attack" but also fasted on Martyrs' Day to call for communal harmony. "Our heads have bowed in shame," wrote party stalwart Madan Lal Khurana to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Kushabhau Thakre, condemning the "pseudo-Hindutva" prevailing in the BJP. For that, the ex-chief minister of Delhi had to resign. In 2008, as Christian Dalits in Odisha's Kandhamal were hunted down by Bajrang Dal-led mobs after VHP leader Lakshmanananda Saraswati was killed by Maoists, BJP president LK Advani, the original Hindutva hardliner, assured religious heads of different faiths that he was secular, for he had studied in a missionary school. Today, as Sangh Parivar members regularly attack defenceless pastors in his state, Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya, another missionary school product, demands that Christians be "brought back" into the Hindu fold. That's implicit support to the attackers, for conversions of Hindus to Christianity is their justification for violence. The bogey of conversions has fuelled violence against Christians through the past two decades, even as the percentage of Christians in the country has been declining. The myth that all conversions are either forced or fraudulent was well and truly busted after the Kandhamal attacks. The Bajrang Dal, taking over the role of the administration, allowed the thousands of displaced Christians to return home only if they agreed to convert to Hinduism, in a clear case of forced conversion. Most refused, preferring to run from one refugee camp to another for years rather than give up their faith. Among those who did convert, many women later confessed that during the conversion ceremony, they were silently taking the name of Christ. Yet, not only does the myth persist, it has now taken such hold that even gatherings of Christians praying or celebrating Xmas indoors have been attacked at conversion meets. This is reminiscent of the phobia against Friday namaz. Why does the sight of minorities praying en masse frighten Hindutvawadis? In the same way, the universal popularity of Xmas threatens them. This time, the attack on Christians is not only physical but also ideological. WhatsApp groups run by BJP supporters have been rife with messages asking for a boycott of Xmas, arguing that celebrating it takes Hindus away from their culture. Parents and teachers have been urged to desist from dressing up children in Santa costumes; "take them to sants, not Santa," goes one plea. One bizarre post trivialises Christ's suffering on the cross by comparing it with Kaurava patriarch Bhishma Pitamah lying on a bed of arrows during the Mahabharat war. What is the counter to these attacks? A recent viral video showed Christian women in Karnataka telling off the goons who'd disrupted their prayer. This kind of courage and defiance against bullies could be the only rejoinder, for the police have been either complicit or apathetic, and BJP ministers have either denied the attacks or defended them. Shocking as this is, let's not forget that the situation was the same during the Kandhamal violence. A nun, raped and paraded half-naked, ran to the cops for help; they did nothing. Naveen Patnaik was the CM then, ruling in alliance with the BJP. He blamed the party for the violence a full six months later, only after the alliance broke. The silence came all the way from the top. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called Kandhamal "a national shame" only after Christian leaders met him; it took a rebuke by French President Nicolas Sarkozy to push the then PM to pull up the Odisha government. By then, the violence had gone on for over a month. In the struggle for justice that followed, the only parties that helped human rights and Christian groups were the Left parties. Yet today, the same Naveen Patnaik allows the CM's Fund to be used to help the Missionaries of Charity under siege by the Centre. In Mumbai, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar puts up `Merry Xmas' banners across the Christian localities of his constituency. Bigotry and secularism have always been subject to politics in India. But for Christians under attack by Hindutvawadis and the State, that knowledge is cold comfort. What they need is protection, both physical and legal. Neither is in sight. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/christians-under-attack-bigotry-and-secularism-are-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-1067440.html
03-01-2022||Panorama||Tuesday Interview | A potential Delta plus Omicron surge could overwhelm the system, says top expert||The state is on the cusp of a massive third wave, with the expectation that thousands of infections will start to occur per day. An eminent oncologist and member of the state’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, Dr Vishal Rao of HCG Cancer Hospital, tells DH’s Akhil Kadidal that significant action is needed to prevent the surge in cases that could potentially overwhelm the system. In six days, state-wide case numbers have jumped 127 per cent. What measures should be taken to contain the spread of Covid? With Covid cases surfacing at a faster pace now, we need to acknowledge the historical realities of this virus. December 2019 saw the debut of the D614G variant. December 2020 saw the onset of the Delta variant, while December 2021 was the month of Omicron’s advent. With every passing year, the virus seems to be getting smarter and stronger in terms of transmission, vaccine escape, and possibly even virulence. The race between vaccine and variant continues. So, we should not let our guard down and continue to keep our faith in vaccination, ventilation, masks, social distance, and hand hygiene. This will help us bring down the positivity rate.  At what rate is Omicron doubling?  The positivity rate of the Delta variant was 0.5 per cent in March 2021 but at the end of April, it touched 25 per cent. Now with Omicron, the doubling time is 1.5 to 3 days, so with Omicron plus Delta put together, the positivity rate of the Delta surge of 2021 can potentially be reached in half the duration it took in 2021. Hence, we will be forced to take stringent social distancing measures if and when we touch 5 per cent of the test positive rate. Why is the test positivity rate so important?  The positivity rate needs to be correlated with the hospitalisation, ICU and oxygen bed rates. The example of South Africa needs to be looked at where hospitalisation and mortality rates were significantly lower in the case of the Omicron surge. While it was 25 per cent for Delta, it was 5 per cent for Omicron. Having said that, social curbs must continue unabated. Should international flights be halted? Yes, proactive thinking will be needed to forestall the third wave, through measures like halting international flights for a brief while. Although global studies have revealed that international flight bans are not very effective in virus control, flights and airports are breeding grounds for mixtures of variants and virus transmission. Hence, increased vigilance and monitoring at airports are a must. Needless to say, the citizen’s role remains pivotal. We know that the virus does not move on its own; we help move it. If we move higher than 5 per cent, the government will also have to look at curbing the economic (activity) zones. Is there anything the government should be considering at its meeting on Tuesday? At this juncture, it is crucial to look at clusters and syndromic approaches. Considering that not every case will be symptomatic, it will be prudent to impose curbs based on hospitalisation rates, not merely positivity rates. Social and cultural activities can be allowed in a restricted manner, exercising ample caution. This will be advisable rather than adopting a blanket ban approach. Further, attention to needy patients on priority will be crucial.   Would a lockdown be necessary? Generally, a lockdown is a mandate of last resort. It cannot be a treatment for any epidemic or pandemic. As the earlier two waves have taught us, the five Ts of testing, tracing, treating, training, and teamwork are very effective. In my personal opinion, we don’t need lockdowns at this stage, unless hospitalisation rates become significant. The lockdown during the Delta wave happened when the government could not manage people’s behaviour and bed arrangements in hospitals were completely overwhelmed.    Studies show that Omicron may have lower disease severity. Is that something we can actually take comfort from? While the severity of Omicron has been on the lower side, the WHO has rightly cautioned the world about its high transmission rate and mutational burden. A Hong Kong study has indicated that Omicron has a much lesser multiplication rate in the lungs. This could co-relate to milder disease of less severity. In parallel, we have data from Glasgow University that omicron is trying to alter the route of its entry into the cell. Does that mean it is weakening? Experts caution us that the Omicron may make alterations of different tipping points and hence making drastic assumptions would be highly dangerous.   Testing has been low in the state for at least six weeks. At what levels should we be testing currently? In the coming days, testing rates would need to increase significantly. Higher number of rapid antigens and PCRs would need to be made to make quicker diagnosis, given that Omicron has a higher viral load. The first testing statistic we see anywhere is the number of tests conducted every day. This number alone doesn’t tell us much as the number of tests that may suffice for a smaller state like Goa may not be adequate for a bigger state like Maharashtra. Also, a state like Delhi, with a bigger epidemic, will require more tests per day irrespective of the size of its population. The raw number of daily tests must then be seen in the context of the population in a given area (tests per million) or the scale of the epidemic (test positivity rate) Genomic sequencing continues to be low. But considering the surge in cases do you think that Omicron may be driving the case increases? Should we be concerned about a Delta plus Omicron third wave? The genomic surveillance team would gear up in quick time given the rising number of cases. The state government has given the necessary support in this direction. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tuesday-interview-a-potential-delta-plus-omicron-surge-could-overwhelm-the-system-says-top-expert-1067674.html
03-01-2022||Panorama||Is India ready to have carbon tax?||Reduction of carbon emission is supposedly one of the primary goals of most of the countries in the ongoing debate on climate change and its expected impact on the environment and development. The Paris Agreement which seeks to achieve carbon neutrality by the end of 2050 has been ratified by the Indian government. Accordingly, the focus of the government should be to ensure that effective measures are taken to reduce carbon emissions and switch to a more effective alternative source of energy. Carbon dioxide is the primary contributor to climate change and most of the GHG emissions take place through the burning of fossil fuels such as coal. While various initiatives have been taken by the government to curb carbon emission, a carbon tax is a policy on which India's stand is mainly negative. Carbon tax is the need of the hour in India, but not for the purposes of revenue but to curb greenhouse gases (GHG). Before introducing a carbon tax, India needs to have a clear policy framework on how to make effective use of such tax collected. The core of the climate change problem is considered as one of market failure as the emissions from industries are the primary driver of uncontrolled carbon emissions. In the context of the market, these emissions impose negative externalities for the economy and the environment as the social cost of carbon-intensive goods is not reflected in their market. This raises the issue of carbon pricing wherein the price imposed on such goods must reflect the true cost of the carbon emissions. Thus, by internalising the externalities that are associated with GHG emissions, carbon pricing allows for a cost-effective and innovative incentive solution to address the issue of climate change. In India there is no explicit carbon tax, the main challenge with carbon pricing is that the benefits of such a scheme are diffused, and there exist concentrated costs. The beneficiaries of carbon pricing are scattered and less likely to support the scheme. Carbon pricing will change the existing status quo on low emission of carbon and will create a divide between those who benefit from such a scheme and those who suffer economic loss. Carbon-intensive companies are more likely to oppose carbon prices.  The policy of carbon taxation is considered to be regressive in nature as it mainly impacts the lower-income groups as compared to middle or higher-income households since they are able to afford energy-incentive goods because of their higher income. In addition to this, the common argument that the revenue generated through carbon tax could be used in distributive and welfare schemes is also flawed. Because, most of the time, there has been poor use and implementation of the revenue generated through such a scheme. Most of it remains unused or used for other purposes by the government. There is no clear record or accounting of how the revenue is used by the government. Another reason often used to oppose carbon pricing is that it will lead to an increase in production/manufacturing costs for local industries which will be reflected in the price of the final products. This will reduce the demand for such products in the national and global market and will make Indian products less competitive. However, to resolve these concerns, it is argued that revenue recycling provides a great option in making suitable use of revenue and provides a mechanism for the government to provide good returns to society. The option of creating a fund for the revenue generated seems good. However, in reality, such a method for the revenue distribution has largely failed before. Even when coal cess was levied, a significant part of the Clean Energy Fund that was formed remained largely unutilised from 2010 to 2016. Therefore, the government should first plan out viable projects that it actually seeks to execute and then accordingly allocate funds. Lastly, climate policy with a focus on carbon tax can work efficiently in countries that have political trust and the perceived notion of corruption is less. However, unfortunately, the performance of India in both areas is considerably low. If the revenue generated through carbon tax is effectively used in the distribution of dividends to households or in energy-efficient projects, it will help the government in winning the trust of the public and creating awareness with respect to controlling carbon emission. (The writer is a student of NLSU, Bengaluru) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/is-india-ready-to-have-carbon-tax-1067679.html
03-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Tribute to Newton||The eight-year-old Sharada asked, “What is gravity, Thatha?” I was not prepared for this seemingly simple question, knowing her tenacity to probe deeper. I dropped the pencil I was holding and asked her, “Why does it go down?” “Because you dropped it.” Then I took the pencil and threw it up and said, “See, I have to throw it up with hand movement for it to go up, but all I have to do is free my hand from the pencil and it drops down”. That held her for a while, but not long. She asked, “Why?” “Because the earth is huge and attracts things”. She was thoroughly bored discussing the obvious and went away. But I had no intention of letting her or the subject of gravitation slip by, having started a train of thought. After a short while, she was playing skipping rope but was hardly able to raise her feet beyond one foot. I challenged her to jump up higher which she couldn’t. I told her, “This is because the earth is pulling you down. But if you go to the moon, you can go up as much as that six-storey building”. She looked at me with utter disbelief. I said, “That is because the moon is much smaller and hence gravitation is very low”. In the evening, she googled and showed me videos of astronauts and objects floating in space ships. I was amazed, not so much because of her ability to google, but the sheer fact she had sustained interest in the subject. I told her that they are so far away from earth or the moon, they experience very little gravitation. With total adoration, she said, “you are great, Thatha”. I said it was not me, the credit goes to Sir Isaac Newton. I didn’t yet tell her about warped space-time and the bending of light due to gravitation. It was time for Sharada and her parents to go back to the US, and we accompanied them with a stop in London. there, we had several choices to spend the day. While shopping in Bond Street and a visit to Harrods was the popular choice, I preferred to visit Cambridge. Not surprisingly, Sharada wanted to join me. Well, it was glorious, walking through the Hall of Fame, a ride in River Cam, Grasshopper clock at the Corpus Christie college in honour of Stephen Hawking,and lunch in Eagle pub where Watson and Crick announced their work on DNA which later won them the Nobel. The highlight was the well-preserved tree where Newton got a clue on gravitation by a falling apple.  Sharada was lost in thought looking at the tree. A budding physicist? The visit to Cambridge was worthwhile. And I saved a hole in my pocket too. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tribute-to-newton-1067678.html
03-01-2022||Second Edit||PM's photo on vax certificate: A question of propriety||Rights are matters of hot contention at any time, and have a special resonance in times of Covid. A serious question on rights that the Kerala High Court had to contend with recently was whether the government had the right to print Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph on vaccination certificates issued to citizens, and whether the citizen had the right to say he did not want the photo on the certificate. The court thought the government had the right, and was not impressed by a petitioner's argument against the PM’s image being printed. The judge asked the petitioner if he was ashamed of the PM. The court was not amused by the questioning of the government’s right to go public with the PM’s photo on the certificate. It not only rejected the petition but imposed a fine on the petitioner for wasting its time with a frivolous petition.  But it is doubtful if the court’s ruling, the punishment and the observations it made have settled the issues raised in the petition. The court has a point when it says that it should not be stuck with frivolous cases when there are tens of thousands of people waiting for justice. But was the issue before the court frivolous? Even when the Prime Minister has the mandate of the people, even if the people are proud of him, and even when the certificate conveys a morale-boosting message, has the government got the right to print his photo on the certificate? It has the power, but the right?  Rather than shame or pride in the PM, what’s involved here is a question of propriety. The government has made arrangements for the vaccination but does that give it the right to affix the Prime Minister’s photo on the paper? Then, why not on DPT certificates, train tickets, passports? The court said the petition was politically motivated, but was not the affixing of the PM’s photo a politically motivated action? It is not right to give the political and personal credit for the government’s action to the Prime Minister for the simple reason that the government should not be confused with the Prime Minister. It is the blurring of the dividing lines between the State and the government, the government and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and the person who holds that position that should cause concern. The citizen had a greater right to question the government on its action than the government had to print the photo on the certificate. It is unfortunate that the court did not see this. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pms-photo-on-vax-certificate-a-question-of-propriety-1067676.html
03-01-2022||South||Community service must be made compulsory for students: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said community service must be made compulsory for students studying in government as well as private schools as it would help them to develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others. "Today, there is a dire need to inculcate the spirit of service from a young age in the youth of this country. Once this pandemic is behind us and normalcy returns, I would suggest that government schools as well as those in the private sector must make community service of at least two to three weeks compulsory for students," the Vice President said. He was speaking as a chief guest at a function organised at Mannanam near here to mark the 150th death anniversary of St Kuriakose Elias Chavara, a spiritual leader and social reformer from Catholic community in Kerala. The Vice President said inculcating the spirit of service in youngsters at school level would help them to develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others. "As a matter-of-fact, the philosophy of share-and-care is at the core of India's age-old culture and must be widely propagated. For us, the whole world is one family as encapsulated in our timeless ideal, Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. It is with this spirit that we should move forward together," Naidu said. Highlighting the contributions of visionary spiritual leaders like legendary social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and St Chavara in various fields, the Vice President also urged other states to take a cue from Kerala in the fields of education, social justice and women's empowerment. "I would like to take this opportunity to urge other states to take a cue from Kerala in the fields of education, social justice and women's empowerment as outlined in the pioneering initiatives of Saint Chavara and Narayana Guru. Their pathbreaking work proves that every state can be transformed into an engine of growth and progress and that this can be achieved through the social and educational empowerment of women and youth belonging to poorer sections of society," Naidu said. He said the benefits of development must percolate down to the last man in the most backward and impoverished segments of our socio-economic order as spelt out in the philosophy of Antyodaya articulated by the visionary thinker, activist and reformer, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Naidu said though the identity and vision of Saint Chavara were shaped and formed on the ideals of his Catholic faith, his deeds of social and educational services were not restricted to the progress and development of that community alone. "Saint Chavara combined the spirit of the renaissance with the mission of charity and noble Christian concept of universal brotherhood," the Vice President said and expressed happiness over the involvement of these congregations founded by him in the educational and health fields in the country.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/community-service-must-be-made-compulsory-for-students-naidu-1067465.html
03-01-2022||South||Telangana BJP chief's arrest murder of democracy: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Monday issued a strong statement against the arrest of the party’s Telangana president Sanjay Kumar Bandi by the KCR-led Telangana Rashtra Samithi government, and denounced the arrest as “unconstitutional” and “inhuman”, and called it “murder of democracy”. “It is yet another glaring example of the murder of democracy and constitutional rights by the Telangana government. The Bharatiya Janata Party vehemently criticizes and denounces this attack on the BJP leaders and karyakartas,” read the statement. Nadda said that the KCR-led TRS government was frustrated by the BJP’s good show in the recently-concluded bypoll. The TRS is part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, but trouble has been brewing between the parties lately with the BJP’s increasing footprint. Bandi was approached by teachers of the state to protest against Order No 317, a directive that introduces a zonal system in appointments of teachers at his Karimnagar office and he started a night-long vigil as a mark of protest, Nadda said. “But the KCR government in Telangana was so scared of this peaceful protest by the BJP State president, party workers and aggrieved teachers and employees that it ordered the state police to launch an attack on the peaceful protest,” Nadda wrote in his statement. Nadda said that the political anarchy in the state was a result of vendetta against BJP’s rising popularity in the state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-bjp-chiefs-arrest-murder-of-democracy-nadda-1067501.html
03-01-2022||South||Practice your religion but don't indulge in hate speech: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday expressed his strong disapproval of attempts to ridicule other religions and create dissensions in the society, saying every person has the right to practice and preach his or her faith in the country. "Practice your religion but don't abuse and indulge in hate speech and writings," the Vice President said at an event organised to mark the 150th death anniversary of Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara, a spiritual leader and social reformer from the Kerala Catholic community, at Mannanam near here. Observing that hate speeches and writings are against culture, heritage, traditions, constitutional rights and ethos, Naidu said secularism is in the blood of every Indian and the country is respected world-over for its culture and heritage. In this context, the Vice President called for strengthening the Indian value system, an official statement said. The Vice President said community service must be made compulsory for students studying in government as well as private schools as it would help them to develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others. "Today, there is a dire need to inculcate the spirit of service from a young age in the youth of this country. Once this pandemic is behind us and normalcy returns, I would suggest that government schools as well as those in the private sector must make community service of at least two to three weeks compulsory for students," he said. Urging youngsters to imbibe, protect and promote Indian cultural values, Naidu highlighted the importance of India's philosophy of sharing and caring for others. He said that living for others will not only give a person a lot of satisfaction but will also make the people remember that person for a long time for his or her good deeds. The Vice President said inculcating the spirit of service in youngsters at school level would help them to develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others. "As a matter of fact, the philosophy of share-and-care is at the core of India's age-old culture and must be widely propagated. For us, the whole world is one family as encapsulated in our timeless ideal, Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. It is with this spirit that we should move forward together," Naidu said. Naidu also advised youngsters to remain physically fit by doing yoga or any other form of physical exercise and "to love and live with nature." He asked them to protect nature and preserve culture for a better future. Highlighting the contributions of visionary spiritual leaders like legendary social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and St Chavara in various fields, the Vice President also urged other states to take a cue from Kerala in the fields of education, social justice and women's empowerment. "I would like to take this opportunity to urge other states to take a cue from Kerala in the fields of education, social justice and women's empowerment as outlined in the pioneering initiatives of Saint Chavara and Narayana Guru. Their pathbreaking work proves that every state can be transformed into an engine of growth and progress and that this can be achieved through the social and educational empowerment of women and youth belonging to poorer sections of society," Naidu said. He said the benefits of development must percolate down to the last man in the most backward and impoverished segments of our socio-economic order as spelt out in the philosophy of Antyodaya articulated by the visionary thinker, activist and reformer, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Naidu said though the identity and vision of Saint Chavara were shaped and formed on the ideals of his Catholic faith, his deeds of social and educational services were not restricted to the progress and development of that community alone. "Saint Chavara combined the spirit of the renaissance with the mission of charity and noble Christian concept of universal brotherhood," the Vice President said and expressed happiness over the involvement of these congregations founded by him in the educational and health fields in the country. Paying tributes to Saint Chavara, he said "this iconic spiritual and social leader of Kerala, whom people considered as a saint during his lifetime, was a true visionary in every sense of the term." He said that Saint Chavara engaged himself as a spiritual, educational, social, and cultural reformer of Kerala society in the 19th century and contributed richly to the social reawakening of the people. Stating that Saint Chavara contributed immensely to achieving communal harmony and tolerance in society, Naidu said that he always showed a deep concern for the wellbeing of all and taught us that peaceful human relationships are sacred and more important than anything else. "Today, we need a Chavara in every community—a towering individual with a vision to unite all sections of society socially and culturally, and take the country forward," he stressed. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, Minister for Cooperation and Registration, Government of Kerala, V N Vasavan, former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Lok Sabha M P Thomas Chazhikadan and senior priests and nuns of Carmelites of Mary Immaculate (CMI) were present on the occasion. The Vice President also visited the tomb of Saint Chavara at Mannanam. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/practice-your-religion-but-dont-indulge-in-hate-speech-venkaiah-naidu-1067505.html
03-01-2022||South||IIM Visakhapatnam achieves 100% placements, top package worth Rs 23.5 lakh per annum||The Indian Institute of Management Visakhapatnam has achieved 100 per cent placements, with the top package offered going up to Rs 23.5 lakh per annum – a 13 per cent increase over the last season. The average package of Rs 14.6 lakh is the highest till now in the new generation IIM set up in 2015. IIMV officials said that “despite the uncertainties caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the institute maintained 100 per cent placement results, completing the placement season for the sixth graduating MBA batch in record time, with record offers.” Held on a rolling basis, the placement season concluded last week witnessed over 75 companies participating in the process and making multiple offers with over 40 new recruiters offering roles across various domains. Sector-wise recruitment this year is BFSI (31 per cent), IT/ITES (26 per cent), consulting (25 per cent), e-commerce (7 per cent), manufacturing (5 per cent), FMCG (3 per cent) and other sectors like healthcare, construction, digital media, and education constituted another 3 percent. Top companies like Amazon, Deloitte, Cognizant, YES Bank, Anand Rathi, ICICI Lombard, TATA AIA, NCR Corporation, Zetwerk, TATA AIG, KPMG, Virtusa, ICICI Bank, HashedIn, Infosys, IndiaMART, L&T, HCL, TAFE, TATA Advanced Systems, HSBC, HDFC Bank, GEF India, RedSeer Consulting, Optum Global Solutions, TrueBlue Advisory, Tresvista, iQuanti, Tredence, Fraazo, Accolite Digital, Cloud Peritus, HDFC Life, Equitas SF Bank, were among the recruiters. Prof Deepika Gupta, chairperson, Career Development Services & Alumni Relations at IIMV expressed joy over the “immensely successful placement season this year.” “With the economy slowly on the upsurge again, there are new and exciting opportunities that are unfolding, across sectors. It is a matter of extra satisfaction to witness the 2020-22 batch overcome the headwinds of the pandemic they sailed straight into, in learning, un-learning and re-learning things, and quickly adapting themselves to the new normal. They mastered the science and art of dealing with online academic sessions and virtual placement processes,” Prof Gupta said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iim-visakhapatnam-achieves-100-placements-top-package-worth-rs-235-lakh-per-annum-1067533.html
03-01-2022||South||IIT-M to launch master’s program on electric vehicles||With electric vehicles being touted as the future, the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras on Monday announced the launch of a master’s programme on electric vehicles with an aim to boost the research capabilities in the field of e-mobility.  The Interdisciplinary Dual Degree (IDDD) will boost the students’ engagement with e-mobility and will be offered for B. Tech and Dual Degree students.  The IIT-M said students are expected to enroll in this programme from January 2022 during their third year of B. Tech and Dual Degree Programs with the initial intake expected to be 25 students. The students graduating from this program will have the skill sets required to pursue job opportunities in EV Product Development including EV Integration, Vehicle Aggregate Engineering, Communication and Calibration, Verification and Validation, and Product and Portfolio Planning, the institute said. The course is a result of the collaboration of eight departments to induct the skills required for a student to engineer electric vehicles. “The content offered is carefully curated to build sufficient depth in each domain, starting from Vehicle Basics and going to very specific EV aggregates including batteries and motors. While the Department of Engineering Design will anchor the Program, it will be delivered as a joint effort from various departments,” Prof. T. Asokan, Head, Department of Engineering Design, IIT-M, said. He added that the IIT-M hopes to have more programs with different structures in the e-mobility space. IIT-M has been at the forefront of building capabilities in the country for e-mobility, through its various centres and programmes. The institute said it provides its undergraduate students with an option to upgrade to IDDD programmes where the students will study for five years and obtain B.Tech. in a parent discipline and M. Tech. in an interdisciplinary area. “These are exciting times for the e-mobility sector. We are clearly at the tipping point. It is important to have more resources skilled in various aspects of EV Engineering and e-mobility. IIT Madras has had a dominant presence in this sector for the last few years through various initiatives and centres,” Prof. Karthick Athmanathan, Professor of Practice, IIT-M, said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-to-launch-master-s-program-on-electric-vehicles-1067542.html
03-01-2022||South||Why should men decide the rights of women? asks DMK's Kanimozhi||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Monday took objection to only one woman MP being made part of a parliamentary panel that will examine the bill that seeks to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21. “There are a total of 110 female MPs but the government chooses to assign a bill that affects every young woman in the country to a panel that has 30 men and only 1 woman. Men will continue to decide the rights of women. And women will be made mute spectators,” Kanimozhi said on Monday. Sushmita Dev, Rajya Sabha MP from TMC, is the only woman MP in the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports. The committee is administered by Rajya Sabha. The legal age of marriage for women is proposed to be raised based on suggestions by the Jaya Jaitly Committee constituted by the Women and Child Development ministry. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-should-men-decide-the-rights-of-women-asks-dmks-kanimozhi-1067553.html
03-01-2022||South||Man hosts baby shower for pregnant Persian cats in Coimbatore||A Coimbatore-based businessman hosted a baby shower (Valaikappu) for his two Persian cats at a pet clinic in the R S Puram area of the city. Uma Maheswaran, the owner of the cats -- Kshira who reached 50th day of her pregnancy, and Irish, who is pregnant for 35 days -- decided to conduct the baby shower at the pet clinic with veterinary doctor Venugopal as the chief guest. Maheswaran told IANS, "In our culture, baby shower is conducted for pregnant women praying for the health of the mother and the child, followed by a feast involving family members and friends. We have done the same for our pet cats, Kshira and Irish, hoping for the good health of the cats and the kittens." He also said that the family gives quality food to the cats like chicken, tuna, milk, and dry foods. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-hosts-baby-shower-for-pregnant-persian-cats-in-coimbatore-1067580.html
03-01-2022||South||Operationalise war rooms, Covid Care Centres: Tamil Nadu govt to collectors||With the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 on the rise, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday asked district collectors to activate the war rooms and operationalise an adequate number of Covid Care Centres as part of the efforts to combat the third wave of coronavirus infections. The Health Department also released an updated Covid-19 management protocol segregating positive patients into five categories to ensure that hospitals are not crowded. Home isolation, admission into Covid Care Centers/Covid Health Centers and mandatory admission to designated Covid-19 hospitals have been recommended for the said categories based on their co-morbid status, respiratory rate (RR), and SPO2 (Oxygen) levels. In a letter written to district collectors, deputy directors of health, and officials concerned, Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan asked them to strictly enforce the Covid appropriate behaviour among the public and not shed hesitancy in repeatedly penalising the defaulters like not wearing masks. As of Monday morning, Tamil Nadu had 9,304 active cases, including those in home isolation, while the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 is increasing at a fast pace each passing day. Chennai tops the list with 3,550 persons under treatment for the virus. Radhakrishnan asked the officials concerned to ensure strict adherence to masks, social distancing, frequent handwashing, and asking unvaccinated eligible persons and those due for second dose vaccinations and those in the age group of 15 to 18 years to get vaccinated immediately. “(Authorities should ensure) that the war rooms are fully activated and functional in the districts. They should keep the state war room and the DPH control room updated every day, adequate screening centres are opened, adequate Covid care centres are made operational, and enough human resources are deployed in the screening centres,” he said. The Health Secretary asked district collectors to strictly adopt disease containment measures and indulge in focussed identification of index cases, source of infections and contact tracing and isolation. He also asked district collectors to put in place a home quarantine monitoring system, where patients quarantined at home are followed up telephonically on a daily basis. On Clinical Management of Covid-19 cases, Radhakrishnan stressed adequate testing, tracing, and isolation, while asking them to ensure that 1.15 lakh beds currently available for Covid treatment are fully operational and an additional 50,000 beds, especially Covid care centres including interim Covid care centres are made fully operational. He also asked district authorities to operationalise the Indian Medicine and Siddha Covid Care Centres to provide access to those who wish to take advantage of such streams under the supervision of stream doctors and those with asymptomatic and mild disease. Radhakrishnan said the Government has made available adequate medicines and is regularly monitoring and reviewing the increasing numbers of cases reported per day internationally and nationally and in Tamil Nadu especially now in Chennai and neighbouring districts. “Other districts also should be aware of the nature of high transmissibility of this disease and keep abreast and personally monitor the guidance received from time to time,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/operationalise-war-rooms-covid-care-centres-tamil-nadu-govt-to-collectors-1067582.html
03-01-2022||South||Kerala logs 2,560 new Covid-19 infections, 71 deaths||Kerala on Monday recorded 2,560 fresh Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths, taking the caseload to 52,45,849 and the toll to 48,184. Of the 71 deaths, 30 were recorded over the last few days and 41 designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. With 2,150 more people recovering from the virus since Sunday, the total recoveries reached 51,86,737 and the active cases reached 19,359, an official press release said. As many as 43,210 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Among the 14 districts, Thiruvananthapuram logged the highest with 583 fresh cases, followed by Ernakulam 410 and Kozhikode (271). Of the new cases, 16 were health workers, 48 from outside the State and 2,339 infected through contact, with the source of it not being clear in 157. There are currently 1,04,506 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 1,02,281 are in home or institutional quarantine and 2,225 in hospitals, the release said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-2560-new-covid-19-infections-71-deaths-1067585.html
03-01-2022||South||Kerala cop boots 'drunk' passenger in train; suspended||Close on the heels of a police officer in Kerala being suspended from service on charges of harassing a foreign national, another police officer has been suspended for allegedly booting a train passenger. The incident came to light after a video recorded by a passenger went viral, triggering much criticism. Subsequently, an inquiry was ordered into the incident and the police official was kept off from duty with the railway police. Assistant sub-inspector of police M C Pramod with the railway police wing of Kerala police was seen booting a train passenger, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition in the Maveli Express train that started from Mangaluru on Sunday evening. The police officer's rude behaviour with the passenger took place as the train reached Kannur district in Kerala. Following suspicion that the passenger was travelling without tickets and was in a drunken state, the police official allegedly slapped and pulled him down and pushed him aside with boots. Some passengers had also objected to the police officer's actions. At the next station, the passenger was dragged out of the train. The passenger's whereabouts were not yet known. A preliminary inquiry by the police higher-ups found that the traveller's ticket examiner sought police help after the passenger refused to show the ticket and was suspected to be in a drunken state. A detailed probe by a DySP rank officer was ordered. On New Year's Eve, a Swedish national running a homestay at Kovalam tourist spot in Thiruvananthapuram was allegedly harassed by police for carrying three bottles of liquor without bills. The foreigner even emptied the bottles in protest. A police officer was suspended from service, triggering resentment among the police personnel. With Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan holding the home portfolio, criticisms against the police are becoming a reason of embarrassment to the state government. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cop-boots-drunk-passenger-in-train-suspended-1067587.html
03-01-2022||South||Bar owners lay siege to Tamil Nadu minister Senthil Balaji's residence||Bar owners and workers of state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC) on Monday laid siege to the official residence of Electricity and Excise Minister V Senthil Balaji, alleging irregularities in awarding of tenders to run bars attached to liquor shops. This is the first public protest against a minister after the DMK government assumed office in May. The protesters, who numbered around 1,000, converged outside Balaji’s residence on Monday morning demanding Chief Minister M K Stalin’s intervention in the issue. They alleged large-scale irregularities in awarding of tenders to run bars attached to TASMAC, which has a monopoly over liquor sales in the state. The bar owners, some of whom had been running bars for two decades, alleged that Balaji gave away the contracts to his “favourites” while ignoring the deserving ones. The protesters, who held placards that project Stalin in good light and Balaji as a “spoiler” in the “golden rule”, demanded greater transparency in awarding of TASMAC bars. However, Balaji, who addressed a press conference hours after the protest, refuted the allegations and asserted that there were no “irregularities” in awarding the tenders. “Utmost transparency was followed while opening the tenders and announcing the winner. There is not even an iota of truth in the allegations. The tender awards went smooth and no one raised any objection during the process. To come out and level allegations now are nothing but politically motivated,” Balaji said. He said a couple of new regulations were added to the tender document keeping in mind the Covid-19 spread. “No one can say these tenders were given to my favourites. We followed due process. Can anyone say their tender documents were rejected? Can anyone say they were not allowed inside the hall where the process was on?” he asked. Liquor shops in Tamil Nadu are run by TASMAC which is accused of fleecing its customers often. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bar-owners-lay-siege-to-tamil-nadu-minister-senthil-balajis-residence-1067592.html
03-01-2022||South||TN to launch dedicated vaccination centres for 15-18 age group||As the drive to vaccinate children between 15 and 18 years age kicked off on Monday by administering over over 3.24 lakh doses, the Tamil Nadu government Monday decided to create dedicated Covid vaccination sessions or centres for the age group in addition to the camps at schools.  As many as 33.46 lakh children in the age group of 15-18 are eligible to take Covid vaccines. Chief Minister M K Stalin launched the vaccination drive among this age group at Saidapet in Chennai on Monday with the government announcing that the children will be administered the vaccines at schools.  At 6.35 pm on Monday, the Health Department said 3.24 lakh eligible children in the age group of 15-18 received their vaccines with Villupuram topping the list with 17,296 receiving their first dose on the first day. In a message to deputy directors of health in districts,  Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr T S Selvavinayagam asked them to create a few dedicated Covid vaccination sessions/centres, in addition to schools, for those aged between 15 to 18 years in urban and rural areas.  He said the new centres should be opened as parents are demanding vaccination centres outside schools as well. “Care should be taken that such sessions/vaccination centres will have only Covaxin for vaccination. If 18+ sessions are also planned in the same facility, then separate queue and place for 15+ group need to be ensured,” he said in the message.  He added that vaccination drives among this age group will be done at schools using the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) and Mobile Medical Units (MMU) vehicles.  Tamil Nadu has so far administered 8.5 crore vaccine doses with 86.95 per cent of the eligible population – those above the age of 18 – receiving their first dose and 60.71 per cent getting vaccinated fully. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-launch-dedicated-vaccination-centres-for-15-18-age-group-1067595.html
03-01-2022||South||Remove duty imposed on cotton import, consider ban on export: Tiruppur exporters to Centre||Protesting the ever-increasing cotton prices, exporters in the knitwear hub of Tiruppur on Monday demanded that the Centre remove the import duty imposed on cotton and consider imposing a ban on the export of cotton to bring down the price. In a letter to Union Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal, the influential Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) alleged that middlemen and traders are now creating havoc by increasing the price of cotton to the hilt, which is unprecedented especially during the cotton arrival season. “Our apprehension is that the price hike of cotton does heavily impact the garment exporting units, lead to loss of exports including employment. Moreover, the sustainability of the MSMEs garment units would also be much doubtful,” TEA President Raja M Shanmugham said in the letter. He said exporters’ have always supported cotton-producing farmers getting better prices for their production of cotton but blamed the middlemen and traders for the ever-increasing price. “It may be noted that the 11 per cent total import duty existing on cotton has been the reason for the cartelisation of vested players to increase the domestic cotton prices, making an abnormal profit at the cost of value-added garment sectors,” he said. Shanmugham said the TEA wants for removal of the duty imposed on cotton, steps to break the cartelisation and also look at the possibility of imposing a ban on cotton exports. The knitwear hub in Tiruppur, which accounts for 46 per cent of India’s exports in the sector, has been raising its voice against the ever-increasing prices of raw materials like cotton and yarn. The TEA has also written to Textile Mills Associations, and others to advise their members not to increase the cotton yarn prices “disproportionate to increase in cotton prices as that will totally affect the value-added knitwear garment sector.” The increase in price at regular intervals cause huge losses to exporters who fix price for their orders at the time of signing, exporters said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/remove-duty-imposed-on-cotton-import-consider-ban-on-export-tiruppur-exporters-to-centre-1067606.html
03-01-2022||South||IAS officer in Andhra sparks outrage by touching YSRCP minister's feet||An IAS officer in Andhra Pradesh's Vizianagaram sparked controversy on the first day of the New Year by touching the feet of a senior YSRCP minister and his wife. In a video in circulation on social media, Ch Kishore Kumar, joint collector in-charge of revenue can be seen handing over a flower bouquet to municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana and his wife and bending to touch their feet. Kumar is a 2014 batch IAS officer, conferred the tag after several years of service in the state cadre. “It was nothing like what is being projected. Even the minister issued a rejoinder,” Kumar told DH when questioned about the purpose of his act. The incident however attracted sharp criticism from the public and politicians. TDP leaders alleged that the entire Vizianagaram district administration “is at the beck and call of the minister.” “An IAS officer falling at the feet of a politician is disgraceful. Isn't it high time for the IAS officers association to condemn it? Why are they silent?” Varla Ramaiah, a TDP politburo member questioned. However, this is not the first time such an episode took place, at least in the two Telugu states. In June last year, two IAS officers and district collectors – Venkatrami Reddy of Siddipet and A Sarath of Kamareddy – touched the feet of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao "for blessings", during the inauguration of new collectorate complexes in their respective districts. Reddy, a state public service officer conferred the IAS status in 2007, defended his action stating that Rao is a fatherly figure for him. The opposition Congress was unamused and complained to the President of India, the centre asserting the officers' act as disgraceful to their position and in violation of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. While the Congress leaders charged that no action was taken and that Siddipet collector was operating as a TRS loyalist, Reddy resigned from service within six months in November and was made an MLC the very next day by CM Rao. “I have no intention of resigning from my job or becoming a legislator,” Kumar said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ias-officer-in-andhra-sparks-outrage-by-touching-ysrcp-ministers-feet-1067632.html
03-01-2022||South||Covid-19: National Institute of Nutrition, Telangana govt to launch sero-survey in state||Even as various parts of the country are reporting a fresh surge in cases, Hyderabad-based ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) and the Telangana government are launching a Covid-19 sero-survey on Tuesday, to assess the extent of community spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the state. The house-to-house survey would be carried out in 330 villages spread across all 33 districts and would cover the general population and healthcare workers. Sero prevalence is assessed by examining the SARS Cov-2, IgG antibodies in the blood samples collected from people. “About 16,000 people will be covered in this survey. In each of the 33 districts, 10 villages will be selected randomly and from each village 40 people above six years of age from, both males and females will be covered. In addition, samples and data will also be collected from healthcare workers in all the districts,” said Dr Avula Laxmaiah, head, public health nutrition division, ICMR-NIN. Over 20 teams, each comprising a scientist/doctor, technician and phlebotomist, four coordinators, one lead scientist from NIN would work in tandem with the state health department to complete the survey in about three weeks. Teenagers vaccination The Telangana government has on Monday started the process of vaccinating over 18 lakh teenagers in the 15-17 years age group in the state. On the first day, 24,240 teenagers were administered their first dose of Covaxin, marking 1% completion of the total target. Precautionary doses for the healthcare workers, senior citizens will be given from 10 January. “Those above 60 years of age with co-morbidities, who took their second dose in April 2021, will be eligible for precautionary dose in February 2022. These doses would be given according to the beneficiary's willingness after due consultation with their doctor. They will not be actively mobilised,” health officials said. The state has on Monday reported 482 new Covid-19 cases and no fresh Omicron variant cases. Amid concerns of another Covid-19 surge and the ensuing restrictions, state public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao said there “will be no lockdown and night curfew imposed in Telangana, under any circumstances.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-national-institute-of-nutrition-telangana-govt-to-launch-sero-survey-in-state-1067637.html
03-01-2022||South||Kasargod medical college hospital starts functioning||The government medical college hospital at Kasargod in Kerala started functioning with out-patient wings on Monday. It has been a long-pending demand of the people of Kasargod as hundreds of people from the district used to depend on hospitals in neighbouring Mangaluru for treatment. Service of neurologists is also being made available considering the plight of the endosulfan victims of the district that the district lacked service of a neurologist for treating those with deformities. Health Minister Veena George, who inaugurated the functioning of the out-patients on Monday, said that the medical college would be made fully functional soon. Initially there will be medical and pediatric out-patient wings and services of specialist doctors of neurology, rheumatology and nephrology would be also made available. Even as the medical college in the district was announced more than ten years back, the work was dragging on. But following the Covid surge in the district in 2020, the government came under pressure to open the medical college. The administrative block was then converted as Covid hospital and was functional till recently. Delay in making the medical college hospital functional had also triggered allegations that private hospital lobbies of Mangaluru were trying to scuttle the project. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-medical-college-hospital-starts-functioning-1067638.html
03-01-2022||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan meets PM Modi, reiterates state's demands||In an hour-long meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy reiterated several of the pending demands, issues pertaining to the state. At the top of his list of demands was approval for the Polavaram project's revised cost estimate of Rs 55,657 crore at 2017-18 price level, which includes drinking water component of Rs 4,000 crore. Reddy also requested the PM to release the pending payments of Rs 2,100 crore already incurred by the state government for the national project.  Stating that the total revenue deficit of AP for 2014-15 financial year was Rs 22,949 crore but the amount released to the state was only Rs 4,118 crore, the CM requested for the remaining Rs 18,831 crore to be released at the earliest. Reddy said that the inadequate coverage under the National Food Security Act is leaving out a large number of needy persons in AP and requested the Prime Minister to direct the concerned officials for correction of state's data. The Chief Minister complained that Rs 6,284 crore receivable by Andhra Pradesh Generation Corporation Limited from the Telangana distribution utilities and Telangana DISCOMs is yet to be made and sought Modi's intervention in quick clearance of the dues. Reddy later met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-meets-pm-modi-reiterates-states-demands-1067658.html
03-01-2022||South||Actress urges Kerala CM to ensure justice in sexual assault case||A South Indian actress who allegedly suffered sexual assault in Kochi in Kerala in 2017 has urged Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to ensure justice. The Malayali actress sent a letter to the Chief Minister in this regard as two special prosecutors appointed by the government for the case resigned. She sought a further probe into the recent revelations by a filmmaker recently against actor Dileep, who is also an accused in the case. Dileep is also learnt to have filed a petition to the government alleging that the prosecution was trying to scuttle the trial. He also suspected that the recent statements of the filmmaker was also an attempt in this regard and also alleged the role of the investigation officer of the case behind these moves.  The actress and the prosecution had earlier sought a change of trial court alleging of the unfair approach of court towards her. But the HC declined the request. Subsequently, the then special prosecutor A Sureshan resigned in 2020. Last week V N Anilkumar, who succeeded Sureshan, also tendered resignation. Even as the reasons for the resignation was not yet known, it was learnt that the prosecutor was unhappy over the trial proceedings. She sought further probe into revelations of filmmaker Balachandrakumar that he was aware of proximity of the prime accused in the case with Dileep and also raised suspicion that Dileep was in possession of the video footage of the alleged sexual assault. The prosecution case is that a gang engaged by Dileep abducted the actress, sexually assaulted her and shot the video to settle personal enmity with her. Dileep was also arrested in the case and later released on bail. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actress-urges-kerala-cm-to-ensure-justice-in-sexual-assault-case-1067670.html
03-01-2022||State||Over 1.25 lakh kids in 15-18 age group to be inoculated in Dakshina Kannada||More than 1.25 lakh children in the age group of 15 to 18 will be administered Covid-19 vaccines in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Monday. The target is to vaccinate 1,01,549 adolescents in the district. However, there are a large number of students from outside the district pursuing their studies in the district. Hence, the district administration and health department have taken measures to inoculate more than 1.25 lakh children in the age group, he said during the vaccination programme organised for the children at Government PU College at Car Street in Mangaluru. The testing of samples for Covid-19 will be increased to 15,000 in the district. The testing will be carried out in college campuses, APMC premises, markets and other areas, he said and called upon the people to cooperate with the health officials.  Traders should ensure all the consumers wear masks and possess vaccination certificates when they visit the shops. The severity of the Covid-19 is mild on those who have been inoculated. As a result, the dependence on hospitalisation, need for ventilators and ICUs will be reduced. No vaccination-related fatality has been reported in the district. Students should not panic over mild side effects like fever and body ache. Parents and teachers should also ward off fear of vaccines in the children, he said. Dr Rajendra said that the district is self-dependent on the generation of oxygen required for the wards in the hospitals. Only liquid medical oxygen for ICU beds are procured from outside. Though nine cases of Omicron were reported in Dakshina Kannada, two cases are undergoing treatment in Bengaluru, while seven cases had mild symptoms. The Omicron transmission is fast compared to other variants, he explained. The students who have been inoculated should create awareness in their surroundings on the need to get the jab, added the DC. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that there is no shortage of ventilators and oxygen in the district. Dakshina Kannada district has 16 oxygen generation plants even in community health centres, taluk hospitals and district hospital. Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru has 103 ventilators.  He cautioned people to observe all precautions and don't let the guard down amid the rise in Omicron variant cases in the country. About 94% of the targeted beneficiaries have been administered with the first dose and 80% with the second dose in Dakshina Kannada. Over 1 lakh targeted beneficiaries are yet to be administered with vaccines in the district.   MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath called upon the people to cooperate with the district administration and health department in containing the spread of Covid-19 by strictly adhering to the guidelines. Lab at Sullia Medical College The Deputy Commissioner also said that lab at a medical college in Sullia will be used for conducting tests of the samples collected from Puttur, Kadaba, Sullia and Belthangady.The kits required for the testing will be supplied by the district administration and steps will be taken to give the results within 24 hours at Sullia Medical College lab. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-125-lakh-kids-in-15-18-age-group-to-be-inoculated-in-dakshina-kannada-1067463.html
03-01-2022||State||AIDSO expresses solidarity with agitating guest lecturers||The All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) has expressed its solidarity with the ongoing agitation by the guest lecturers of the government first grade colleges.   The AIDSO units of at least five colleges in Bengaluru central have extended their support to the agitating guest lecturers The students of RC College, Maharani Arts Commerce and Management University, Nrupatunga University and Government Home Science College are joining the guest faculties in a protest rally in Bengaluru on Tuesday. In a statement released to the media, the AIDSO said, “We are supporting the genuine demands of the guest lecturers and expressing our solidarity. We are holding a protest at Freedom Park on Tuesday.” The guest faculties are boycotting classes for the last 20 days in protest against the government apathy in fulfilling their demands. They are seeking job security and hike in honorarium. Following the protest, the academic activities at majority of the government degree colleges has come to a halt as most colleges depended on the guest faculties. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aidso-expresses-solidarity-with-agitating-guest-lecturers-1067654.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||10 new Omicron cases in Karnataka; 8 from Bengaluru||Karnataka Minister for Health K Sudhakar said Monday that the tally of Omicron cases in the state increased to 76 after 10 new cases were confirmed. "10 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka on January 2nd taking the tally to 76. Bengaluru has reported 8 new cases of which 5 are international travellers. Two cases have been reported from Dharwad city in north Karnataka," he stated. Ten new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka on Jan 2nd taking the tally to 76: The authorities, however, are concerned about a 22-year-old Bengaluru man, who tested positive for Omicron. Officials said that his travel history and vaccination status are unknown, and that he has not been responding to phone calls. The case has been reported to the police. He was tested at a private lab on December 28, 2021 and results came on January 2. Since his contacts are unknown, the health officials have also launched a hunt for him, according to the state health department statement. Among the 76 patients, all three primary contacts of a 19-year-old man, who returned from the US, have tested positive for Covid-19. The patient is asymptomatic and is isolating in a hospital. All primary and secondary contacts of a 46-year-old man who returned from Dubai have tested negative. A 49-year-old woman who travelled from Dubai is symptomatic and test results of her 18 primary contacts are awaited. A 13-year-old girl, who was the primary contact of an international traveller, has also tested positive for Omicron. She is currently asymptomatic and under hospital isolation. A 42-year-old woman, a domestic traveller who came from Mumbai, has tested positive for Omicron. Her two primary contacts and 14 secondary contacts have tested negative. A 14-year-old school-going girl from Dharwad, who came in contact with a Covid-19 patient, has tested positive for the Omicron variant. Her samples were collected from the Railway School. Three of her primary contacts have also tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 395 secondary contacts have been tested and all of them have tested negative, officials said. Four primary contacts of five who had come in contact with a 53-year-old woman from Dharwad, have tested positive for Covid-19. Her 395 secondary contacts have been tested negative for Covid-19. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-new-omicron-cases-in-karnataka-8-from-bengaluru-1067389.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai inaugurates vax drive for 15-18 year age group||The Karnataka government has kick-started the mega Covid-19 vaccination drive for about 31.75 lakh beneficiaries belonging to 15 to 18 years on Monday. The authorities have set a target of 6 lakh children and youth on the first day. The Covid vaccination drive will be conducted in as many as 4,160 vaccination centers across the state. The thrust has been laid to vaccinate in school and college premises. The authorities are planning to cover those also who are not studying in the primary health centers. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai inaugurated the vaccination drive at the BBMP College in Basaveshwara Nagar locality of Govindarajanagar. The campaign was also inaugurated across the state by local representatives. Separate arrangements are made to identify and vaccinate those who are not in the stream of education. Elaborate arrangements have been made at the vaccination centers. Three rooms are being used for the vaccination drive. Separate rooms have been arranged for registration, vaccination and resting. Among 31.75 lakh beneficiaries in the state, as many as 7 lakh are in Bengaluru. The state government is utilising the stock of 16 lakh doses of Covaxin vaccines as the second dose could be administered in another 28 days. The children can enroll in the Co-Win portal or they could get vaccinated by giving an Aadhaar card or school identity card. The labour department, rural and panchayat department and urban development departments' help and coordination has been sought by the health department to identify and vaccinate those who are not studying. Sources in the health department stated that the Karnataka state government has to date vaccinated 76 per cent of the targeted population in terms of Covid vaccinations. Though jabbing 100 per cent beneficiaries still remains a top priority, the vaccination drive for 15 to 18 years of age people will also be focused as this age segment has not received a single shot of Covid vaccination. The initiative will be taken with a missionary zeal in the wake of fears of the Omicron variant and the third wave of Covid. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) authorities are taking up all required preparations for the mega exercise of vaccination of about 7 lakh children between the ages of 15 to 18 years in Bengaluru alone. The authorities have collected zonal data of children studying in private as well as government schools and colleges in the city. The authorities are ready with the required strength of staff to be deputed to schools and colleges to ensure vaccination of school and college children across the state. In Bengaluru, the BBMP is also planning to cover children who are not in the stream of education. NGOs help is being taken to identify children in this age group in slums and industrial areas. Along with this, the BBMP is also gearing up to administer booster doses for the frontline workers and health staff, who are identified as Covid warriors from January 10, according to sources. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-inaugurates-vax-drive-for-15-18-year-age-group-1067419.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka government to take long-term measures, says Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said “long-term” measures will be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 without affecting the daily life of citizens. “As much as possible, we will control the coronavirus without troubling citizens in carrying out their daily lives,” Bommai said. Bommai is scheduled to chair a meeting with experts on Tuesday to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and discuss the need for more curbs, which may include weekend curfews or restricting commercial establishments like malls that see heavy footfalls. “We’re observing both Covid and Omicron - they’re spreading fast across the country, in the state and in neighbouring states,” Bommai said. After his discussion with experts, Bommai will chair a Cabinet meeting on Thursday. “We will discuss measures we need to take. We will take long-term measures,” he said. The CM stressed on self-regulation, urging citizens to mask up, follow physical distancing and focus on personal healthcare. Congress padayatra The measures that the government will take could have a bearing on the Congress’ 10-day foot march starting January 9 demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project. “I’m also observing whatever they’re doing. In the meeting with experts we will discuss public events. And, whatever is decided will apply to everybody, not just Congress,” Bommai said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-government-to-take-long-term-measures-says-bommai-1067439.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulling ethanol policy, says Munenakoppa||Stating that efforts are being made to have an ethanol policy in Karnataka for promoting production of ethanol by using not just sugarcane, but also maize and paddy, Handloom, Textile and Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Monday said a team of experts would be shortly constituted to make recommendations for the proposed policy. "A committee comprising experts from S Nijalingappa Research Institute and officials would be formed to submit a report within a month. I am also visiting Delhi to study ethanol production and promotion practices adopted in other states," he said. Petroleum companies are now purchasing ethanol produced in sugar factories, but ethanol production in the state is less compared to the demand. It is being planned to promote sugar, maize and paddy based ethanol, to empower farmers and to encourage entrepreneurs. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has also agreed to have an ethanol policy, he noted. The plan includes giving subsidy, bank loan, licence simplification and other facilities for ethanol producers. According to a report with the Union Government, 25 oer fectethanol can be mixed with petrol, and it would reduce crude oil imports also, Munenakoppa explained. I have already conducted one round of discussion with private and co-operative sugar factories' managements, officials and ministers. Officials have been instructed to study best practices in other states also, he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulling-ethanol-policy-says-munenakoppa-1067488.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,290 Covid cases as surge continues; 1,041 cases in Bengaluru alone||Witnessing a further surge in daily Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on Monday reported 1,290 fresh infections and 5 deaths, taking the count to 30,10,847 and the death toll to 38,351. Of the new cases, 1,041 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 134 discharges and 3 deaths. The total number of active cases is now at 11,345. The state has registered a steady surge in fresh infections for the sixth consecutive day, since last Wednesday, when the daily caseload was 566. There were 232 discharges today, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,61,122, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.60 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.38 per cent. Of the deaths, three are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Chitradurga, and Hassan. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the second highest of 52 new cases, Udupi 43, and Dharwad 19. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,66,392 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,80,338 and Tumakuru 1,21,367. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,40,408, followed by Mysuru 1,77,779 and Tumakuru 1,20,158. Cumulatively a total of 5,67,76,742 samples have been tested in the state, of which 80,409 were tested on Monday alone. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1290-covid-cases-as-surge-continues-1041-cases-in-bengaluru-alone-1067599.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Industry bodies urge Karnataka govt not to impose lockdown||Industry bodies have urged the Karnataka government not to impose partial or full lockdown in the state. They believe this will derail whatever growth has been achieved so far after the second wave-induced lockdown. This comes a day after revenue minister R Ashoka said the state government will soon come up with "tougher" measures to curb Covid-19 infections, including lockdown if people do not cooperate. "We have held meetings with industry bodies such as the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, Bidadi Industries Association, Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India and Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India. And a joint recommendation will be made to the chief secretary of Karnataka tomorrow (Tuesday) not to impose partial or full lockdown in the state", said I S Prasad, president, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) also cautioned against any knee-jerk reaction in the form of a lockdown or any other harsh measures. “Another lockdown may force many micro and small enterprises to down shutters and add to the unemployment problem,” KASSIA pointed out in a statement, adding that all expectations of the economy being on a rebound will evaporate in no time. KASSIA said its stance is a reflection of the fear that the micro and small scale players have who are yet to recover fully from the devastating effects of the previous lockdowns, during the successive waves of the pandemic. Prasad further stated that while the health of citizens is important, it is also imperative to not shut down industrial activity. KASSIA suggested the government focus on strictly enforcing Covid-19 protocols by citizens rather than resorting to partial or full lockdown. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/industry-bodies-urge-karnataka-govt-not-to-impose-lockdown-1067636.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Paternity test: DNA sampling is not violative of Article 20 (3), says HC||The Kalaburagi bench of the high court has said that drawing of the blood sample of an accused to determine the paternity of the child is neither self-incrimination nor violative of Article 20 (3) of the Constitution. The court observed this in a recent judgment while dismissing a petition filed by a person accused of rape challenging the DNA sampling that proved that he was the biological father of the child which was born to the victim. Justice H P Sandesh cited Supreme Court judgments with regard to DNA test to determine paternity in which it was held DNA test is not to be directed as a matter of routine but only in deserving cases. “Hence, it is clear that ordering for DNA itself should not be as a matter of routine but wherein deserving cases, the court can direct for DNA test and there is no prohibition for ordering DNA test and the same is subject to each facts and circumstances of the case,” Justice H P Sandesh said. The complaint was filed against the petitioner in 2016 when the victim was seven months pregnant. A requisition was made before the magistrate for the DNA test to which the petitioner filed his objections. His contention was that the victim had already married. The facts of the case were that the victim had given birth to a child, but the child had passed away. However, the extracts of the child were collected and the same was sent to the FSL. During the in-camera examination, the petitioner had also given consent. The blood was drawn on January 5, 2017, while the report was received in March. Justice H P Sandesh observed that the petitioner had challenged the procedure four years after the report was submitted. The court said the Magistrate has applied the judicious mind and considered Sections 53 and 53A of CrPC and passed an order in compliance with Section 164A of CrPC. “Hence, I do not find any error committed by the learned Magistrate in ordering for DNA test. The DNA test is also available before the Court, which is marked as Annexure-H, and only in order to overcome the positive report of the DNA, the petitioner has approached this Court by invoking the writ jurisdiction seeking the relief to quash the order as well as the DNA report,” the court said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/paternity-test-dna-sampling-is-not-violative-of-article-20-3-says-hc-1067640.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccine for teens: Day One zeal sees 10 Karnataka districts exceed 100%||The state clocked 4 lakh Covid vaccine doses on Monday, achieving 63 per cent of the intended target of 6.3 lakh children for the day, on the first day of Covid vaccination for those in the 15-17 age group. It has to vaccinate a total of 31.75 lakh people in that age group.  As per data on the Cowin portal till 7.30 pm, 10 districts exceeded 100 per cent of their target.  The highest performing district was Haveri, which achieved 281 per cent of its daily target, by vaccinating 14,064 children by 7.30 pm, despite having a target of only 5,000 children. This was followed by the Belagavi district, which achieved 239 per cent coverage by vaccinating 47,720 children, out of its target of 20,000 for the day. In Dharwad district, which came third with 229 per cent coverage (11,884 children vaccinated out of a target of 5,200), Dr S M Honakeri, the district health officer, said they were able to achieve high figures, because they were used to vaccinating a high number of adults on a daily basis. In other districts, however, officials avoided taking consent for the jabs, over concerns that it would not be given by parents. Officials in Kalaburagi district, which vaccinated 11,293 children on Monday and achieved 113 per cent coverage, said extensive consultations with teachers and parent-teacher associations had preceded the vaccination drive, to enlist support.  Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai launched the paediatric Covid vaccination programme in Bengaluru West at a BBMP high school.  Keerthi Kokati, 16, who was the first to be jabbed, was presented a rose by the CM. She said she would feel confident and safe going outside, with a mask and social distancing, now that she’ll be fully vaccinated in another 28 days. “I am a class X student and was the first to get vaccinated in my school. I’m very happy. Even my parents are very happy. They want me to be safe. Even though I’m partially jabbed now, I will wear a mask, maintain social distancing and use sanitiser. I can now go out, but with Covid-appropriate behaviour. I want my friends also to be vaccinated,” Keerthi said. T K Anil Kumar, principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare department said, at the current vaccination rate, the state could perhaps reach 100 per cent coverage of the child target group in about two weeks or less.  BBMP achieves 55 per cent With a target of inoculating a total of 4.41 lakh children, BBMP, on Monday, vaccinated 22,067 students (55 per cent of the day’s target). As on January 2, BBMP had Covaxin stocks of 2,56,800 doses. Bommai said, “I am glad we are starting this new phase of Covid vaccination in the New Year, with children. It is very important to vaccinate teenagers. In Bengaluru, we have a target of vaccinating 4.41 lakh teenagers, out of whom, we plan to jab at least 40,000 today.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccine-for-teens-day-one-zeal-sees-10-karnataka-districts-exceed-100-1067647.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||PMO yet to respond to 40% kickback plaint: Contractors||The state contractors' association has said that it would approach Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprise him of the 40 per cent kickback row in the state, if Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai refused to meet them on the issue.  Speaking at a press meet here, contractors' association state president Kempanna said that the association had evidence to substantiate their charges that the elected representatives were demanding 40 per cent kickbacks in allotment of works in various government departments. Most of the ministers and the MLAs are corrupt, he charged. "About six months back, we had written to the PM after the then chief minister B S Yediyurappa didn't meet them despite the association seeking his (BSY) appointment four times. However, no communication was received to this day from the PM's office, he said. Contracts are being given to the outsiders, making the lives of local contractors miserable, he said. "Revenue Minister R Ashoka is an arrogant minister. The minister had said that the contractors are doing this at the behest of the Congress. In fact, we are fighting for our cause and not in favour of any political party, Kempanna said. Demanding a probe into the kickback episode by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Court, the president said that the association would  furnish all the documents if an independent probe is conducted. Bills worth about Rs 22,000 crore is pending in the state, he added  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pmo-yet-to-respond-to-40-kickback-plaint-contractors-1067649.html
03-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP, Congress spar over Ramanagara ‘dangal’||The BJP, in a series of tweets, lashed out at Congress leaders over the fracas at Ramanagara. “There is no better example to prove that Congress culture is goonda culture,” BJP wrote, sharing a video of the incident showing Congress MP D K Suresh almost coming to blows with IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan. BJP Yuva Morcha also staged a protest condemning Suresh and Congress MLC S Ravi. “DK brothers might feel that Ramanagara district means “Kanakapura Republic.” It is not possible to remain silent at all times against such acts. The behaviour of Suresh and Ravi at a public event is unpardonable,” the BJP tweeted. The BJP also used the hashtag #RowdyDKBrothers to attack Suresh - who is the younger brother of KPCC president D K Shivakumar, and Ravi - a relative of the Congress leader. “Those who smuggled sandalwood before tasting power have today dared to threaten the administrative machinery of the state..... There is no doubt that they will fence all the lands they set their eyes on. People of the state will never give power to such people,” the BJP said. The Congress countered the BJP with a tweet saying Narayan’s behaviour exposed the “RSS culture” before the people of Ramanagar. “They tried to get free publicity without giving a single rupee for the statue. They tried to promote the party at a government event. Using an expletive in front of the chief minister...all this exposes the real RSS culture,” the Congress said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-congress-spar-over-ramanagara-dangal-1067665.html
03-01-2022||West||2,000 passengers stuck on Goa-bound cruise after crew tests Covid positive: Report||Over 2,000 passengers of a Mumbai-Goa cruise liner were stuck on the vessel on Sunday after authorities in Goa denied them permission to disembark following a Covid-19 positive test of a crew member. "After testing passengers for Covid-19, some tested positive.. We have not allowed them to dock the ship. They have a tie-up with a private hospital for Covid testing, and we have told them to test all passengers before they leave the ship," Vishwajit Rane, Goa health minister told the publication. The Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and health officials, however, said that apart from a crew member, none of the passengers tested positive, in rapid antigen tests. RT-PCR tests began at 9:30 pm and went on till 11:30 pm. Around 500 samples were collected, pathologist Dr Eugene D’Souza told the publication. “We have allowed the ship to berth, but everyone will be tested before they disembark. All the passengers are double-vaccinated. The ship doctor had tested a crew member who had a fever for a day. The vessel was kept outside the port limits while the authorities were informed,” an MPT official told TOI. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2000-passengers-stuck-on-goa-bound-cruise-after-crew-tests-covid-positive-report-1067408.html
03-01-2022||West||Gujarat vaccinates 15-18-year-olds as India expands drive||A special Covid-19 vaccination drive for children in the 15 to 18 age group was launched across Gujarat on Monday morning, with the state health department setting a target to cover 36 lakh beneficiaries in the category in one week. Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel launched the drive at a school in Koba area of the state capital Gandhinagar. He arrived at the school in the morning, inspected the facility and also interacted with some of the beneficiary children. The special week-long statewide drive aims to cover nearly 36 lakh beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 age category. A mega drive has been planned on January 7 with focus on students of Class 10, as per the state health department. In the Gandhinagar municipal limits, the drive is underway across 13 schools, with the aim to cover 5,000 children on the first day itself, a note from the Chief Minister's Office said. The Gujarat health department has prepared around 3,500 centres across the state for the special vaccination campaign, and has said it will extend the daily timings of the drive from the current schedule of 9 am to 6 pm. According to the health department, vaccination will be carried out in schools and Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), and authorities will ensure that out-of-school children are also covered. In addition, the inoculation drive will also cover institutions for the disabled, orphanages and facilities for the care of mentally ill children. The health department said it has sufficient availability of Covaxin doses, which are to be administered to the children in the 15 to 18 age group. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-vaccinates-15-18-year-olds-as-india-expands-drive-1067426.html
03-01-2022||West||Fire in furniture scrap shop in Mumbai; no casualties||A fire broke out in a furniture scrap shop in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai on Monday morning, but there was no report of any casualty, civic officials said. The blaze erupted around 10.30 am in the shop located at D'Silva Compound in Sunder Baug area of Asalfa locality, they said. At least eight fire engines and water tankers were rushed to the spot, a civic official said, adding that fire fighting is still on. "There was no report of injury to anyone," the official said. Police and ward staff reached the spot after being alerted and ambulances were also rushed there, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-furniture-scrap-shop-in-mumbai-no-casualties-1067433.html
03-01-2022||West||Maharashtra teenagers queue up for Covaxin jabs on Day 1 of drive for 15-18 age group||As the state stands on the threshold of a 'third wave' of Covid-19, lakhs of school and junior college children in the 15-18 age group enthusiastically thronged vaccination centres to get their jabs in Mumbai, as well as the rest of Maharashtra, officials said on Monday. As per the Centre's policy, the government launched the inoculation drive for the 15-18 age groups and over 8,00,000 have already registered for their dose in the past few days. Since dawn, the children, many sporting their school uniforms, lugging school bags, clutching their ID cards and other necessary documents, made a beeline to the vaccination centres in cities, towns and villages. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray exhorted children to get their vaccine doses, while at many centres, VIPs welcomed the kids. Health Minister Rajesh Tope greeted the youngsters in Jalna, while Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray and Mayor Kishori Pednekar did likewise in Mumbai; many other ministers, parliamentarians and legislators also took to welcoming the adolescents in different areas. A few big schools in the urban centres have decided to arrange the vaccination drive on their campuses to ensure all the children in the 15-18 age group are covered. At several centres, excited and giggling young boys and girls arrived either with their families or neighbours or friends, eagerly awaiting the experience of a Covid-19 vaccine dose, and they urged their reluctant pals or classmates to join them. "There is apprehension among us as the Covid-19 and Omicron cases have suddenly increased... We all have taken our parents and teachers' advice to register and take the precautionary jab when called," said Manthan Joshi, an SSC student of Gokhale High School in Borivali. In Mumbai, the doses are being administered at the nine 'Jumbo' vaccination centres across the city and suburbs. They are the Richardson & Cruddas, Byculla and Mulund, Somaiya Grounds, Sion, NSCI Dome, Crompton & Greaves, Kanjurmarg, Worli, NESCO Centre Goregaon, Malad Centre, Malad, and Dahisar Centre, Dahisar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teenagers-queue-up-for-covaxin-jabs-on-day-1-of-drive-for-15-18-age-group-1067444.html
03-01-2022||West||Covid: Goa shuts down schools, colleges till January 26; night curfew soon||Goa’s party appears to be over for now, with the state government poised to clampdown a night curfew in the state, which saw a steep spike in the Covid infection rate on Monday. The Goa government task force on Covid management earlier on Monday, also decided to shut down schools and colleges till January 26. A formal order related to the night curfew, school closure and fresh set of restrictions, is expected to be issued late on Monday or on Tuesday, Dr Shekhar Salkar, a member of the expert committee told reporters here. “The government is also imposing a night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am. A formal order will follow tonight or tomorrow. There will also be restrictions imposed on indoor functions,” Salkar said. The decision of the task force comes days after the coastal belt in Goa was choc-a-bloc with tourists especially in beach villages like Baga, Calangute, Candolim, Morjim, Arambol, etc. Civil society groups as well as the Opposition had slammed the state government for delay in imposing a clampdown on public activity, despite a surge in Covid cases. Dr Salkar also said that classes in schools and colleges would be shut down till January 26, but the vaccination programme in schools would continue. “Classes in schools and colleges will be closed in Goa till January 26 in view of the rising Covid cases. Classes will be conducted online during the period,” Salkar said. “The vaccination programme will however continue in educational institutions. Students need not return to their institutions after they are vaccinated. The task force will review the situation before January 26,” Salkar said. On Monday, when the state logged 631 new infections, 66 passengers onboard a Mumbai-Goa luxury cruise ship ‘Cordelia’ tested positive for Covid. The ship was anchored off Goa from Sunday, after one of its crew members tested positive for the infection. According to the state health ministry, four new Omicron cases were detected in Goa on Monday, taking the state’s total tally of the variant to five. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-goa-shuts-down-schools-colleges-till-january-26-night-curfew-soon-1067468.html
03-01-2022||West||IIFL Foundation launches vaccine delivery through drone||The IIFL Foundation has partnered with the Central and state governments to start Maharashtra’s first vaccine delivery through drones in inaccessible Jawhar taluka of Palghar district. The drone-based vaccine delivery by IIFL Foundation is one of the country’s first vaccine delivery operations with a 5kg payload and 25 kilometre range. IIFL Foundation’s drone-based vaccine delivery project was a part of its ‘Conquer Covid’ program to support the government’s last mile vaccine delivery mission. IIFL Foundation, which runs one of India’s largest girl child education initiatives, has increased the scope of its health program in addition to education since the onset of Covid pandemic with a larger budget and increased area of operation.  The Foundation has contributed to the government’s efforts in terms of contribution to the Prime Minister's Relief Fund, sponsoring health equipment, health gears, ration kits and oxygen cylinders through government and non-government partners.   The drone for IIFL Foundation was developed by BlueInfinity foundation, a startup based in Mumbai. Speaking on drone-based vaccine delivery Madhu Jain, director, IIFL Foundation said, “last mile vaccination is the key requirement in achieving 100% vaccination in India. We have partnered with various government agencies at centre and in Maharashtra to contribute to the last mile vaccination drive through drone.” “This is an essential requirement to reach out to Indians residing in faraway and inaccessible areas, where road access is not possible or very difficult and takes a lot of time, which results in wastage of perishable vaccines and other health supplies,” she said. The first drone-based vaccine delivery carried 300 vaccines to Zaap village in Jawhar, which helped 100 per cent vaccination of the village, which is located in a difficult hilly terrain.  Additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas, who launched the drone services said, “IIFL Foundations efforts are commendable towards last mile vaccination. In the first delivery itself the task which would have otherwise taken more than one hour, was completed in just a little over nine minutes. We would want this to continue in other difficult terrains for last mile vaccination.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iifl-foundation-launches-vaccine-delivery-through-drone-1067520.html
03-01-2022||West||NCB's Sameer Wankhede shifted out, to report to Directorate of Revenue Intelligence||Controversial high-profile officer Sameer Wankhede - who has been facing a slew of charges - has been moved out of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Wankhede, an officer of 2008-batch of Indian Revenue Service (IRS), who was the Zonal Director with NCB Mumbai, will report to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). However, Wankhede’s tenure NCB tenure, which ended on December 31, 2021, has not been extended. Wankhede is in the midst of an operation and is expected to be relieved in the next couple of days. Wankhede had tenures with Customs, NCB and DRI in the past and was brought in again to work with the federal anti-drugs agency in September 2020 as part of the larger investigations following the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. His current tenure with the NCB ran into controversy, particularly after the October 2021 Cordelia cruise ship raid in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was among the 20 arrested persons. Khan has since been granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Wankhede was also accused by NCP's Nawab Malik of being a Muslim by birth and forging certificates to take caste benefits and enter the central service through UPSC. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncbs-sameer-wankhede-shifted-out-to-report-to-directorate-of-revenue-intelligence-1067538.html
03-01-2022||West||66 on board Mumbai-Goa cruise ship test positive for Covid||Out of the nearly 2,000 passengers travelling onboard a Mumbai-Goa luxury cruiseliner, 66 have tested positive for Covid, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday. The minister also said that four persons across the state have tested positive for Omicron, taking the total count of Omicron cases in the coastal state to five. "Out of 2000 samples tested from the Cordelia cruise ship, 66 passengers tested positive for #COVID19 Respective collectors & MPT (Mormugao Port Trust) staff have been informed. The government will take appropriate measures to discuss disembarking of passengers," Rane tweeted on Monday. Covid-19 Update - Goa The authorities will decide whether to allow disembarking of passengers from the ship. Official sources said that Covid negative passengers would be allowed to disembark soon, while the rest would be taken to an isolation facility. "Out of four new Omicron positive persons, one is from within the state with no travel history, indicating indigenous spread to be further examined by experts," Rane said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/66-on-board-mumbai-goa-cruise-ship-test-positive-for-covid-1067558.html
03-01-2022||West||Mumbai schools, except Classes 10, 12, shut till January 31||Amid the rapid spread of Covid-19 and Omicron infections, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday announced shutting all schools from Class 1 to 9 and Class 11. Classes 10 (SSC) and 12 (HSC) will not be closed considering the crucial board examinations which are due to start around a month later. However, BMC Commissioner I.S. Chahal said despite the schools for the other classes remaining, the online classes will continue as in the past for all the students. The move came barely a couple a few weeks after the BMC and state government took decision to reopen schools - shut since March 14, 2020, with only online classes permitted -- in stages in October and December 2021 -- as the effects of the first and second waves of the Covid pandemic subsided. Classes 8 to 12 were allowed to resume from October 4, and on December 15, the remaining -- Classes 1 to 7 also started functioning offline, with a majority of the students turning up in schools. With the spread of the third wave now, the Education Department discussed the measures keeping in mind the health and safety aspects before deciding to close all physical classes from Classes 1 to 9 and Class 11, till January 31. School authorities rue that many had discontinued full-fledged online classes as students started attending the classes physically in large numbers with full Covid protocols implemented. Presently, Mumbai is the worst-hit in terms of both Covid-19 and its variant Omicron cases in the past couple of weeks. The Covid cases are jumping up by a few thousands daily in the state which also leads in Omicron tally with 328 infected so far, though death rate is low. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-schools-except-classes-10-12-shut-till-january-31-1067564.html
03-01-2022||West||Pune mountaineering institute Giripremi plans series of expeditions||Having unfurled the Indian flag at eight of the top 14 mountains in the world including Mt. Everest and several others, 40-year-old Pune-based Giripremi now plans to have a series of expeditions to mark the landmark year.  Giripremi has planned challenging mountaineering expeditions in the Himalayas along with the aim to climb 40 pinnacles in Sahyadris in the upcoming year. “We are planning expeditions in pinnacles in Thane, Nashik, and Pune,” said Umesh Zirpe, an expedition leader and Everesteer. “The Sahyadri ranges of the Western Ghats are very unique. It is known for its unique flora and fauna, geology, history, archaeology, culture, caves, forts, places of worship, and so on. We want more people to explore it but at the same time, be responsible towards nature,” Zirpe told DH over the phone. On January 3, 1982, Ushaprabha Page, Anand Palande, Dilip Nimbalkar, Late Nandu Page, and Shashikant Hiremath came together to form a mountaineering club called Giripremi.  Since its inception, Giripremi’s mountaineers have climbed hundreds of pinnacles in Sahyadris and the Himalayas. In the last 10 years, under the leadership of Zirpe, Giripremi reached new heights as climbers unfurled the Indian flag at eight of the top 14 mountains in the world including Mt. Everest. Giripremi celebrated the 40th Foundation Day a Sinhagad Fort on Monday. Early in the morning, members offered their respect at Lokmanya Tilak Statue, Chhatrapati Rajaram Memorial, Fort’s local deity Shri Kondhaneshwar Temple, and Narveer Sardar Tanaji Malusare Memorial.  To celebrate the landmark moment, members planned a series of mountaineering and social projects for the upcoming year. Jayant Tulpule (President, Giripremi), Vivek Shivade (Secretary, Giripremi), Umesh Zirpe (Expedition leader), Bhushan Harshe (Everesteer), Ashish Mane (Everesteer), Prasad Joshi (Everesteer), Krishna Dhokale (Everesteer), Jitendra Gaware (Everesteer), Sumit Mandale and several other club members were present to celebrate the day. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-mountaineering-institute-giripremi-plans-series-of-expeditions-1067571.html
03-01-2022||West||Maharashtra sees 12,160 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||The 24-hour Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 12,000-mark on Monday even as the process of strengthening norms has commenced.  However, the government has not yet spoken out on lockdown but dropped enough hints of severe restrictions to contain the third wave of the pandemic and Omicron outbreak.  “Maharashtra has made preparations for the third wave. After a spike in cases in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee implemented a lockdown. If several Covid-19 cases spike in the same way in Maharashtra, we need to implement more strict restrictions,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said.  He said that several states have come out with night curfew. According to the public health and family welfare minister, the situation of a lockdown would arise only after the per day medical oxygen requirement crosses the 700 metric tonnes mark. On Monday, 12,160 cases and 11 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 67,12,028. The active cases in the state now stand at 52,422, according to the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department. During the day, 68 new Omicron cases were detected taking the progressive total to 578. Meanwhile, Mumbai and several other corporations and councils in the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region have decided to shut the schools for Class 1-9 and Class 11 - and conduct only online classes because of the spike.  "Health and well-being of our children is our topmost priority…The need is to strictly follow the SOPs for the safe operation of schools and avoid any gatherings. Local bodies are empowered to review school openings based on a regular risk level assessment,” State School Education Minister Professor Varsha Gaikwad said at a review meeting. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-12160-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-1067628.html
03-01-2022||West||Bengaluru man detained by Mumbai Police in connection with 'Bulli Bai' app case||The Mumbai Police detained one person from Bengaluru in the sensational Bulli Bai case. The 21-year-old suspect is being brought to Mumbai by the Cyber Cell. The exact identity of the suspect and the locality from where he was picked up have not been confirmed.  Maharashtra’s Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil confirmed the development, however, he refused to go into the details.  “The Mumbai Police has got a breakthrough.Though we cannot disclose the details at this moment as it may hamper the ongoing investigation, I would like to assure all the victims that we are proactively chasing the culprits and they will face the law very soon,” Patel said on Monday night. Patil had ordered strictest action against the people involved in it.  After Patil’s directive, Maharashtra Cyber Police and Mumbai Cyber Cell filed FIR against unknown persons as doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded for "auction" on 'Bulli Bai' application hosted by GitHub platform. Meanwhile, Patil raised questions on the central government, asking Union Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnav as to why there was no action against the handles involved in 'Sulli Deals' case in June 2021.  An app with the name of Bulli Bai was made on January 1, 2022 to outrage the modesty of Muslim women by announcing that they were being ‘auctioned'. A noted journalist from the community was harassed as her picture was posted on the social media under the concerned hashtag, saying "among hundreds of other women". The act invoked anger among the social media users who requested Mumbai police and Maharashtra government to take action against the miscreants.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bengaluru-man-detained-by-mumbai-police-in-connection-with-bulli-bai-app-case-1067633.html
