04-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||9-year-old tiger dies at Pilikula Biological Park||A nine-year-old tiger, Oliver, died at the Pilikula Biological Park situated on the outskirts of Mangaluru on Tuesday. The tiger, which was healthy and active till morning, suddenly collapsed and died, the Biological Park's Director H Jayaprakash Bhandary told DH. Though a veterinary doctor tried to revive the tiger by treating it immediately after it collapsed, the tiger breathed its last. Oliver was born to Vikram and Shambhavi in the Biological Park. At present, the Biological Park of Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama has 12 tigers. "The samples of the deceased tiger have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Uttar Pradesh and Bengaluru for testing. The tiger's Covid-19 sample has also been sent to the ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal, Bhandary said. “The post mortem report is awaited and once the report from all these institutes arrive, we will come to know the exact cause of the death,” he said. As a precautionary measure, all animal houses and enclosures at the Biological Park are being sanitised. The staff are strictly adhering to Covid-19 guidelines, he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/9-year-old-tiger-dies-at-pilikula-biological-park-1067828.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: College in a bind as students sport saffron scarves protesting hijab inside classroom||The management of a state-run degree college in Koppa here is in a fix after a section of students came to college wearing saffron scarves protesting against the Muslim women allegedly attending classes with hijab. The Government Degree College in Balagadi, which had reportedly given in to the demand of the students with saffron scarves initially and asked women not to attend classes wearing hijab, has now decided to allow everyone to wear whatever they wish to till January 10. "We are convening a parent-teachers meeting which will also be attended by public representatives on January 10 to resolve the issue. The decision arrived at would be a binding on everyone," Ananth Murthy, principal of the college, told PTI. He said three years ago a decision was taken in a similar meeting and that was abided by everyone till now. "Everything was going smoothly but yesterday some students suddenly appeared in the class wearing scarves. They were objecting to the dress code of some students," Murthy added. A BCom second-year student Vinay Koppa alleged that Muslim women were coming to the college wearing hijab. "Three years ago, a similar controversy had erupted in the college and it was decided that no one should come to the college wearing hijab but for the past few days some women are coming to the college wearing it. Hence, we decided to come to the college wearing saffron scarves from yesterday," the student said. He also claimed that upon their request the college administration had asked the Muslim women several times not to sport hijab in the campus but they did not budge. The student warned that if this issue was not addressed then they would intensify their agitation in the coming days. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-college-in-a-bind-as-students-sport-saffron-scarves-protesting-hijab-inside-classroom-1067922.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Covid-19: Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar bullish on Mekedatu foot march||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday ruled out any possibility of putting off his party’s foot march demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project even as a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic seems to have set in. Determined to go ahead with the Mekedatu padayatra, a 10-day march starting January 9, Shivakumar held a meeting with party leaders during the day. Earlier in the day, Health Minister K Sudhakar made an appeal, asking the Congress not to go ahead with the foot march. “Let the health minister first go to the Centre and recover crores of money they owe to the state. They’re just hyping. Let Sudhakar go to the airport and see how people are being harassed,” Shivakumar said, asserting that the padayatra will take place. Asked about Covid-19, Shivakumar accused BJP leaders of violating norms. “Our leaders have been issued summons for our 100 Not Out campaign. Why wasn’t the CM or the ministers booked for holding public events? Let them file 100 cases. We’ll go to jail 100 times. We’re fighting for the people as their voice and we won’t go back on that,” Shivakumar said. Congress working president Saleem Ahmed said the BJP wants to stop the padayatra citing Covid-19 as an excuse. “Let them do whatever they want. We will follow all Covid-19 guidelines for the padayatra,” he said. The Mekedatu project was first announced in 2013 and it is estimated to cost Rs 9,000 crore. The balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project to regulate the flow of water to Tamil Nadu will be used to generate 400 MW power and utilise 4.75 tmc water for Bengaluru. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-karnataka-congress-president-d-k-shivakumar-bullish-on-mekedatu-foot-march-1067921.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||HD Kumaraswamy targets DK brothers over ‘loot of Ramanagara, Kanakapura’||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has come out strongly against KPCC president D K Shivakumar and his brother, D K Suresh, over what he calls the “loot of Ramanagara and Kanakapura”.  In a series of tweets in Kannada, aimed at the DK brothers, he said that the endgame may be near for the DK brothers.  “Those who swallowed the boulders and built castles by selling the soil of the land remember our land and water now. Aren’t they shaken by the feeling of insecurity now?,” the JD(S) leader said in a tweet. “Ramanagara and Kanakapura are not the property of just some people. The people here know better about the loot,” he said.  Conceding that he (and his family) is from Hassan in another tweet, Kumaraswamy says, “But people here have considered us as one among them. We too have acted in a similar manner. We have come up the hard way in politics and it is the people who have given us power.”  “I did not come to Ramanagara for real estate and the politics of money, arrogance and threats will not work for long as people can teach a lesson,” he tweeted in an indirect reference to the DK brothers.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hd-kumaraswamy-targets-dk-brothers-over-loot-of-ramanagara-kanakapura-1067980.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Constitution, free speech under threat: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that society faced a great danger due to an ‘imminent threat’ to the Constitution and freedom of speech in the country. “Today, if we complain that there was something wrong (in the country or society), we are dubbed as anti-nationals or terrorists. If there is no freedom of expression (to convey one’s views), how will society and knowledge thrive? We are in great danger due to such developments,” he said. Siddaramaiah was speaking after releasing ‘Alpasankyatharu Mattu Jaati Vyvasthe’, authored by political scientist Muzaffar Assadi, here on Tuesday. A system is creating strife between various religious groups, Siddaramaiah said, noting that minorities are falling prey to its effects. “In recent years, attempts to build walls between communities have grown. If we are not alert, peace and harmony will be a distant dream for society,” he said. Assadi opined that the strong roots of cultural syncretism in Karnataka made it difficult for communalism to thrive in the state. Caste should be redefined, he said, adding that the government should classify the lowest communities in the caste ladder to provide benefits for their welfare. Assadi’s book deals with caste stratification among Muslims in India and compares that with the Hindu caste hierarchy. The research work is based on ethnographic records, police documents and various other records maintained by the English during colonial rule in the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/constitution-free-speech-under-threat-siddaramaiah-1067982.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||DK Suresh apologises after brawl with BJP minister Ashwath Narayan||Congress MP DK Suresh on Tuesday maintained that he had tendered an apology to CM Basavaraj Bommai for the fracas at a government event in Ramanagara.  Suresh and IT/BT Minister CN Ashwath Narayan almost came to blows during the event even as Bommai was on stage.  “Yes, I tried to stop Narayan from speaking as an MP. I wanted to protect the honour of the Ramanagara district. I have apologised to the CM,” Suresh told reporters. “But, why should a minister speak like that? He spoke about being a real man and all that in his speech. I want to ask the BJP whether this is the party’s culture,” he said.  Suresh pointed out that Ramanagara MLA Anita Kumaraswamy objected to Narayan’s political speech. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-suresh-apologises-after-brawl-with-bjp-minister-ashwath-narayan-1067984.html
04-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Delimitation: Karnataka BJP wants Assembly seat-wise boundaries||The BJP and the JD(S) have asked the Delimitation Commission to redraw panchayat boundaries on the basis of Assembly constituencies, a move loaded with political implications. At present, Zilla and taluk panchayat boundaries are drawn in such a way that some of them come under multiple Assembly constituencies.  The Panchayat Raj Delimitation Commission has been tasked with redrawing Zilla and taluk panchayat boundaries and fixing the number of elected representatives they should have, following which elections will be held for these rural local bodies. Elections were due in May-June this year and the ruling BJP has been accused of delaying them using delimitation as an excuse.  Congress, the principal opposition, has not attended any of the five meetings held by the Commission so far. The party says it had no invitation, a claim denied by the Commission.  Karnataka has 31 Zilla panchayats under which there are 232 taluk panchayats, covering 30,000 villages. There are 224 Assembly constituencies.  “Right now, a district and a taluk are considered as a unit in themselves. We want the Assembly constituency to be considered as one unit,” BJP general secretary Ashwathnarayan, a former MLC, said. He cited a specific example: The Kanakapura and Ramanagara Assembly segments are neighbours. The hoblis of Harohalli and Maralavadi vote in the Ramanagara segment, but they are under Kanakapura in terms of administration.  “If I am a Zilla panchayat member and I come under two Assembly constituencies - each held by a different party - it’ll be difficult to get works done. If it’s inevitable for a Zilla panchayat to be divided, we asked the Commission to make sure every gram panchayat comes under a single Zilla panchayat,” he said.   The JD(S) has made a similar argument, according to proceedings of its meetings the Commission has made public.  The BJP has also asked the Commission to ensure Scheduled Caste votes do not get split up while the boundaries are redone.  Congress working president Saleem Ahmed accused the BJP of being partisan. “It’s unfortunate that a national party had no invitation to attend the meetings,” he said.  Commission chairperson M Lakshminarayana contested this. “I have an acknowledgement to show that meeting notices were delivered to the Congress office,” he said, adding that even the BSP attended one of the meetings.  On the BJP’s argument, Lakshminarayana said: “Assembly constituencies aren’t geographically divided. To the extent possible, we will eliminate discrepancies.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/delimitation-karnataka-bjp-wants-assembly-seat-wise-boundaries-1067985.html
04-01-2022||National||41 lakh teenagers got Covid vaccine shots; cumulative doses given in India crosses 146.61 crore||Over 40 lakh adolescents in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated on Monday as India began vaccinating its teenagers as part of its staggered vaccination programme that started on January 16 last year. The number of registrations for vaccination in this age group that started Saturday crossed 51 lakh by Monday evening. If the number of daily vaccinated persons in this age group is maintained at the level of the first day, it will be taking 20 days to vaccinate the entire 7.4 crore children in this age group. In an address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on December 25 made the announcement for a vaccination plan for this age group. "Over 40 Lakhs between the 15-18 age group received their first dose of #Covid19 vaccine on the 1st day of vaccination drive for children, till 8 PM. This is another feather in the cap of India’s vaccination drive Syringe," Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while Modi said, " I would urge more youngsters to get vaccinated in the coming days!" The Health Ministry also dismissed allegations on social media about administration of expired vaccines. "There have been some media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in India under its national Covid-19 vaccination programme. This is false and misleading and based on incomplete information," the ministry said in a statement under the heading Covid-19: Myths versus Facts". In an official statement, the ministry  noted that there have been some media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in India under its national Covid-19 vaccination programme and explained the matter. "The Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on October 25 has approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin (Whole Virion, Inactivated Coronavirus Vaccine) from 9 months to 12 months. Similarly, the shelf life of Covishield was extended by the National Regulator from 6 months to 9 months on 22nd February 2021. The shelf life of vaccines is extended by the National Regulator based on comprehensive analysis and examination of stability study data furnished by the vaccine manufacturers," it said. As the nation stared at the possibility of a third Covid-19 wave with Covid numbers once again registering an upward trend, different states came out with curbs. There were also demands including from Maharashtra that those in the 12-15 age bracket should also be allowed to get inoculated. With 33,750 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, India's active caseload stood at 1,45,582 till Monday morning. The weekly positivity rate is presently at 1.68 per cent with the recovery rate currently at 98.20 per cent. A total of 145.68 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. Delhi LG Anil Baijal will chair a Delhi Disaster Management meeting tomorrow.  Omicron was found in 81 per cent of the latest 187 samples tested for Covid-19 in the city. While Delhi has seen an over 800 percent rise in cases in one week in Delhi, Kolkata has seen a rise of over 400 per cent cases. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41-lakh-teenagers-got-covid-vaccine-shots-cumulative-doses-given-in-india-crosses-14661-crore-1067708.html
04-01-2022||National||Indian Navy's 1971 war veteran Vice Admiral S H Sarma passes away||The Indian Navy's 1971 Indo-Pak war veteran Vice Admiral S H Sarma died here on Monday at the age of 100, his family said. Sarma was the Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet during the 1971 war. India had defeated Pakistan in the 1971 war leading to the creation of Bangladesh. Officials said Sarma also served as Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC in C) of the Eastern Naval Command. He breathed his last at 6.20 pm at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar. His mortal remains will be taken to his residence here on Tuesday, where people can pay tributes to him, his family said in a statement. The cremation will be performed on January 5. Vice Admiral Sarma had celebrated his 100th birthday on December 1 last year. He also took part in Azadi ka Amrut Mahostav celebration in Delhi recently. A Navy spokesperson, however, said Sarma turned 99 on that day. "Deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of one of #Odisha’s illustrious sons, Vice Admiral S H Sarma, PVSM. The veteran soldier led from the front during many battles India has fought. My thoughts & prayers are with the bereaved family and friends," Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted. Condoling his death, Captain Sanjeev Verma, Station HQ, 120 Batallion, Bhubaneswar, said in a message: "He was always a source of inspiration to us. His crucial role as FOC in C of Eastern Naval Command in strategising India's Victory in the Bay of Bengal has mostly remained unspoken."  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navys-1971-war-veteran-vice-admiral-s-h-sarma-passes-away-1067712.html
04-01-2022||National||Congress needles govt over purported video of Galwan released by Chinese media||The Congress on Monday continued its tirade against the Modi government on the issue of Chinese transgressions, alleging it had compromised national security. The comments came a day after a purported video of Chinese soldiers celebrating the New Year at a location near the Galwan valley region was released by the Chinese state-affiliated media. People familiar with the developments, however, claimed that the video is from an area on the Chinese side of the LAC near the Galwan valley region. "Mr Prime Minister, the entire country and the world want to know as to how the Chinese unfurled the Chinese flag in Galwan Valley and wrote in the Chinese language that they will not give an inch of land back," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters "Why is the Prime Minister quiet and silent? Why is the Defence Minister not uttering a word? It is a bounden duty of our government and Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to ensure that Chinese transgression into India's territories is defeated decisively," he said. He said it is the constitutional, moral, legal and ethical duty to do so and the prime minister "should not be scared" of China. "Please, show red eyes to China. Please, look into their eyes and ensure that the Chinese transgression is decisively defeated. Please show to the world that India cannot only defend itself, we can throw out those who dare to occupy our territory, that is 'Raj Dharma'," Surjewala said. "With a sense of responsibility, I must say today that the Modi Government has compromised national security... I must say that we have a weak-kneed Prime Minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he alleged. The Congress leader also cited incidents of China allegedly transgressing into Indian territory in eastern Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-needles-govt-over-purported-video-of-galwan-released-by-chinese-media-1067713.html
04-01-2022||National||Supreme Court to hear Mekedatu pleas on January 27||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will hear all petitions related to Mekedatu reservoir on January 27. The apex court also clubbed Tamil Nadu’s petition against the NGT principal bench order which quashed NGT Southern Bench order forming joint committee to conduct spot inspection to check whether Karnataka started building a reservoir at Mekedatu across Cauvery river, with the main petition. When Tamil Nadu’s petition on NGT came up for hearing, the Bench headed by Justice D Chandrachud said it will be clubbed with the main petition on Mekedatu reservoir. The Supreme Court has been hearing a petition related to a dispute over Karnataka’s plan to build a reservoir at Mekedatu near Kanakapura.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-mekedatu-pleas-on-january-27-1067725.html
04-01-2022||National||DH Toon | 'Prime Minister is arrogant'||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Monday caused a stir as he trained guns on PM Modi, saying that he was arrogant when questioned about farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-prime-minister-is-arrogant-1067731.html
04-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' app to intimidate the courageous minority women, says Mariam Dhawale||After ‘Sulli Deals’, the demeaning ‘Bulli Bai’ has hit the social media targeting Muslim women. Women activists feel that the latest episode, which came in six months, would not have happened if police had taken action against the perpetrators in the first incident. Five women’s organisations have now petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his immediate intervention in the issue. Mariam Dhawale, General Secretary of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), spoke to DH’s Shemin Joy. The New Year started on a bitter note for women. We now see 'Bulli Bai'. This comes months after the 'Sulli Deals'. How do you see this kind of incident? This is basically to intimidate and scare the courageous minority women who are coming forward and raising their voices against injustice and against any kind of atrocities being committed on them. These are the tactics being used in this kind of political atmosphere where the BJP-RSS regime is ruling. They are targeting minorities and we can see that there is no kind of action being taken against the attackers.This is further encouraging these goons. Do you think the action taken when ‘Sulli Deals’ came up was insufficient and it further gave an impetus for those behind the ‘Bulli Bai’ to come up? Absolutely. When the FIR was filed, the first thing the Minister said was that the website or App was blocked. But no penal action was taken. The perpetrators were not arrested. Unfortunately, the atmosphere in this country has come to mean that people who are committing crimes against minorities are not touched. The latest is the Dharma Sansad where open calls were given to kill minorities are being protected. Nothing is happening. According to the ‘manuvaadis’, they are not anti-nationals. At the same time, false cases are imposed on those who are raising voices against injustice and atrocities. This trend is what we have to fight against now.  What are you going to do? Five women organisations -- NFIW, AIDWA, AIPWA, PMS and AIMSS -- have jointly written to the President on Monday seeking his intervention. We have said in the letter that we have unfortunately witnessed the most disgusting display of brazen misogyny for the second time in less than a year. This is done to humiliate and terrorise courageous Muslim women who were writing and protesting against injustice and corruption. The letter has said that FIRs against those responsible were filed in UP and Delhi but, unfortunately, no action was taken.  The letter also said that inaction is part of a trend in which sections of the administration and even the judiciary remain spectators to criminal acts perpetrated against the minorities. We have also reminded the President that this latest atrocity has occurred at a time public meetings are being held where so-called Hindu religious leaders are openly calling for genocidal attacks against them with impunity. Do you think the latest episode is a right-wing agenda to further corner the secular sections of the society? Yes, very much. It is not just the secular space. It is to finish off everybody who is trying to raise their voice, who are espousing progressive, democratic, secular values in our country. The BJP-RSS wants to change our Constitution according to their ‘manuvadi’ value system. For them, do you think empowered women are a problem? Yes. For them, women have to be subordinate, subdued and should not raise their voice.  These attacks also come at a time the government is proposing to increase the age of marriage of girls from 18 years to 21 years. Do you think this is an attempt towards Uniform Civil Code? I wouldn’t say it is on the way to Uniform Civil Code. It is on the way to imposing the ‘manuvaadi’ cultural system in the country. We have said it cannot be a Uniform Civil Code but a gender-just Code.  Why are you opposed to increasing the age of marriage of girls? There are several issues involved in this. The argument given by the government is of education and malnutrition. Both arguments fall flat. We believe that the concerns about maternal and child health can be much more effectively addressed by improving the nutritional status of girls and women throughout their lives, while also protecting and promoting their autonomy; specifically the right of adult women to make decisions about marriage and motherhood without coercion and force applied by family, community, vigilante organisations, or government. Also, if implemented, it will criminalise consensual marriages among adults and end up curtailing the autonomy of adult women. Also, how can you put  a boy in jail for a consensual relationship just because you have raised the age of marriage and criminalised a consensual relationship? Since 2000, there are reports, teenage marriages have come down by 51%. There is a government report in 2019 which says the mean age of marriage has increased to 22.1 years. This means girls and boys don’t want to get married early. So where are these marriages happening? Basically, they are people who are extremely poor who have no means of livelihood and education. Financial independence is a basic necessity for empowering women whereas India is facing the highest unemployment amongst women since Independence. The government has not been able to solve this. Without solving any of these factors, it is taking up this decision which is misleading the people of India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-app-to-intimidate-the-courageous-minority-women-says-mariam-dhawale-1067727.html
04-01-2022||National||37,379 new Covid-19 cases; tally of Omicron infections rises to 1,892||India on Tuesday reported 37,379 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, while the active cases increased to 1,71,830, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country has recorded 1,892 Omicron cases so far across 23 states and Union Territories, out of which 766 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. Omicron infections rose by 192 in the past 24 hours. Maharashtra has recorded the maximum number of 568 cases, followed by Delhi (382), Kerala (185), Rajasthan (174), Gujarat (152), and Tamil Nadu (121). Meanwhile, 124 persons died of the fatal disease in the same duration, taking the total death toll to 4,82,017. At least 11,007 persons recovered over the past one day taking the total recoveries to 3,43,06,414. Active cases now stand at 1,71,830. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.13 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 26,248 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 3.24 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.05 per cent, according to the health ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/37379-new-covid-19-cases-tally-of-omicron-infections-rises-to-1892-1067744.html
04-01-2022||National||Goa sends cruise ship with Covid-19 positive passengers back to Mumbai||The Cordelia cruise ship, in which 66 of over 2,000 people on board tested positive for coronavirus, was sent back to Mumbai from Goa with all of its passengers after those infected refused to get admitted to a medical facility in the coastal state, a shipping agency official said Tuesday. The infected passengers would be isolated on the ship, the official said. The cruise liner, where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a high-profile rave party last October last year, was ferrying large groups of New Year revellers. The testing of those on board the vessel was necessitated after a crew member was found infected with the coronavirus on Sunday, an official said. The ship was sent back at 11.30 pm on Monday after 27 passengers, who had tested positive, refused to disembark, Govind Pernulkar, manager of operations, JM Baxi and Co, a local ship agent, told PTI. “The ship had to be sent back after some of the passengers who tested positive refused to get admitted to a Covid-19 facility in Goa. Only six crew members out of the total 66 who had tested positive disembarked in Goa,” he said. Pernulkar said that after considering the situation, the South Goa district administration ordered that the ship along with all the passengers be sent back to Mumbai. “The passengers who were shifted to an isolation facility were also brought back to the ship before it sailed to Mumbai. The coronavirus positive passengers would be isolated on the ship,” he said. Some of the infected persons who refused to leave the ship were travelling along with their families, he said, adding that a few of their family members had tested negative for the viral infection. The ship is expected to reach Mumbai by Tuesday afternoon, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-sends-cruise-ship-with-covid-19-positive-passengers-back-to-mumbai-1067772.html
04-01-2022||National||'A vocal Muslim woman is everything that they hate,' says Hasiba Amin on 'Bulli Bai', 'Sulli Deal' cases||Congress social media team’s national convenor, Hasiba Amin, was targeted in the 'Bulli Bai' and the 'Sulli Deals' harassment cases. She says that the attackers targeted her and others specifically for being vocal women from the Muslim community. She says that even as she is willing to fight it out, it does take its toll. Edited excerpts:  How did you find out that you were on the list?  I did not find out for half a day; I was spending time with my family and was away from the phone. Then I saw some messages and calls from people who had seen (it). By the time I opened the link, it was taken down. I managed to see a screengrab video of the ‘auction’.  You were part of the 'SulliDeals' harassment case as well. Can you tell us what happened?   I was part of an auction that took place on Twitter. Everyone is talking about two instances — SulliDeals and BulliBai both on GitHub — but there have been five instances. The first one was on YouTube where users @LiberalDoge and Keshav, who have over 80,000 subscribers, had a live video where women in their Eid clothes were ‘auctioned’ off and men were passing lewd comments. Most of the women were Pakistani and some were Indian. This then moved on to Twitter where users like @SulliDeals101 and @SulliDeals_ would post pictures of women and start bids and men would post their comments. I was a part of that. It happened on Eid in May and I filed an FIR. Then there was an auction that took place on the app, another on ClubHouse and now, BullyBai. How far along is the investigation? The last time, as it had got considerable attention, I went with great passion and hope to the police. But nothing really happened. As far as I know, the investigation did not move any further. We gave them a lot of information and articles. Some sites pointed at suspects, too. I remain hopeful that they may be forced to act under pressure, because I realised they lacked the will to act.    This time around, I did not go to the Delhi Police but responded to the call of the Maharashtra home minister, who invited victims to come forward and speak to him. I’m in touch with the state’s cybercrime department.   The impunity and the fearlessness despite committing a criminal offence comes from the knowledge that nothing will happen. The reason this has happened a second time is because of inaction from the first time.   There are reports that GitHub has not replied to Delhi Police’s letter.  GitHub is not an Indian company, it is based in the US, and there will be international laws like MLAT invoked in case of intercountry issues. This is where political will becomes extremely important; writing a letter and throwing the ball in their court and then raising their hands up is a convenient way to not investigate the case. There’s a lot that can be done. The information is on a global platform and this puts us at a far greater risk. Ideally, there should have been the involvement of a lot more people. For instance, the women and child development minister hasn’t even spoken a word on it. In Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli’s rape threat case, they hunted down a person behind an anonymous handle. If there is a will, they can do it. What has changed for you since the incident? Also, there are a lot of women who probably do not have the same power as you, what would you say to them?  I recognise my privilege, and some of us can make a lot more noise than others. Yet, despite that privilege, I have toned down a lot on social media. We all have families who get bothered a lot, especially with this level of helplessness. There’s no assurance from the government. Those of us with privilege are here to support the lesser privileged.  What would you say is the objective behind this toxic combination of Islamophobia and misogyny?  Like in the past, when women were considered spoils of war, in these regressive, toxic masculine mindsets, the genuine belief is that women are objects. This is a way of showing the community its place, and the women their place. A vocal Muslim woman is everything that they hate – they hate women, they hate women who speak up, and they hate Muslims. All the women they targeted had a combination of these three things.  The Congress has promised 40% seats to women in Uttar Pradesh. Do you believe that this will help change things in the state? I think political representation and women being in positions of power is extremely important for us right now. One of the reasons we continue to be oppressed and treated the way we do is because we are not equally represented or not in positions of power, whether it is in the judiciary, the media, medicine or any other field. The only way we are going to have our voice heard or our issues genuinely raised is when we have equal representation. Our population is 50%. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-vocal-muslim-woman-is-everything-that-they-hate-says-hasiba-amin-on-bulli-bai-sulli-deal-cases-1067780.html
04-01-2022||National||Mankind Pharma to launch oral coronavirus drug at Rs 35 per capsule: Report||Mankind Pharma's Molnupiravir drug for Covid-19 will cost Rs 35 per capsule and the full treatment of Molulife (Mankind's brand name) is expected to cost Rs 1,400, the company's chairman RC Juneja told the publication.  It is expected to hit the markets this week, he said. The recommended dose of the Molnupiravir is 800 mg twice a day for five days.  The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) allowed 13 drugmakers including Sun Pharma, Cipla and Dr. Reddy’s to make the antiviral drug, as India gears up to fight a fresh wave of the pandemic which may be propelled by the new variant Omicron. Last week, India expanded its basket of drugs to treat coronavirus by approving the drug for restricted use under emergency situation for treatment of adult patients who have a high risk of progression of Covid-19. Molnupiravir was developed by Ridgeback in collaboration with the pharmaceutical giant Merck & Co. The pill has alsobeen cleared by regulators in Denmark, Philippines, and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to treat mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adults. Molnupiravir is an antiviral that inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication by viral mutagenesis. The US FDA on December 23 had granted EUA for Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease in adults with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing and who are at high risk for progression to severe Covid-19, including hospitalisation or death, and for whom alternative Covid-19 treatment options authorised by the FDA are not accessible or clinically appropriate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mankind-pharma-to-launch-oral-coronavirus-drug-at-rs-35-per-capsule-report-1067791.html
04-01-2022||National||Govt health expert says peak of third Covid-19 wave soon; Centre asks states to be ready||With India’s Covid numbers increasing by 8 times in the last two weeks, an expert advising the government on Tuesday said that a peak for the third wave might be on the horizon, but added that there was no need for a panic, even as the Union Health Ministry reminded the states to be ready for a surge. "Looking at the behaviour of the Covid infection in the last seven to 10 days in India, I feel that we may be in for a third wave peak very soon," said N K Arora, chairperson of the Covid working group at the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. India’s daily Covid count fell to just 5,326 on December 20, but began to rise sharply after a week to cross the 40,000-mark on Tuesday. Even though most of the cases are either mild or asymptomatic, there is a slow rise in hospital bed occupancy in Delhi and Mumbai. In a letter to the state administrations, the ministry asked the states to repurpose the beds in private and public hospitals and start the work on reestablishment and recommissioning of make-shift or field hospitals so that in the eventuality of a potential surge, the states were not found wanting. Arti Ahuja, an additional secretary in the ministry, asked the states to open Covid Care Centres in hotel rooms and similar accommodations, and link them with dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Moreover, the states are also to procure and stock logistical supplies like testing reagents and kits. Arora, however, said there was no need to panic. "Those who are yet to take the vaccine or are partially immunised should get the jab for protection against severe disease and hospitalisation. Also, one should strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said. Independent experts are also hopeful that the next wave would not be as disastrous as the last one. “The next wave by Omicron will not be as ferocious as Delta. Ultimately we will rely more and more on vaccines to manage Covid-19 – be it endemic or epidemic. Vaccinations will eventually become routine -- and will most probably start in early childhood,” veteran virologist T Jacob John, a former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore told DH. Till Monday, India detected 1,892 confirmed Omicron cases from 23 states and Union Territories, Maharashtra topping the list with 568 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi (382), Kerala (185), Rajasthan (174), Gujarat (152) and Tamil Nadu (121). Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-health-expert-says-peak-of-third-covid-19-wave-soon-centre-asks-states-to-be-ready-1067793.html
04-01-2022||National||Delhi imposes measures to curb Covid-19: What you need to know||The national capital had reported 4,100 cases on Monday, and it is currently under 'Yellow' alert of its Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). Announcing the new measures to curb Covid, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said there was nothing to panic as the trend has shown that Omicron is mild in nature. Here's what you need to know: 1. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided to impose a curfew on weekends. 2. Government offices in Delhi will commence work-from-home for their entire staff, except for those in essential services, while private offices will operate at 50 per cent capacity. 3. The government has reversed its earlier decision to allow only 50 per cent capacity in buses and metro trains, fearing that stations and bus stops could become super-spreader locations following overcrowding. Masks will be mandatory to enter the metro and buses. 4. While night curfew will continue during weekdays, shops selling non-essential items will be allowed to remain open between 10 PM and 8 PM. 5. Shops in malls will continue to follow an odd-even scheme among others, while restaurants and bars are allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-imposes-measures-to-curb-covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-1067807.html
04-01-2022||National||Puri hotel declared micro-containment zone after reporting three Omicron cases||A hotel in Odisha's Puri was declared a micro-containment zone after three people were found to be infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus, officials said on Tuesday. One of the patients is a tourist from West Bengal, while the other two are staff members of the hotel, they said. The hotel in Ward 11 of the city was declared a micro-containment zone after the three cases were detected, Puri District Collector Samarth Verma said. No one would be allowed to enter or exit the hotel, and all employees of the hotel will undergo RT-PCR tests, he said. All shops on the premises of the hotel have been closed, while the administration is providing essential items to those living inside, he said. Verma, however, clarified that it would have no impact on devotees visiting the Jagannath temple. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puri-hotel-declared-micro-containment-zone-after-reporting-three-omicron-cases-1067816.html
04-01-2022||National||Flights cancelled, national highway closed: Snowfall disrupts normal life in Kashmir||Normal life was disrupted in Kashmir on Tuesday due to snowfall with the Valley remaining cut off from the rest of the world as Srinagar-Jammu national highway remained blocked and flights cancelled. The 264-km Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link connecting Kashmir with other parts of the country, was closed for the traffic due to snowfall and landslides at several places, an official spokesman said. More than 40 flights could not operate from Srinagar Airport due to intermittent snowfall. The official said the snow clearance machines were deployed by the Mechanical Engineering Department for clearance at the airport since morning. Meanwhile, Beacon authorities also deployed machines for clearance of apron and runway. The local MeT department has issued an orange alert in Kashmir saying that prevalent rains and snowfall are expected to intensify in coming days. The orange alert, though a less severe warning than 'red', is meant to alert the authorities to be prepared for severe weather. The alert comes a day after the weatherman issued an advisory for rains and snowfall in J&K till January 9 stating that the weather could cause disruption of surface traffic and trigger snow avalanches in vulnerable higher reaches. In view of the impending bad weather, the MeT office has urged people not to venture out on avalanche- and landslide-prone areas, unless extremely necessary. While people expressed excitement over the first snowfall in plains on social networking sites, children and youth were seen playing ‘Sheen Jung’ in the city and elsewhere. Tourists, who have arrived in huge numbers in Kashmir in recent days, were seen capturing the rare moment of snowfall in their cameras and mobile phones as 'snow men' sprang up in many parts of the Valley. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flights-cancelled-national-highway-closed-snowfall-disrupts-normal-life-in-kashmir-1067841.html
04-01-2022||National||Former Saurashtra player Ambapratasinh Jadeja dies of Covid-19 infection||Former Saurashtra cricketer Ambapratasinhji Jadeja died of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, the Saurashtra Cricket Association (SCA) said. He was 69. "Everyone at Saurashtra Cricket Association are deeply saddened on the sad demise of Saurashtra’s yesteryears’ cricketer late Shri Ambapratapsinhji Jadeja. He passed away today early morning at Valsad fighting hard battle against Covid-19," the SCA said in a media statement issued here. Hailing from Jamnagar, Jadeja was a prominent right-arm medium pacer and right-handed batter. He played eight Ranji Trophy matches representing Saurashtra. He was a retired DSP, Gujarat Police. In a condolence message, former BCCI secretary Niranjan Shah said, “Ambapratapsinhji was a remarkable player and I have interacted good cricketing moments with him. May his noble soul rest in the shelter of of the Almighty.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-saurashtra-player-ambapratasinh-jadeja-dies-of-covid-19-infection-1067843.html
04-01-2022||National||Justice Reddy won everyone’s heart through his simplicity and humility: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Tuesday said Supreme Court judge Justice R Subhash Reddy won everyone’s heart through his simplicity and humility and he will always be remembered as a fair and hardworking judge. Justice Ramana said throughout his tenure as a judge for 20 years in different high courts and the Supreme Court, Justice Reddy always upheld and protected the people’s liberties. “Justice Subhash Reddy shall also be remembered for his dedicated commitment on the administrative side of the Supreme Court. Justice Reddy won everyone’s heart through his simplicity and humility. He will always be remembered as a fair and hardworking Judge," he said. The CJI shared his view about Justice Reddy while sitting at the ceremonial bench on the latter's last working day. Justice Reddy is the first judge from Telangana to become a Supreme Court judge after the new state was carved out. He was also in the bench along with Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Recalling his 40-year-long association with Justice Reddy, the CJI said his journey as a legal professional is marked by many milestones. “I remember him as a young lawyer. He used to run from one court to another because of the volume of his work. He practiced for 22 years at Tribunals, Civil Courts, the Andhra Pradesh High Court and also before the Supreme Court in Civil, Criminal, Constitutional, Revenue, Taxation, Labour, Company and Service matters on both original and appellate side," Justice Ramana said. Justice Reddy, during his tenure at the Supreme Court, dealt with several sensitive questions of law, and penned down more than 100 judgments. “I have also shared a bench with him and have benefitted from his opinions and acumen. Justice Reddy is known for his compassion and consciousness about social realities. He shall also be remembered for his dedicated commitment on the administrative side of the Supreme Court”, said Justice Ramana. Son of late R Jagannath Reddy and R Vishala Devi, Justice Subhash Reddy was born on 5 January 1957 in an agricultural family. He was elevated to the top court on November 2, 2018. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-reddy-won-everyone-s-heart-through-his-simplicity-and-humility-cji-ramana-1067850.html
04-01-2022||National||Bengaluru student arrested in 'Bulli Bai' case to be presented before Bandra court today by Mumbai Police||21-year-old Vishal Kumar arrested in 'Bulli Bai' app case will be presented before Bandra court on January 4 by Mumbai Police, news agency ANI reported. The controversy, which cropped up on January 1, concerned hosting platform GitHub's 'Bulli Bai' app on which photos were posted of a number of women of a particular religion, including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities. This controversy comes six months after the 'Sulli Deals' controversy. Both names are derogatory terms that refer to women of a particular religion. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-student-arrested-in-bulli-bai-case-to-be-presented-before-bandra-court-today-by-mumbai-police-1067854.html
04-01-2022||National||Images of Indian Army's New Year celebration at Galwan surface||Photographs of Indian Army troops holding a large tricolour at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh as part of the New Year celebration were released on Tuesday by sources in the security establishment. The photographs were also posted by Union Law and Justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Twitter with the caption "brave Indian Army soldiers in Galwan Valley on the occasion of #NewYear2022." The images were released three days after China's state media played up a purported video of PLA soldiers sending New year greetings to Chinese people from a location near the Galwan Valley region. In one of the photos, released by the sources in the Indian security establishment, around 30 Indian soldiers were seen with the national flag. Another photo showed the group with four of them holding the national flag and another tricolour flying high on a flagpole adjacent to a temporary observation post. The sources said the photographs were of January 1 in the Galwan Valley. The Indian and Chinese troops exchanged sweets and greetings at 10 border points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) including in eastern Ladakh and North Sikkim on January 1, which was seen as a warm gesture in the midst of the lingering row in eastern Ladakh. However, China's state media played up the Chinese PLA's hoisting of the country's national flag appeared to be on its side of an area near the Galwan Valley. The sources in the Indian security establishment said the site of the Chinese soldiers celebrating the New Year is in a depth area on the Chinese side near the Galwan Valley region and that it is not at all close to the buffer zone created in the region following the deadly clashes on June 15. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5, 2020, following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. The 13th round of Corps Commander-level military talks in October ended in a stalemate with the Indian Army saying that the "constructive suggestions" made by it were not agreeable to the Chinese side. In their virtual diplomatic talks on November 18, India and China agreed to hold the 14th round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. It is learnt that the Chinese side is yet to respond to the next round of military talks. The defence ministry on Friday said it held several rounds of military talks with the Chinese side to deescalate the situation in eastern Ladakh without compromising on its stand of 'complete disengagement and immediate restoration of status quo ante. India has been insisting on returning to the status quo that existed before the face-off took place in early May 2020. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/images-of-indian-armys-new-year-celebration-at-galwan-surface-1067862.html
04-01-2022||National||Covishield option for teens on Co-WIN causes confusion: Report||An update in the Co-WIN portal to enable the 15-18 year age group to register for Covid vaccines appears to have caused confusion by listing both Covishield and Covaxin as options. Currently, the age group is eligible to receive only Covaxin doses as per the Union Health Ministry. “When people saw an online booking for Covishield, they booked the slot in a hurry and turned up to take the shot at the centres. They were told to book the slot again for Covaxin, as the problem was resolved immediately. Some of them who had inadvertently booked the slot for Covishield were given the Covaxin shot on the spot,” Pune Municipal Corporation’s chief immunisation officer Suryakant Devkar told the publication. “The glitch stemmed from Co-WIN’s update process and was immediately taken care of,” an official of the health ministry said. The vaccination drive for the age group, which began on January 3, has already seen more than 40 lakh beneficiaries get their first vaccine doses. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-option-for-teens-on-co-win-causes-confusion-report-1067867.html
04-01-2022||National||Covid-19 drug Molnupiravir launched in India||Covid antiviral drug Molnupiravir was on Monday launched in India at Rs 1,399 for a five-day course for mild to moderate infection. Amid rising cases of new Covid variant Omicron in the country, an expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had recently approved antiviral drug Molnupiravir for restricted use in emergency situation. Along with Molnupiravir, the CDSCO has also granted emergency use authorisation to the Serum Institute of India's Covid vaccine COVOVAX, Hyderabad based Biological E RBD Protein CORBEVAX. Molnupiravir is an antiviral medication that inhibits the replication of certain RNA viruses. It is used to treat Covid-19 in those infected by SARS-CoV-2. The recommended dose of Molnupiravir 800 mg is twice a day for five days. A patient needs to take 40 capsules containing 200 mg of medication. Over a dizen pharma companies including Torrent, Cipla, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Natco, Mylan, and Hetero are in the process to manufacture the oral pill. Cipla, Sun Pharma, and Dr Reddy's Laboratories are also expected to release Molnupiravir capsules in the coming weeks. Molnupiravir, developed by MSD and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, is also the first oral anti-Covid pill approved by UK's drug regulator. The US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) has also cleared Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adults, and for those who are at a high risk to severe disease. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-drug-molnupiravir-launched-in-india-1067870.html
04-01-2022||National||After Kerala, Whole Genome Sequencing lab set up in Andhra Pradesh amid Omicron threat||The Andhra Pradesh government has set up a Whole Genome Sequencing centre in Vijayawada, at a time when detection of Covid-19 variants like Omicron has become crucial in containing a new wave of infections. The centre is the second such lab in the country to be managed by a state government. The first one was established earlier in Kerala. The Vijayawada lab is on the premises of Siddhartha Medical College and started functioning on January 1, health department officials said. The facility, now available locally, would save time and help implement cautionary measures early as till now the Jaganmohan Reddy government was sending the Covid-19 samples suspected for Delta, Omicron variants to the Hyderabad based, government of India run Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). CCMB would provide technical support to the state lab. Meanwhile, 17 cases of Omicron were detected in the state till December-end, of the passengers who returned from other nations. All of them are said to be stable. Teenager vaccination The Andhra Pradesh government, which started vaccinating the 15-18-years-olds from Monday, has administered the first dose to 4.92 lakh beneficiaries on the first day. Health commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said that 40 lakh doses of Covaxin are readied for the purpose. Officials have set a target of vaccinating 25 lakh teenagers within a week. Booster dose Covid-19 vaccination for frontline workers and senior citizens would begin from January 10. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-kerala-whole-genome-sequencing-lab-set-up-in-andhra-pradesh-amid-omicron-threat-1067890.html
04-01-2022||National||UP Polls: Yogi, Akhilesh bicker about what Lord Krishna said in dreams||After Lord Rama, Lord Krishna too appears to have become the God of choice for the politicians in the ongoing election campaign in Uttar Pradesh. Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as well as his party leaders have, of late, been invoking Lord Krishna in their election campaign speeches and claiming that they enjoy his blessings. It was BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav who sent a letter to his party president J P Nadda asking the latter to declare Adityanath as the party nominee from Mathura and claimed that he had been 'inspired' by Lord Krishna himself to write the letter. While Nadda did not respond, Akhilesh took the cue and said that Lord Krishna came to his dreams every night and told him that he would form the next government in the state and would establish the 'Ram Rajya'. On Tuesday, responding to Akhilesh's 'dream', Adityanath said, "Lord Krishna must have been cursing them (Samajwadi Party), when they, while in power, were releasing terrorists from the jails."  "Lord Krishna must have told them in their dreams that the BJP government had done what they could not do during their regimes," the Chief Minister said addressing a public meeting at Aligarh after dedicating a power plant to the public. "You could not build Krishna-Baldev Temple in Mathura... they, however, did produce Kans (Krishna's maternal uncle, who, according to the Hindu mythology, had killed six daughters of his sister),'' Adityanath said apparently referring to the violence in June 2016 in which two cops and 24 squatters, who were members of a cult, were killed. Lord Krishna's recurring reference in the election campaign was in addition to the repeated reference to Lord Rama, Ram Temple and Ayodhya in the speeches of BJP leaders. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-polls-yogi-akhilesh-bicker-about-what-lord-krishna-said-in-dreams-1067909.html
04-01-2022||National||IIT Kharagpur calendar refuting Aryan invasion seeing high demand||The new year calendar produced by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, that over the last few days had drawn unusual attention over social media, and offers a ‘rebuttal to the Aryan invasion’, is witnessing quick sale, with around 1,000 prints ordered in a day’s time, it’s being claimed. The IIT Kharagpur’s centre that co-produced the calendar, claims that requests are pouring in not only from ministries and institutions from across India but also from students, scholars and experts from across the globe. A desktop version of the calendar was offered on Amazon on January 2, and is priced at Rs 300. A wall calendar is also expected soon. Besides talking about Vedas, reinterpreting Indus Valley civilisation, what’s arousing people’s interest is the ‘rebuttal to the Aryan invasion’, with pieces of evidence. While a section of academicians had expressed reservations, and the attempt was seen as one towards “saffronisation” of education, the IIT’s centre has stood by the research it has carried out, the calendar being just one expression of the same. The product description section of the calendar on the online sales platform, while explaining the sources it draws from while arriving at a conclusion, states, “The Calendar being the tip of the iceberg therefore disapproves the Aryan Invasion error backed by skewed migration dates and figures, determined by racial superiority, and further driven by apartheid, and colonialism in the name of genetics!” “Students, scholars, experts, around the world, are interested because it has attacked colonial orthodoxy for the last 150 years. Around 1,000 prints have already been ordered in one day. Our official distributors are offering it on the platform. The money collected will go to funds for needy students,” Professor Joy Sen, chairperson, Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge Systems (CEIKS) (co-producer of the calendar), IIT Kharagpur, told DH. Sen said that while initial estimates suggested that 4,000-5,000 prints could be ordered. Companies and institutions are ordering in bulk. “They (foreign theorists) are trying to prove, yet again, using genetics research. Thousands of people of different racial origins have come and gone out (from India). That has no relation with being an arya,” he said, adding that sales could cross 10,000 prints, given the fact that there is a huge response from government departments from across the country. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kharagpur-calendar-refuting-aryan-invasion-seeing-high-demand-1067917.html
04-01-2022||National||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala tests Covid positive||Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala has tested Covid positive and has isolated himself at home. "After experiencing symptoms like mild fever and cold last night, I got myself tested and am Covid positive. I would request every one who came in contact with me over the last 24 hours to take appropriate precautions and get themselves tested," he tweeted. After experiencing symptoms like mild fever and cold last night, I got myself tested and am Covid positive. I would request everyone who came in contact with me over last 24 hours to take appropriate precautions and get themselves tested. The Congress leader had tested positive for Covid last year too and was treated at a hospital in Gurugram. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-randeep-surjewala-tests-covid-positive-1067920.html
04-01-2022||National||HC to rule on Subramanian Swamy's plea against disinvestment process of Air India on January 6||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on a plea filed by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy against the disinvestment process of national carrier Air India. The plea alleged that the methodology adopted by the government in the valuation of Air India was "arbitrary, illegal and against public interest". The petitioner asked the court to set aside and revoke any action or decision or grant of any further approvals, permissions or permits by authorities with respect to the Air India disinvestment process. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh heard the arguments put forward by Swamy, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared in the matter on behalf of AirAsia. The court said it will pass an order on the petition on January 6. In his plea, Swamy also sought a CBI investigation into the role and functioning of authorities and the submission of a detailed report before the court. In October last year, the Centre accepted the highest bid made by a Tata Sons company for 100 % equity shares of Air India and Air India Express, along with the government's 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS -- the first privatisation in the country in 20 years. Swamy submitted that a consortium led by SpiceJet was the other bidder but as insolvency proceedings are going on against the airline in the Madras High Court, it was not entitled to bid and therefore, effectively there was only one bidder. The Solicitor General, however, contended that the petition was founded on misconceptions and was not required to be considered. He said SpiceJet was never a part of the consortium that submitted the bid. "One individual, Ajay Singh, was part of the consortium, which was the second bidder and not SpiceJet," he said. He also said Air India's disinvestment was a policy decision, in view of huge losses being incurred by the airline, and that the government was competent to go ahead with it. With regard to Talace Private Limited, a Tata Sons subsidiary that won the bid for acquiring Air India, he said neither the firm nor the Tata group has any criminal proceedings pending against it and it has nothing to do with the AirAsia group. Salve also contended that there was nothing in the petition and that the bids were complete, the share agreements signed and all this has been in public domain for quite some time. He said the airline business is tough to manage and there are very large transactions, adding that if a person comes at this stage and keeps things pending with a writ petition, no one will invest in it. The government signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons on October 25 last year for the sale of Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. The Tatas would pay Rs 2,700 crore in cash and take over Rs 13,500 crore of the airline's debt. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-rule-on-subramanian-swamys-plea-against-disinvestment-process-of-air-india-on-january-6-1067941.html
04-01-2022||National||Cases increasing rapidly in Maharashtra, Kerala; implement all measures properly: Centre||Union Minister of State for Health, Dr Bharati Pawat expressed concern over the emerging Covid-19 pandemic situation and noted that cases are increasing rapidly in Maharashtra and Kerala. “The union health secretary is in constant touch with the health secretaries of all the states and is keeping a close watch on the changing situation,” Pawar told reporters in Mumbai on Tuesday. “The situation is alarming and the state should take necessary and timely actions to prevent further spread of the virus,” she said on the spread of the Omicron variant. The Centre has already given instructions to the respective states regarding increasing the number of tests and has also provided funds to the states for the purchase of testing kits. The minister further informed that the union government has already provided all other required assistance and it is up to the states to utilise it wisely. All other measures should be implemented properly, she added. According to her, the implementation of containment measures should be speeded up. "It is a matter of concern that the number of patients in Mumbai is on the rise; everyone should be vigilant and should follow the guidelines, remembering that it is a fight against the virus,” she said. The union government has already issued guidelines on what should be done if the number of patients increases and what decisions should be taken by the concerned states including on steps to be taken regarding availability of ICUs and hospital beds. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-increasing-rapidly-in-maharashtra-kerala-implement-all-measures-properly-centre-1067946.html
04-01-2022||National||Delinquent employee has no right to be represented in departmental proceedings: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that a delinquent employee has no right to be represented through counsel or agent in departmental proceedings unless the law specifically made a provision for it. "As a matter of right in each and every case, irrespective of whether charges is severe and complex nature or not, the employee as a matter of right cannot pray that he may be permitted to represent through the agent of his choice," a bench of Justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said. The top court allowed an appeal filed by the Rajasthan Marudhara Gramin Bank against the single judge bench's order confirmed by a division bench of the High Court. It quashed the decision of the High Court, which had then permitted an officer, accused of misconduct like granting loans without due care and caution, to be represented in the departmental proceedings through an ex-employee of the bank. After hearing advocate Rishabh Sancheti on behalf of the bank, the court emphasised that in the departmental proceedings, the right to be represented through counsel or agent can be restricted, controlled or regulated by statute, rules, regulations or Standing Orders. "As per settled proposition of law, the only requirement is that delinquent officer must be given fair opportunity to represent his case and that there is no absolute right in his favour to be represented through the agent of his choice," the bench said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delinquent-employee-has-no-right-to-be-represented-in-departmental-proceedings-sc-1067957.html
04-01-2022||National||Airtel withdraws scheme for new corporate structure announced in April 2021||Bharti Airtel on Tuesday said the scheme for a new corporate structure it had announced on April 14, 2021, has been "withdrawn" as the board is of the view that its existing structure is optimal for tapping emerging opportunities and unlocking value while scaling up digital businesses. The "seminal" telecom sector reforms package announced by the government has significantly boosted the outlook and investor confidence for the industry while simplifying the licence framework, the company said in a statement. With a strong balance sheet and 5G-ready network, Bharti Airtel said it is "well-positioned" to invest aggressively in the emerging growth opportunities offered by India's digital economy. "The Board of Directors of Airtel is of the view that the existing corporate structure of the company is, therefore, optimal for leveraging these emerging opportunities and unlocking value while continuing to scale up Airtel's digital businesses," it said. Accordingly, it added, the scheme of arrangement for the new corporate structure announced on April 14, 2021 "stands withdrawn". Under a modified scheme, the company, as previously approved by the board, will merge its wholly-owned subsidiary Telesonic Networks with itself, resulting in consolidation of fibre assets into Airtel. Besides this, Nettle Infrastructure Investments will also be merged with Airtel. "As announced earlier, the company will pursue its plan to eventually fold the DTH business (Bharti Telemedia) into Airtel to move towards the NDCP vision of converged services to customers," it said. NDCP refers to the National Digital Communications Policy. The company's businesses continue to be categorised under four key verticals - India, Digital, International and Infrastructure, it added. Bharti Airtel last year had announced a new corporate structure to sharpen the company's focus on driving the rapidly-unfolding digital opportunities while enabling it to unlock value. The new structure involved Airtel Digital Limited folding into the listed entity Bharti Airtel. This was intended to house all of the digital assets spanning Wynk Music, Airtel X stream, Airtel Thanks, Mitra Payments platform used by a million retailers, Airtel Ads, Airtel IQ, Airtel Secure, Airtel Cloud and all future digital products and services, the company had said on April 14, 2021. The company at that time had stated that the telecom business will be housed in a newly created entity -- Airtel Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited. Bharti Telemedia, the 100 per cent owned arm operating DTH services, will sit alongside Airtel Limited for now, it had stated at that time.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airtel-withdraws-scheme-for-new-corporate-structure-announced-in-april-2021-1067965.html
04-01-2022||National||India unlikely to give nod to Pakistan's move to host 19th SAARC summit||India is unlikely to give its nod to the latest move by Pakistan to host the long-pending 19th summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi is in no mood to change its stand and let the SAARC summit be held in Islamabad unless Pakistan "stops exporting terror to other countries and playing spoilsport to regional connectivity initiatives". The Government of Pakistan of late renewed its bid to host the 19th SAARC summit, which was proposed to be held in Islamabad in November 2016, but was indefinitely postponed after New Delhi opted out of it in the wake of the terrorist attacks at a brigade headquarters of the Indian Army at Uri in Jammu and Kashmir a few weeks ahead of the conclave. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Monday that Prime Minister Imran Khan was ready to host the leaders of the other nations for the 19th SAARC summit. He also suggested that the Prime Minister of India could join it virtually if he was not willing to visit Islamabad. Qureshi accused New Delhi of making SAARC "dysfunctional by stubbornly refusing to give its nod for the 19th SAARC summit to be held in Islamabad". A source aware of New Delhi’s engagements with South Asia dismissed the allegations by Khan’s Foreign Minister and alleged that it was Islamabad that steadfastly blocked connectivity initiatives within South Asia and thus made the SAARC dysfunctional. The relevance of the SAARC would be determined by Pakistan’s sincerity in addressing the concerns of India and other South Asian nations on terrorism, the source told DH on Tuesday. Another source in New Delhi pointed out that the SAARC nations would first have to reach a consensus on representation from Afghanistan before agreeing to the proposal of the summit being held in Pakistan. The annual conclave of the SAARC Foreign Ministers on the sideline of the United Nations General Assembly in New York in September 2020 was called off, as India and other members of the eight-nation bloc turned down Pakistan’s demand to allow an official of the interim government the Taliban set up in Kabul to represent Afghanistan in the meeting. Neither New Delhi nor any other nation has so far recognised the Taliban-led government in Kabul which came to power in August 2021. Islamabad too has not yet recognised the Taliban’s government in Afghanistan, but it has been hosting the representative of the dispensation to attend international events hosted by the Government of Pakistan, including the recent meeting of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. The SAARC leaders were set to ink two pacts during the 18th summit of the eight-nation bloc in Kathmandu in November 2014 — Regional Railways Agreement and Motor Vehicle Agreement for Regulation of Passenger and Cargo Vehicular Traffic. But the then Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif maintained that his government had not yet completed the internal procedure for inking the agreements. If signed by all the eight-member countries, the agreements would have made it possible for vehicles and trains — both passengers and cargo — to move from one country to another within the SAARC region without any hassle. Pakistan is yet to ratify the SAARC convention on Mutual Assistance on Criminal Matters and is also blocking the establishment of the SAARC Terrorist Offences Monitoring Desk and SAARC Drug Offences Monitoring Desk. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unlikely-to-give-nod-to-pakistans-move-to-host-19th-saarc-summit-1067990.html
04-01-2022||National||ASI trying to restore only surviving flag of Indian Independence||A slice of history, from seven decades ago, could be standing tall soon. The Archeological Survey of India is restoring the only surviving flag of Indian Independence, unfurled on August 15, 1947, at Chennai’s Fort St George Museum. The flag is from the ASI’s reserve collection and its condition has deteriorated over the decades.  Now, ASI officials, with help from experts from the Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Silk Board of India and the ASI’s own chemical branch section are currently working on the restoration process. ASI officials said the restoration process of the flag started in November 2020 and it will be ready within a month. “The ASI’s chemical branch section is working at it currently, and it should be ready in 15 to 20 days time,” said M Kalimuthu, superintending archaeologist of the ASI’s Chennai circle.  ASI officials said that the experts first assessed the condition of the flag. “Preliminary analysis to determine the composition of the material, thread count, thickness, measurements, and fragility, was conducted using a microscopic lens. The team had to be careful about the fragility of the flag, some part of it was in a critical condition,” an official told DH on condition of anonymity.  The official said that some more tests, including a non-destructive analytical technique, were carried out as well.    The flag, measuring 12 feet by 8 feet, is made of pure silk and was unfurled at the crack of dawn on Independence Day. The flag was donated to Fort St George by the then Madras government a few months later.  In 2013, it was displayed to the public on Republic Day. On display, it was encased in a glass box, surrounded by silica gel and a machine to measure the light on the flag helped keep it intact. ASI officials said that it is the only surviving Tricolour that was unfurled that day.  Concerns on its status have risen time and again, and INTACH had come out publicly offering to restore it. The conservation body had even written to ASI, and offered to bear the cost of conservation.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asi-trying-to-restore-only-surviving-flag-of-indian-independence-1068008.html
04-01-2022||National||CBSE cautions students against misinformation on exam pattern||Cautioning board class students of misinformation being spread online, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) issued a public advisory on Tuesday, stating that the CBSE Term 2 Board Exam 2022 pattern has not been changed and will be the same as announced earlier by the board. "It has been noticed that a few online media platforms are circulating incorrect information and confusing audiences, using expressions such as 'Breaking News' about major exam pattern changes in Class X and XII Term 2 Board exams," the official notice read. CBSE Term 2 Board Exam 2022 pattern has not been changed and will be the same as announced earlier by the Board, it said. The notice further read, "It is clarified in the interest of students that the Board had announced changes in the exam pattern (mentioned in Circular No. 51, dated July 5, 2021). Term 1 exams have already been completed and the format of exams for Term 2 is also mentioned in the same circular." The board has advised students and other stakeholders to only believe information that is available on its official website, cbse.gov.in. CBSE Term 2 Board Exams 2022 for Classes 10 and 12 are scheduled to be held in March-April, 2022. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-cautions-students-against-misinformation-on-exam-pattern-1068009.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||'Bulli Bai' probe: Mumbai police arrest woman from Uttarakhand, Bengaluru student||Mumbai cyber police on Tuesday arrested a 19-year-old woman, believed to be the main accused in the 'Bulli Bai' app case, from Uttarakhand, as the engineering student from Bengaluru was remanded to police custody till January 10. The Maharashtra Cyber Police and Mumbai Police Cyber Cell had earlier filed an FIR against unidentified persons following complaints that photographs of Muslim women were uploaded for ‘auction’ on the app hosted by GitHub platform. With two persons now under probe, Maharashtra's minister of state for home and information technology Satej Patel alleged a larger conspiracy. "There seems to be a much bigger network behind such coordinated crimes and I am confident that the Mumbai Police will soon unearth the entire nexus that is enabling such hate crimes against women in our country," Patil said. The 21-year-old accused from Bengaluru, identified as Vishal Kumar, an engineering student, was produced in a Magistrate’s Court at Bandra, which remanded him to police custody till January 10. The Mumbai Police has also secured the permission of the Mumbai court to carry out searches at the residence of the Bengaluru youth. Meanwhile, the woman detained in Uttarakhand is being questioned by a team from Mumbai Crime Branch-CID. She would be brought to Mumbai under transit remand.  According to sources, the accused arrested from Bengaluru and the lady from Uttarakhand know each other. No further details about the two suspects have been shared so far.  The Mumbai cyber police station had also registered a case against the app developers and Twitter handles that promoted the app. Hundreds of Muslim women were listed for ‘auction’ on the ‘Bulli Bai’ app with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of Sulli Deals which triggered a similar row last year. Amid outrage over Muslim women being targeted through the dodgy app, the Delhi Police had sought details from the GitHub platform about the developer of the 'Bulli Bai' mobile application and asked Twitter to block and remove related "offensive contents" on its platform. The police had also sought from Twitter information about the account handler who first tweeted about the app. Leaders from across the political spectrum condemned the cyber harassment of women belonging to the minority community and called for strict action against the guilty. Terming the matter "serious", the Delhi Minorities Commission had issued a notice to city police chief Rakesh Asthana seeking an action-taken report on January 10. It had said the interests of Muslim women need to be safeguarded by nabbing the culprits. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bulli-bai-probe-mumbai-police-arrest-woman-from-uttarakhand-bengaluru-student-1067799.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||Northeast is becoming gateway of nation's growth: PM Modi in Manipur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stated that governments at the Centre in the past neglected the Northeast and divided people for political gains, but the region is now becoming the gateway of the country's growth due to the importance given by the "double engine" government at present. "The governments in the past used to look towards Manipur and the Northeast only before elections. Their policy was not to look after the Northeast. But after coming to power in New Delhi, we took the pledge of Act East policy. I said that our eastern region can become the gateway of the country's growth. New airports are being constructed, railway lines are being laid and new highways are being opened to give a fillip to transportation and communication.  "The Jiribam-Imphal rail lines will connect Manipur with the country's railway network. The Imphal-Moreh Asian Highway will connect the Northeast with the South East Asian nations and strengthen the country's connectivity with those countries. Today, the Northeast is becoming the gateway of country's growth," Modi said at Manipur capital Imphal soon after launching several projects. Modi inaugurated and laid foundation of several projects worth Rs. 4,800 crores in Manipur and Tripura. The two states are heading for Assembly elections. In Manipur, Modi virtually inaugurated a bridge over the Barak river on NH-37, dedicated 2,387 mobile towers built at a cost of Rs 1,100 crore, a water transmission system for Thoubal Multi Purpose project, besides others. The PM laid the foundation stone for construction of a National Highway project worth Rs 1,700 crore, a cancer hospital to be run on PPP mode, a Centre for Invention, Innovation, Incubation and Training and a few others. In Tripura, Modi inaugurated a new integrated terminal building of Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport and launched key initiatives: Mukhyamantri Tripura Gram Samriddhi Yojana and Project Mission 100 of Vidyajyoti Schools. BJP formed its first government in Manipur in 2017 and in Tripura in 2018 with regional allies. This time, the saffron party, however, is eyeing an absolute majority. Although Modi did not directly talk about the elections, he repeatedly attacked the governments in the past. "They reduced Manipur into a blockade state, created division among people living on the hills and the valley and conspired to divide people for political gains," he said. "From being a blockade state, Manipur is now becoming part of the country's export growth story. We have carried out campaigns such as Go to Hills and Go to Village to bridge the gap among people. Now there is no sense of insecurity and thousands of youths gave up arms and joined the process to establish peace and development," Modi said. "It was the power of your vote. I hope people of Manipur will keep faith on the double engine government to carry forward the process of development," he said. In Tripura, Modi said the state was becoming a hub of trade and transport including with neighbouring Bangladesh and promoting the local products due to aggressive steps taken by the present "double engine" government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/northeast-is-becoming-gateway-of-nations-growth-pm-modi-in-manipur-1067808.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||In run up to UP polls, Akhilesh adopts 'soft hindutva' strategy, to visit Ram temple||In an apparent bid to blunt the "pro-Muslim" tag of his party and counter the BJP's attack on him by raking up the incident of firing on the 'karsevaks' in Ayodhya when his father was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhlesh Yadav appears to have decided to follow the soft hindutva strategy in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. Akhilesh, who had said that "Lord Krishna appeared in his dreams every night" and told him that he would establish "Ram Rajya", is contemplating visiting Ayodhya and viewing 'Ramlala' at the makeshift Ram Temple over the next few days. Sources in the SP said that Akhilesh might visit Ayodhya later this week as part of the Samajwadi 'Vijay Rath Yatra' and address public meetings in different parts of the district. "He may also visit the makeshift Ram Temple at Ayodhya," a senior SP leader told DH.  Since the groundbreaking ceremony, Akhilesh is yet to visit the makeshift Ram Temple. Under attack from the BJP for allegedly pursuing "politics of appeasement" during his regime and firing on (BJP) workers in Ayodhya during the Mulayam Singh Yadav government, Akhilesh had recently said that the Ram Temple would have been constructed long back had his party been in power in the state. Almost in all their public meetings, the BJP leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, have been raking up the Ayodhya issue to target Akhilesh. While the SP leaders think that Akhilesh's visit may help blunt the BJP's attack on him and also help rid his party of the "pro-Muslim" tag, the BJP leaders sought to dub it as "political stunt" aimed at garnering the support of the Hindus ahead of the polls. "It will also make it difficult for the BJP to polarise the forthcoming polls along religious lines," the SP leader said. ''It is a farce... those who ordered firing on the Rambhakts have been sporting tilak and paying respect to Lord Rama for electoral gains but the people of the state know the truth...they will not be fooled,'' a local BJP leader said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-run-up-to-up-polls-akhilesh-adopts-soft-hindutva-strategy-to-visit-ram-temple-1067813.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||CPI(M), CPI differ over Congress's relevance in forming alternative against Sangh Parivar||The differences between the CPM and the CPI over the relevance of the Congress at the national level in the forming of alternatives against Sangh Parivar outfits are again coming under debate with leaders from Kerala openly expressing their views. While the CPI is of the view that Congress was an integral factor in forming an alternative against the BJP and Sangh Parivar at the national level, the CPM leaders opposed it. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran even said that there were no other leaders other than Rahul Gandhi to lead the opposition alternative against the BJP. Earlier also differences between the CPM and the CPI over approach towards Congress had come out. The fresh discussions are happening at a time when the national party congress of the CPM and the CPI are in the offing and discussions on forming an alternative against the BJP without the Congress was going on at the national level. CPI is the second-largest party in the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala. The fresh debate was triggered by CPI's Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam. He said that the other day that the existence of Congress was very important for an effective alternative against the BJP and other Sangh Parivar outfits as the left parties alone could not form an effective alternative. If Congress weakens it would be difficult to fill that vacuum. The Sangh Parivar forces may gain from it. Hence it was important that the Congress survives, said Visawam, who is a national secretariat member of CPI. The CPI Kerala leadership also backed Viswam's stand. The party mouthpiece in Malayalam 'Janayugam' carried an editorial backing Viswam's stand. It said that a political alternative against the Sangh Parivar without Congress would be impossible. Subsequently, the CPM leadership in Kerala countered it by stating that an alliance with regional parties was more important than depending on Congress for forming an alternative against the BJP and other Sangh Parivar outfits. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also said that CPI's stand would only help Congress in the upcoming assembly by-polls in the state. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran countered this by reminding that even when there was an alliance between the Congress and left parties at the national level, left parties in Kerala successfully fought against the Congress in Kerala. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-cpi-differ-over-congresss-relevance-in-forming-alternative-against-sangh-parivar-1067833.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||Modi, Kejriwal targeted for rallies, not wearing masks during Covid-19||With Covid-19 cases rising, political leaders are coming under attack for not wearing masks in public and conducting rallies with Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself is "often seen" without masks. There have been several social media posts questioning conducting the Assembly elections to five states in the coming months and political parties organising rallies. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who tested positive for Covid-19, also faced criticism for his rally in Punjab last week. "The rate at which the third wave is progressing, it seems an avalanche of Covid-19 cases are coming in the next few weeks. The Modi government is making the same mistakes it did during the second wave, which killed lakhs. Prime Minister Modi is himself often seen without masks. Will this govt ever learn?" Kharge tweeted.   The rate at which the 3rd wave is progressing, it seems an avalanche of COVID cases are coming in the next few weeks. Modi govt is making the same mistakes it did during the 2nd wave, which killed lakhs. PM Modi is himself often seen without masks. Will this govt ever learn? The Prime Minister was photographed and videographed without masks while travelling in a metro along with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Housing and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Puri. Modi has also addressed a few gatherings in Uttar Pradesh recently while Home Minister Amit Shah also addressed a few rallies. Congress' Priyanka Gandhi, who isolated herself after a family member and staff tested positive, had also attended several rallies in the recent past. BJP's West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma took on Kejriwal, who was seen mingling with a large crowd in Chandigarh last week without wearing a mask, while wishing him a speedy recovery. Verma tweeted, "Arvind-ji, during your political tourism, you did not care about Covid-19 and people have been infected because of you. For you, vote-bank is more important than people's lives. When you are supposed to lead from the front, you have 'isolated' yourself. Delhi is watching."   ईश्वर से आपके जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना है। There were immediate retorts from sections that said it was actually a subtle message to Modi. Some on social media even called Kejriwal a "super spreader" while some others accused him of targeting those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March 2020. There was also some questioning on social media of the Election Commission going ahead with the elections in five states. Parties have urged the Election Commission not to defer the polls. BJP MP Varun Gandhi last week questioned the rationale behind imposing night curfew in Uttar Pradesh while the administration allowed political rallies amid a surge in Covid-19 cases and Omicron scare.  "Imposing curfew in the night and calling lakhs of people in rallies during the day – this is beyond the comprehension of the common man. Given Uttar Pradesh's limited healthcare systems, we have to honestly decide whether our priority is to stop the spread of the dreaded Omicron or show electoral power," Varun had tweeted, which was seen as a veiled criticism of the BJP-led government at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-kejriwal-targeted-for-rallies-not-wearing-masks-during-covid-19-1067869.html
04-01-2022||National Politics||Trinamool appoints two more leaders as Mahua Moitra’s co-in-charge for Goa||The Trinamool has appointed two party leaders, including its Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev, as state co-in-charge for Goa, despite having appointed Mahua Moitra, one of its most politically vocal and aggressive MPs, as the party’s Goa in-charge. While the appointments generated speculations if the party is thinking of other responsibilities for Moitra, the new appointments being just a first step as both Moitra and Dev have said that the new development is to offer greater force to the party for the upcoming elections in Goa, and should not be considered otherwise. The Trinamool announced that Sushmita Dev and Sourav Chakraborty, a former MLA, have been appointed as co-in-charge of the party in Goa. Moitra was appointed as the state in-charge for Goa in November. The development comes over three weeks after party chief Mamata Banerjee had publicly rebuked Moitra during an administrative review meeting held in West Bengal’s Krishnanagar. Banerjee was disturbed over the infights within the party in the region. “The target is to go full force, elections are around the corner. I believe the idea of giving two more leaders as co-in-charge with Mohua is so that we can move in faster and better. I think Mohua has done an excellent job. It’s to have a bigger team. It’s a message that we are serious about Goa, and getting more serious,” Dev told DH. Reacting to speculations in political circles, Dev said that “adding to a team is to make it strong, it doesn’t make anybody less”. “It’s sharing responsibilities, and not putting anybody down,” she added. Talking to DH, Moitra said that as elections approach, she’s continuously on the move for elections. Simultaneously, someone in authority is needed for office, and for media work. “I am state in-charge for elections and will remain till the end of elections,” Moitra said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-appoints-two-more-leaders-as-mahua-moitra-s-co-in-charge-for-goa-1067927.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Lord Krishna tells me daily in my dreams that I’ll establish Ram Rajya in UP after polls: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party supremo on Monday claimed that Lord Krishna comes to his dreams every night to tell him that he would form the government and establish “Ram Rajya” in Uttar Pradesh after the state's upcoming assembly polls. Former UP chief minister Yadav made the claim, albeit in a lighter vein, during a function held for the induction of BJP’s Bahraich MLA Madhuri Verma into his party. A Kurmi by caste, Verma is a second-time MLA. She was also a member of UP's Legislative Council from 2010 to 2012 Elated over the induction of sitting BJP MLA from the Nanpara assembly seat in Bahraich district, Yadav asserted that he is on his way to form government in Uttar Pradesh. "The way to Ram Rajya is through the path of Samajwad (socialism). The day 'Samajwad' is established, the “Ram Rajya” will be set up in the state,” the SP president said. He went on to add, “Lord Sri Krishna comes to my dreams every night to tell me that our government is coming up (in UP)." He also claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government has "failed" in the state. Alluding to a galaxy of BJP leaders doing the poll campaign in UP, Yadav referred to the infamous practice of some students’ guardians in some states, including UP and Bihar, descending on their examination centres to help their wards resort to unfair means. And then dubbing Adityanath as having failed as CM, Yadav likened the BJP leaders’ poll efforts to those of students’ guardians to help a "failed" Adityanath win the UP polls. Reacting to the BJP allegation of his party having several criminals and gangsters, Adityanath retorted, “It is the allegation of a party which made a man facing several heinous criminal cases the UP chief minister.” "I wonder if the BJP has bought a washing machine to cleanse all its criminals and mafia elements,” he wryly said. “There were many veteran leaders in the BJP who strengthened the party for years with their blood and sweat. Even they say at times that it was they who sweated it out for the party but don't know where did Adityanath come from and was forced upon them," Yadav said. On a question on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s statement that he would contest the upcoming assembly elections from wherever his party wants, Yadav said irrespective of where he fights from, he would face grilling from the people on his “failed” promises, including the doubling of farmers’ income. To a question on his own seat for contesting the assembly polls, Yadav said his party will take a call on this. Referring to China changing the names of some villages in Arunachal Pradesh, the SP chief quipped, "Our neighbouring country has learnt something from our chief minister. It has changed the names of our villages. The was a trend started by our chief minister but China too has learnt it from him." On senior IAS officer Durga Shankar Mishra being made the UP’s new chief secretary, the SP chief said, "Our Baba Mukhyamantri was sleeping and suddenly his chief secretary was changed and he did not know. He himself says I sleep till 12 noon.” On his poll promise of providing 300 units of electricity free to domestic consumers, if the SP is voted to power, Akhilesh Yadav said it is the BJP, which has got the maximum shock from his free power promise. He said the promise was made because the SP in its previous tenure from 2012 to 2017 had started several power projects which were never completed by the BJP government. If he is voted to power, he said, those projects will be completed and all the domestic consumers will get 300 units of electricity free of cost Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lord-krishna-tells-me-daily-in-my-dreams-that-i-ll-establish-ram-rajya-in-up-after-polls-akhilesh-1067721.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has tested positive for Covid-19 and he is in self isolation at his official residence. "I have tested positive for Covid-19 mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid me in last few days, kindly isolate urself and get yourself tested (sic)," the Chief Minister tweeted on Tuesday morning. I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid me in last few days, kindly isolate urself and get urself tested The AAP supremo has been campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections and frequently visiting Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand. He also visited Uttar Pradesh in the recent past to attend political rallies. Delhi, which is contemplating to upgrade it alert level from yellow to a higher one, is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases with Monday recording 4,099 cases and 6.46 per cent positivity rate. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1067739.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Yogi calls Rahul, Priyanka 'accidental Hindus'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath dubbed the 'Nehru-Gandhi' family as ''accidental Hindus'' and said that it was under 'compulsion' that they (Gandhis) call themselves Hindus since they were 'forced' to bow to the faith of the people. Addressing a public meeting at Amethi, a one time bastion of the 'Nehru-Gandhi' family, on Monday, Adityanath said that he had always taken pride in calling himself a Hindu. ''I used to say that I am proud of being a Hindu even when I was not the CM....I say the same thing today also,'' the chief minister added. He said that those, whose ancestors felt shame in calling themselves Hindus, had no right to say that they were Hindus. ''How can someone, whose party had termed Lord Rama an imaginary person, can claim to be a Hindu?'' he asked. ''Such people become Hindus only when the elections come,'' he added. Training guns on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, a former MP from Amethi, the chief minister said that the Rahul did not know how to worship at temples. ''He (Rahul) sat on his knees at a temple and not cross-legged as is the tradition,'' he added. Adityanath also sought to rubbish Rahul's assertion on 'Hindutvavaad' saying that the latter did not know anything about Hinduism and had no right to talk about it. He also targeted Rahul for not taking any interest in developing Amethi. ''Had he taken interest in the development of this region, the people would not have to go to big cities for treatment,'' he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-calls-rahul-priyanka-accidental-hindus-1067755.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh double in 2 days||With 572 new Covid-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours, infections were now doubling in less than two days. The number of new cases on December 30 was 193, which went up to 385 on the New Year's Day. According to the official bulletin, nearly 64 per cent of the new cases reported on Monday were from just four districts - Ghaziabad (130), Gautam Buddha Nagar (101), Lucknow (86) and Meerut (49). The Covid-19 data for December 2021 showed a six-fold increase in the number of active cases in the state. "Lockdown comes at a price while prevention is easier. Omicron, the new variant, may appear to be less lethal than the Delta strain, but it will cost lives when the pandemic peaks. No matter how much the government tries, prevention of pandemic remains a shared responsibility with citizens," a senior health official said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-double-in-2-days-1067758.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Offline sale of tickets for Taj Mahal stopped amid Covid-19 surge||Ticket windows for a visit to the Taj Mahal in Agra have been closed in view of rising number of Covid cases. Visitors can now book tickets online for a visit to the monument. The Archaeological Survey of India has given the facility of online booking. However, inside the Taj Mahal, the counter on the jasmine floor under the main dome will be operational to buy an additional ticket of Rs 200. Citing the Covid protocol, the ASI has closed the counters after tourists were flouting protocols by neither wearing masks nor following proper physical distancing. The Archaeological Survey of India had restarted ticket counters for sale of tickets offline at the Taj Mahal from November 27 and other monuments from December 1, making it easier for people coming from rural India and those who did not have smartphones. Now with the closure of ticket windows at all monuments, tourists will be able to book tickets online only. ASI sells tickets in Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, Sikandra, Etmauddaula, Mehtab Bagh, Rambagh and Maryam's Tomb along with Taj Mahal in Agra. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/offline-sale-of-tickets-for-taj-mahal-stopped-amid-covid-19-surge-1067761.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||NEET-PG admissions: SC to hear matter on EWS quota on January 5||The Centre on Tuesday once again asked the Supreme Court to urgently take up the matter related to validity of EWS quota in Post Graduate courses in medical colleges. After failing to get the matter listed on Tuesday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana about the listing of the case. The CJI said the entire week has been fixed for hearing in miscellaneous matters but the court would consider the plea for posting the matter for hearing on Wednesday before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud. On Monday, Mehta asked the bench led by Justice Chandrachud to advance hearing to Tuesday from January 6. The matter related to EWS quota in Post Graduate medical courses was raised in a batch of PILs before the top court. A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. Subsequently, the top court asked the Union government to reconsider income criterion of Rs eight lakh per annum for EWS quota. The admission process also got stayed after the Centre assured to form a panel to relook it. On November 30, the government had constituted the member committee, comprising Ajay Bhushan Pandey, former finance secretary, V K Malhotra, member secretary, ICSSR and Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser. The government last month told the court that it had decided to accept the recommendation of a three-member panel to retain the current gross annual family income limit of Rs eight lakh or less for EWS. Meanwhile, a large number of medicos resorted to protest and agitation against inordinate delay in the admission process. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-admissions-sc-to-hear-matter-on-ews-quota-on-january-5-1067774.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Manoj Tiwari tests positive for Covid-19||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a series of tweets, he said, "Could not attend the Uttarakhand-Rudrapur campaigning yesterday as I was not feeling well from January 2 night. I have tested positive for Covid-19. Taking precautions, I had isolated myself yesterday only." "Please take care of yourselves and your family." परसों (2 Jan) रात से ही अस्वस्थ महसूस कर रहा था।हल्का बुखार और ज़ुकाम होने के कारण कल उत्तराखंड - रूद्रपुर प्रचार में भी नहीं जा पाया था..टेस्ट में आज पॉज़िटिव आया हूँ..सतर्कता बरतते हुए अपने आप को कल ही isolate कर लिया था.कृपया अपना और अपने परिवार का ध्यान रखें 🙏 Earlier on Tuesday morning, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that he had also tested positive for Covid-19, adding that he was isolating at home and had mild symptoms. He, too, was campaigning in the poll-bound state of Uttarakhand till Monday. Both the BJP and AAP are campaigning extensively in the poll-bound states where Assembly elections will be held this year. Triggered by the Omicron variant, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is deteriorating on a daily basis. On Monday, the national capital recorded 4,099 fresh infections, while the positivity rate stood at 6.89 per cent. Both are the highest since May 18, 2021, when the city logged 4,482 fresh cases at a test positivity rate of 6.89 per cent. The capital has, so far, detected 351 Omicron cases, of which 57 have been discharged from the hospital. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-tiwari-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1067779.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||AIIMS cancels doctors' winter vacation amid Covid surge||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Tuesday announced the cancellation of doctors' winter vacation amid rising Covid cases. In a notice issued on Monday, the AIIMS Delhi has directed all faculty members to join back their duty with immediate effect at the hospital. "In continuation of the office memoranda of dated December 22 and 27, it is to inform that the Competent Authority has decided to cancel the remaining part of the winter vacation from 5th to 10th January due to ongoing Covid 19 and Omicron pandemic," said the notice issued by the hospital administration with approval of AIIMS Director. Meanwhile, India continues to project a surge in daily Covid caseload. A single-day rise of 37,479 Covid cases along with 124 deaths were reported on Tuesday morning. With the addition of 124 new deaths, the total deaths toll has climbed to 4,82,017. Along with the spike in daily Covid caseload, the active cases have also seen two-fold growth from the last week. The active caseload has jumped at 1,71,830 which constitute 0.49 per cent of the country's total positive cases. The Omicron infection tally has reached 1,892 across the nation. However, out of the total Omicron positive, 766 have been discharged from hospitals. So far 23 states have reported Omicron infections, said the Union health ministry on Tuesday. India has seen the sudden spike in the Covid cases after the outbreak of new Covid varaint Omicron. The Delta variant is still the dominant variant in India which has contributed significantly in the surge. However, a source with the ministry said that Omicron will take over the delta variant soon in the country. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-cancels-doctors-winter-vacation-amid-covid-surge-1067786.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Weekend curfew imposed in Delhi; CM Arvind Kejriwal, BJP's Manoj Tewari test positive||Delhi will have weekend curfew while government officers except those in essential services will work from home from Wednesday, as Covid-19 cases are surging in the national capital. However, the government will allow buses and metro trains to run in full capacity after finding that the reduced capacity has led to overcrowding at bus stops and metro stations that could lead to further spreading of Covid-19, especially its new variant Omicron. Tuesday’s health bulletin showed 5,481 fresh Covid-19 cases in the capital as against 4,099 recorded a day before. The positivity rate rose to 8.37 per cent from 6.46 per cent but the government has not gone for declaring a red alert and imposing a full lockdown as formulated in the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) when the positivity rate stays above 2 per cent for two consecutive days.  These decisions were taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia among others. “There will be a curfew on Saturday and Sunday. Government officers barring those from essential services will be working from home. Private offices will be allowed to work with 50 per cent capacity,” Sisodia told reporters after the meeting. However, the government has reversed its earlier decision to allow only 50 per cent capacity in buses and metro trains, fearing that metro stations and bus stops could become super-spreader locations following overcrowding. No one without a mask will be allowed to board a bus or train. Other restrictions which were declared on December 28, when the capital was put under yellow alert under Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), will continue. Sisodia said there was nothing to panic as the trend has shown that Omicron is mild in nature. He said the capital had around 11,000 cases in the past 8-10 days but as on Tuesday, there were only around 350 people needing hospitalisation. Of this, only 124 are on oxygen and just seven on ventilators, he said. While night curfew will continue during weekdays, shops selling non-essential items will be allowed to remain open between 10 PM and 8 PM. Shops in malls will continue to follow an odd-even scheme among others while restaurants and bars are allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity. While a yellow alert was announced after the capital recorded positivity rate over 0.5 per cent for two days, the capital’s administration has not followed the GRAP, which was formulated during the emergence of the much more virulent Delta variant. According to GRAP, a red alert should be declared if the positivity rate has remained above 2 per cent for more than two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-weekend-curfew-imposed-in-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-bjps-manoj-tewari-test-positive-1067788.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab imposes night curfew, shuts educational institutions||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab government on Tuesday decided to clamp night curfew, shut educational institutions and allow cinema halls and restaurants to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am within municipal limits of all the cities and towns of Punjab, according to an order issued by the Home Affairs and Justice Department on Tuesday. The district authorities have been asked to ensure strict compliance, it said. “However, all essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts in industry, offices, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes, will be permitted,” it said. The restrictions in poll-bound Punjab will remain in force till January 15. All educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities, and coaching institutions, shall remain closed, it further said. However, these institutions are expected to maintain the academic schedule through online teaching. Medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally, it said. Bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums, and zoos shall be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present being fully vaccinated, it said. Sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools, and gyms (except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national or international events) shall remain closed, it said, adding no spectators or visitors will be allowed. Only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to attend government and private offices, working spaces, factories, and industries, it said. Air-conditioned buses will run at 50 per cent capacity, according to the order. The order stated said no service shall be provided in government or private offices to people not wearing a mask. Wearing of a mask at public places, including workplaces, will be mandatory and must be strictly observed and enforced, the order said. Social distancing for all activities shall always be maintained, it further said. The district authorities may impose additional restrictions as deemed necessary, based on their assessment of the situation. Punjab has been witnessing a rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases over the last few days. It has so far recorded 605,922 cases and 16,651 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-imposes-night-curfew-shuts-educational-institutions-1067797.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Terrorist killed in gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam||One terrorist was killed in an ongoing encounter with security forces at Okay area in South Kashmir's Kulgam district, officials said on Tuesday. "One terrorist killed. Operation going on," police said. The gunfight took place after a joint team of the police and the security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about the presence of terrorists. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where the terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-killed-in-gunfight-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kulgam-1067798.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Two LeT, TRF militants killed in encounter in J&K's Kulgam||Two local militants affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), The Resistance Front (TRF) were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Tuesday. “#KulgamEncounterUpdate: 01 more #terrorist killed (Total=2). Both the killed terrorists are locals & linked with proscribed #terror outfit LeT/TRF. They were involved in several terror crimes,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. The gun fight erupted after a joint team of J&K police, Army’s 9 Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in Okay village, Kulgam, 60 kms from here, following inputs about presence of militants in the area, a police official said. As the joint search party approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them who retaliated, triggering off an encounter in which two ultras were killed, he said. TRF is believed to be frontal of the LeT and has come into the broader spotlight after it claimed killings of civilians belonging to the minority communities in the first week of October. The latest encounter came a day after two LeT militants were killed in separate shootouts on Srinagar outskirts on Monday. Earlier on December 31, three militants and an Army soldier were killed in a gunfight in Panthachowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Earlier, six militants were killed in two separate gun battles with security forces in Kulgam and neighbouring Anantnag districts on December 31. In 2021, over 170 militants were killed in nearly 90 encounters across Kashmir. According to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir as on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. In 2021, out of 128 locals who joined militancy, 79 were killed and 17 arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-let-trf-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-kulgam-1067812.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Girls hurt in stampede-like situation during Cong's 'Ladki hoon, Lad Sakti hoon' marathon in UP||Some girls participating in a long-distance run organised by the Congress as part of its "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" campaign were injured in a stampede-like situation here on Tuesday. Congress leaders in Lucknow termed it a conspiracy hatched by the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government. "Some girls have been injured, and we are waiting for further details," state Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI. Alleging that it was a "conspiracy hatched by the BJP government" in the state, he said, "The district administration knew that the run was being held and did not cooperate." The incident was a "fallout of laxity on the part of the local administration", Singh added. "The district administration did not cooperate as far as the issue of security was concerned and the entire incident smells of a conspiracy hatched by the BJP," the Congress leader said. The run was organised as part of the "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" (I am a girl and I can fight) campaign of the Congress. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girls-hurt-in-stampede-like-situation-during-congs-ladki-hoon-lad-sakti-hoon-marathon-in-up-1067827.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy meets Gadkari, other central ministers in Delhi||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday met three central ministers, including Nitin Gadkari, here and discussed in detail the issues of his state, an official statement said. In an hour-long meeting with Union Road, Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari, Reddy demanded sanctioning of several road projects to the state, including a six-lane road to decongest traffic in Visakhapatnam, it said. The chief minister discussed the preparation of a detailed project report (DPR) for developing a national highway from Visakhapatnam Port to Bhogapuram via Rishikonda and Bhimili. He also informed the meeting that this proposed road will be useful for Visakhapatnam as it will reduce the distance from Visakhapatnam port to Odisha and Chhattisgarh, the statement said. Further, this road will go close to the beach corridor projects along the coast. The development of this road will improve connectivity to the proposed Bhogapuram International Airport and boost tourism in the region, Reddy added. The chief minister also requested the Centre to sanction a six-lane road to decongest traffic in Visakhapatnam and early approval of east bypass road in Vijayawada. Besides, Reddy demanded the extension of a two-lane bypass road -- leading to national highway 216 -- to a four-lane road to address traffic issues in Baptla Mandal, Guntur district, the statement added. The Andhra chief minister separately also met Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Reddy on the second day of his visit to the national capital plans to meet a few more central ministers later during the day. On Monday, he had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and two central ministers Nirmala Sitaraman and Jyotiraditya Scindia. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-meets-gadkari-other-central-ministers-in-delhi-1067831.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Teachers University Bill passed in Assembly||The Delhi Assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill for setting up a world-class teachers' training university that would offer programmes such as BA-BEd and BSc-BEd. The Delhi Teachers' University Bill was introduced in the House on Monday by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia who also holds the education portfolio.  During a discussion on the Bill, he said the university will set a benchmark in teachers' training and enhance the quality of education. Taking a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said the Sports University unveiled in Meerut copied the model of the one announced in Delhi. "I felt very happy when the prime minister said students of the Sports University will gain degrees by excelling in sports and winning medals. This is exactly what we aimed and said while establishing a Sports University here in Delhi," Sisodia said in the House. The Delhi Teachers' University will be spread over 12 acres of land in Bakkarwala village. It will have lecture halls, digital labs and a library with world-class facilities for 5000 students. Sisodia had on January 1 visited the under-construction campus of the university in Bakkarwala and asked officials to expedite the construction work so that the session could be started at the earliest. The university will offer teacher education programmes such as BA-BEd and BSc-BEd to create a new generation of teachers. Students of the university will collaborate with Delhi government schools for the duration of their courses and get hands-on experience with a focus on research. Participating in the discussion on the Bill, AAP MLA Atishi said the Delhi government has done remarkable work in the field of education and teachers training.  It not only improved school infrastructure and education standards but also invested in the training of teachers, she said. "If we want to invest in teachers then we will have to invest in their training. The Delhi government increased the budget of teachers training from Rs 10 crore to Rs 100 crore. Teachers and principals of government schools were sent to best institutions such as IIMs in India and abroad for training purposes by the AAP government," Atishi said in the House. She added that the Delhi Teachers' University will pave way for world-class training of teachers. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, however, alleged that no new college has been opened by the AAP government in the last seven years. "The government earlier announced a Sports University and also appointed its vice-chancellor. But the university is nowhere to be found," Bidhuri said in the House. He alleged that many government schools do not have principals and the posts for teachers are lying vacant. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-teachers-university-bill-passed-in-assembly-1067913.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi govt tells private hospitals to reserve at least 40% of beds for Covid patients||The Delhi government on Tuesday directed private hospitals and nursing homes with 50 beds or more to reserve at least 40 per cent of their total bed capacity for Covid patients, in the wake of an uptick in cases in the last few days due to the Omicron variant. The positivity rate has exponentially increased from 2.44 per cent on December 31, 2021, to more than eight per cent on Tuesday, the government said in an order. It also said that the transmissibility of the variant is very high and the number of Omicron positive cases in the community are rising exponentially. Delhi reported 5,481 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest since May 16, with a positivity rate of 8.37 per cent, and three more fatalities due to the viral disease, according to health department data. The national capital had recorded 6,456 cases and 262 fatalities on May 16 last year when the positivity rate was 10.4 per cent. Tuesday's positivity rate is the highest since May 17, when it stood at 8.42 per cent, according to the data. "Therefore, the keepers of all private hospitals/nursing homes having total bed capacity of 50 beds or more are directed to reserve at least 40 per cent of their total bed capacity (i.e. 40 per cent of ward bed capacity and 40 per cent of lCU bed capacity) for Covid patients," read the order. It was issued by the Nursing Home Cell of the Delhi Directorate General of Health Services. According to Union health ministry data updated at 8 am, Delhi has recorded 382 Omicron cases. On June 28 last year, the government had allowed private hospitals and nursing homes with total capacity of 100 beds or more to reduce their reserve capacity for Covid oxygenated beds to 30 per cent of their total capacity. An order issued then had also given private hospitals and nursing homes having total bed capacity less than 100 beds an option regarding reserving beds for Covid patients.  Later, due to an increase in cases of vector-borne diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya) in Delhi, private hospitals with 100 bed capacity or more were allowed to reduce their reserve capacity for Covid oxygenated beds from 30 per cent to 10 per cent. The order for this was issued on October 18 last year. According to official data released on Tuesday, 531 Covid-19 patients are admitted in various hospitals here, including 41 who are suspected to have contracted the disease. Fourteen patients are on ventilator support, while 168 patients with moderate symptoms are on oxygen support. A total of 308 patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are without oxygen support, it stated. On May 16 last year, 16,249 patients were in hospitals. Delhi was in the middle of a lockdown with several restrictions. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-tells-private-hospitals-to-reserve-at-least-40-of-beds-for-covid-patients-1067924.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi hospitals stare at workforce crisis as doctors test Covid positive||On the precipice of a third wave of Covid infections, a large number of doctors and paramedics in Delhi are turning out to be Covid positive which might put the city's health infrastructure under severe strain, experts said on Tuesday. At least 50 doctors have tested Covid positive at AIIMS in Delhi while 26 have been diagnosed with the disease at the Safdarjung Hospital, officials said. Forty-five healthcare workers, including 38 doctors, have contracted Covid at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in the last few days, according to an official. At the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital at least 30 doctors have contracted Covid while at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital it is seven, sources said. Even though the Delhi government repeatedly stressed that most cases this time would be mild or asymptomatic not requiring hospitalisation, data shows an uptick in the number of Covid patients in hospitals and those requiring oxygen and ventilator support. Experts said that since the highly transmissible Omicron variant is going to infect people in a never-seen-before number, those requiring medical care in hospitals will also be proportionate. Delhi reported 5,481 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest since May 16, with a positivity rate of 8.37 per cent, and three more fatalities due to the viral disease. In view of the alarming spike in cases, the AIIMS administration has cancelled the winter vacation of its faculty members. "It is to inform that the competent authority has decided to cancel the remaining part of the winter vacation -- from January 5 to 10 -- due to ongoing Covid 19/Omicron pandemic. All faculty members are requested to join back their duty with immediate effect," read an office memorandum issued on January 3. Officials at the Safdarjung Hospital said at least 26 doctors from the departments of gynaecology, medicine and microbiology have been infected and are in isolation. Their contacts are being traced. Seven doctors at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, the largest healthcare facility of the Delhi government, have tested positive for coronavirus in the last two days, Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Ritu Saxena said, adding three of them have been kept in a special ward and the rest are in home isolation. Dr Madhu Handa, the Medical Director of Moolchand Hospital, said four resident doctors and at least five nurses have tested Covid positive in a week. "The other doctors have to manage somehow, do double shifts. Sometimes, we hire more doctors. As for nurses, we have to manage or nursing third-year students are pulled into duty," he said. Dr B L Sherwal, the medical director of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said a few doctors are testing Covid positive every day and the number is likely to rise in the coming days "The number of hospitalisations has so far remained low, but it is going to increase and put the healthcare staff under strain. Doctors, nursing staff, laboratory technicians, paramedical staff form one of the most vulnerable groups. A large number of healthcare staff members are getting infected will compound the situation," he said. Dr Sherwal said the city government has trained 5,000 youths as medical assistants and they will be deployed if the need arises. The city government had last month ordered medical superintendents and directors of all state-run hospitals to hire manpower in anticipation of a surge in infections. Dr Manish Jangra, President of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association, said they had warned the government of a healthcare crisis and requested it to expedite the NEET-PG 2021 counselling. "The hospitals are operating with two-third of their staff. The situation will spiral out of control at the peak of the wave. Resident doctors are already struggling with burnout," he said. Dr Arun Kumar Sharma from the Community Medicine department of University College of Medical Sciences said the number of hospitalisation is likely to increase proportionately and a large number of doctors getting infected can lead to a temporary crisis even if they develop mild symptoms. "The burst in cases among doctors in Nalanda (Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Bihar's Patna) is due to the Omicron variant which has been causing only mild disease. "Nonetheless, these doctors will also have to isolate themselves for seven to 10 days. So, it can definitely lead to a temporary crisis in hospitals," he said. Dr Sharma suggested that hospitals create a "buffer stock of doctors" which can be deployed in such a situation. "Also, Covid-appropriate behaviour will have to be strictly implemented in hospitals, dispensaries and clinics. The entry of patients in such places should be regulated according to the space available to ensure social distancing," he said. Government data showed the number of patients in hospitals in Delhi has increased from 247 on January 1 to 531 on January 4. In the last three days, the number of patients on oxygen support has increased from 94 to 168 and those on ventilators from four to 14. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said his government is ready to handle up to one lakh Covid cases a day in a worst-case scenario. The Centre's coronavirus task force head Dr V K Paul had in December warned India could witness 14 lakh cases a day if the Omicron variant surge is not slowed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospitals-stare-at-workforce-crisis-as-doctors-test-covid-positive-1067933.html
04-01-2022||North and Central||'Bulli Bai' case: NCW demands Delhi Police to file 'immediate' FIR||The National Commission for Women has written to the Delhi Police over the Bulli Bai harassment case, demanding that they immediately file an FIR in the case.  NCW chief Rekha Sharma, in a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, said that it is “disappointing” that despite the attention in the previous Sulli Deals case, there was no real progress in the investigation.  “It is disappointing that even after the lapse of so many months since the “Sulli Deals” outrage, there has been no concrete action taken in the matter which is utterly unfortunate and concerning,” Sharma’s letter dated January 2 read.  She also directed the Delhi Police to appraise the NCW on the action taken in the matter in both cases.  The NCW has noted that the ‘auctions’ are in violation of sections 354A, 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code as well as section 67 of the Information Technology Act. Section 354A of the IPC identifies sexually coloured remarks as sexual harassment, section 506 criminalises intimidation, and section 509 penalises words, gestures or acts intended to insult the modesty of a woman.  Section 67 of the IT Act penalises the publishing or transmitting of obscene material in electronic form.  The NCW chief also said that the acts were “condemnable in strongest possible words” and that the Commission is “extremely anguished and distressed” with the crimes. Meanwhile, two people including a woman from Dehradun and a student from Bengaluru were detained by the Mumbai Police in connection with the case.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulli-bai-case-ncw-demands-delhi-police-to-file-immediate-fir-1068026.html
04-01-2022||Opinion||China's expanding Central Asian footprint worries Russia||According to several reports, Russia is increasingly concerned about China's surging influence in Central Asia (CA). Recently, Russia and India discussed the prospects of joint manufacture of defence equipment and counterterrorism exercises in the Central Asian countries. After implementing its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) in 2013, China has become a much bigger economic partner for most Central Asian countries, undermining the traditional influence of Russia. It has broken Russia's monopoly on Central Asia's energy and other goods exports, becoming their first or second most significant investment and trade partner. China bought 33.2 billion cubic metres (bcm) of the 63.2 bcm gas produced by Turkmenistan in 2019. Due to a price dispute, Russia could not buy any (2016-19).  China's cumulative investments in Kazakhstan stood at $32.63 billion, $6.8 billion in Turkmenistan, $5.44 billion in Uzbekistan, $4.73 billion in Kyrgyzstan and $ 1.61 billion in Tajikistan (2005-18). While earlier, its investments were in the oil and gas assets, roads, railroads, power plants and electrical grids, now these are focused on establishing factories to process local raw materials with increasing hiring of local workers. These investments are altering the Russia centric orientation of the Central Asian economies. Russia has become a junior partner to China in bilateral trade as well. In 2018, China's trade with these countries was about $41.7 billion, almost twice that of Russia. It accounted for 22 per cent of all Central Asian exports and 37 per cent of their imports. Several Central Asian countries are now trussed deeply in China's debt trap. The debt of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan owed to China is about 20 per cent of their respective GDPs, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan about 16 per cent and Kazakhstan 6.5 per cent (2018). China's BRI has achieved increased traction in Central Asia due to large loans provided by Beijing and the inability of the Russian companies to secure financing for the execution of projects after the western countries imposed sanctions following Russia's occupation of Crimea (2014). The progress of Russia's Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) has been lacklustre as some Central Asian countries such as Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan see it primarily in economic terms while Russia views it more for regaining its earlier influence. Uzbekistan and Tajikistan have been reluctant to join the EEU.  In the security field, which used to be Russia's exclusive preserve, China is gradually expanding its role, much to Moscow's chagrin. In 2016, China set up a base in Tajikistan's Gorno-Badakshan region, manned by its paramilitary and armed police to prevent the infiltration of Uighur activists via the Wakhan corridor. China has also established (2016) a new mechanism that includes Tajikistan, Pakistan and Afghanistan to monitor the security situation in this area. In addition, China has constituted (2020) a group of five Central Asian countries foreign ministers for annual consultations. Since 2002, China has conducted several exercises with the Central Asian security and police forces and emerged as an important exporter of military equipment (mainly air defence systems, drones, armoured carriers and surface missiles) and technologies. Some CA countries such as Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan have been augmenting their national identity by encouraging the Latinisation of their national languages and discouraging the use of Russian Cyrillic alphabets. They harbour apprehensions about Russia's intervention, given the precedent of Crimea and numerous ethnic Russians living there. The creeping influence of China has fostered deeper linkages with certain ruling elites. The president of Kazakhstan, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, is a fluent Mandarin speaker; Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov was born and educated in China and has business ties there. The US influence in Central Asia has abated with its declining interest in Afghanistan. For instance, its security assistance to Tajikistan declined from $450 million a decade ago to about $11 million in 2020. Russia and China have prevailed upon the Central Asian countries not to provide any bases to the US for its counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan. Russia is unable to satisfy the needs of the Central Asian countries due to its low economic growth (average about 0.8 per cent between 2013-20). President Vladimir Putin has avoided reforms, which may undermine his regime's foundation and capacity to manage change -- the lessons of the Gorbachev era. Russia has asked India to expand its political, economic and security linkages with the Central Asian countries. This is also in India's interest as it would not like to be encircled by an aggressive China from the north and east along with its "iron brother" Pakistan in the west. A significant constraint for India is the lack of connectivity as the trade routes to the Central Asian countries pass through Pakistan-Afghanistan and Iran. The Iran route was severely hampered earlier due to the US sanctions. India and the Central Asian countries are now exploring setting up new transportation links through the Chabahar port. India has extended a credit line of $1 billion to these countries for setting up new projects. Its private sector has made some investments in pharmaceuticals and auto-component sectors. India has provided a large number of scholarships for the training of experts. The US should facilitate India in expanding its cooperative activities with the Central Asian countries, as these would complement its objective of reducing China's dominance in this strategic region. (Yogesh Gupta is a former ambassador) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/chinas-expanding-central-asian-footprint-worries-russia-1067740.html
04-01-2022||Opinion||How to deal with the Omicron challenge||An Omicron led Covid-19 surge is beginning to gather momentum in India. Resembling a "really bad cold", it takes just three days to develop symptoms, become contagious and test positive. One in three Omicron cases shall have no symptoms but can infect others. With a doubling time of two-three days, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirms that it spreads significantly faster than the Delta variant in countries with documented community transmission. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare put out a normative framework on December 21, 2021, and reiterated the earlier guidance regarding strategies for containment and restrictions with the district as a unit. Testing and surveillance A key challenge that has emerged in countries with rapid spread (and consequent load on the laboratories) of the Omicron variant is the time taken for RT-PCR samples, processed, and the results returned. A doubling time of as little as 1.5 to two days may render these of limited utility for public health containment measures. Rapid antigen tests or lateral flow tests have thus assumed greater significance. As the pandemic progressed, regulatory bodies approved these as "a new approach to combat the pandemic". These have played a key role in keeping educational institutions and workplaces open (testing up to twice a week). Self-administered tests are also advised before mixing with people in crowded indoor places when visiting someone who is at higher risk of getting seriously ill from Covid-19 or if one has been in contact with someone with Covid-19. Free home testing kits and community testing sites are increasingly being promoted. The 5 per cent and 10 per cent test positivity rates (TPR) are considered as markers for kicking off stricter measures and restrictions. Through the Omicron phase, the weekly average TPR in South Africa ranged at an average of about 35 per cent through December. Even with daily new cases declining from a peak of 37,875 on December 12, 2021, to 3,232 cases on January 3, 2022, the TPR remained at a relatively high of 18.6 per cent. Omicron needs to make us rethink what has come to be recognised as conventional wisdom. Why have some countries opted for 'minimal disruption'? Omicron led Covid-19 surges across countries have been marked by stricter social distancing norms on the one hand and looser restrictions on the other. At least three realities seem to shape those opting for looser restrictions: 'decoupling' of hospitalisation in the backdrop of good vaccination coverage and a milder clinical disease, economic necessity and political imperatives. With peak infectivity one to two days before the onset of symptoms and up to three days afterwards, it has also meant reducing the period of those in home isolation to a week (with two negative tests). Different states in India have instituted measures ranging from limiting indoor gatherings to night curfews and even restricting flights from certain cities. If tests cannot be significantly ramped up and conducted large-scale at the community level, the infection shall continue to spread under the radar and render many of these partially effective at best. Another vital issue is the rapid Omicron transmission among healthcare workers, with several medical institutions in India now experiencing outbreaks among their staff. Such outbreaks are liable to happen among other essential public service sectors as well. The UK is preparing for "worst-case scenarios" of 10 per cent, 20 per cent and 25 per cent absence rates; these outbreaks highlight the relevance of robust contingency plans to handle crises of this nature. What about hospitalisation? There is an emerging consensus that daily counts of new cases are not that relevant in this phase, and the parameter to monitor is hospitalisations. Hospital admissions are only one aspect of the severity and function of admission practices. Researchers continue to track data across different countries to understand how clinical markers of severity – use of oxygen, mechanical ventilation and deaths – are associated with Omicron. The jury is still out on whether the observed reduction in risk of hospitalisation can be attributed to immunity from previous infections or vaccination and to what extent Omicron may be less virulent. Delhi had 6,000 active cases on January 1, 2022, with 247 hospital beds occupied and five patients on ventilator support. Contrast this to 6,600 active cases on March 27, 2021, when 1,150 oxygen beds were occupied, and 145 were on ventilator support. And 8,063 new cases were detected on January 2, 2022, in Mumbai, with 89 per cent cases reported to be asymptomatic; 503 were hospitalised, of whom 56 were put on oxygenated beds. Put differently, about half of those symptomatic required hospitalisation. Delta still remains prevalent while Omicron is on the rise; hospitalisation patterns require greater characterisation. A recent analysis of approximately half a million Omicron cases from England confirmed a reduced overall risk of hospitalisation compared to Delta. An 81 per cent reduction in the risk of hospitalisation was observed after three doses of vaccines compared to unvaccinated Omicron cases. In a context of 70.1 per cent of the population receiving two doses and 31 per cent a booster dose too, 43.2 per cent of those hospitalised had received two doses and 23.2 per cent a booster as well.  While seropositivity in most states in India is upwards of 90 per cent, about 40 per cent of the total population has received two doses and 60 per cent one dose. These factors are likely to interact and shape hospitalisation patterns across the states. The WHO is worried, and India continues to prepare The WHO cautions that with the significant growth advantage of Omicron over Delta, rapid community transmission is imminent, increasing hospitalisation and stressing health systems. The use of well-fitting masks, physical distancing, ventilation of indoor spaces, crowd avoidance and hand hygiene continue to be the mantra for reducing transmission. Interrupting chains of transmission will require enhanced surveillance with rapid testing and stricter cluster investigations and contact tracing of cases suspected to be infected. Covid-19 vaccination of eligible populations needs to be accelerated, prioritising unimmunised or partially immunised individuals at risk for serious disease. Public health and social measures (PHSM) in response to individual cases or clusters of cases are most effective when implemented in conjunction with community leaders and civil society. Effective community engagement will be crucial to escalating PHSMs in a timely manner to avoid overwhelming health care services. (The writer is Chairperson at the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-deal-with-the-omicron-challenge-1067805.html
04-01-2022||Opinion||Are Indian cities now cradles of hate?||Great cities are not static, they constantly change and take the world along with them, so writes Ed Glaeser, Harvard economist, a renowned scholar on the growth of cities, their associated agglomeration economies and contribution to national and global economic growth.  But cities in India may have a different story to tell considering the recent events with Namaz disruption or Christmas vandalism in the last few weeks and months. Not only are they crucibles of internal migration, eye-popping demonstrations of inequality (remember that Antilla versus Dharavi analogy), laboratories of air or water pollution, or urban planning gone awry in the guise of getting smart or clean, today they seem to be also smouldering as cradles of hate. It is a tragedy since that was not what India's planning experience envisioned post-independence for its cities. A pole position here is occupied by first movers in this space, cities like Ahmedabad or Nagpur, where ghettos for Muslims are duly legitimised over many years of segregation and delimitation. Or non-vegetarian sellers are stigmatised with gay abandon. 2022 being the 20th anniversary of the Gujarat pogrom, one can easily match and surmise how it has all had a punctuated but thoughtfully calibrated genesis. To add to this, there is also overt discrimination in the rental apartment market, for example, or clusterisation within cities of India's smug gated elites aloof from what is happening to the rest of the local urban conurbation. In short, to quote Harsh Mander, there is a curious within-city phenomenon of looking the other way. But here, there are also subsequent movers like today's Gurgaon, Bengaluru, Pune or Hyderabad, where surveillance, polarisation and hate is increasingly a prestigious dog-whistling troika even among technology spin doctors in town. The more you can do it in real or in social media, as Tejaswi Surya showed in Bengaluru recently, the more is the likelihood for you as a society's political elite to gain eminence, power and supremacy. Amidst this, thankfully, there are still some renegade cities, though their numbers are dwindling by the day. It is now well known that in the last couple of years, many free speech, justice and human rights minded civil society individuals are congregating in Kolkata, Chennai or Mumbai, the last bastions against hate and polarisation as these old colonial hubs intriguingly offer pushback against India's unfettered wave of hate last few years. They are also somewhat of a contrast to India's post-liberalisation and post-2002 glorified urban new conglomerations. Bengaluru or Bangalore, of course, is an interesting puzzle here, but we will have to wait and watch its final (and what will not be frictionless) denouement. Unsurprisingly, this separating equilibrium in the character of Indian cities also has a resonance with more long term history. For that, we have to turn to Nazi Germany, where for example, between 1933 and 1939, many cities received honorific titles. Linz was Patenstadt des Führers, Patronage City of the Führer; Nuremberg was Stadt der Reichsparteitage City of the Reich Party Conventions; Stuttgart was Stadt der Auslandsdeutschen, City of the Germans Abroad; Graz was Stadt der Volkserhebung or city of the Popular Uprising; Munich was Capital of the Movement and Capital of the Art, or Hauptstadt der Bewegung und Hauptstadt der deutschen Kunst while Leipzig was Reichsmessestadt or Hauptstadt des deutschen Handels, Reich Fair City or Capital of German Trade. There was also Salzburg, Stadt der Lebensforschung, the City of Life Sciences but we will leave it to the reader's imagination which Indian city today fits which title to resonate with Nazi Germany of the early 1930s. Meanwhile, it is time to remind ourselves how Ed Glaeser, in some other work, has also noted that "An economist's definition of hatred is the willingness to pay a price to inflict harm on others." India seems to be at an inflexion point on this matter. The world is watching how its cities evolve heterogeneously over time in that willingness to pay. Hopefully, the equilibrium here will be locally, and globally welfare enhancing. (The author is a health economist, a Reader in Economics of Innovation at SPRU-Sussex, University of Sussex, Visiting Fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University & Visiting Adjunct Professor in Economics at IIM-Ahmedabad, India) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-indian-cities-now-cradles-of-hate-1067835.html
04-01-2022||South||Telangana CM is taking inspiration from West Bengal, says Kishan Reddy on arrest of state BJP chief||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy claimed that Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao is taking inspiration from West Bengal and said such tactics won't work in the state, referring to the arrest of Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a series of tweets last night, Reddy said, "KCR (K Chandrasekhar Rao) seems to be taking inspiration from West Bengal! Such tactics won't work here. Telangana People won't let it happen. The @BJP4Telangana will foil any such attempts. Our people have fought the tyranny of Razakars & Nizams in the past, if need be, they'll fight again!"   KCR seems to be taking inspiration from West Bengal! The Telangana Police claimed that state BJP president was arrested for violation of Disaster Management Act during a protest on Sunday night, Reddy said, "@TelanganaCMO KCR garu wearing a mask is a rarity! During the recent engagements in my constituency, @TRSPartyOnline Ministers didn't wear masks...booking our leader falsely for Covid-19 Protocol violation isn't hypocrisy, then what is?" "Telangana is witnessing Destruction of Democracy &amp; absolute mockery of Rule of Law. TRS govt is scared of the growth of the party in the state. Framing of false charges &amp; arrest of our @BJP4Telangana President Sri @bandisanjay_bjp Ais an example of draconian tyranny of KCR Govt," Reddy tweeted. Telangana BJP president, also a member of Parliament, was arrested on Sunday night when police cracked down on his protest to demand the state government to amend an order relating to the transfer of government employees and teachers. The MP, who was kept at Manakondur police station overnight, was on Monday shifted to the Police Training Centre in Karimnagar. Earlier on Monday afternoon, BJP chief JP Nadda termed the arrest "another glaring example of the murder of democracy and constitutional rights" by the state government. "It is yet another glaring example of the murder of democracy and constitutional rights by the Telangana government. The BJP vehemently criticises and denounces this attack on the BJP leaders and karyakartas (workers)," he had said. A court in Telangana's Karimnagar town on Monday sent state BJP chief and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar to judicial custody for 14 days for attacking police personnel and violation of Disaster Management Act during a protest on Sunday night. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-is-taking-inspiration-from-west-bengal-says-kishan-reddy-on-arrest-of-state-bjp-chief-1067760.html
04-01-2022||South||Foxconn India plant unlikely to reopen until January 7||Apple Inc supplier Foxconn is unlikely to reopen its shuttered iPhone manufacturing facility in southern India until January 7, a senior government official familiar with the matter told Reuters. The Foxconn plant, located in the state of Tamil Nadu, was closed on December 18, following protests over 250 of its workers being treated for food poisoning. Apple has since placed the factory on probation after discovering that some dormitories and dining rooms did not meet required standards. The company, officially known as Hon Hai Precision, had told the Tamil Nadu state government it was working to address Apple's concerns over workers' living conditions, the official said. "Foxconn is still working with Apple to ensure compliance, which they expect to take up to two days. Bringing back workers could also more than a day," the official said, adding that the state government had cleared restarting the plant for production. Foxconn and Apple officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Officials at two staffing agencies contracted by Foxconn to hire workers said the company had not communicated to them when production at the factory will resume. Two workers at the factory said neither Foxconn, nor the staffing contractors had communicated the date of reopening. The government official declined to be named as talks between the government and Foxconn were private. The staffing agency officials and workers declined to be named as they are not authorized to talk to the media.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/foxconn-india-plant-unlikely-to-reopen-until-january-7-1067803.html
04-01-2022||South||Kerala Congress leader detained at Coimbatore airport with revolver||Congress leader from Kerala and former Chairman of Pattambi municipality, K.S.B. Thangal was detained by the CISF personnel at the Coimbatore International Airport on Tuesday morning after a revolver and seven rounds of live cartridges were recovered from his luggage. He was handed over to the Peelamedu police for further investigation. The Congress leader was to board an Indigo aircraft for Bengaluru from Coimbatore and then head to Amritsar in Punjab. Thangal told the CISF personnel that he was not aware of the revolver in his baggage. CISF officials told mediapersons that the Congress leader does not have any required papers for carrying a revolver during airline travel. He informed the police that he was the secretary of the Muslim Educational Society (MES) school in Pattambi for the past 15 years and was traveling to Amritsar to purchase uniforms for the children. On February 16, 2007, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was then serving as the CPI(Marxist) Kerala state secretary, was questioned by the CISF officials at Chennai airport after they found five live bullets in his hand baggage. Vijayan, who was traveling to New Delhi to attend the CPI(M) Politburo meeting, had stayed overnight at Chennai. He was questioned when he was leaving for New Delhi from here. Pinarayi had given a written statement that the bullets belonged to his licensed revolver. He was let off only after getting a response from the Kerala police at his home district Kannur on his revolver, its make, license, and whether bullets were of that revolver. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leader-detained-at-coimbatore-airport-with-revolver-1067840.html
04-01-2022||South||2.15 crore families in Tamil Nadu to receive Pongal gift hampers||As many as 2.15 crore families in Tamil Nadu will receive a gift hamper from the Tamil Nadu government on the occasion of the Pongal festival containing rice, ghee, and other grocery items. The distribution of the gift hamper was launched by Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday at the Secretariat by handing over the goodies to 10 families. Pongal, the harvest festival, will be celebrated on January 14 this year and the government decided to provide a gift hamper with 21 grocery items, including 100 grams of ghee produced by state-owned Aavin, to 2.15 crore ration cardholders. The gift hampers which includes different varieties of dal, and sugarcane, an integral part of Pongal festivities, will be distributed to all eligible families before the festival begins. Tokens for distribution of the hampers have been issued. The AIADMK government had in 2019 and 2021 added a cash gift along with the hampers distributed for Pongal. However, the DMK government decided to drop the cash from the hamper. The grocery items are packed inside a cloth bag that says ‘Tamizhar Thirunaal Vaazthukkal’ (Tamil festival greetings) and does not contain the name 'Pongal'. Many scholars describe Pongal as the festival of Tamils. In a tweet, Stalin said he was happy to launch the distribution of the Pongal gift hamper. “We are one race – Tamils. Pongal is the festival of Tamils during which we thank the sun and cattle,” he said. Meanwhile, the government announced that the sugarcane provided with the gift hampers will be procured directly from farmers who have cultivated sugarcane. At a separate function, the Chief Minister distributed a new set of clothes to priests of temples under the Hindu, Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department and uniforms to people working in the temples. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/215-crore-families-in-tamil-nadu-to-receive-pongal-gift-hampers-1067878.html
04-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin gets off car; distributes face masks to people in Chennai||With Covid-19 cases in the state increasing rapidly and mask compliance coming down, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday decided to create awareness on the need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour by distributing face masks to people who weren’t wearing one on a busy road in the state capital. Stalin distributed face masks to people on the arterial Anna Salai on his way back to his Chitaranjan Salai residence from Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government. While distributing the masks to people, including children, the Chief Minister told them not to step out of their homes without wearing a mask.  “You should always wear a mask. Don’t come out without a mask. Follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” he told passers-by and motorists. The Chief Minister’s action came even as authorities of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) have collected over Rs 5 lakh as fines from people who did not comply with the Covid-19 rules. Stalin has been emphasizing that wearing a mask can prevent one from getting infected with Covid-19. While launching the vaccination drive for children of 15-18 years of age on Monday, Stalin had stressed the need to wear a mask and get vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.  Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, who accompanied Stalin in his car, said the Chief Minister took a box of face masks with him while leaving the Secretariat. “He got down from the car near Omandurar Hospital and distributed masks to people who weren’t wearing one. While he got down from his car at a few places, the CM distributed masks to a few sitting inside his car, through the 8-km journey” he told DH. The Chief Minister was returning home after chairing a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu. Subramanian said Stalin distributing face masks by alighting from his car will send a strong message to the people on the need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour.  Tamil Nadu has been reporting a high number of cases for the past few days with Chennai topping the list. As of Tuesday morning, the state had 10,364 active cases, including those in home isolation, with Chennai topping the list with 4,259 persons. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-gets-off-car-distributes-face-masks-to-people-in-chennai-1067885.html
04-01-2022||South||ED raids Malayalam actor Unni Mukundan's office||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided the office of Malayalam actor Unni Mukundan at Ottapalam in Palakkad district to ascertain the source of funding of his latest film 'Meppadiyan'. Officials attached to the Kochi and Kozhikode offices of the probe agency started the raid during forenoon which is expected to be over shortly. According to sources, the raid was to ascertain the source of funding of his latest film 'Meppadiyan', which is produced by the actor, who also plays the lead role. The 34-year-old actor debuted in a Tamil film in 2011 following which he acted in a Malayalam film. In the past one decade, he has acted in around three dozen films. In between, he launched his own production house and the raid, presently on is to ascertain the sources of funds. Of late, the Kerala unit of ED has been targeting film stars, especially the new generation ones. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-raids-malayalam-actor-unni-mukundans-office-1067893.html
04-01-2022||South||DMK govt shuts Amma Mini Clinics; doctors to treat Covid-19 patients||Amma Mini Clinics, which were launched by the previous AIADMK government to provide free health consultation, have been shut with immediate effect by the DMK dispensation which has blamed “lack of substantial performance” for its decision.  While the clinics, which functioned mostly in urban areas, have been closed, over 1,800 doctors who were recruited to work at these centres have been absorbed for treating Covid-19 patients in hospitals across the state.  “Amma Mini Clinics have been closed. The clinics were a temporary arrangement from their launch in 2020. Only doctors were appointed for such clinics, and they (AIADMK govt) did not even appoint nurses for these clinics. These clinics mostly functioned from temporary accommodation,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday.  He said the services of 1,820 doctors who were appointed by the previous government to provide consultation to people at 1,950 Amma Mini Clinics have been extended till March 31, 2022. Subramanian also said the government will take steps to utilise the services of these doctors in the health care sector even after the expiry of their contracts.  The AIADMK government had in 2020 launched the scheme, months before the Assembly elections, to provide free health consultation to people belonging to poor and marginalised sections. The aim of these clinics was to reduce the burden on overcrowded hospitals and to ensure that people living in slums access healthcare just by a walk or by commuting by cycle.  A Government Order (GO) signed by Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan said the Amma Mini Clinics have not “reached a substantial level of performance.”  It is said the government felt there was no need for the clinics with new schemes announced by the M K Stalin-led government like Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam (Healthcare at the doorstep) and Varumun Kaapom Thittam (preventive healthcare scheme) that allows people to access healthcare easily than ever.  The announcement by the DMK triggered a sharp reaction from the AIADMK with former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who termed the move as a political vendetta.  “Amma Mini Clinics were launched to help poor people in urban and rural areas to access health care near their habitation site. The DMK government has closed these mini-clinics solely because they were named after Amma (J Jayalalithaa). This shows that the DMK government is not concerned about the well-being of the poor,” Palaniswami said.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-govt-shuts-amma-mini-clinics-doctors-to-treat-covid-19-patients-1067899.html
04-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu to hold indirect polls to elect heads of urban local bodies||For the first time in a decade, newly-elected members will choose mayors, chairman of municipalities, and presidents of town panchayats in Tamil Nadu with the State Election Commission (SEC) planning to conduct indirect elections to the urban local bodies. The SEC is gearing up to conduct elections to 21 corporations, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats in mid-February after a gap of six years. Finalizing the voters’ list, giving finishing touches to the delimitation exercise, and identifying polling booths are being done by the SEC, which might announce the election schedule in a fortnight if Covid-19 does not play spoilsport yet again. Sources in the SEC told DH that the elections will be held for the post of ward members in all urban local bodies and those elected will decide the head of the urban local bodies. During its previous rule in 2006, the DMK had conducted indirect elections to the local bodies, in a departure from the past, which was reversed by the AIADMK government in 2011 when the Assembly passed a bill that allowed people to directly elect the heads of urban local bodies. However, in 2016, the AIADMK decided to hold indirect elections, but the polls were deferred. The elections are likely to be a referendum on the performance of the eight-month-old M K Stalin government which is facing a state-wide poll for the first time after it assumed office. Though political observers say DMK is in the “pole position”, the ruling party is unwilling to take chances, especially in the western region where it lost to the AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance in the 2021 Assembly polls. As far as the alliances are concerned, the DMK will be fighting the elections along with Congress, VCK, MDMK, and Left parties. The AIADMK alliance consists of BJPm with PMK walking out a few months back. DMK wants to grab all corporations in the western region – Salem, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, and Erode – and has deputed senior ministers to ensure that the party reverses the defeat it suffered eight months back. Stalin visited the western region in November and December to announce several key projects and lay the foundation stone for various schemes. The ruling party is also going all out to win the Nagercoil Corporation as the sitting MLA from the city belongs to the BJP. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said the DMK through indirect elections wants to ensure that the administration “runs smoothly” from Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government, to the village level. “It is a chain reaction. The popularity they (DMK) established while defeating the AIADMK in the Assembly elections was effectively perpetuated by Chief Minister M K Stalin through certain positive administrative decisions despite setbacks like heavy rains and the continuing Covid threat,” Singh said. “The next logical step would be to ensure that the local bodies are controlled by the DMK using the elected members,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-hold-indirect-polls-to-elect-heads-of-urban-local-bodies-1067900.html
04-01-2022||South||Four-year-old Bengaluru boy undergoes intestinal transplant in Chennai||When four-year-old Guhan from Bengaluru developed sudden and erratic vomiting for two days, his parents thought it was a routine stomach infection and took him to a neighbourhood hospital.  But they were told by doctors that their child had a rare condition known as volvulus, a complication in which the twists of the intestine loop result in cutting off the blood supply to the intestinal loop. Guhan was then referred to Rela Hospital in Chennai where doctors concluded that the only solution was intestinal transplantation and a seven-hour-long complex surgery was performed on him on September 13. The child was transplanted with 150-cm of the small intestine which was donated by his father, Swaminathan.  Four months later, Guhan has fully recovered from the surgery performed on him by a clinical team headed by Dr Mohamed Rela, Chairman and Managing Director, Rela Hospital. The announcement was made today by the hospital at a press conference attended by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. “With his small intestine functioning perfectly well, he is now free to have any kind of food like other children of his age. The donor, Mr Swaminathan has also resumed his day-to-day life, a healthy life,” the hospital said in a statement, adding that it has entered into the Asia Book of Records by performing the rare surgery.  “Transplanting a healthy small intestine was the only permanent cure, we managed to successfully perform the intestinal transplantation. Small intestine transplant is rarely done in India and I appreciate the determination of the parents to get their child back to lead a normal life,” Prof. Mohamed Rela said.  Dr Naresh Shanmugam, Senior Consultant - Children liver and gastro specialist, Rela Hospital said Guhan’s case was complicated as he had lost his entire small intestine to volvulus, and there was no chance for rehabilitation. “Hence his small intestine was removed, and nutrients were put directly into his bloodstream intravenously in liquid form. Luckily, we had a ready and loving donor in his father. With the transplanted intestine, Guhan can now move around independently and eat normally,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-year-old-bengaluru-boy-undergoes-intestinal-transplant-in-chennai-1067919.html
04-01-2022||South||Omicron scare: Kerala imposes Covid restrictions on people attending functions||Keeping in view the rising number of cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Kerala government on Tuesday issued a slew of directions to contain its spread, including restricting the number of attendees to various cultural and social functions. The Covid-19 evaluation meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has decided to restrict the number of people who can attend marriages, funerals, political, social and cultural events in a closed room to 75. The Chief Minister's Office said the number of people who can attend such functions in open areas have been limited to 150. "The testing for symptomatic people who come from other countries will be strengthened. Currently, there are 181 Omicron cases in the state," the CMO release said. During the meeting, the Chief Minister also asked the officials to expedite action on applications for financial assistance to those families that suffered Covid-19 deaths. The release also stated that 80 per cent of people in Kerala have received Covid-19 vaccination. It also said two per cent of the 15.43 lakh students in the state also received inoculation.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-scare-kerala-imposes-covid-restrictions-on-people-attending-functions-1067923.html
04-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly session begins on January 5||Tamil Nadu Assembly will convene on Wednesday for the first time in the New Year with the customary address by Governor R N Ravi, who assumed office in September last year. This will be Ravi’s first address to the Tamil Nadu Assembly.  The session will be held at Kalaivanar Arangam, which has been hosting the assembly sittings ever since the Covid-19 outbreak began in the country, instead of the old Assembly hall at Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government.  The government had in December announced that the session with Ravi’s address will be held at the Fort St. George but changed the venue yet again following an increase in the number of daily Covid-19 cases owing to the spread of the new variant, Omicron.  After the address by the Governor, which will be telecast live, Speaker M Appavu will chair a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee during which the duration of the session will be decided. Besides the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s address, the DMK government is likely to introduce and pass a couple of legislations.  The Governor’s address is likely to touch upon the Covid-19 spread, the efforts to attract investments to spur further growth in the state, and the DMK’s pet topic of federalism. The address is also expected to outline the reforms that might be announced in the Budget for 2022-2023 fiscal to be presented in March by Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. The opposition led by AIADMK will seek to put the government on the mat on issues like exemption from NEET for students from the state, “deteriorating law and order situation” in the state, and filing of “false cases” against party leaders.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-session-begins-on-january-5-1067928.html
04-01-2022||South||Tribal village in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam reports eight infant deaths in nine months||A tribal village in the Visakhapatnam agency area has witnessed 14 infant deaths since May 2018, eight of them in the past nine months. All the deaths in the remote Patharudakota village of Pedabayalu mandal in Visakhapatnam district took place within three months of birth. All of them were institutional deliveries with the normal birth weight of babies and their mothers were reported to be in good health condition. A probe initiated by Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, who is also the administrator of scheduled and tribal areas in the state, revealed the cause of deaths as calcium deficiency in mothers as well as drinking water contamination due to rusting of pipelines laid several years ago. According to the Director of Tribal Welfare report, Patharudakota is a multi-tribe habitation of 138 households with Bagatha, Kondadora and a few Poraja families who are panic-stricken by the series of deaths. A team of doctors from the King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam, too visited the villagers and examined water, soil etc., to ascertain the cause. According to the KGH team, "respiratory failure in newborns, infants" could also be due to improper handling. After governor Harichandan expressed concern over the villagers' misfortune and instructed the officers concerned to take immediate steps to contain infant mortality in the Visakhapatnam agency area with immediate effect, the Jaganmohan Reddy government sprung into action, deploying medical and other staff in the area for remedial measures. Officials said they have initiated several steps like replacing the water pipeline, deploying a second ambulance in the area for emergency medical service, and deputing a specialist team from KGH for inspections. “A staff nurse would be stationed in the village for close observation of the health condition of newborn children. We have also made arrangements for the lactating mothers to stay along with their infants at a facility in Munchingiputtu. They would be provided good food for additional nutrition and safe drinking water,” officials said. Long-term measures include setting up of proper communication facilities, construction of a bridge over the rivulet between Rudakota and Patharudakota villages, construction of residential quarters for the PHC staff so that they are available in the village round the clock. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tribal-village-in-andhra-pradeshs-visakhapatnam-reports-eight-infant-deaths-in-nine-months-1067936.html
04-01-2022||South||As Kerala High Court goes paperless, advocate clerks fear becoming jobless||The Kerala High Court has made a major technological leap by implementing a state of the art application that enables not just paperless court proceedings but also has artificial intelligence-based features for roster analysis and distribution of cases to reduce pendency. However, the shift to paperless procedures right from filing of petitions to the judgement has triggered fear among thousands of advocate clerks of going jobless. There are also concerns among the lawyers that they will be burdened with the task of filing petitions and other clerical procedures. The paperless court project of the Kerala High Court was formally inaugurated on January 1. It offers a lot of features for advocates and judges, right from referring to previous cases and legal publications online. One of the highlights of the application is the AI-enabled roster analysis facility for the Chief Justice. It helps the Chief Justice to evaluate pendency of cases before each judge, identify reasons for pendency and approximate time required for clearing pendency. Judges could even dictate orders using the voice to text conversion facility. Already two district level courts and six court rooms of the Kerala High Court have become fully paperless smart court rooms where even witness statements are recorded using voice-to-text conversion facility. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan, who is a member of the computer committee of the High Court, said in a presentation on the paperless application that it was designed by considering the feedback from advocates. He also said that the new system would bring about transformative changes in the justice dispensation in the state. Meanwhile, advocate clerks were concerned that the shift to total e-filing would render around 10,000 advocate clerks in the state jobless in due course. Majority of the advocate clerks are computer illiterate and aged. Moreover, many advocates may also prefer not to use the service of clerks to reduce the costs. Kerala Advocate Clerks' Association state president Rajendran V K said that the concerns of advocate clerks who were playing crucial role in the judicial system over the decades were not considered while shifting to paperless court. There should be provision for advocate clerks also to access the online application. The association is also joining as a party in a case pending before the Supreme Court in this connection, he said. K B Pradeep, a senior High Court lawyer, said that the new application would not help in addressing pendency as it requires recruitment of more judges. At present around 1.5 lakh cases are pending before Kerala High Court, while the number of judges are 47, he pointed out. He also said that the shift to e-filing of application would only increase burden of lawyers. Since majority of the bench clerks are computer illiterate, the lawyers themselves would have to do the petition filing procedures also. Shift to paperless system is good, but should be done in phased manner, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-kerala-high-court-goes-paperless-advocate-clerks-fear-becoming-jobless-1067947.html
04-01-2022||South||Kerala government begins attempts to gain support for rail project, announces compensation||In a bid to overcome the protest against the much-hyped semi-high-speed rail project of the left-front government in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday started deliberation series with representatives of various sections to gain support for the project. The government also announced a compensation package for acquiring land for the project. Up to four-fold, the market price will be given for land acquired in villages, while in cities up to twofold price would be given. A compensation of Rs. 4.6 lakh is being offered for houses, apart from the compensation for land. Rs. 13,265 crore was earmarked for giving compensation. Addressing the deliberations with representatives of various sections in Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayan said that the protests being raised by the opposition parties were only aimed at sabotaging a development initiative that was highly required for the state. Apart from reducing Thiruvananthapuram - Kasargod travel time to less than four hours, the eco-friendly project would also help reduce pollution caused by vehicles. The government plans to complete the project by 2025 and would not succumb to the protests, he said. As per the government estimate around 9,300 buildings would have to be acquired and the total project cost would be around Rs. 63,000 lakh. But opposition parties and a section of experts maintained that the project cost would be around Rs. 1.25 lakh crore and around 20,000 buildings would have to be acquired. Impact on the environment with natural water flow getting obstructed by the rail lines and massive requirement of construction materials leading to exploitation of quarries and the huge financial obligations of the cash strapped exchequer are the major concerns being raised against the project. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-begins-attempts-to-gain-support-for-rail-project-announces-compensation-1068024.html
04-01-2022||South||KCR has lost mental balance: Nadda on Telangana BJP chief's arrest||The opposition BJP took out a rally in Secunderabad on Tuesday evening in protest of its state unit chief Bandi Sanjay's arrest by the Telangana police. BJP national chief JP Nadda participated in the rally and later addressed a press conference called chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao the “most corrupt and autocratic ruler in the country.” Nadda said that Rao “has lost his mental balance, sense of proportion” after the Dubbaka and Huzurabad assembly bypoll shocks delivered by the BJP. The saffron party has called for statewide protests condemning the police action and the manner Bandi, a Lok Sabha MP, was arrested on Sunday night. Bandi had sat on a protest in Karimnagar demanding the scrapping of a recent state government order (GO 317) on transfers stating it as doing injustice to the government employees and teachers. Stating that no permission was given because of Covid-19, police foiled the Deeksha at his office and took Bandi to the police station. BJP has called for a fortnight-long agitation "against the TRS government's highhandedness." “I came to show our solidarity with Bandi and the Telangana unit which is fighting on the ground for the sake of people, employees of the state,” Nadda said at the BJP state office. Nadda said that Bandi was holding dharna in a peaceful manner in his MP office at night following Covid-19 rules. “But the police barged in detaining the participating employees. They used gas cutters to enter the room, manhandled Bandi and arrested him. The police used water cannons, tear gas, while lathi charging at the party cadres,” Nadda said. The BJP leader said that the party would take legal recourse in the arrested matter while continuing to agitate publicly in a democratic manner. “What has happened over the last two days is the murder of democracy. TRS's is a dynastic rule steeped in corruption of gigantic proportions. We will fight till we remove this anti-democratic, autocratic family rule. We won't stop now whatever you (Rao) do,” Nadda said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-has-lost-mental-balance-nadda-on-telangana-bjp-chiefs-arrest-1068027.html
04-01-2022||South||Gold smuggling case: Kerala govt revokes suspension of senior IAS officer Sivasankar||Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar, who was suspended from service in 2020 October after being arraigned by central agencies in gold and dollar smuggling cases, was reinstated into service. Sivasankar's suspension was revoked by the government on Tuesday. A suspension review committee gave a recommendation in this regard that was ratified by the Chief Minister and the chief secretary issued formal orders. Sivasankar was arraigned in three cases by Customs and Enforcement Directorate on charges of gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel, dollar smuggling and money laundering.  Sivasankar came under probe owing to his close links with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh who was a former employee of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The IAS officer was arrested in October 2020 and was on remand for more than three months till he got bail in all the cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-kerala-govt-revokes-suspension-of-senior-ias-officer-sivasankar-1068029.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid Covid, VIP homes saw repeated renovations||Wardrobes, kitchen cabinets, painting... renovation works at VIP residences in Bengaluru are happening, pandemic or not. According to government data, the residences of ministers, including the chief minister, underwent repeated renovations between 2019 and 2021 even during the Covid-19 outbreak, which crippled state finances prompting cost cutting. At the outset, the total amount of renovation works across three years adds up to Rs 6.58 crore, a seemingly insignificant amount. However, a look into the expenses shows that some of the works have been repeated for the same residence at different prices each year. These buildings include Ministers’ Quarters and other VIP buildings such as Race View Cottage and various residences at Kumara Krupa. Take, for instance, the renovations for Race View cottage in 2019-20. Works to provide “inside and outside painting, polishing kitchen renovation cabinets, toilets renovation, sanitary water supply fitting doors, windows repairs, wooden partition” etc were carried out by Rajappa T M at a cost of Rs 34.96 lakh. In 2020-21, the same amount of money was allocated for the same contractor for the exact same works! In another example, at Kumara Krupa-1 (South), the same set of works as mentioned above was taken up at a cost of Rs 16 lakh for 2020-21. The same works have again been taken up at the same venue at a cost of Rs 27 lakh in 2021-22. Interestingly, with most of the residences, repair of sanitary pipelines, wardrobes and painting work seem to have been an annual affair. In some cases, money has gone into modular kitchen cabinets, glazed tiles and other such interior design works. The data was laid in the Legislative Council by Public Works Minister C C Patil during the recent winter session of the legislature. He said none of these works was “unnecessary” or “wasteful” expenditure. Since 2019, the government has spent at least Rs 14.26 crore on the upkeep of Vidhana Soudha, Vikas Soudha, MS Building, VV Towers and other secretariat buildings. Recently, the government sanctioned Rs 38 lakh for the renovation of chief secretary’s office in Vidhana Soudha.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-covid-vip-homes-saw-repeated-renovations-1067701.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Parents fume after some Karnataka schools make Covid-19 vaccinations mandatory||As kids in the 15-18 age group began getting jabbed against Covid-19 on Monday, parents began receiving messages. "Vaccination done for 10 A girls. Those who were absent must be vaccinated at whichever place you prefer. Submission of certificates is a must by this week itself. It is compulsory, take it seriously," read one message that was sent by a CBSE school and shared with DH by a parent. The message spooked the parents. "We were really shocked with the communication from school saying children will not be allowed to write board exams if they are not vaccinated," said the parent. "What kind of rule is this?"  "It is for parents to decide and we demand that concerned authorities should instruct schools about the same." Such sentiments were also echoed by other parents that DH met after several schools made vaccination mandatory and sent out warning messages as the vaccination programme kicked off amid a Covid-19 surge. Parents revealed that some of the private unaided schools sent out messages on Sunday evening itself, mandating offline attendance for children on Monday following the vaccination session. "My daughter's school has made vaccination compulsory," said a parent. "They have been given the option to get it done outside or at the camp to be organised at the school. But we need to submit a vaccination certificate if the child has to attend offline or online classes from January second week." While several parents disapproved of schools making vaccination mandatory, at least one school batted for "caution" over the jabs that has triggered anxiety. "Vaccination for children is a government advisory. However, parental consent is required to facilitate the same on our campus. The schools will also need to gauge the current scenario and proceed with caution," said Aloysius D'mello, principal of Greenwood High International School, Bengaluru. On the other hand, government schools had a different kind of problem. At some schools, despite requests, most of the parents and kids did not turn up, with the former citing several issues. School principals asked parents to get their wards jabbed whenever and wherever it is convenient for them.  Dr Vishal R, Commissioner, Department of Public Instruction, sought to allay fears of parents. "Vaccination is not mandatory, but parents should take it on a positive note," he told DH. But the private schools' management association advised parents to consider vaccination as a responsibility. "All these days parents said they were waiting for vaccines for children. Now, instead of blaming schools for making it mandatory, let them take it as a responsibility and get the kids vaccinated," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Watch latest videos from DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parents-fume-after-some-karnataka-schools-make-covid-19-vaccinations-mandatory-1067706.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai will meet Panchamasalis demand: Seer||Kudalasangama-based Panchamsali Mutt Seer Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami exuded confidence that the Bommai-led government would provide 2A reservation for the Panchamasali community either on Ugadi or Basava Jayanti this year. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, the seer said, Bommai has responded positively to the demand and sought time to meet it. Karnataka State Backward Classes commission has started the survey of people belonging to Panchamasali community, sub-caste in Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, in the state from Davangere to know their social, educational and economic conditions. The commission members are expected to visit ten districts in the state and submit a report to the government in two months. "We are confident that the government is likely to provide 2A reservation benefits to Lingayat Panchamasali community by May this year." When questioned on socio-economic survey conducted during the Congress-led government, he said, the commission did not submit the report to the government. Besides, it was the survey of people of all castes but this is only of Panchamasalis." On rumour on change of guard in Karnataka, the seer said it is the internal issue of the party and he would not comment on it. He said Rastriya Basava Krishi award would be conferred in a programme in Kudalasangama on January 14 organised to mark the first anniversary of padayatra launched from Kudalasangama to Bengaluru seeking 2A reservation benefits last year. The name of the eminent person chosen for the award would be announced soon. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will attend the event. Former mayor Ajay Kumar, former MLA H S Shivashankar were present at the press conference.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-will-meet-panchamasalis-demand-seer-1067726.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to decide on more curbs, closure of schools on January 4||Ahead of the crucial meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday evening to decide on the stringent measures to contain the surge of fresh cases of Covid-19, Health, Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday revealed that the CM-led committee along with the experts will discuss various issues including closure of schools and holding of upcoming events. Addressing media persons in Bengaluru, Dr Sudhakar said, “The meeting will discuss on various issues including holding of events where thousands of people gather.” Asked whether the government will ban the padayatra organised by the Karnataka Congress, the minister said, “The CM will decide on it after discussing the pros and cons of such events. But all of us have to follow whatever decisions are taken by the state government in the interest of the public health.” Adding that several states including neighbouring Telangana have already shut schools, Dr Sudhakar revealed, “The issue of closing of schools is also on our list of agenda for discussion. I have already discussed with the CM on a few points and finally those points will be discussed with others and a final decision will be taken during the meeting.” The minister revealed that the state’s positivity rate which stood at 0.04 per cent a few days ago reached 1.6 per cent on Monday. “On Monday alone we have reported 1,290 cases, of which 90 per cent cases are from Bengaluru alone. This surge has to be considered as the third wave,” the minister said. When asked whether it will be a complete lockdown in Bengaluru, the minister replied, “I request everyone not to use the term lockdown. We are returning to normalcy with great difficulty and if we enforce it again, the livelihood of many will be affected. However keeping all of this in mind and based on our experience of handling the first and second wave, we will take some crucial decisions.” Acknowledging that 90 per cent cases in India are being reported from major cities, the minister clarified that the surveillance steps at the airports in Bengaluru, Mangaluru will be further intensified. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-decide-on-more-curbs-closure-of-schools-on-january-4-1067811.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to set up border checkposts at regions with village to village contact: Bommai||With rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said checkposts will be set up in places where there are village-to-village contacts between Karnataka and neighbouring states. He also said the police station under the jurisdiction will be responsible for such checkposts. "Our experiences since the first and second wave have been that the infections in Karnataka rise whenever Covid-19 cases spiral in our neighbouring states, with whom we have daily business activities. We have to focus on that area," Bommai told reporters. When asked about the laxity in the border regions, the Chief Minister said the border is vast and checking is happening at the main checkposts only. However, there are contacts with neighbouring states at the village level. "Today, I am going to issue a direction to hold the police stations responsible for places where there is village-to-village contact. We will set up checkposts in such villages there and deploy people," the Chief Minister said. To a query on the possibility of a lockdown, semi-lockdown or weekend curfew, Bommai said he will have to wait for the experts' view on it. He, however, pointed out that the lockdown will have an adverse effect on the economy. "We have to keep the economy moving along with taking care of public health. That's the thinking of our government. I seek public support to contain the spread of the disease," Bommai said. Regarding the possibility of closure of schools and colleges in view of rising Covid cases, Bommai said he will go by what the experts say in the meeting later in the evening. The state on Monday reported 1,290 cases and five deaths of which 1,041 infections and three fatalities were in Bengaluru itself. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-set-up-border-checkposts-at-regions-with-village-to-village-contact-bommai-1067875.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai promises 'full-fledged Kalyana Karnataka board' in 2 days||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board will come into being in the next two days while 14,000 vacant posts will be filled soon. The Chief Minister further said that the state government had announced a grant of Rs 3,000 crore for which preparing an action plan was underway. "I have ordered the appointment for the KKRDB. In a week's time all the officers will take charge. In two days, KKRDB's full-fledged board will come into existence," Bommai told reporters. Regarding job creation in Kalyana Karnataka, Bommai said the recommendations to fill 14,000 posts were kept in the cold storage for the past three to four years. Now, his government has given orders to fill those vacant posts, he added. "We have given the financial clearance for it. In the education department alone, there are 5,000 posts of teachers to be filled," Bommai said. The KKRDB for the development of Kalyana Karnataka or the erstwhile Hyderabad Karnataka region came into being on November 6, 2013, following an amendment to Article 371(J) of the Constitution by the United Progressive Alliance government. The decision was taken for the overall development of the region, which was lagging behind other parts of the state. Dattatreya C Patil Revoor, who is an MLA of Kalaburagi Dakshina constituency, is the chairperson of the board while an IAS officer R Venkatesh Kumar is its secretary. The Governor and Chief Minister are also part of the board. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-promises-full-fledged-kalyana-karnataka-board-in-2-days-1067880.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 2,479 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||Fresh Covid-19 cases saw another big spike for the fourth consecutive day in Karnataka on Tuesday with 2,479 infections and four deaths, taking the cumulative infections and fatalities to 30,13,326 and 38,355 respectively, the health department said. The state is witnessing an uptick in fresh infections since January 1 when the tally breached the 1,000 mark after a gap of three months. On January 2, there were 1,187 cases whereas on January 3, 1,290 cases were reported. The department said in its bulletin that 288 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,61,410. Active cases stood at 13,532. The spike in new cases was driven by Bengaluru Urban which contributed 2,053 infections and three deaths. Other districts too had fresh cases including 75 in Dakshina Kannada, 72 in Udupi, 48 in Mysuru, 45 in Belagavi, 29 in Dharwad and 18 in Hassan. Other than Bengaluru, one death occurred in Dakshina Kannada. There were zero fatalities in 29 districts whereas Haveri reported zero infections and zero deaths. The positivity and case fatality rates for the day were 2.59 per cent and 0.16 per cent, respectively. A total of 95,391 samples were tested in the state including 68,798 RT-PCR tests on Tuesday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.68 crore. There were 4,51,249 inoculations done, taking the total vaccinations against Covid to 8.75 crore, the department said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-2479-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-1067930.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka imposes weekend curfew for 2 weeks to curb spread of Covid-19||Karnataka on Tuesday decided to impose a stay-at-home order on weekends and curb public gatherings amid a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in what looks like the third wave of the pandemic.  In Bengaluru, the government has decided to stop all physical classes in schools, except for grades 10, 11 and 12.  This was decided at a three-hour-long meeting that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with senior officials and the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).  The weekend curfew will be applicable across the state.  “From 10 pm Friday to 5 am Monday, a weekend curfew will be in place for two weeks. The existing night curfew that ends January 7 will also be extended for two more weeks,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters. “During the weekend curfew, shops selling food, milk, medicines, vegetables and such essential items will be allowed. Hotels will be permitted to give parcels,” he said.  Curbs will be imposed in public places. “Theatres, malls, bars, pubs and all such public places will function at 50 per cent seating capacity. Full vaccination is a must for people visiting these places,” Ashoka said.  Ceremonies like marriage can have 200 persons in an outdoor venue and 100 indoors. “Here, too, guests should be doubly vaccinated,” Ashoka said.  A negative RT-PCR report is mandatory for people entering the state from Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa.  Places of religious worship will be open. “But, at any given point, not more than 50 people will be allowed,” Health Minister K Sudhakar said.  Sudhakar said the third wave of Covid-19 had begun. “Bengaluru is an epicentre. It was the epicentre in the first and second waves. Even in the third wave, Bengaluru will be the epicentre because the airport is here. International passengers arrive here and then go to other places,” he said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-imposes-weekend-curfew-for-2-weeks-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-1067958.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||SC/ST quota: Contractors say govt lied in legislature||Alleging that the government has furnished false information to the Karnataka Legislative Council, thereby lying to the public and “humiliating” the SC, ST communities, the Karnataka State SC, ST Contractors’ Association has shot a letter to Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti. They had earlier sought the government to increase the cap on reservation for contracts to SC, ST contractors from the existing Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore and the proposal was before the then BS Yediyurappa government. However, in the legislature, the government has stated that there was no such proposal before them, which is a lie, they have contended. According to norms, the government is supposed to ensure reservation to contractors from SC, ST communities for all contracts up to Rs 50 lakh. However, since majority of the government contracts are above Rs one crore, SC, ST contractors are missing out on opportunities, according to the association. In their letter (a copy of which is available with DH), president of the association N Mahadevaswamy has pointed out how they had given a representation to the government in February 2021 to increase the reservation cap for contracts to Rs one crore. In March, the then Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol had written to Yediyurappa, asking him to consider the proposal. SC, ST Commission chairperson Neharu Olekar too had written to the CM. At the same time, Housing Minister V Somanna also had written to the Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, they have stated. This being the case, to a question raised by MLC R B Thimmapur, Public Works Minister C C Patil has responded (On December 22, 2021) that there is no such proposal before the government. Not only is this misinformation given to Council members and a lie told to the public but this is a humiliation to the SC, ST community, the association has said. They have further urged the government to at least now consider increasing the cap. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc/st-quota-contractors-say-govt-lied-in-legislature-1067963.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka students demand govt to resolve academic issues||The agitation of guest faculties, working with state government colleges in the state, has now received support from the student community. The students from various colleges in the city extended their support to the agitation by staging a protest demonstration at the Freedom Park here on Tuesday. Hundreds of students from R C College, Maharani Arts Commerce and Management University, Nrupatunga University and Government Home Science college took part in the protest and demanded the government to resolve the issue as the academic activities have been affected severely. “For the last 20 days no classes have been conducted and the exams are due in February,” said a student. “In our college, 90% of the faculty are guest faculties and we have no classes for so many days. No other faculties are ready to respond to our grievances,” said another student. The guest faculties are on protest demanding job security with a fixed minimum honorarium. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-students-demand-govt-to-resolve-academic-issues-1067964.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||PIL on JLR lodge at Dubare forest dismissed with cost||The high court has imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the petitioners who challenged the construction of Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR) at the Dubare forest area at Kushalnagar in Kodagu district. The petitioners claimed that the JLR has put up constructions inside the forest area without obtaining permission from the Union government. The PIL was filed in 2019 by P S Mohan and four others from the Kodagu district. The petitioners contended that JLR’s eco-tourism camp was causing noise pollution and disturbing the wild animals. It was also contended that JLR had not taken permission from the Union government under section 2 (3) Forest Conservation Act, 1980. The counsel, representing the JLR, raised a preliminary objection on the maintainability of the petition stating that the PIL has been filed with the vested interest of the petitioners. It was informed to the court that JLR had stopped the river rafting activities in the Dubare area. Since this adversely affected the petitioners, a PIL was filed with ulterior motives, the counsel submitted. On the aspect of obtaining prior permission, a division bench, headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, noted that being a government entity, JLR was not required to obtain permission. “We are of the considered view that the Jungle Lodges and Resorts Limited, which has constructed the jungle lodge in Dubare forest in Kushalnagar range of Kodagu district, is a body created by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC), which itself is totally controlled by the State Government and no private interest is involved in the activities of Jungle Lodges and Resorts Limited. The Managing Director (of JLR) is a government servant belonging to the IFS cadre,” the benchsaid. Dismissing the PIL, the bench imposed the cost on the petitioners for wasting precious time of the court. The bench also observed that the petition has been filed with ulterior motives in order to exert pressure on the respondents. The petitioners have been directed to deposit the cost amount with the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority within a month.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pil-on-jlr-lodge-at-dubare-forest-dismissed-with-cost-1067966.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Begin work on organ transplant institute building immediately, High Court directs Karnataka govt||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to immediately start the construction of the proposed Institute of Gastroenterology Sciences and Organ Transplant and complete it in a time-bound manner. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, passed this direction while disposing of a PIL filed challenging the use of land inside the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases for the construction of the institute. The PIL was filed in 2017 by Dr R Chandrashekara, former VC of RGUHS and Dr B Rudrappa, a retired government servant. The petitioners contended that the construction of another hospital on the premises of the chest hospital would adversely affect the TB patients. The TB patients will not get fresh air since the open air is taken away for the construction of another hospital, the petitioners claimed. The state government submitted that there is an urgent requirement for a Gastroenterology and Organ Transplant Institute in the state. There are nearly 82,000 liver patients and about 17,000 kidney patients waiting for transplants in the state. The government further submitted that there is a dearth of organ donors and last year, 60 transplants took place. It was informed to the court that the government had decided to construct a dedicated institute on the chest institute campus keeping in mind the non-availability of space in other super speciality hospitals. The institute, initially proposed with a 200-bed hospital, has now been expanded to a 500-bed hospital and would drastically reduce the cost of liver transplantation to below Rs 1lakh. “There is nothing on record to indicate what are the minimum requirements of a TB hospital. There is also nothing on record to indicate that in case new hospitals are constructed they will adversely affect the TB patients in the existing hospital. We are of the considered view that it is for the authorities concerned to take the considered opinion of the experts in the field and accordingly decide the place and location of the hospitals which they propose to construct. It is also for the State Government to assist suitability and requirement of such hospitals,” the court said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/begin-work-on-organ-transplant-institute-building-immediately-high-court-directs-karnataka-govt-1067967.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriki case: Hawala network channeled stolen proceeds||An anti-corruption crusader, a businessman with plans to start a snacks business and an unsuccessful entrepreneur who had failed in multiple business ventures were part of the elaborate hawala network used to divert money following the hack of the e-procurement portal in 2019. The network had access to several non-KYC (Know Your Customer) accounts through which the money was transferred to banks in North India. Hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki was in touch with many persons in this hawala network, according to statements of various accused in the charge sheet. Among the prime accused in the case is Vinith Kumar, proprietor of Nimmi Enterprises, which received Rs 1.05 crore after Sriki hacked the portal. A former athlete with 11 gold medals at the Uttar Pradesh state-level event, Vinith had started the firm in 2018, which marketed various products and also manufactured snacks. Vinith, in his statement to CID Cyber Crime Police, claimed that the money stolen from the e-procurement portal was transferred to him on July 1, 2019, as he had approached one ‘DSA (direct selling agent, a person who works as a referral agent for a bank) Finance’ for a loan. Subsequently, the accused transferred the money debited on his account to several other accounts in different banks between July 2-4. Another accused, Krishna Pal, was a co-founder of ‘Corruption Free India’ and claimed to have organised Anna Hazare’s rally at Bulandshahr in 2018. Like Vinith - who was his friend - Pal claimed that he too fell into dire financial straits around 2019 and started looking for an ‘FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) loan’ along with donations for his organisation. One of the accounts to which Vinith transferred portions of the Rs 1.05 crore was Krishna’s. Sushil Chandra ran a tutorial, before entering the scrap business and starting his own company in 2013. His business failed in 2018 and was looking for direct payment gateways to bypass authorities and make various payments. Soon, he came in contact with Harwinder Singh who had “much non-KYC money receiving accounts”. Sushil was in touch with Sriki on Wickr - which offers an end to end encrypted messaging service. In June 2019, Sriki, who went by the username ‘dicerhash2’, asked Sushil for an account to transfer “huge amounts of Non-KYC funds”. Sushil was offered a 10% commission for arranging the accounts. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriki-case-hawala-network-channeled-stolen-proceeds-1067975.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC suspends hybrid hearing, only VC at principal bench||In view of the rising number of cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Karnataka High Court has suspended hybrid hearing (optional) at the principal bench in Bengaluru. The notification issued in this regard states that all hearings before the principal bench in Bengaluru shall be through virtual mode with effect from January 5 till January 14, 2022. The notification further states that all the cases shall be heard in hybrid mode at Dharwad and Kalaburagi benches. However, in these benches, parties-in-person shall appear only through online mode and their physical appearance is not permitted. Meanwhile, certain restrictions have been made applicable to the functioning at City Civil Court Complex and Mayo Hall Court Complex with effect from January 5, 2022. The courts will take up only the emergent/urgent matters/bail applications/petitions/interim applications. The hearing of such matters shall be through hybrid (virtual/physical mode) and as far as possible heard through video conferencing. For time being, the rest of the matters shall be given a date during the first/regular hearing. As far as possible, the filing of cases should be made through e-filing. The request for an urgent hearing shall be submitted by the advocates/party-in-person through the email address of the principal district judges/principal judges or the chief metropolitan magistrate, as the case may be. Except for the entry of police officers and accused of the purpose of remand, entry of litigants, parties-in-person and advocate clerks to the court complexes has been prohibited. Parties-in-person and advocate clerks will be permitted to enter only for the purpose of physical filing. Canteens/any other outlet within the court precincts will be closed until further orders. Recording of evidence in all civil and criminal cases should be prohibited except in those cases where time-bound schedules have been fixed by the Supreme Court or the High Court. It has been stated that as far as possible, in the cases of the accused in jail, their statements under Section 313 of the CrPC be recorded only through video conferencing. The remand court at Guru Nanak Bhavan in Bengaluru Urban district shall continue to function till further orders, the notification stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-suspends-hybrid-hearing-only-vc-at-principal-bench-1067977.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||GP Prez attacks man over complaint on misuse of funds||Hooli gram panchayat (GP) president and his supporters in Savadatti taluk in Belagavi district allegedly thrashed a man for lodging a complaint, alleging misappropriation of funds in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). A video purportedly showing Virupakshappa Torgal and members supporting him attacking Sangappa Gudgar went viral on social media on Tuesday. The incident occurred at the GP office on Monday. In a complaint with the Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer, Gudgar alleged that funds to the tune of Rs 50 lakh were misappropriated while implementing the MGNREGS works during 2020-21. Following the complaint, the officer directed the taluk panchayat (TP) to inquire into the complaint and submit a report. A team of the TP officials, led by Assistant director Sangangouda Handral, came to the GP office for inquiry against Torgal, panchayat development officer Fakiravva Hanasi and members supporting them. Torgal attacked Gudgar with footwear when the latter was submitting certain documents. Soon, members supporting Torgal and Hanasi too attacked the complainant, threatening him with dire consequences, according to sources. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gp-prez-attacks-man-over-complaint-on-misuse-of-funds-1067979.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government forms 11 teams to fight Covid||The state government on Tuesday formed 11 teams comprising senior IAS and IPS officers to supervise various aspects of the pandemic management.  In an order issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, the following teams have been formed:  Covid-19 war room headed by Munish Moudgil; hospitalization of ILI and SARI cases through 108 ambulance service will be handled by R Vinoth Priya; collection of samples, testing and labs will be supervised by Shalini Rajneesh; home isolation and containment zones will be monitored by Pankaj Kumar Pandey; supervising the movement of liquid oxygen tankers will be done by Pratap Reddy and N Shivashankar; movement of liquid oxygen tankers in Ballari will be under Pavan Kumar Malapati; tele counselling, tele triaging and 1912 helpline is under Vipin Singh and Biswajit Mishra; coordination with the private sector and nonprofits will be done by Uma Mahadevan; children orphaned due to Covid-19 will be rehabilitated by Pallavi Akurati; coordination with international agencies will be under V Ponnuraj; officers in charge of procuring Covid-19 equipment are Uma Mahadevan and Priyanka Mary Francis. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-forms-11-teams-to-fight-covid-1067987.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle on cards to bring fresh faces?||With eyes set on the 2023 Assembly elections and to ensure efficiency in the administration, the BJP is said to be mulling a major reshuffle of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet. Sources say that more than 10 ministers in the Cabinet will be shown the door to accommodate fresh, younger faces. This will be in line with the strategy employed by the saffron party in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The reshuffle expected after the Sankranti festival will likely be a shot in the arm for Bommai, especially after rumours about his continuation. A new Cabinet may cement Bommai’s position until the 2023 polls, BJP sources say. The BJP central leadership is looking to sack inactive ministers who have contributed little to the party’s organisation in the state. A few senior ministers behind the whisper campaign against the CM could also be axed. One senior minister was let off with a warning during the recently-held state executive committee meeting of the BJP, according to sources. The minister was trying to muster the support of BJP MLAs during the recently-concluded Belagavi session, urging them to back him in case a new leader of the BJP legislature party gets elected. Bommai had raised a complaint with BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who was in Bengaluru recently. The central leadership is also unhappy about the “understanding” of some ministers with Opposition leaders, sources say. Performance of the party in the recent elections for Legislative Council and urban local bodies will also have a bearing during the reshuffle. As the party is keen on improving its tally in the next elections, the reshuffle will attempt to address any allegations of regional imbalance. Apart from that, representatives of communities that have backed BJP in successive elections will be accommodated, sources say. Former Union minister Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who had aggressively campaigned for the ouster of former CM B S Yediyurappa, could be accommodated in the Cabinet in place of a Lingayat minister from north Karnataka, it is said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-reshuffle-on-cards-to-bring-fresh-faces-1067988.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Asymptomatic Covid positive international travellers: TAC prefers 5-day stay at CCCs||The state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), at its 145th meeting on Monday, suggested that instead of the 10-day hospitalisation of Covid positive international travellers from at-risk countries, asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic international travellers should be kept in Covid care centres (CCCs). Every day, six to eight international passengers arriving from high-risk countries are testing Covid positive at the state’s international airports, in Bengaluru and Mangaluru, who are then moved to hospitals.  But more than 90% of these patients are asymptomatic. Even mildly symptomatic patients have recovered in one to three days, including the Omicron positive cases.  TAC suggested that service at the government CCCs could be free, budget hotels could be attached to government hospitals and private CCCs (of different categories: three-star, five-star) could be attached to private hospitals on a payment basis. The duration of the CCC/institution isolation should be for five days, and if the patient is free of respiratory symptoms and his/her oxygen saturation is over 94% during the preceding three days, they can be discharged following a negative RT-PCR test on the fifth day, the TAC recommended. In case of asymptomatic, the isolation shall count from the day of sample collection/testing. This should be followed by five further days of home quarantine. At the end of these five days, if asymptomatic, then they can be released from home quarantine without further testing, the TAC suggested. Those who test RT-PCR positive on repeated tests after the 10th day, as per existing protocol, can be discharged on the 14th day based on clinical assessment by the treating physician.  ‘Need for beds for deserving’ The above recommendations were made because of a rise in the number of Covid cases locally and a possible need for more hospital beds for the deserving (moderate and severe) cases. TAC chairman Dr M K Sudarshan said, “We need to establish good CCCs in the public sector which are free and in the private sector, in hotels, on payment-basis, like in hotels. They can tie up with hospitals and have trained manpower, besides supply of medicines.” “The facility of home isolation with telemonitoring should soon be activated and only those who are eligible like asymptomatics and mildly symptomatic, and having facilities at home with a caregiver should be permitted,” he said. Triage centres The TAC also recommended starting triage centres again in wards and PHCs, and taluk hospitals with medical and paramedical manpower. Newer treatment regimens having Molnupiravir, Remdesivir and intravenous fluids for patients above 60 years, the obese and those with comorbidities, was recommended. It also recommended the opening of the new Covid field hospital at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, now that there is an uptick in cases.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/asymptomatic-covid-positive-international-travellers-tac-prefers-5-day-stay-at-cccs-1067997.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Engineers fear chaos as govt changes rules for promotions||The government’s decision to hand over the power to transfer and promote senior engineers to the respective departments has led to confusion, with officials stating that the move will further politicise appointments to top posts while affecting the execution of crucial development works. For decades, promotions to the top posts of chief engineers, engineers-in-chief and secretaries were done by the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) under the Karnataka Government Allocation of Business Rules, 1977. Officials believe such a system brought order to the postings of engineers whose service remains largely chaotic due to a lack of clarity on where they belong. The PWD, which operates as the parent department, deputies engineers to several departments and takes care of their seniority lists. The DPAR’s appointment to top posts, therefore, helped in avoiding friction between PWD, rural development and panchayat raj, major irrigation, water resources and other departments. On November 30, the government amended the rules and left the appointments to the respective departments. “This has been done without clarity on who will make appointments to the top posts in the departments or depute heads to agencies in highway improvement project or even managing directors to KBJNL and other bodies. As a result, engineers will spend a significant amount of time running between different departments rather than focusing on work,” a senior engineer told DH. Engineers have also written to the chief secretary noting that cadre and recruitment rules in public works, irrigation and RDPR departments were different. They have urged the government to scrap the amendment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/engineers-fear-chaos-as-govt-changes-rules-for-promotions-1068007.html
04-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress trying to cultivate 'Goonda' culture in Karnataka: C T Ravi||Alleging that Congress is trying to cultivate “Goonda” culture in Karnataka, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi on Tuesday said that Karnataka people will give a befitting reply to those trying to take the law into their hands. Blaming Congress Lok Sabha member D K Suresh for the Ramnagar incident, the BJP leader said that the Congress leader again showed his real face to the public. The Congress leaders were trying to show their muscle power to the public and this was a dangerous development in Indian politics, he said. "The act of the Congress leader is shameful to not only Karnataka but to the entire country. Imagine, what would be the state's plight if the Congress came to power," Ravi said. Ravi also criticised former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for supporting D K Suresh. Karnataka Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and the state's lone Congress Lok Sabha member representing Bangalore Rural Suresh almost came to blows in full public view at an event in the presence of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai at Ramnagar on Monday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-trying-to-cultivate-goonda-culture-in-karnataka-c-t-ravi-1068023.html
04-01-2022||West||As Covid-19 cases spike, Mumbai civic body modifies sealing rules for buildings||With the rise in Covid-19 infections and detection of Omicron cases suggesting an increase in "transmissibility", the Mumbai civic body on Monday revised the protocol regarding sealing of buildings where coronavirus cases are found. The revised guidelines will come into effect from Tuesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday night. As per the modified protocol, an entire building or a wing of a building complex or a housing society will be sealed if Covid-19 cases are found in more than 20 per cent of the occupied flats in that building or the wing of the building complex or society. As per the old protocol, a floor of a building used to be sealed if five cases are detected. The entire building used to be sealed if more than five cases are found. The civic body has now made isolation mandatory for at least 10 days from the onset of symptoms or testing in the case of asymptomatic patients. "The patients shall be isolated for at least 10 days from the onset of symptoms or testing (in case of asymptomatic patients) and no fever for three consecutive days," as per the guidelines. The patient and his contacts shall strictly follow the current guidelines of home isolation and hygiene etiquette while in home quarantine. High-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients will be home quarantined for seven days, the new guidelines said. "They shall be tested on the 5th to 7th day or immediately if they turn symptomatic and further protocols shall be followed based on their test results," the BMC said. Building managing committees should ensure supplies of food, medicines and essentials to the families in quarantine, it said. "Cooperation shall be given to Medical Officers of Health/ Ward War Room staff to implement the existing Covid-19 protocols and containment guidelines," the guidelines read. De-sealing decisions of the building or wing could be taken at the respective ward level. Mumbai on Monday reported 8,082 Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count after April 18, 2021, taking the caseload beyond the 8-lakh mark, while two more patients succumbed to the infection, the city civic body said. Mumbai also reported 40 new cases of the latest coronavirus variant Omicron, pushing the number of such infections to 368 in the metropolis, according to the Maharashtra government's health department. The number of sealed buildings in the metropolis also showed an exponential growth as their count has surged to 318, though the tally of containment zones in slums and 'chawls' (old row tenements) stood lower at 11. As cases are rising steadily, the BMC has decided to shut schools of all mediums for classes 1 to 9 and 11 till January 31, a civic official said. Students of classes 10 and 12 are excluded from this decision which means they can attend schools in person. Classes for students of 1 to 9 and 11 will continue in online mode, as directed earlier.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-cases-spike-mumbai-civic-body-modifies-sealing-rules-for-buildings-1067724.html
04-01-2022||West||No plans to put curbs on suburban train travel as of now: BMC official||There is no proposal at present to put any restrictions on suburban train travel in Mumbai, a senior civic official has said amid the metropolis recording a surge in new coronavirus cases. Though the number of daily Covid-19 cases and positivity rate have been increasing in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is working on preventive measures and is ready to handle any crisis, Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani told reporters on Monday. He said at present there is no proposal to put any curbs on suburban train travel. If needed, the Maharashtra government will take a decision on the issue in consultation with the state task force on Covid-19 as it pertains to the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Kakani said. Currently, 90 per cent of the coronavirus patients here are asymptomatic and only four to five per cent patients are being admitted to hospitals, the official said, adding that the number of serious cases is negligible. “Out of 30,500 hospital beds in Mumbai, only 3,500 beds are currently occupied. Also, adequate oxygen supply, medicines, ventilators, ICU facilities and hospital beds are available,” he said. On Monday, Mumbai recorded 8,082 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count since April 18, 2021, and two deaths. In the last one week, the metropolis has logged a 10-fold rise in fresh cases of the viral infection. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-plans-to-put-curbs-on-suburban-train-travel-as-of-now-bmc-official-1067757.html
04-01-2022||West||Gujarat High Court restricts entry of people in its premises amid Covid surge||The Gujarat High Court has restricted the entry of people in its premises in the wake of a rise in coronavirus cases in the state, and barred the entry of litigants while making it mandatory for those required to appear in person to carry Covid-19 negative report. The curbs will come into effect from Wednesday, as per a circular issued by the HC's registrar general on Monday. According to the circular, the Chief Justice has also ordered for the closure of all the canteens located in the high court premises from Wednesday. Screening has been made mandatory for all those entering the court premises, with strict adherence to social distancing norm and cooperation with the medical screening team, it said. "In the matter of habeas corpus petitions, the corpus shall be produced by the jurisdictional police authorities before the jurisdictional district court to enable the judges presiding the bench to interact in virtual mode with the persons so produced," said the circular. The HC has also asked the advocates' association president to ensure that the bar library, reference library and all bar rooms are closed by 1 pm every day, and requested advocates to not sit in large numbers in any of the court premises. Other precautionary measures like downloading the Aarogya App and avoiding handshakes are also required to be taken, apart from following the government advisory issued from time-to-time, said the circular. On Monday, Gujarat reported 1,259 new Covid-19 cases, its highest tally in nearly seven months, raising the total number of confirmed cases reported from the state to 8,35,028. Out of the fresh cases, Ahmedabad city alone accounted for 631 cases. The high court had resumed physical hearing from August last year, after operating online for nearly a year due to the pandemic situation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-high-court-restricts-entry-of-people-in-its-premises-amid-covid-surge-1067800.html
04-01-2022||West||Lockdown will be imposed in Mumbai if daily Covid-19 cases go over 20,000: Mayor||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday said if the daily Covid-19 cases here cross the 20,000-mark, a lockdown will be imposed in the city as per the Union government's rules. Talking to reporters at her office in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters, Pednekar suggested that citizens wear triple-layer masks while travelling in public buses and local trains. She also appealed to them to get vaccinated at the earliest and follow all Covid-19-related standard operating procedures (SOPs). Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray might address the citizens in a couple of days, she said. The mayor said BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has been keeping a close watch on the situation, and he has already hinted about the lockdown, if the Covid-19 cases in the city rise over 20,000. "Today, no one wants a lockdown and it certainly shouldn't be imposed, as just now everyone is recovering from it. If the lockdown is enforced again, it will badly affect everyone. But, if the daily Covid-19 cases cross the 20,000 mark, a lockdown will be implemented by the civic body and the state government as per the Union government's rules," Pednekar said. She appealed to citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, avoid overcrowding in markets, malls and marriage functions, and wear masks properly. The mayor also appealed to people to hold marriage functions as per the rules, and ensure such events do not prove to be Covid-19 super-spreaders.   To a query, Pednekar said the BMC will carry out RT-PCR tests of people returning from Goa by a cruise ship and quarantine them at civic centres, or in hotels if they are ready to pay for it. Notably, the cruise ship, where 66 of the over 2,000 people on board tested positive for coronavirus, was sent back to Mumbai from Goa late Monday night with all the passengers after some of the infected persons refused to get admitted to a medical facility there, an official from a shipping agency said. She said that currently only six Omicron patients are admitted in Mumbai hospitals and all other persons infected by the new Covid-19 variant have been discharged. Mumbai is witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases since the last week. On Monday, the country's financial capital reported 8,082 Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count since April 18, 2021, taking the caseload beyond the eight lakh-mark, while two more patients succumbed to the infection, the BMC earlier said. Mumbai also reported 40 new cases of the Omicron variant, pushing the number of such infections to 368 in the metropolis, according to the Maharashtra government's health department. With fresh additions, the city's coronavirus tally rose to 8,07,602, while the death toll increased to 16,379 on Monday, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-will-be-imposed-in-mumbai-if-daily-covid-19-cases-go-over-20000-mayor-1067819.html
04-01-2022||West||Cordelia Cruise operator claims guests infected with Covid-19 before boarding ship||The Cordelia Cruise ship management on Tuesday said that only 1 or 2 of its crew members had tested Covid-19 positive in Goa on Sunday and the guests who were confirmed cases may have been infected before they boarded the ship. It also announced suspension of its January 5 service. In a detailed statement, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd CEO and President Jurgen Bailom said that after the sole infected crew member displayed mild symptoms, he was immediately isolated and then all the other crew and guests had to undergo Covid tests again. As Goa Health Minister Visjwajit Rane confirmed later, at least 66 persons of the total 1,400 on board were found Covid-19 positive and were isolated, leading to on-board protests. Bailom said they are asymptomatic. He said that the cruise ship company has taken all precautions for its crew who are staying on board the ship since September 2021, are fully vaccinated and undergo regular RT-PCR tests, and had informed the health authorities concerned after the fresh infections were detected. "Once may hence mindfully arrive at the conjecture that the guests who have tested positive as of this morning (Januarty 4) were already infected with the virus prior to boarding. However their tests showed otherwise, hence they were permitted on board," said Bailom. He said that there are several similar incidents on flights and trains which are "unfortunate and unexpected" despite everyone taking utmost care, and the Cordelia Cruises' "extreme proactiveness" in conducting the RT-PCR tests. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cordelia-cruise-operator-claims-guests-infected-with-covid-19-before-boarding-ship-1067873.html
04-01-2022||West||'Bulli Bai' app case: Court remands Bengaluru engineering student in Mumbai Police custody till Jan 10||A local court on Tuesday remanded a 21-year-old engineering student, arrested in the 'Bulli Bai' app case, in Mumbai Police's custody till January 10. The Mumbai cyber police apprehended the student, Vishal Kumar, from Bengaluru on Monday and later arrested him. After being brought to Mumbai, he was produced before the Bandra metropolitan magistrate. The police sought Kumar's custody for 10 days and also permission from the court to carry out searches at his premises in Bengaluru. After hearing the police's submission, the magistrate remanded Kumar in police custody till January 10 and also permitted the cops to carry out searches at his premises. The cyber cell had filed the FIR against unidentified persons following complaints that photographs of Muslim women were uploaded for auction on the app hosted by GitHub platform. Earlier in the day, a Mumbai Police team also detained a woman, who is believed to be the main accused in the case, from Uttarakhand, an official said. According to police, the woman and Kumar know each other. Hundreds of Muslim women were listed for auction on the Bulli Bai' app with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of Sulli Deals which triggered a similar row last year. Amid outrage over Muslim women being targeted through the dodgy app, the Delhi Police had sought details from the GitHub platform about the developer of the 'Bulli Bai' mobile application and asked Twitter to block and remove related "offensive contents" on its platform. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bulli-bai-app-case-court-remands-bengaluru-engineering-student-in-mumbai-police-custody-till-jan-10-1067889.html
04-01-2022||West||Cruise ship with Covid-19 patients on board reaches Mumbai from Goa||The Cordelia cruise ship with 66 Covid-19 patients on board reached Mumbai from Goa on Tuesday evening, BMC officials said. The cruise liner anchored at a passenger terminal in Ballard Pier in South Mumbai at around 6.30 pm and a team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and police personnel have reached the spot, they said. The BMC has arranged five ambulances, each of them 17-seater, to ferry coronavirus positive patients to a Covid-19 care centre, the officials said. They also have the option of quarantining themselves at hotels at their own expense, they said. Earlier, the civic body had said all coronavirus positive people on board the cruise ship will be quarantined in Mumbai, while others will have to undergo RT-PCR tests before disembarking. Non-coronavirus passengers will be allowed to disembark from the ship only after their test report shows negative result, but they will have to remain in home isolation for a week, the BMC said. RT-PCR testing on the ship will be done by two labs and their reports are expected by 9 am on Wednesday, it added. As many as 66 of the over 2,000 people on board the cruise ship have tested positive for Covid-19, officials have said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-ship-with-covid-19-patients-on-board-reaches-mumbai-from-goa-1067929.html
04-01-2022||West||Maharashtra to announce stricter Covid rules on Wednesday as cases rise||Amid an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases leading to over 50,000 active patients, the Maharashtra government is expected to come out with a new set of stringent guidelines on Wednesday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a series of meetings and take a final call on the guidelines, however, lockdown has been ruled out at this stage. “There would be a review meeting after which the chief minister would take a call on the new guidelines, which would be announced accordingly,” deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said after a review meeting in Pune. Over the last couple of days, state health minister Rajesh Tope has reiterated that the government would consider a lockdown only if the daily medical oxygen requirement crosses 700 metric tonne. On the other hand, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that lockdown in India’s financial capital would be imposed when daily cases cross the 20,000-mark. “We are not thinking in terms of lockdown but surely we would be meeting and there would be strengthening of the existing restrictions,” state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.  Over the last two days, school education minister Prof Varsha Gaikwad and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant held separate meetings to assess the situation. In Mumbai, for classes I-IX and XI, the education would be only on online mode - a decision that has been replicated in the majority of the Mumbai metropolitan region. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-announce-stricter-covid-rules-on-wednesday-as-cases-rise-1067956.html
04-01-2022||West||13 Maharashtra ministers, 70 legislators test positive for Covid-19||13 ministers of the Maharashtra government and 70-odd legislators have tested positive for Covid-19, state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Tuesday. “The situation is a matter of great concern, we have 13 ministers and 70-odd legislators (MLAs and MLCs) who are Covid-19 positive (now),” Wadettiwar told reporters in Mumbai. The statement comes on the eve of a comprehensive situation review which will be presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after which the new set of guidelines will be announced. “Although the number of new Covid-19 cases are increasing, the majority of patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, but the increase in number of cases is a matter of concern,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Pune. The latest among the ministers to test positive is urban development minister Eknath Shinde, a close aide of Thackeray. Other ministers who had tested positive are revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, school education minister Prof Varsha Gaikwad, tribal development minister KC Padvi, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, and minister of state for urban development Prajakt Tanpure. MLAs who have tested positive include Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Sameer Meghe and Madhuri Misal, former minister Vidya Thakur, Atul Bhatkhalkar. On the issue of a possible lockdown, Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said: “Who wants lockdown? it is in nobody's interest. At this stage we need a circuit breaker guarded, systemic, calibrated 'circuit breaker' to avoid the stigmatising term ‘lockdown'. Covid-19 is spreading exponentially, orchestrated by Omicron with a national positivity rate of 4%.” Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said: “Most of the cases are mild predominant presumptive Omicron. Most are asymptomatic, but need to identify those that are at risk, isolate, treat and have zero mortality and less severe disease”. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-maharashtra-ministers-70-legislators-test-positive-for-covid-19-1067978.html
04-01-2022||West||Gujarat reports new 2,265 covid-19 cases, two deaths||Gujarat reported a massive surge in its daily novel coronavirus cases barely a week before the mega biannual event "Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, 2022" with 2,265 new cases on Tuesday. Two more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 10,115. The state also reported two new cases of Omicron variants, taking the tally to 154, out of which, 96 have been discharged.  In the past week, the number of active cases has jumped from 1,902 on December 29 to 7,881 on January 4 – an increase of more than 300 per cent. The positivity rate across the state is reported to be a little over 2 per cent with Ahmedabad city the worst affected region with a TPR of 7 per cent. Ahmedabad city reported 1,290 cases on Tuesday, followed by Surat with 415, Vadodara, 86; and Anand, 70 cases. According to health officers, additional chief secretary, health, Majoj Agarwal tested positive for the virus on Tuesday and has quarantined at home. Agarwal has mild symptoms, they said. He had tested negative a day before but the second test was found to be positive. Government officials are in a fix over rising cases and their preparation for "Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit", which is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 10. The event will see the participation of 26 countries as "partner nations" and five state heads including the prime minister of Russia, Mikhail Mishustin. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-new-2265-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-1067986.html
04-01-2022||West||Sindhutai Sapkal, 'mom to thousands of orphans', passes away||Legendary social worker Sindhutai Sapkal - who is known for her work in raising orphaned children - passed away in Pune on Tuesday evening.  Sindhutai was 73. She passed away in the Galaxy Hospital in Pune.  In 2021, she was conferred with the coveted Padma Shri honour.  Sindhutai devoted herself to orphans.  She is fondly called "mai", which means "mother". She has nurtured over 1,500-plus orphaned children. She has a grand family of 382 sons-in-law, 49 daughters-in-law, and over a thousand grandchildren. She has received around 270 awards from various national and international organisations. A Marathi movie “Mee Sindhutai Sapkal” was also released as her biopic in 2010. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sindhutai-sapkal-mom-to-thousands-of-orphans-passes-away-1068028.html
