05-01-2022||Comment||Centre's slow response to Omicron: No excuse this time||The nation should be alarmed at the slow manner in which the administration has responded to the snowballing pandemic due to the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. In fact, it is more like a non-response, almost a carte-blanche given to the virus, if that is possible, to do its bidding. This is surprising, given our experience of the devastation that the first and second waves of the pandemic caused. It was more than a month ago, on November 26, to be precise, that the WHO declared Omicron to be a variant of concern. The WHO took just two days, after the announcement from South Africa about this variant, to issue its warning. Scientists in South Africa provided early signals of two sinister properties – transmission efficiency higher than that of the then record-holder, the Delta variant, and Omicron’s ability to dodge immunity, whether induced by infection with other variants or by vaccines. That the WHO made the right decision at the earliest is a lesson in the process and spirit of an “evidence-based decision”. An early decision was critical and the available evidence was judged to be sufficient. When confronting a probable problem, the decision may range from none for the time being, to deferring for more evidence, to making a conditional decision or making a definite decision. Evidence was not the only factor in the equation, but also the potential adverse impact of any delay. We could disagree on whether the evidence was sufficient or not, but no one will doubt the wisdom of an early call, for such early and decisive announcement, gave all countries of the world information for early action. Japan, the country that had enjoyed two months of the endemic prevalence of Covid-19 since end-September, decided to block the importation of Omicron by disallowing travellers from any country. But the virus had already entered Japan, through a twice-vaccinated Namibian diplomat. Japan abandoned the no-entry policy but is bracing for a new wave with all other well-known defences, including booster doses. India must watch the situation there. India had been enjoying an endemic state for over four months, from the second week of July till late November. Our stakes were high; we did not desire the third wave. Life was limping back to normal; educational institutions were open. Elections were approaching in Uttar Pradesh. Immediate intervention to block a probable third wave was the expected response, but that was not the decision the policymakers made. They chose not to make any decisions for the time being. That decision, to apply no intervention to block a wave of disease or at least to flatten the probable epidemic curve, is very strange, almost as if the policymakers were deliberately unconcerned about the risk of a third wave. Experience in other countries clearly showed that India must expect a huge rise in infections. Omicron was, and is, causing disease less severe than Delta in other countries, but the sheer magnitude of infections is sure to cause an increase in disease cases, mostly affecting senior citizens, those with risk-prone medical conditions, pregnant women, etc. There was no reason for expecting zero risk of a wave of disease. Why would a government then defer action and seemingly welcome a fresh wave? The response strategies adopted against the first and second waves do not provide any clue. No vaccine was available during the first wave. Vaccines were approved for ‘emergency use’ on January 3, 2021, almost three months prior to the second wave, but no effort was visible to use vaccination as a method of mitigating disease, hospitalisations and death. That was also surprising and disappointing. The pace of vaccinations was about 1% of population covered per month, slowly increasing to 2% but no more until the second wave abated naturally. We could attribute that to traditional inefficiency, slow rollouts, mismanagement at logistics, distribution and a host of factors that come into play when such a large operation gets into the works. But now, none of these should be factors. We have enough vaccines to create a wall of population immunity to dampen the onslaught of an impending Omicron wave of disease. Yet, one full month, November 26 to December 26, passed without any sign of using vaccinations to mitigate the size or severity of the potential third wave. Then came a decision for deferred action, minimal, more tokenism than substance. The age range of vaccination was enlarged to cover adolescents of 15-17 years, starting on January 3. Even if we achieve high coverage, this response is unlikely to affect the shape or mass of a third wave. In effect, our delayed response will make no impact on the third wave, which will come and go, if it wishes, the way it wishes, when it wishes. We have surrendered to whatever the virus does. Another deferred action is to offer a booster dose for those above 60 or those with medical conditions, as well as for front-line workers – healthcare and others. But stipulating a minimum nine-month gap between the second dose and the third dose, instead of the suggested and science-based six-month gap, tells us that the government is in no hurry to reduce the impact of a third wave on the lives and health of vulnerable people. These decisions were announced without explanation or supportive logic. They create the impression of action. But underneath that façade is also a message that the government is in no hurry to fight Omicron and reduce the misery it can bring, particularly on vulnerable sections of society. We may even ask – are we doing this because Omicron apparently causes less disease among the young, the fit and those with means. Are we not bothered about the elderly, those who are ailing or those whose immunity has been compromised? If that were not the case, actions would have been quicker and more goal-oriented – not merely trickling, minimalistic and ritual-like. Even if we let pass the response at the time Covid-19 first struck or during the two deadly waves, the lack of prompt action in increasing vaccine coverage this time cannot be condoned. (The writer is a former Professor of Clinical Virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, and former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics) (Syndicate: The Billion Press) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/centres-slow-response-to-omicron-no-excuse-this-time-1068038.html
05-01-2022||Comment||Narendra Modi, a disengaged parliamentarian||In the seven-and-a-half years that he has been Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has not answered any questions, has not made the customary statement in Lok Sabha after a State visit abroad, has not engaged in a tete-a-tete with a fellow member during a debate. The only time he took part in the proceedings was during his first year in office. When there was a strong protest from Opposition members over a controversial remark by Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in an election rally, where she posed a choice between “Ram’s sons” and “illegitimate sons”. She apologised, but the members demanded an explanation from the Prime Minister. Modi, speaking in the Lok Sabha and in Rajya Sabha in December 2014, asked Opposition members to consider the fact that she was from a village and asked them to be magnanimous and accept the apology. The only time that Modi has spoken through these seven years in Parliament is during the reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address. And he takes care to mention some of the members who spoke in the debate. In February 2017, in his reply, he retorted to former PM Manmohan Singh’s criticism of demonetisation as “organised loot” and “legalised plunder” saying that despite the scams surrounding him, Singh’s image remained clean but that was because he (Singh) knew the art of “bathing with a raincoat on”. Before every session, Modi has given a soundbite to the media expressing hope that there would be useful discussions in the two Houses, but he has never been an active participant in any discussion in Parliament. This is quite in contrast to the sentiments he expressed about Parliament when he was elected in 2014. He genuflected on the steps of Parliament House and described it as the “temple of democracy”. As a Member of Parliament from Varanasi, Modi has paid a lot of attention to the constituency he has been elected from, visiting the place regularly, even taking former Japanese PM Shinzo Abe there in December 2015, and then there is the corridor he has got constructed from the riverfront to the Vishwanath temple. He seems to believe that as an MP from Varanasi and as PM, it is enough if he beautifies the place. He is doing his duty by his constituency. Would his constituents also like to see him participate in parliamentary proceedings? There is a larger implication of Modi’s absence, or silence, on the working of Parliament. It seems that that the Modi government in Parliament is managed entirely by ministers. It is indeed the case that it is the ministers of various portfolios who answer the questions, but the occasional intervention of the PM as leader of the Lok Sabha would have given the Modi government a better image. Modi may believe that his image lies in the work of the government and not in his intervention in Parliament, but that would be wrong in a parliamentary democracy. The PM needs to defend his government in the two Houses. He should be heard in Parliament, rather than at public rallies. In the British House of Commons, every Wednesday is the ‘Questions to the Prime Minister’ or ‘Prime Minister’s Question Time’, and the PM has to answer directly the questions of the Leader of Opposition. In the Indian Parliament, however, while this tradition exists, the PM can have the Minister of State in the PMO answer. And that’s what has happened so far in the Modi regime. This seems to be a personality trait. He does not like to be questioned. And it seems to be also the reason why he has not held a single press conference in these seven years. The interviews he did as Chief Minister of Gujarat did not show him to enjoy the questioning. And the few interviews he did after he became PM were from those who were more inclined to praise him rather than to question him and his government. Even former American President Donald Trump, who hated the media and publicly said so, nonetheless faced the media day in and day out, and he did it in his own bumptious way. But Modi avoids being confronted with questions, whether in Parliament or with the media. The effect of a disengaged Prime Minister in Parliament is that the Opposition is restless and dissatisfied. A PM who addressed them directly could alter the tenor of the proceedings in the two Houses. Modi sits through the presentation of the Budget, but he does not do so on other occasions. If he is present in the House, and if he were to answer a question or two in the form of clarification or a statement, then the Opposition would be satisfied. It is true that the Opposition may use the opportunity of the Prime Minister’s presence to insist that he respond. But this is indeed the spirit of parliamentary democracy. The Prime Minister is a member of the House, and as head of the government, he should be interacting with the legislature. When Modi came into office, observers like Arun Shourie predicted that Modi’s would be a presidential style of governance, that he would take decisions on his own and that he was not merely the first among equals in the Union Cabinet. It seems that Modi has adopted the same presidential attitude towards the legislature, too. He remains aloof from Parliament. It will be argued that each Prime Minister brings his own style to the office, and that Modi’s aloofness is his style and that one should not complain about that. We need not quarrel with Modi’s political stylistics. But it remains incumbent on us to observe and describe the phenomenon. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/narendra-modi-a-disengaged-parliamentarian-1068354.html
05-01-2022||First Edit||'Bulli Bai': The malcontents of a poisoned society||Another reprehensible threshold has been breached with the online ‘sale’ of over 100 Muslim women on an app hosted on the Github platform. That shows a meeting of misogyny and anti-minorityism in a novel and shocking form. These acts extend the limits of insult and offence, with every new incident plumbing further depths of depravity. The communal and sexist Bulli Bai app is not the first instance of targeted harassment of Muslim women. It has appeared six months after the ‘Sulli Deals’ app and website had publicly made available pictures of Muslim women describing them as ‘deals of the day’. Most of those who are targeted are women who have a presence on social media, including journalists and professionals, and many images are doctored and photoshopped. It is clear that the smear and sleaze campaign is an organised one and cannot be seen as ordinary cybercrime. Separate investigations have been launched by Mumbai and Delhi police and one person has reportedly been arrested. The Mumbai cyber police have booked the Bulli Bai app developers and Twitter account holders. But the investigation into Sulli Deals has not made much progress, and the taking down of the app should not be the end of the matter. It may be possible to leave no trails of crimes and to hide deep in the internet terrain, but the government has the power and resources to track such criminals and catch them. Everyone who is involved in these nefarious crimes should be immediately arrested and punished after speedy trials. Cyberspace has abounded in crimes against women and has been a haven for perverts and assorted offenders of various types including misogynists. Cybercrimes have been steadily increasing in the country and over 2,300 cases were reported in 2020. But cases that were not reported could be many multiples of that number. What is involved in the latest instances is not just a poor and wrong attitude to women but an especially hostile and degrading attitude towards women of the minority community. The psychology is similar to that of marauding armies in enemy territories. Women are insulted, dehumanised and attacked and a perverse satisfaction is derived from shameful and outrageous comments about them and actions against them. These are inspired and sustained by a toxic ecosystem that is sought to be generated against the minorities. The lack of effective action against the offenders encourages them and others. It is not only a case of poor law enforcement. These offences are part of a politics that is thriving and becoming the norm in the country. It should be noted that there is no strong denunciation of these activities from the top echelons of power in the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bulli-bai-the-malcontents-of-a-poisoned-society-1068039.html
05-01-2022||First Edit||Third wave is here: Are we ready?||The country is likely witnessing another surge of Covid-19, leading to a third wave of the disease. If it had recorded 6,641 cases between December 19 and 25, the next week, between December 25 and January 2, saw 18,290 cases, which marked a nearly three-fold rise. Since then, there is a big increase in the number of cases even on a daily basis. More than 58,000 fresh cases have been reported from across the country in the last 24 hours. As in the case of the second wave, many cases may be going unreported, too. Some parts of the country such as Maharashtra and the big metropolises are recording higher numbers because there may be more people returning from abroad and there are better testing facilities and practices there. Cases are increasing at a fast pace in Karnataka and Bengaluru also.  The present surge is led by Omicron, which accounts for 50% of the fresh cases in the metropolises. It is more transmissible than the earlier Covid variant, though it is also considered to be less lethal. Though the hospitalisation rate may be lower, there is likely to be more hospital admissions because of the increase in the absolute number of cases. The ability of the new variant to evade defence mechanisms may also increase the number of fresh cases. Delhi’s hospitals have already started feeling the pressure. Since there is a higher risk of disease surge, there is the need to urgently improve hospital infrastructure and facilities. In this context, it is disappointing to note that the states had collectively utilised only 17% of the Rs 23,123 crore emergency package approved by the Centre in August to ramp up medical infrastructure. They should ensure that there is no repetition of the terrible second wave situation of shortage of beds, ICUs and oxygen.  Some states have started taking restrictive measures. But strengthening the defences and improving medical facilities is a better strategy to fight the disease than imposing restrictions on the movement of people. Such restrictions have high economic and social costs. Notwithstanding questions about the efficacy of vaccines against Omicron, the vaccination drive should continue. More importantly, there should be strict adherence to the Covid protocol of social distancing, wearing of masks, and handwashing. Neglect and complacence can lead to the situation going out of hand. Governments and political parties should keep this in mind as the election campaign will gather steam in five states in the coming weeks. Experts are of the view that the next six to eight weeks may see the surging and peaking of a new wave in the country. We need to be prepared to deal with it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/third-wave-is-here-are-we-ready-1068339.html
05-01-2022||In Perspective||Monetary Policy: Just flawed logic or toeing FM’s line?||The December bi-monthly Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting saw the members treading a cautious path. All the members, with the exception of Prof. Jayanth Varma, voted to maintain status quo on policy rates and accommodative stance to sustain economic revival while controlling inflation -- a strategy that has remained unchanged for over a year now. The question is: Has the monetary policy achieved the desired short-term goal? Monetary policy, by regulating policy rates and consequently money supply, liquidity and credit line, is expected to strike a delicate balance between inflation and economic growth, variables that are considered to be inversely related, according to supporters of the much-celebrated Phillips Curve Hypothesis. The monetary authorities increase money supply -- monetary loosening -- to stimulate economic growth, while providing space for price rise, and reduce money supply -- monetary tightening -- to control inflation, while compromising economic growth. The MPC is mandated to recommend policy rates under these theoretical constructs. Policy rates in the ambit of MPC include repo rate, reverse repo rate, marginal standing facility (MSF) rate, and bank rate. Repo rate is the rate at which RBI lends to banks on overnight basis to avail liquidity to manage regulatory requirements. Reverse repo rate is the rate at which banks lend to the RBI on overnight basis when the latter is required to absorb liquidity. The MSF rate is the rate for overnight borrowing from the statutory liquidity portfolio to enjoy a safety valve against unanticipated liquidity shocks. Monetary theory postulates that these rates control the velocity of money -- the rate at which money changes hands. Controlling the velocity can impact the balance between inflation and growth. With this background, earlier MPC resolutions recommended reduction in policy rates and proposed an accommodative stance since August 2019 to stimulate the economy, albeit at the cost of inflation. In the recent meeting, the MPC observed a broad-based recovery as all constituents of aggregate demand indicate expansionary traits. Yet, the pertinent question is: Has the monetary policy been responsible for this ‘perceived’ recovery? The answer is: Negative! The resilience of rural demand and reduction in dependence on MGNREGA may be attributed to direct transfers from PM-Kisan scheme and resumption of rabi sowing season, respectively. Many of these unorganised sector economic activities are assumed to be sensitive to changes in policy rates, an assumption that is far from the truth. On the other hand, investments, automobile sales, steel consumption and high-frequency indicators that are sensitive to interest rates have shown only a modest improvement, according to the MPC resolution, raising questions about the role and effectiveness of monetary policy. On inflation, the MPC resolution suggested that both headline and core inflation are facing an upward pressure. Erratic rainfall has damaged crops and raised uncertainty about the harvest scheduled for January, imposing upward pressure on food prices. Further, efforts to mitigate pass-through of rise in global fuel prices have yielded limited success. All these may result in increasing the costs of production, leading to sectoral and overall inflation. Signs of that are visible, with wholesale price inflation hitting 14% in November 2021. The inflation in wholesale prices is bound to transmit to retail prices over time. Yet, the committee seems to have completely neglected the threat of pass-through of inflation from wholesale to retail prices, which will end up burning a hole in the pocket of the common man. Another area of concern relates to inflation in advanced and other emerging economies. Policymakers in these economies have resorted to monetary tightening. With interest rates in India being lower relative to global rates, outflow of capital will become inevitable. Further, global inflation will also lead to increasing import bills relative to exports, leading to rise in trade deficit. These aspects will increase supply of the Rupee in the forex markets and lead to depreciation of the currency. While these aspects lie well within the ambit of monetary authorities, has the MPC done enough to deal with them? Other concerns allude to the large surplus in liquidity conditions. Liquidity spiralling out of control will lead to a situation where too much money will chase too few goods, causing inflationary pressures in the economy. While the RBI is attempting to mop-up liquidity through fixed-rate and variable-rate reverse-repo, is it too little or too late? These observations raise big question marks on the approach followed by the MPC. Is the MPC toeing the Finance Ministry line by providing space for an expansionary fiscal policy due to Assembly elections? Or, is the committee simply pursuing a flawed logic? (The writer is Professor, School of Liberal Arts, Alliance University, Bengaluru) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/monetary-policy-just-flawed-logic-or-toeing-fm-s-line-1068041.html
05-01-2022||In Perspective||India-Israel ties: New opportunities||As we near the completion of three decades of formal diplomatic relations, it must be pointed out that unbeknownst to most, India and Israel have enjoyed strong bilateral ties since 1950. It moved from India trying to keep these ties off the radar to formalising it in 1992. This relationship has seen a dramatic upswing in the last many years. While the current trajectory is posited on the personal chemistry Prime Minister Narendra Modi enjoyed with the former prime minister of Israel Netanyahu, there is much substance to this relationship.  India is the largest buyer of Israeli military equipment. Israel is the second-largest defence supplier to India. India is Israel’s third-largest Asian trade partner. Bilateral ties have broadened into sensitive areas like high technology products, defence equipment, space, security, and intelligence. Joint production and development of key defence items have emerged as important domains of cooperation. Commercial and development ties now cover agriculture, water management, pharmaceuticals, information technology, etc. India has for long enjoyed great goodwill among Israel’s citizens as the only country in the world where Jews have not faced anti-Semitism. There are many instances of Jews under Hitler’s persecution finding shelter in India including some that were said to have been facilitated by Nehru. The minuscule Jew community was able to rise to eminence in various fields. While this friendship is certainly a yardstick for many other nations, there is a need to appreciate that it is currently at a sub-optimal level. The bulk of the focus of this relationship has been defence and other security-related items. Besides the partnership in agriculture, all other arrangements are focused on the big cities and niche segments of the society. The full potential of this relationship will be achieved only when business and commercial interests are mutually beneficial and the associations directly affect people. The benefits will need to be accessible and available for common citizens. Nothing touches our lives better than cultural exchanges and connections. Long before 1992, Israeli youths visited India in large numbers attracted by its culture and heritage. Israel has admirers in India for its ability to thrive in spite of very adverse situations in its short history as an independent nation. There is a strong need to use soft power diplomacy to build people-to-people bridges and to add to economic benefits through robust inter-country tourism. This needs to be revived after the current disruption and a two-way street needs to be created. India’s world-class institutes of higher education could benefit from the strong culture of research and innovation that thrives in Israel. Israel, after all, hosts R&D centres of more than 300 multinational companies and has the highest number of patents per capita. A student exchange programme at the university level could catalyse the partnership. An India-Israel higher education forum with the participation of the industry could drive this agenda with vigour. With climate change and its disruptive impact, strategic issues related to the waters of the Brahmaputra and Indus and the rapid urbanisation in India warrant that we benefit from water management technology with a focus on productivity and reduction of water consumption and on recycling of wastewater. Israel is the ideal partner for this.  Israel considers innovation as a public good and actively encourages innovations at different stages of development and this underpins the solid start-up ecosystem in Israel. Indo-Israel incubation centres and mentorship programs especially for start-ups in India’s tier-2 cities can provide interesting spin-offs to these collaborations.  Converting high-end defence technologies to create civil use applications will have a far-reaching impact on industrial innovation and development. The current crisis scarcity of semiconductor chips can occasion a partnership by building chip manufacturing in India. Israel is one of the few countries that can help India in achieving self-reliance in the production of semiconductors. On citizen-to-citizen level engagement, both countries must come forward to build an institutional mechanism to share their community practices. For example, India needs to learn a lot from the inspirational role Kibbutz and Moshav as agriculture cooperatives play in nation-building in Israel. Similarly, Israel can benefit from the transformational journeys of many self-help womens’ collectives in India that have shown the way with the grassroots development model. India presents a massive market for Israel’s manufactured goods and technology. With almost 40% of Israel’s annual defence production being exported to India, the advantages to Israel’s economy cannot be understated. Additionally, India’s embracing of Israel offers Israel massive intangible benefits. This is a friendship for long and mutual benefits for both nations, as a former ambassador of Israel to India remarked: “The Indian and Israeli markets do not compete with one another but complete one another.” A potential quadrilateral with US and UAE can help this relationship soar to new heights. (Prasad is a public policy consultant. Kumar works with the International Division of Confederation of Indian Industry) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-israel-ties-new-opportunities-1068334.html
05-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mild earthquake hits Chikkaballapur; house walls damaged in some villages||A Mild intensity quake, measuring 2.7 on the Richter Scale, hit Karnataka's Chikkaballapur district on Wednesday, State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said. The tremors were felt in Shettigere, Addagal, Beeraganahalli, Gollahalli, Bogaparti villages for three seconds in the wee hours, according to authorities. However, the villagers claimed that they felt the tremors thrice. Most of the villagers spent night outside their houses. Walls of many houses have been damaged, the villagers claimed. The villagers said that they felt the tremors. The things kept in the shelves at houses fell, after which they ran out of their houses. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mild-earthquake-hits-chikkaballapur-house-walls-damaged-in-some-villages-1068167.html
05-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||35 medical students test Covid positive in Ballari||A total of 66 people including 35 medical students of VIMS) tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, triggering the fear of the third wave of Covid-19. “The medical students have been admitted to the district hospital. As the infected are hostel students, all hostel inmates have been subjected to Covid test. Throat swabs of as many as 650 girl students from the women’s hostel are being collected”, said VIMS Director Dr Gangadhara Gowda.  "Whether the students caught Omicron variant or not will be known only after test report arrives. All are reovering now," he added.  District Surgeon Dr Basareddy said a total of 35 students and 18 others have been admitted in the district hospital and they are receiving treatment. Meanwhile, about 13 Covid cases have been reported from various parts of Toranagallu hobli of the district.  Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati visited the spots for inspection. The infected people will be shifted to Morarji Desai school of Banahatti village near Toranagallu, he told. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/35-medical-students-test-covid-positive-in-ballari-1068236.html
05-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Mekedatu yatra: Cong's padayatra is last yatra in Karnataka, says Kateel||Taunting Congress padayatra for the implementation of the Mekedatu project, State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel stated that the yatra would mark the Congress party's end in Karnataka. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of BJP Backward Classes Morcha office-bearers executive committee meeting, here on Wednesday, he said, Congress leaders have decided to take out padayatra by making baseless allegations against BJP for political gains. It is the final agitation of the Congress party in the state and they would not succeed in it. Kateel, who is also MP of Dakshina Kannada, charged that the Siddaramaiah-led government did not even convene a single meeting with regard to the Mekedatu project in the five years. The JD(S)-Congress coalition government also did not convene any meeting. But now they are taking out padayatra only for political gains. He claimed that the BJP-led government is committed to implementing the Mekedatu project and there are some legal hurdles in this regard. "Our Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is determined to resolve the issues and implement them without fail. Referring to the Congress party's opposition to the anti-conversion bill and lifting restrictions on Hindu temples with regard to revenue use, he said the Congress party is known for following anti-Hindu culture when it was not in power. If they really have courage, let Congress leaders say openly that they don't need votes from people belonging to the Hindu religion. The anti-conversion bill is aimed at safeguarding communal harmony in Karnataka. Religious conversion is not confined to an individual alone. It is harming communal harmony. So, an anti-conversion law would be implemented.  Referring to the Congress party's manifesto in Telangana ahead of assembly polls, he charged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is planning to include promises including converting the country into an Islamic nation. This is the best example of the Congress party's anti-Hindu agenda. The Siddaramiah-led government had celebrated Tipu Jayanti in Karnataka when nobody had asked for it. It had even implemented the Shadi Bhagya scheme exclusively for Muslims. It had attempted to divide Veerashaiva-Lingayats by demanding separate religious status. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mekedatu-yatra-congs-padayatra-is-last-yatra-in-karnataka-says-kateel-1068373.html
05-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Ramnagara incident result of goonda culture, says Karnataka Home Minister Aaraga Jnanendra||Referring to bitter spat between Congress MP D K Suresh and Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan at a public programme in Ramnagara, Karnataka Home Minister Aaraga Jnanendra said it is the result of 'goonda culture' followed by Congress. "They don't have the sense to react in words but they try to use muscle power," he said.  Speaking to media persons, on Wednesday, he said Congress leaders alleged that the event had been oranised in a hurry and they were not invited properly. "Is it a wedding ceremony to visit each house hold and invite them for the public programme?" he questioned. Jnanendra said there was no need for Congress MP D K Suresh to behave in such a rude manner as he had the opportunity to deliver a speech. Defending Ashwath Narayan, he added "I don't find any fault with Ashwath Narayan or with police." On the anti-Conversion bill the Home Minister said that it will be passed in the legislative council in the next session and there is no question of withdrawing it.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramnagara-incident-result-of-goonda-culture-says-karnataka-home-minister-aaraga-jnanendra-1068263.html
05-01-2022||National||IAF chopper crash: Rajnath likely to be apprised of probe team's findings in next couple of days||The IAF is likely to apprise Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in the next couple of days about the findings of the tri-services probe into the December 8 chopper crash in which Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others were killed, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The probe team has already completed its investigation into the crash and the report has almost been finalised, they said. Top officials of the Indian Air Force, including the head of the Court of Inquiry Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, are set to make a presentation before the defence minister about the outcome of the probe. It is learnt that the probe team led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh examined all likely scenarios for the crash including possible human error or whether it was a case of disorientation by the crew when the helicopter was preparing for landing. Sources suggested that the crash was not a result of any technical error in the Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force. However, there is no official confirmation on it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-rajnath-likely-to-be-apprised-of-probe-teams-findings-in-next-couple-of-days-1068033.html
05-01-2022||National||Sindhutai Sapkal will be remembered for her noble service to society: PM Modi||Paying tribute to renowned social worker Sindhutai Sapkal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that many children could lead a better quality of life due to her efforts.  Sapkal, known as "orphan children's mother", died following a heart attack at a private hospital in Pune. A recipient of Padma Shri, she was 75. Modi tweeted, "Dr Sindhutai Sapkal will be remembered for her noble service to society. Due to her efforts, many children could lead a better quality of life. "She also did a lot of work among marginalised communities. Pained by her demise. Condolences to her family and admirers. Om Shanti," he said. Besides the Padma award, she received more than 750 awards and honours. She used the award money to build shelters for orphans.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sindhutai-sapkal-will-be-remembered-for-her-noble-service-to-society-pm-modi-1068055.html
05-01-2022||National||Sri Lanka govt clears deal with India for development of WWII era oil storage tanks||With New Delhi working on a package of financial assistance to bail Sri Lanka out of the economic crisis, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s government in Colombo has approved a proposed deal with India to develop most of the World-War-II-era oil storage tanks in Trincomalee on the north-east coast of the island-nation. The long-awaited breakthrough in the talks between New Delhi and Colombo came just days before Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s proposed visit to Sri Lanka. The Indian Ocean island is one of the nations where China has been trying to elbow out India to expand its geopolitical influence. New Delhi is considering a proposal from Colombo for providing two credit lines to Sri Lanka – one of $1 billion to help the island nation import food, medicine and other essential items and another of $ 500 million for the import of petroleum products from India. Besides, New Delhi is also considering an additional $ 400 million currency swap facility to help Sri Lanka tide over the economic crisis caused by the restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to clearing the proposed deal on the oil storage tanks, the government led by Rajapaksa and his brother and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa also approved procurement of 750 jeeps for Sri Lanka Police, including 150 jeeps for the Police Special Task Force, from Mahindra and Mahindra Company of India. The jeeps will be purchased utilizing a Line of Credit that India had earlier extended to Sri Lanka. Besides, procurement of 500 32-seater-buses from Ashok Leyland company of India was also approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of the neighbouring nation. The buses will also be procured utilizing a loan grant India earlier offered to Sri Lanka. The new agreement India and Sri Lanka worked out for joint development of the oil storage tanks, which were built by the British Government during World War II, is based on three existing pacts between the two nations. The Sri Lankan Cabinet of Ministers approved the proposal to allocate 14 oil tanks of the Lower Oil Tank Complex already in use by the Lanka Indian Oil Corporation, a subsidiary of the Indian Oil Corporation, for the company's business activities. It also approved the allocation of the 61 tanks to joint venture company, Trinco Petroleum Terminal Private Limited, with 51% stakes to be owned by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and 49% by the Lanka IOC. Besides, 24 of the total 99 tanks will be allocated to the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. The breakthrough in talks between New Delhi and Colombo for joint development of the oil storage tanks came just days before the Sri Lankan Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa is likely to attend Vibrant Gujarat meeting in India. He had earlier visited New Delhi and met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to discuss the financial assistance package from India.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-govt-clears-deal-with-india-for-development-of-wwii-era-oil-storage-tanks-1068062.html
05-01-2022||National||DH Toon | 'Bulli Bai' arrests: Education means nothing?||A local court on Tuesday remanded a 21-year-old engineering student, arrested in the 'Bulli Bai' app case, in Mumbai Police's custody till January 10. The Mumbai cyber police apprehended the student, Vishal Kumar, from Bengaluru on Monday and later arrested him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bulli-bai-arrests-education-means-nothing-1068068.html
05-01-2022||National||Bengal now allows flights from Delhi, Mumbai thrice a week||The West Bengal government will now allow flights from New Delhi and Mumbai, the two cities witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases, thrice a week instead of twice as was decided a couple of days ago , a senior official said on Tuesday. From January 5, flights from the two metros will be allowed to come to the state on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, he said. A communication from state Home Secretary BP Gopalika was sent to Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Aviation Rajiv Bansal on Tuesday, the official told PTI. "... this is to kindly inform that the matter was reviewed and that the state government is extremely sensitive towards the inconvenience that may be caused to the passengers but restrictions are absolutely essential for containment of Covid cases in the state," Gopalika wrote to Bansal. "However, the incoming domestic flights from Mumbai and Delhi will be allowed thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday with effect from January 5, 2022, and the same will be reviewed again shortly depending upon the Covid situation in the state," the letter read. On Sunday, Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi had announced that as a part of the restrictions imposed in the state, flights from the two metros would be allowed only on Mondays and Fridays. The state has also banned direct flights from the UK in the wake of the surge of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in that country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-now-allows-flights-from-delhi-mumbai-thrice-a-week-1068072.html
05-01-2022||National||India logs 58,097 new Covid-19 cases, highest since June last year||In a massive surge, India on Wednesday reported 58,097 new coronavirus cases, highest since June last year, and 534 fatalities over the past 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. The country’s Covid death toll has climbed to 4,82,551 with 534 daily fatalities, the data stated. The active cases have increased to 2,14,004, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.01 per cent, the health ministry said. A total of 58,419 new infections were reported on June 20 last year. An increase of 42,174 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.18 per cent, while weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.60 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in India surged to 3,43,21,803 with 15,389 persons recovering from the disease over the past day, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. Karnataka and Delhi on Tuesday issued weekend curbs in addition to other restrictions, taking into account the massive surge in coronavirus cases. In Bengaluru, which the state Health Minister said was an 'epicentre' of the virus, schools for most classes have been closed. A total of 2,135 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 24 states and UTs so far, out of which 828 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 653 cases followed by Delhi at 464, Kerala 185, Rajasthan 174, Gujarat 154 and Tamil Nadu 121 cases. A total of 4,82,551 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,573 from Maharashtra, 48,637 from Kerala, 38,355 from Karnataka, 36,805 from Tamil Nadu, 25,113 from Delhi, 22,916 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,810 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-58097-new-covid-19-cases-highest-since-june-last-year-1068082.html
05-01-2022||National||Bharat Biotech gets nod to conduct phase 3, booster dose trial of intranasal Covid-19 vaccine||The Subject Experts Committee (SEC) of the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) on Wednesday granted in-principle approval to Bharat Biotech to conduct "Phase III superiority study and Phase III booster dose study" trials for its intranasal Covid vaccine. The approval was sought by the vaccine manufacturer last week. The SEC has asked the company to submit the protocol for booster study. On Tuesday, the Committee held a meeting to discuss the vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech's application for clinical trials of its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine as a booster. The Hyderabad-based manufacturer had proposed the booster dose for those who have been already been inoculated with Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. According to a source, Bharat Biotech aims to conduct clinical trials on 5,000 healthy subjects — half or 2,500 individuals who have received Covishield and another 2,500 who have been administered Covaxin. There will be a gap of around six months between the second and the intranasal booster dose. The source said that the nasal booster vaccine is likely to be launched in India by March following clinical trials. In his address to the nation on December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured that soon the country will develop a nasal vaccine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-gets-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-booster-dose-trial-of-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-1068086.html
05-01-2022||National||Third accused held in 'Bulli Bai' app case||The Mumbai cyber police Wednesday arrested one more student from Uttarakhand in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' app case. The student, identified as Mayank Rawal (21), was nabbed from the northern state in the early hours of Wednesday, an official told PTI. "Vishal Kumar has been remanded to police custody for seven days. Shweta Singh has been given five days transit remand... We have arrested another person from Uttarakhand and seeking transit remand," Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said. "We will not be able to share more details as the case is sensitive in nature," he said. The cyber cell had earlier arrested 19-year-old Shweta Singh, alleged to be the main culprit, from Uttarakhand, and engineering student Vishal Kumar Jha (21) from Bengaluru in connection with the case. The Mumbai police had registered a First Information Report (FIR) against unidentified persons following complaints that doctored photographs of hundreds of Muslim women were uploaded for ‘auction’ on the app called `Bulli Bai', hosted on the open-source software platform GitHub. While there was no actual `auction' or `sale', the purpose of the app seemed to be to humiliate and intimidate the targeted women, many of whom are active social media users. The Mumbai cyber police station has also registered a case against the app's unidentified developers and Twitter handles which promoted it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-accused-held-in-bulli-bai-app-case-1068097.html
05-01-2022||National||Omicron surge: Here's a comprehensive list of state-wise curbs||India is ringing in the new year with a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, led by the more-transmissible Omicron variant, forcing states to go back to all-too-familiar curfews and partial lockdowns. The situation is alarming as India reported over 58,000 cases on Wednesday, its highest since June and over 50 per cent higher than the previous day. From night curfews to weekend curbs, states have begun to board up to curb the spread of the infection. Following is the list of curbs announced across India. Karnataka *Amid a sharp spike in cases, the state government imposed a curfew for two weekends of January 8-9 and January 15-16. The state also extended the night curfew — from 10 pm to 5 am — which was in place from December 28 to January 8 by two weeks.  *In Bengaluru, the government has decided to stop all in-person classes in schools, except for grades 10, 11 and 12. *Shops selling essential items will be open and takeaway orders will be allowed in hotels. Theatres, malls, bars, pubs and all such public places will function at 50 per cent seating capacity and at least two doses of vaccination is a must for visitors. *Ceremonies like weddings can have 200 persons in an outdoor venue and 100 indoors. Places of religious worship will be open. *A negative RT-PCR report is mandatory for people entering the state from Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa.  Delhi *Delhi on Tuesday announced a weekend curfew and work-from-home for its offices as the city recorded 5,481 fresh Covid cases, the highest number since May 16, with a positivity rate of 8.37 per cent and three fatalities. Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said the capital is likely to see nearly 10,000 infections on January 5. He asserted that no lockdown was being imposed in the national capital. *During the weekend, a curfew will come into force at 10 pm on Friday and will be in place till 5 am on Monday. All essential services will be allowed in the national capital. Along with weekend curfew, night curfew will also continue to be in place during weekdays. Uttar Pradesh *In view of a steady increase in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has ordered the closure of all schools up to Class 10 till January 15 and extended the night curfew by two hours on Tuesday. The night curfew will be imposed from 10 pm to 6 am on Thursday. It was from 11 pm to 6 am till now. *In the districts where the number of active cases exceeds 1,000, not more than 100 people will be allowed at marriage ceremonies and other events. *Public places like gyms, spas, cinema halls, banquet halls and restaurants will operate at 50 per cent capacity. West Bengal *West Bengal shut all educational institutions from Monday and allowed offices to operate with a 50 per cent workforce. *Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi announced that only essential services will be permitted between 10 pm and 5 am in the state. *Local trains would be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity till 7 pm, while all shopping malls and markets would be allowed to remain open till 10 pm but with half their capacities. *Metro trains in Kolkata will also operate as per their usual timing but with 50 per cent capacity. All tourist attractions, swimming pools, parlours, spas, wellness centres and gyms were also told to shut down. *Cinema halls and theatres have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. Bars and restaurants were allowed to remain open with 50 per cent capacity till 10 pm, while home delivery of food and other essential products was permitted as per usual operational hours. *Meetings and conferences have been allowed with a maximum of 200 people at a time or 50 per cent capacity of the hall, whichever is lower. *Not more than 50 persons shall be allowed in weddings, and only 20 persons will be allowed during funeral and burial services. Maharashtra *The Maharashtra government capped the attendance at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50. The order also stipulates that only 20 persons can attend funerals. *Section 144 of CrPC has been enforced in Mumbai till January 15 as Maharashtra is among the worst-hit states by the Omicron variant. Haryana *Authorities ordered the closure of cinema halls, multiplexes and sports complexes in five districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad, from January 2 to 12. The other three districts where the restrictions will be applicable are Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat. *The state put into force a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am. *All cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes shall remain closed in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat from January 2 to January 12. *All sports complexes, swimming pools and stadia shall remain closed except when being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international sports events. *Haryana on Tuesday announced more restrictions, including directing only 50 per cent of government staff to physically attend offices. However, all officers of the level of Undersecretary, equivalent and above have to attend office regularly. *Physical attendance of government employees below the level of Undersecretary shall be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual strength and the remaining 50 per cent shall work from home. Chhattisgarh *A night curfew is in place from 10 pm to 6 am in the districts with a positivity rate of 4 per cent or above in the state. *Schools, anganwadis, libraries, swimming pools and other such public places will be shut in districts with positivity rates of 4 per cent or higher. *Processions, rallies, public gatherings and social, cultural, religious and sports events are banned. *An RT-PCR test is mandatory for all passengers arriving in Chhattisgarh from other states. Punjab *Punjab decided to clamp night curfew, shut educational institutions and allow cinema halls and restaurants to operate at 50 per cent capacity. *Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am within municipal limits of all the cities and towns.  *All essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts in industry, offices, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes, will be permitted. *The restrictions in poll-bound Punjab will remain in force till January 15.  *Bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums, and zoos shall be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present being fully vaccinated. *Sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools, and gyms (except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national or international events) shall remain closed, adding no spectators or visitors will be allowed there. *Only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to attend government and private offices, working spaces, factories, and industries, it said. Kerala *All functions in Kerala, including weddings, should not have more than 75 people when conducted indoors and 150 when conducted outdoors.  *Strict screening will take place at all the four airports in the state as a majority of the Omicron cases are reported from those coming from abroad. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-surge-heres-a-comprehensive-list-of-state-wise-curbs-1068104.html
05-01-2022||National||'Dharam Sansad' for liberating temples from govt control||Prominent seers and religious organisations have decided to take a "firm decision" to free Hindu temples and 'mutts' across the country from the control of state governments at the 'Dharam Sansad' to be held later this month at the upcoming Magh Mela in Prayagraj. Mahant Ravindra Puri, the President of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex decision-making body of 13 Hindu akharas or monastic orders of the country, said, "The all-important 'Dharam Sansad', scheduled to be held on January 30, will prepare a blueprint for a mass movement to be launched for freeing temples from government control." Puri said, "It is an irony that several officials, who are of different religions, take decisions on our temples and mutts and this situation cannot be allowed to continue anymore. The affairs of many prominent temples of our country, including Tirupati Balaji, Sri Jagannath or Siddhi Vinayak, are being looked after by the government. Furthermore, there are some temples and mutts which are being looked after by persons who are of different religions and are not well aware of our religious practices and rituals." President of Akhil Bhartiya Dandi Swami Parishad, Swami Brahmashram, said, "Governments should not have a say in managing funds, day-to-day affairs or for that matter the religious rituals and practices of temples and mutts." The 'Dharam Sansad' at Magh Mela is significant because it represents all saints and religious organisations and is authorised to take up issues related to the Hindu religion. The 'Dharam Sansad' has earlier discussed the issues like construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, Krishna temple at Mathura, Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, making the Ganga pollution-free, deaths of cows, etc. Meanwhile, it has been decided by the prominent seers of the Akhara Parishad that a 'panchkoshi parikrama' would be held at Prayagraj from January 27 to 29. ABAP General Secretary Mahant Hari Giri would lead the 'parikrama'. The Dharam Sansad is proposed to be held at a camp named after 'Bhagwan Duttatreya' on January 30. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharam-sansad-for-liberating-temples-from-govt-control-1068105.html
05-01-2022||National||What's all the hullabaloo over EWS quota in postgraduate medical course admissions?||The issue pertaining to the reservation of seats for the economically weaker section (EWS) has garnered widespread attention in the context of NEET-PG [National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate)] admissions.  Over the past week, doctors in Delhi had stopped treating patients, shut out-patient departments and took to the streets to protest the slow admission process, which has been held by petitions challenging the EWS quota reservation. The Centre had issued a notification, on July 29, 2021, for implementing a 10 per cent reservation for EWS and 27 per cent for other backward classes (OBCs) in NEET-PG courses.  However, the reservation notification was challenged by a group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes in the top court, following which the Supreme Court had stayed counselling for admissions until the matter is decided. The Centre has told the Supreme Court that it decided to accept the recommendation of a three-member panel to retain the current gross annual family income limit of Rs 8 lakh or less for EWS. The move came in the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s observation that the income criterion for determining EWS was “arbitrary.” The NEET notification followed the criteria for EWS as per a DoPT [Department of Personnel and Training] notification of January 31, 2019. In an affidavit filed in a case pertaining to admissions for NEET-PG, the Centre said the panel has recommended that “only those families whose annual income is up to Rs 8  lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whats-all-the-hullabaloo-over-ews-quota-in-postgraduate-medical-course-admissions-1068121.html
05-01-2022||National||Centre issues new home isolation guidelines as Covid cases surge||As Covid-19 numbers began to shoot through the roof, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday issued revised home isolation guidelines, allowing people with mild or no symptoms to isolate themselves at home and end the isolation after seven days if they do not have fever for three successive days. The new guidelines ruled out the need for a test at the end of the isolation period, aiding the diagnostic laboratories to take-off some of their burdens. “There is no need for retesting after the home isolation period is over,” it said. The previous guideline mandated home isolation for 10 days, which has been cut by three days with the Centre seeking to tackle concerns on the manpower-loss worries due to a sharp rise in mild Covid-19 infections. The asymptomatic contacts of infected individuals also need not undergo Covid test and monitor health in home quarantine. A shift to a medical facility has been advised if the infected individual has high-grade fever (more than 100 degrees Celsius for three consecutive days); difficulty in breathing and oxygen level less than 93 per cent on three successive readings within one hour. Other symptoms necessitating hospital admission are persistent pain or pressure in the chest; mental confusion or inability to arouse, and severe fatigue and muscle pain (myalgia). Warning patients about non-authentic and non-evidence based treatment protocols that float on social media, Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry said such protocols could harm patients. Moreover, generic sharing of prescription is to be avoided as treatment of every individual is different. “Steroids are not prescribed in mild disease and shall not be self-administered. Overuse and inappropriate use of steroids may lead to additional complications. Do not rush for self-medication, blood investigation or radiological imaging like chest X-ray or chest CT scan without consultation of your doctor,” said Agarwal. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-new-home-isolation-guidelines-as-covid-cases-surge-1068128.html
05-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' row: Centre blocks Telegram group targeting Hindu women||After the 'Bulli Bai' app which targeted Muslim women, Facebook pages and a Telegram channel allegedly targeting Hindu women have now surfaced. A user on Twitter on Tuesday shared screenshots of a Telegram channel made to target Hindu women, share their photos and abuse them, along with the link to the channel. "This Channel was created on June 2021. Kindly act against the culprits who are behind this channel," he tweeted while tagging the Mumbai Police's official Twitter handle. On Wednesday morning, Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw tweeted that action had been initiated against the pages and channel. "Channel blocked. Government of India coordinating with police authorities of states for action," he tweeted.  Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar also tweeted saying "have directed the Government of India Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology team to inform Meta and have it taken down." The Delhi and Mumbai Police are probing the 'Bulli Bai' app case in which prominent Muslim women personalities' photos were been uploaded and auctioned to harass and insult them. The Delhi Police had in July 2021 registered an FIR against the creators of a similar mobile application 'Sulli Deal' for uploading photos of Muslim women without their consent and using inappropriate remarks against them. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-row-centre-blocks-telegram-group-targeting-hindu-women-1068129.html
05-01-2022||National||More than a third of urban Indians oppose the upcoming Cryptocurrency Bill||As the government readies a Bill on cryptocurrencies, YouGov's latest data shows more than a third of urban Indians (36 per cent) are not in favour of this move. Just as many (35 per cent) are unsure while three in ten (29 per cent) support this decision. The Bill that is yet to receive the cabinet's nod, has already swept India's digital currency market by a wave of nervousness and confusion. Currently, only a third of urban Indians claim to own a cryptocurrency (33 per cent) while the majority (67 per cent) do not. Data shows that opposition towards the "Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill 2021" is higher among those who own a crypto compared to those who do not (52 per cent vs 28 per cent). Among crypto investors, the biggest concern around the Bill is about cryptos being heavily taxed (27 per cent) as well as a ban on private currencies they have invested in (26 per cent). Some (23 per cent) fear losing their invested money and just one is ten (10 per cent) are happy about the crypto market being finally legalised. Thinking about their future investments, more than half (51 per cent) of current crypto owners said they will wait for the market to stabilise before taking a decision. Half of this proportion (26 per cent) will continue or increase their investments in crypto. One in six (16 per cent) said they will stop investing and sell their digital money, while a few plan to switch to other investment tools (4 per cent). Among those optimistic about cryptocurrencies, three in five (60 per cent) think digital currency has a bright future and an early adoption of cryptocurrency will help them gain an advantage. Many think it is a good long-term investment (45 per cent) while others just want to diversify their portfolio (35 per cent). Along with seeking to regulate the crypto market in India, the Bill also aims to create an official digital currency to be issued by the RBI. This news is welcomed by urban Indians and a majority (61 per cent) said they are likely to invest in digital currency if it is launched by RBI, showing that people are not averse to the idea of investing in digital currency as long as it is legitimate. Only 11 per cent said they are unlikely to invest in RBI issued digital coins, while 27 per cent still have not made up their mind. Data was collected online by YouGov Omnibus among 1,225 respondents in the country between November 30th-December 7th, 2021 using YouGov's panel of over 15 million people worldwide. Data is representative of the adult online population in the country. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-a-third-of-urban-indians-oppose-the-upcoming-cryptocurrency-bill-1068135.html
05-01-2022||National||India reports first death linked to Omicron variant||India on Wednesday reported its first Covid-19 death linked to the fast-spreading Omicron variant in the western state of Rajasthan, a federal health ministry official said. Omicron cases in the country have now risen to 2,135, the official told a small group of reporters in New Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-first-death-linked-to-omicron-variant-1068138.html
05-01-2022||National||Sourav Ganguly's daughter, three other family members test Covid positive||BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly's daughter Sana Ganguly and three other family members tested positive for Covid-19, days after Ganguly was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19. The four are asymptomatic and have been isolated. The BCCI president's wife tested negative for the virus. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-gangulys-daughter-three-other-family-members-test-covid-positive-1068158.html
05-01-2022||National||PM Modi stuck on flyover, Ferozepur rally cancelled after security breach||A "serious security lapse" on Wednesday left Prime Minister Narendra Modi “stuck” on a fly-over in Punjab for around 15-20 minutes, triggering a political war of words in the poll-bound state with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi denying any breach and BJP accusing the Congress of employing “dirty tricks” fearing a “resounding defeat”. The breach in security – a protest on the Prime Minister’s route that held up his convoy – led to the cancellation of Modi’s plans to visit the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala and attend a programme unveiling development projects worth around Rs 42,750 crore in Ferozepur. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) held the Punjab government responsible for the security breach, saying the travel plans were communicated "well in advance" and the state was to keep a contingency plan ready in case of change in plans. It sought a report from the state government as well as fix responsibility and take strict action. Channi denied any lapse and appeared to find fault with the last minute changes in Modi’s plans while BJP president Nadda accused the Chief Minister of refusing to pick up the phone and attend to the issue, in clear indications on BJP’s plans to use it during the election campaign.  Modi is claimed to have told Bhatinda airport officials, according to ANI, “convey my thanks to your Chief Minister. I managed to come back to the airport alive.” Channi, on his part, claimed Modi’s programme in Ferozepur was cancelled as there were only 700 people when the BJP had made arrangements for 70,000 people. Soon after the incident, the MHA issued a statement providing the sequence of events. It said Modi landed in Bathinda and he was to head to Hussainiwala by helicopter but due to rain and poor visibility, he waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out. "When the weather did not improve, it was decided that he would visit the National Martyrs Memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. He proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the Director-General of Police, Punjab," the statement said. "Around 30 km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the Prime Minister's convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protestors. The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes. This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister," it said. The MHA said the Prime Minister's schedule and travel plans were communicated "well in advance" to the Punjab government and as per procedure, they were to make "necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready".  "Also in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which were clearly not deployed. After this security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda airport," the statement said. The MHA has taken cognisance of the "serious security lapse" and sought a detailed report from the state government. The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action, it added. Responding to the incident, BJP president J P Nadda alleged that the Congress government in Punjab has tried "all possible tricks to scuttle" the Prime Minister's programmes, "fearing a resounding defeat" in the polls. "In doing so they did not bother that the Prime Minister was to pay tributes to Bhagat Singh and other martyrs, and lay the foundation stone for key development works in the state. By their cheap antics, the Congress government in Punjab has shown that they are anti-development and have no respect for our great freedom fighters too. What is extremely worrisome is that this incident was also a big security lapse as far as the Prime Minister is concerned," he said. He also alleged that protestors were given access to the Prime Minister’s route while the Punjab Chief Secretary and DGP gave assurances to the Special Protection Group that the route was clear. He also alleged, "to make matters worse, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi refused to get on the phone to either address the matter or solve it." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-stuck-on-flyover-ferozepur-rally-cancelled-after-security-breach-1068165.html
05-01-2022||National||35 lakh health cards given to CAPF personnel and their families||The Union government has provided about 35 lakh 'Ayushman' health cards to CAPF personnel and their families and they can now avail cashless treatment at 24,000 empanelled hospitals across the country, Union minister Nityanand Rai said on Wednesday. "There will be no limit for expenditure (under the scheme)," the minister of state for home affairs said after giving out the last 10 cards to personnel of each of the Central Armed Police Forces, including the CRPF, BSF, ITBP and the SSB. The distribution of so many 'Ayushman' CAPF cards is a "big achievement", the minister said, adding that the aim of the scheme is to ensure good healthcare for the personnel of these forces and their families. He said the beneficiaries of the scheme can avail "cashless" healthcare benefits at a chain of 24,000 hospitals across the country. Rai urged the chiefs of the CAPF forces to ensure that the personnel are able to utilise the benefits of the scheme without any problems and said the home ministry should be informed in case of any complaint or grievance. He also asked everybody to take precautions as Covid was spreading again in the country. Noting that many troopers of these forces laid down their lives due to Covid-19 infection, Rai said the country will always remember their sacrifice. The first 'Ayushman' CAPF card was handed over by Union home minister Amit Shah on January 23 at an event in Guwahati.  The CAPFs, NSG and Assam Rifles work under the command of the Union home ministry for rendering a variety of internal security duties and border guarding.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-lakh-health-cards-given-to-capf-personnel-and-their-families-1068169.html
05-01-2022||National||IAF chopper crash: Rajnath apprised of probe team's findings||The Indian Air Force on Wednesday apprised Defence Minister Rajnath Singh about the findings of the tri-services investigation into the December 8 chopper crash that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others, people familiar with the development said. The probe team has already completed its investigation into the crash of the Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter, they said. Earlier, sources suggested that the crash was not a result of any technical error in the helicopter of the Indian Air Force. However, there is no official confirmation on it. The Court of Inquiry into the crash was headed by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh. Gen Rawat's wife Madhulika, his defence advisor Brigadier LS Lidder, staff officer to the Chief of Defence Staff, Lt Col Harjinder Singh and decorated pilot Group Captain Varun Singh were among 13 others killed in the crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. It is learnt that the probe team examined all likely scenarios for the crash, including possible human error or whether it was a case of disorientation of crew when the helicopter was preparing for landing. Air Marshal Singh, currently heading the Bengaluru-headquartered Training Command of the IAF, is known to be one of the best air crash investigators in the country. Before taking the reins of the Training Command, the Air Marshal was the Director General (Inspection and Safety) at the Air headquarters and developed various protocols for flight safety while serving in the post. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-rajnath-apprised-of-probe-teams-findings-1068173.html
05-01-2022||National||PM Modi greets former BJP chief Murli Manohar Joshi on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi on his 88th birthday on Wednesday. "Birthday wishes to Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi Ji. He is widely respected for his intellect and monumental contributions to national development. He has been at the forefront of grooming many Karyakartas. Prayers for his long and healthy life," Modi tweeted. A former union minister, Joshi was part of the BJP's leadership troika in the late 80s and 90s along with Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-former-bjp-chief-murli-manohar-joshi-on-birthday-1068181.html
05-01-2022||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for steps to prevent elephant deaths due to electrocution||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea highlighting alarming rise in the number of unnatural elephant deaths, primarily due to electrocution. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli sought a response from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on the petition filed by environmental activist Prerna Singh Bindra and others. The petition filed by Abhikalpa Pratap Singh sought a direction to the Union government for implementation of the Elephant Task Force’s 2010 report ‘Gajah’, which identified the death of elephants in incidents of deliberate and accidental electrocution as “one of the most common causes of elephant deaths in India”. The plea claimed the "negligent and callous" attitude of the authorities in not implementing statutory mandates, and various guidelines and recommendations of their own expert bodies and committees, as well as orders passed by this court from time to time, has led to the continuing and increasing deaths of wild elephants due to electrocution.  The petitioners apprehended the future of Asian elephants, an ‘endangered’ species protected under Schedule I of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 and declared the National Heritage Animal in 2010, looked uncertain and bleak in India. The data tabled before the Parliament, which showed that 333 out of the 510 elephant deaths related to conflict with humans between 2014-15 and 2018-19 were caused by electrocution – i.e. nearly two-thirds of all unnatural elephant deaths were caused by electrocution.  More recent data submitted in the Lok Sabha showed that these numbers have been steadily increasing – from 56 electrocution deaths in 2016-17 to 81 deaths in 2018-19. Recently the MoEF in response to a RTI application has stated that from 2009 to 2020, in total 741 elephants have died due to electrocution, the plea pointed out. The petitioners contended the authorities have turned a blind eye to the ‘Gajah’ report of 2010 which categorically recommended constitution of National Elephant Conservation Authority on the lines of National Tiger Conservation Authority. This would have ensured establishment of mechanism to strengthen elephant conservation, and grant of appropriate funds related to efforts of elephant protection and conservation, they added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-steps-to-prevent-elephant-deaths-due-to-electrocution-1068186.html
05-01-2022||National||Praying for your speedy recovery, get well soon: Mamata Banerjee to Arvind Kejriwal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wished for speedy recovery of her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal who has tested positive for Covid-19. He urged those who came in contact with him in the last few days to quarantine and get tested for coronavirus infection. "I pray for your speedy recovery, @ArvindKejriwal ji. Get well soon and take care of yourself!" Banerjee tweeted responding to Kejriwal's message on the micro-blogging site. According to officials, this is the first time Kejriwal has tested positive for Covid-19. In April last year, his wife Sunita Kejriwal had tested positive for coronavirus and while the AAP national convenor had developed symptoms, he tested negative. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/praying-for-your-speedy-recovery-get-well-soon-mamata-banerjee-to-arvind-kejriwal-1068188.html
05-01-2022||National||Centre distributes 36.78 crore LEDs under UJALA scheme||The Power Ministry has distributed 36.78 crore LED lights under the UJALA programme in seven years, which saved 47,778 million units of electricity per annum. Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) was launched by the Prime Minister on January 5, 2015. In a short span, the programme has evolved to be the world’s largest zero-subsidy domestic lighting scheme that addresses concerns like high electrification costs and high emissions that result from inefficient lighting, a power ministry statement said. According to the statement, as of today, more than 36.78 crore LEDs have been distributed across the country. The success of the programme -- which has transformed the lives of tens of thousands of people -- lies in its inimitable strategic approach to energy efficiency, it said. UJALA succeeded in bringing down the retail price of LED bulbs from Rs 300 to 350 per bulb to Rs 70-80 per bulb, it informed. Apart from making affordable energy accessible to all, the programme also resulted in massive energy savings. As of today, 47,778 million kWh per annum energy has been saved. 9,565 MW of peak demand has been avoided, along with 3,86 crore tonnes of reduction in CO2 emissions, the statement said. UJALA has been readily adopted by all the states. It has helped in reducing annual household electricity bills. Consumers have been able to save money, improve their quality of life, and contribute to India’s economic growth and prosperity. Under the programme, the government has ensured transparency and encouraged competition by e-procurement of goods and services. This has resulted in a significant reduction in transaction cost and time, enhancing process efficiency. With UJALA, the cost of LED bulbs has come down by 85 per cent. This, in turn, has led to a much larger pool of bidders, enhanced quality of the product and availability of better specifications for the consumers. Leveraging increased industry competition and mass procurement, state-owned EESL has adopted an innovative procurement strategy, which resulted in well-known benefits and is now known as the USP of programme UJALA. UJALA provides an impetus to the domestic lighting industry. It encourages Make in India, as domestic manufacturing of LED bulbs has increased from 1 lakh per month to 40 million per month, the ministry said. UJALA also provides economies of scale to manufacturers through regular bulk procurement. This enables manufacturers to bring down the cost of LEDs for the retail segment as well. The procured price has been reduced by almost 90 per cent between 2014 and 2017, from Rs 310 to Rs 38 per unit, it stated. The programme has also garnered attention from the top management schools of India. It is now a part of the Leadership case study in the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad. Furthermore, it is also under consideration for being included in the curriculum of Harvard Business School, it stated. Credits to UJALA, energy-efficient and cost-saving lighting has been made available to the middle class and lower-middle-class consumers. As part of its inclusive growth strategy to enable growth in lower-income communities, the EESL has also enrolled Self-Help Groups (SHGs) for distribution of LED bulbs under the UJALA programme, it stated.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-distributes-3678-crore-leds-under-ujala-scheme-1068198.html
05-01-2022||National||'Say thanks to Channi for I could return to Bhatinda airport alive': Modi to officials after security lapse in Punjab||Following a "serious security lapse" that left Prime Minister Narendra Modi stuck on a flyover in Punjab for around 20 minutes, the PM reportedly told Bhatinda airport officials to say "thanks" to Punjab CM Channi for he could reach the airport "alive". PM Modi on his return to Bhatinda airport told officials there,“Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki mein Bhatinda airport tak zinda laut paaya.” (Say thanks to your CM for I could return to the Bhatinda airport alive), according to ANI. The incident triggered angry reactions from the BJP which accused the Congress-led government in Punjab of employing "dirty tricks" that even compromised the Prime Minister's security as it feared a "resounding defeat" in the upcoming Assembly polls. They also alleged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi refused to pick up the phone and attend to the issue. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/say-thanks-to-channi-for-i-could-return-to-bhatinda-airport-alive-modi-to-officials-after-security-lapse-in-punjab-1068199.html
05-01-2022||National||Third Covid vaccine dose won't be mix-and-match: Centre||The Centre would follow the “same-vaccine” approach when it starts to administer a precautionary third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens from next week. “The precautionary Covid-19 vaccine dose will be the same vaccine as has been given previously. Those who've received Covaxin will receive Covaxin; those who've received primary two doses of Covishield will receive Covishield,” V K Paul, Member-Health, NITI Aayog said on Wednesday. Nearly six crore Indians, including 2.75 crore senior citizens with comorbidities, will receive the third shot from January 10. Paul said a decision on mix-and-match of different Covid vaccines – the heterologous route  – would be taken when more data would be available. Researchers at the Christian Medical College Vellore have undertaken one such study with Covishield and Covaxin. Other vaccines that can function as a booster are yet to be available commercially in India. Nearly 91 per cent of India's 94.47 crore adults received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 66 per cent were fully vaccinated. Out of an estimated 7.4 crore adolescents between 15-17 years, more than a crore received their first shot in the last two days. According to the Union Health Ministry guidelines, those who have completed 39 weeks or 9 months from the date of their second Covid-19 shot, are eligible for the precautionary shot. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-vaccine-dose-wont-be-mix-and-match-centre-1068215.html
05-01-2022||National||Sulli deals, Bulli Bai case transferred to IFSO||The investigation into the six-month-old Sulli deal case is still on while the recent 'Bulli Bai' case has now been transferred to the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of the Special Cell, a senior Delhi Police official said on Wednesday. The derogatory 'Sulli Deals' mobile app had surfaced in July last year where photos of Muslim women were displayed without their consent to 'auction' them on the app. Six months after this, a similar incident of harassing the women members of the minority community on social media once again came to light after a Delhi-based woman journalist lodged a complaint with the Delhi Police stating that she was being targeted by some unidentified group of people on a mobile application, this named as 'Bulli Bai', yet again created on US-based GitHub platform. "Investigation in the 'Sulli deals' is still going on," informed Additional Commissioner of Police, Chinmoy Biswal when IANS asked about the progress in the case. Delhi Police a day ago got an approval from the government for Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty to seek details from US-based firm GitHub about the user who uploaded the app, Sulli deal, on their platform. 'Bulli Bai', which popped up on January 1, had a number of pictures of women including journalists, social workers, students and famous personalities, accompanied by derogatory content. The victim journalist in her complaint had stated that she found out on January 1 morning that a website portal called bullibai.github.io (since deleted) had a doctored picture of her in an improper, unacceptable and clearly lewd context. "The term Bulli Bai itself seems disrespectful and the content of this website/portal is clearly aimed at insulting Muslim women as the derogatory term 'Bulli' is used exclusively for Muslim women," read the complaint. 'Bulli Bai' was also being promoted by a Twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with its display picture of a "Khalistan supporter", and saying women can be booked from the app. This handle was at the same time promoting Khalistan content as well. According to sources, Delhi Police on Monday had also written a letter to social media giant Twitter seeking information about the account that first tweeted about the 'Bulli Bai' app and further asked it to remove the offensive content. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police which also lodged an FIR into the case on Sunday has so far arrested three people including a woman who is said to be the mastermind of the whole conspiracy. The three accused have been identified as Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh (key conspirator) and Mayank Rawal. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sulli-deals-bulli-bai-case-transferred-to-ifso-1068230.html
05-01-2022||National||21 staff members test Covid positive at Bihar CM's residence||Amid third Covid wave, the infection has reached Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's residence in Patna. On Wednesday, 21 persons including security personnel and other staff members tested positive for Covid-19. Keeping in view of severe infections, the Chief Minister has postponed all his appointments and programmes including Janata Darbar and Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan (Social reform campaign) for an indefinite period. According to an official, CM Nitish Kumar will continue holding meetings related to important state matters like the third wave of corona. Earlier, four cabinet ministers including two chief ministers Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi tested Covid positive. Besides, Ashok Chaudhary, the Building Construction Minister and Excise Minister Sunil Kumar also tested positive. A high-level meeting headed by Nitish Kumar was held in Patna on Wednesday where only those ministers and officials participated who had Covid negative reports. "I participated in the meeting physically as my report is negative. Those ministers who turned Corona positive participated virtually in the meeting. We have discussed the issues of Covid and its preventive measures," said Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, the Industry Minister. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-staff-members-test-covid-positive-at-bihar-cms-residence-1068238.html
05-01-2022||National||Civil services (main) exam to be conducted from January 7: UPSC||The Civil Services (Main) Examination, 2021 will be conducted as per schedule from Friday, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) said on Wednesday. The UPSC has asked the state governments to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to the candidates and examination functionaries in their movement. The states have been told that if necessary, the e-admit cards of the candidates and the identity cards of the examination functionaries are to be used as movement passes, the UPSC said. "After carefully reviewing the situation prevailing due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission has decided to conduct the Civil Services (Main) Examination, 2021 as per schedule i.e. on 7th, 8th, 9th, 15th and 16th January, 2022," it said in a statement. The civil services examination is conducted annually in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, among others. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-services-main-exam-to-be-conducted-from-january-7-upsc-1068240.html
05-01-2022||National||India health official says Merck Covid pill has 'major safety concerns'||India has not added Merck's Covid-19 pill in its national treatment protocol for the disease due to some "major safety concerns", a senior health official told a media briefing on Wednesday. "We have to remember that this drug has major safety concerns ... so it is not included in the national task-force treatment," Balram Bhargava, head of the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, said. Indian drugmaker Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd plans to launch its generic version of the Merck drug, called molnupiravir, from early next week. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-health-official-says-merck-covid-pill-has-major-safety-concerns-1068245.html
05-01-2022||National||PM Modi's security is most important, says Congress||After a major security breach on Prime Minister's convoy, the Congress reacting to the series of events said the security of the Prime Minister is foremost and Punjab Government has set up an inquiry on the whole issue. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh reacting to reports said, "We have lost two leaders and we know that security is most important issue of the Prime Minister." The Congress sources said that the last-minute change in program or late information by the MHA to the state government may have led to the lapse and it will be ascertained by the report. The security breach of the Prime Minister is unpardonable and Punjab government has sought a report from officials. Vallabh said the Prime Minister was scheduled to fly on chopper but the program was changed last minute so the report will ascertain if it was a lapse on the part of the MHA or state officials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday cancelled his visit to Ferozepur town in Punjab, where he was scheduled to lay the foundation stones of Rs 42,750 crore projects, at the last minute due to security breach. Earlier, the Prime Minister landed at Bhaisiana Air Force station in Bathinda town from where he was supposed to travel to Ferozepur by road. As per the Ministry of Home Affairs' statement on the PM Modi's Punjab visit, "Today morning PM landed at Bathinda from where he was to go to National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, PM waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out. Around 30 km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the PM's convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protesters. The PM was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes. This was a major lapse in the security of PM. "The PM's schedule and travel plan was communicated well in advance to Punjab Government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready. Also in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab Government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which was clearly not deployed. "After this security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda airport." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-security-is-most-important-says-congress-1068247.html
05-01-2022||National||Now BJP MLA quits WhatsApp groups of the party||Actor-turned-BJP MLA Hiran Chatterjee on Wednesday followed the footsteps of Union Minister Shantanu Thakur and quit all WhatsApp groups of the party's state unit but asserted that he has no plans to quit the saffron camp. Chatterjee had joined BJP about a year ago and had won the Kharagpur Sadar assembly seat in the April-May election last year. Thakur had quit all WhatsApp groups of BJP's state unit on Sunday alleging under representation of the backward Matua community, to which he belongs, in the recently formed state and district committees of the party. Chatterjee, who had been the sole winner from the party in Paschim Medinipur district in the assembly election, told reporters, "My decision was prompted by the realization that my service is not required by state BJP. Most decisions relating to programmes of the party in my constituency are taken without my knowledge." He said the BJP central leadership - party president J P Nadda and others were sympathetic to his situation and promised to take up the issue with the state unit, but "nothing has happened." Chatterjee without naming Medinipur MP Dilip Ghosh, who is also the BJP national vice-president, said "The Kharagpur (Paschim Medinipur) district unit president who was the former state unit chief unilaterally takes all decisions regarding the programmes of the party unit when I am away from my constituency." To questions on whether he has any plans to quit the party, Hiran replied in the negative. "No. I want to work under the leadership of Narendra Modi. I have been voted by people of Kharagpur Sadar as BJP candidate. I will work for the people of Kharagpur as a loyal BJP worker under the guidance of our central leaders," he said categorically. Contacted for his comments, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar said "We have nothing to say on this matter." Chatterjee had voiced his reservation earlier too when his picture went missing from BJP hoardings put up in Kharagpur town. Pictures of Ghosh, Nadda, leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari were seen in the hoardings. "Don't know the reason behind the omission of my picture, but it doesn't matter. People of Kharagpur are with me," he had said. On Monday in a major embarrassment to BJP, Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Shantanu Thakur, and a leader of the politically powerful Matua community, quit all WhatsApp groups of the party's state unit. Thakur had told reporters on Tuesday, "It seems the state BJP leadership does not think that we (Matuas) have any important role within the organization." His stance along with the move by 5 BJP MLAs last month to quit the party's WhatsApp groups have left their future course of action wide open, said analysts. Five BJP MLAs - Mukutmoni Adhikari, Subrata Thakur, Ambica Roy, Asok Kirtania and Asim Sarkar had expressed their displeasure over their omission from the state party committee and quit the WhatsApp group of MLAs of the saffron party. Adhikari had said that the aspirations of the people of his constituency may not be fulfilled by the newly formed BJP state committee. Roy, however later expressed his wish to rejoin the BJP WhatsApp group on December 27, two days after quitting it and said he would sort out any difference with the party.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-bjp-mla-quits-whatsapp-groups-of-the-party-1068250.html
05-01-2022||National||Upsurge of Covid cases happening in cities; Omicron predominant variant: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said the upsurge of Covid-19 cases is happening in cities and the Omicron variant is the predominant circulating strain. It also noted that the precautionary dose of Covid vaccine for healthcare and frontline workers as well as those above 60 years with comorbidities will be same as the first two doses of the vaccine. The government, however, said there is no need to panic and one must be alert, disciplined and prepared, adding that the country will face this phase of the pandemic as well. “Upsurge of infections is happening in cities. Omicron is the predominant circulating strain and mass gatherings need to be avoided to reduce the speed of the spread of infection. “There has been a surge in Covid cases globally whereas 25.2 lakh cases were recorded globally on January 4, the highest ever since the onset of the pandemic,” officials said. “India reported over 6.3 times rise in Covid cases in the last eight days. There has been a sharp rise in case positivity from 0.79 per cent on December 29 to 5.03 per cent on January 5,” they said. They said six states/UTs now have over 10,000 active Covid cases. It further stated that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Gujarat are emerging as states of concern due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “A total of 28 districts are reporting over 10 per cent weekly Covid positivity, while 43 districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5-10 per cent,” the officials said. The Centre added that 1.06 crore or 14.3 per cent of India's adolescents aged 15-18 years have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine. An estimated 7,40,57,000 adolescents in the age group 15-18 years are there in the country and are eligible for vaccination, it said. It added that relatively less hospitalisation has been observed in countries reporting the surge in Omicron cases. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsurge-of-covid-cases-happening-in-cities-omicron-predominant-variant-centre-1068253.html
05-01-2022||National||Need an end to uncertainty: SC on Centre's plea for NEET-PG counselling||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said there is a need to put an end to uncertainty with regard to NEET PG admissions, as the Centre urged it to allow the counselling, which remained stuck due to objections to Rs 8 lakh annual income criterion for economically weaker section (EWS). Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna, "We are at a point where counselling is stuck. We need doctors in this difficult situation, and we as a society cannot go into the reservation and lengthy arguments". He pointed out the quota dated back to January 2019 and it has been implemented across the country.  Mehta asked the court to allow the counselling to begin, and in the meantime, it could consider the objections. The bench, also comprising Justice A S Bopanna, asked senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan, representing the petitioners, their views on Mehta’s suggestion on commencement of counselling. “We need to put an end to this uncertainty," the bench said. Mehta also maintained the government would not accept any position whereby the OBC or the EWS, whether before or after the exercise, were deprived of something, legitimately due to them. He said any intelligent mind can point out errors in the expert panel report, recommending retaining the Rs 8 lakh annual income criterion.  The petitioners’ counsel, on the contrary, submitted that the rules of the game should not change. During the hearing, Divan argued that postgraduate admissions must be completely merit-based and reservation must be minimal. He referred to Supreme Court judgements which hold that there should be no reservation in super-speciality courses. In many courses, postgraduate is the end of the road which means super-speciality in some departments. Therefore, the principle of super-speciality will apply to postgraduate courses too, he said. The top court will continue to hear the matter on Thursday. The Centre has told the top court that Rs 8 lakh income criterion for determining the EWS is much more stringent than the one for the OBC creamy layer. A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-an-end-to-uncertainty-sc-on-centres-plea-for-neet-pg-counselling-1068254.html
05-01-2022||National||Not just 'Bulli Bai': Mumbai Police find multiple Twitter handles used to 'divide' Sikhs and Muslims||Investigations by Mumbai Police have revealed that not only Bulli Bai, but several other handles were used on social media platforms, ostensibly intended drive a wedge between Sikh and Muslim communities. Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale said that three persons have been arrested so far and the probe has shown other social media handles that were deployed to spread hate messages. They are: @Bullibai_, @Sage0x11, @hmmaachaniceoki, @jatkhalsa, @jatkhalsa7, @Sikh_Khalsa11, @wannabesigmaf, etc., on micro-blogging platform Twitter. Six months ago, using the open-source software platform GitHub, the app Sulli Deals was created on which pictures of Muslim women were posted, and a similar modus operandi was carried out with the Bulli Bai app. All these Twitter handles were purportedly linked to the Sikh community and as per the information available on @Bullibai, the KSF Khalsa Sikh Force had created the app Bulli Bai, said the police. It was also sought to convey that one Khalsa Supremacist was a 'follower' of Bulli Bai app, as per the investigations. After getting information from GitHub, the police teams have nabbed three accused — including a 21-year-old, Vishal Kumar Jha, a second-year civil engineering student from Dayanand Sagar College of Engineering in Bengaluru. Nagrale said that after the techie's links came to the fore in the scam probe, he was arrested by a Mumbai Cyber Police team from Bengaluru. Deploying his technical expertise, Jha managed to conceal his identity to a great extent, and also claimed through @Khalsasupremacist that he was living in Canada, kept changing his name frequently, besides running a YouTube channel, Tavasya Vats, said the police. The Mumbai Police have also nabbed an 18-year-old girl, Shweta Anant Singh, from Rudrapur, Uttarakhand, who is said to be the mastermind, and Mayank Pradeepsingh Rawat, 21, also from the same state. As the entire issue snowballed into to a major political fracas on January 1, with strong reactions from several leaders from the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, ministers, elected representatives, prominent women activists and others, the Mumbai Police lodged an FIR against unidentified persons, including the unknown developers of the app and the Twitter handles which promoted it. The police action came after complaints were received from Muslim women that morphed pictures, sourced without consent, of hundreds of Muslim women, including activists and professionals, were being uploaded for 'auction' on the Bulli Bai app that was hosted by GitHub. The police said the accused tried to convey an impression that the social media handles were created by the Sikh community, targeted Muslim women in this manner and attempted to "drive a wedge between the two communities", but the prompt arrests have prevented any untoward situation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-just-bulli-bai-mumbai-police-find-multiple-twitter-handles-used-to-divide-sikhs-and-muslims-1068273.html
05-01-2022||National||Amit Shah slams Congress for security breach in PM's Punjab convoy||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Wednesday targeted Congress for the "security breach" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy in Punjab and said "such dereliction" of security procedure is "totally unacceptable". He said, "Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity. The top-most echelons of the Congress owe an apology to the people of India for what they have done." Shah also said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has sought a detailed report on the security breach in Punjab. "Such dereliction of security procedure in the Prime Minister’s visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed," he said. Earlier in the day, the MHA had issued a statement providing the sequence of events that led to Modi getting stuck on a fly-over in Punjab on way to Hussainiwala following a blockade by protesting farmers. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-slams-congress-for-security-breach-in-pms-punjab-convoy-1068275.html
05-01-2022||National||Punjab CM expresses regret after PM Modi cuts short visit, denies security lapse||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday expressed regret after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to cut short his visit to the state, but asserted that there was no security lapse. Modi, who landed in Bathinda and had to take the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of the inclement weather, was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to blockade by some protesters, an incident the Union Home Ministry described as a "major lapse" in his security.       “The prime minister had to visit for the inauguration and address a political rally. We regret that he had to return due to blockade en route,” Channi told reporters here.             “After all, he is the prime minister of the country. We respect him. There is a democratic system and federal system,” said Channi. His remarks came as the BJP and Congress hit out at each other over the issue. Channi claimed there was no security lapse of any kind and there was no situation of any attack. He said there was a sudden change in the prime minister's programme and the BJP should not politicise the issue.             In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said that after the "major security lapse" in the prime minister's travel in Punjab, his convoy decided to return.               The ministry also asked the Punjab government to fix responsibility for the lapse and take strict action, the statement said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-expresses-regret-after-pm-modi-cuts-short-visit-denies-security-lapse-1068284.html
05-01-2022||National||Molnupiravir not part of national taskforce treatment: ICMR chief||Dr Balram Bharagava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday that the Molnupiravir drug is not included in the national Covid taskforce treatment as it has major safety concerns like teratogenicity, mutagenicity, muscle & bone damage among others. "More importantly contraception has to be done for three months if this drug is given for male and female as the child born could be problematic with teratogenic influences," the ICMR chief said at a press briefing here. The WHO and the UK have not included it as of now, he added. He said that the US has approved the drug based on samples of 1,433 unvaccinated individuals with mild to moderate symptoms. "We are concerned about pregnancy, lactation, children, soft injuries, reproductive age group, history of infection, vaccination so it has not been included," he said. "The current recommendation stands that it is not the part of national taskforce treatment and we have debated it twice and will debate further to find whether there is any further possibility", said ICMR chief. On Omicron surge, Bhargava said that upsurge of Covid-19 infections is happening in cities with Omicron predominantly circulating the strain. He said that Omicron detecting RT-PCR kit has been developed in partnership with Tata MD and ICMR which has been approved by DCGI. The kit will test will give results in 4 hours, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/molnupiravir-not-part-of-national-taskforce-treatment-icmr-chief-1068285.html
05-01-2022||National||Shillong Chamber Choir founder Neil Nongkynrih passes away||Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shillong-chamber-choir-founder-neil-nongkynrih-passes-away-1068289.html
05-01-2022||National||Bipin Rawat chopper crash: No technical snag or sabotage, bad weather identified as 'prime reason'||The chopper Gen Bipin Rawat was flying in on December 8 crashed because of bad weather that led to a situation called Controlled Flight into Terrain, the probe into the mishap has concluded, ruling out sabotage or technical glitch as reasons. Gen Rawat, the first Chief of Defence Staff of the country, his wife and 12 others were killed, when the Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force they were flying in crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The IAF had ordered a tri-service enquiry, which was led by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of its Training Command headquartered in Bengaluru. Air Marshal Singh, a leading crash investigator, on Wednesday briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh about the findings of the probe into the crash. Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari, who heads the IAF, was also present during the briefing. The chopper took off from the IAF station in Sulur in Tamil Nadu at 11:48 am on December 8 and it was expected to land at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington at 12:15 pm. It was flying at a low altitude and suddenly encountered thick clouds just minutes before it was scheduled to land. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the commanding officer of 109 Helicopter Unit of the IAF, was the pilot in command with Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh as the co-pilot. They decided to fly out of the cloud cover before landing and hit a cliff in the process, sources aware of the findings of the probe said. The probe concluded that the crash took place due to “Controlled Flight into Terrain” or CFiT. The CFiT is a term coined by the engineers of Boeing in the 1970s and used since then to describe a situation, when an airworthy aircraft under control of the pilots is unintentionally flown into an obstacle, be it ground, a hill, a mountain, a cliff or a body of water. A CFiT scenario does not generally give the pilot and the co-pilot an opportunity to send out a distress call to the Air Traffic Controllers, because they remain unaware of the impending disaster till it is too late. The pilots of the ill-fated IAF helicopter, which had Gen Rawat and others on board, also did not send out any distress call. The Air Traffic Control at the IAF station in Sulur had lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12:08 pm. The local residents subsequently spotted a fire in the forest at Nanjappachatiram in Bandishola panchayat near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they observed the wreckage of the military helicopter engulfed in flames. Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others on board the helicopter succumbed to injuries before they could be rescued. Group Captain Varun Singh of the IAF was rescued alive, but he too succumbed to his injuries at a hospital in Bengaluru on December 15. Most of the passengers and crew suffered severe burn injuries as the fuel tank of the helicopter burst due to the impact of the crash. It took days to confirm the identity of some of the deceased. Sources aware of the findings of the probe said that the analyses of the Cockpit Voice Recorder and the Flight Data Recorder, recovered from the crash scene, did not indicate any disorientation of the pilot and the co-pilot, Wing Commander Chauhan and Squadron Leader Singh, who had been in control of the chopper till moments before it flew into terrain. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bipin-rawat-chopper-crash-no-technical-snag-or-sabotage-bad-weather-identified-as-prime-reason-1068296.html
05-01-2022||National||Sangh Parivar outfits to discuss 'Bharat-centred education' in Hyderabad meeting||A three-day coordination meeting of various Sangh Parivar outfits, including the RSS, here will discuss issues including "Bharat-centred education". The 'Akhil Bharatiya Samanvay Baithak' of the chief functionaries of various organisations of the Sangh Parivar, including RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, began here on Wednesday and is being held only for sharing information and no decisions would be taken in it, Sunil Ambekar, Akhil Bharatiya Prachaar Pramukh of RSS, said in a release. This is a comprehensive meeting held once a year. Besides Bhagwat, RSS Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosbale and all the five sah-sarkaryavah along with other office-bearers of the Sangh were present in the meeting. BJP president J P Nadda arrived here on Tuesday to participate in the discussions. The release said 216 office bearers from 36 organisations are participating in the event. The attendees have taken both doses of the vaccine as per Covid-19 protocol. Observing that organisations related to the economy and labour, including Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and Swadeshi Jagran Manch, debated on plans to improve employment in the country in the meeting held in Gujarat last year, the release said. "Bharat-centred education" would be discussed this year by Vidya Bharati, ABVP, Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal and others. Their experiences related to the topic will be shared during the deliberations. Seva Bharati's drive for service during Covid-19 pandemic and its various initiatives to improve health and eradicate malnutrition among children would be discussed, it said. Discussions would also be held in the meeting over the initiatives on environment, "family awareness" and social harmony. Noting that all Sangh Parivar organisations are involved in celebration of 75 years of India’s independence, it said the programmes they have organised and the special drives would also be discussed. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sangh-parivar-outfits-to-discuss-bharat-centred-education-in-hyderabad-meeting-1068304.html
05-01-2022||National||India's R-value higher than 2nd Covid-19 wave peak: Govt||India's Omicron-powered third wave is likely to infect much more than the Delta-driven second wave as the R value (reproduction number) currently stands at an all time high of 2.69, giving a clear indication of a very steep rise in the number of cases over the next few weeks. “India's R is 2.69 at the moment, which is higher than the 1.69 that we saw at the peak of the second wave. The acceleration of cases is steeper than ever,” VK Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government's principal advisor on Covid-19 said on Wednesday. Reproduction number denotes an epidemic's ability to spread. The current R value suggests that 100 Omicron infected persons can spread the virus to 269 others. For an epidemic to shrink, the R value has to drop below one. Meanwhile, India recorded its first Omicron death with the Union Health Ministry confirming that a 70-year-old diabetic person in Jaipur became the first victim of the new variant. More than 80 per cent Covid-19 cases in Delhi and nearly 40-80 per cent of cases in Mumbai and Pune are caused by the Omicron variant, top government sources told DH, sharing the scientific estimates prepared by the INSACOG – a consortium of laboratories carrying out genetic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 variants. While the prevalence of Omicron is still on the lower side in the east and southern India (around 10 per cent in Hyderabad) where Delta continues to dominate, it remains very high in the north and east. The estimate is likely to change every week once sampling from other states improves. “We are facing an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases largely driven by Omicron and particularly so in the western parts of India and in large cities. The test positivity rate was 1.1 per cent on December 30 and stands at 5 per cent on Wednesday,” said Paul. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Gujarat are the states showing an early indication of a surge, according to the Union Health Ministry. Some of the zones of concern are Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Thane, Pune, North 24 Parganas and Bengaluru Urban. According to the Union Health Ministry, 239 districts have a test positivity rate above 2.5 per cent, whereas 83 districts have a positivity rate between 5-10 per cent. The hospitalisation rate, Paul said, was still on the lower side with 3.7 per cent Covid-positive people requiring hospital care in Delhi and 5 per cent in Mumbai as against 20 per  cent hospitalisation rate during the second wave. As a consequence, the preparation done to tackle 5-6 lakh of Delta-type infections would be able to cater to more people if the hospitalisation rate remains low. “But it would be wrong to take the current wave lightly. There is always a chance of the (healthcare) system and the household getting overwhelmed,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-r-value-higher-than-2nd-covid-19-wave-peak-govt-1068306.html
05-01-2022||National||SC to hear Karnataka govt's plea on HC's action against Chief Secy, others on January 6||The Karnataka government on Wednesday asked the Supreme Court to urgently take up a plea arising out of summons issued by the High Court against Chief Secretary and other top officers in a civil contempt case related to regularisation of employees at Zila Panchayats. The top court agreed to consider the matter on Thursday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Karnataka government, mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana for urgent hearing. "I am requesting for the State of Karnataka. 15 senior officials including Chief Secretary have been called Thursday for framing charges, for non compliance with the Uma Devi judgement," he submitted, seeking a listing of the matter on Thursday. The bench asked him to give the details of the matter and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. "Upon being mentioned by Mehta, we deem it appropriate to direct the Registry to list the matter on 06.01.2022 before an appropriate bench, subject to curing of defects, if any," the bench said in its order. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-karnataka-govts-plea-on-hcs-action-against-chief-secy-others-on-january-6-1068311.html
05-01-2022||National||No painkillers or paracetamol recommended after Covaxin jab: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said no painkillers or paracetamol are recommended after being vaccinated with its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Stating that it has received feedback that certain immunisation centres are recommending taking three paracetamol 500mg tablets along with Covaxin for children, the company clarified that such a step was not required. "No paracetamol or painkillers are recommended after being vaccinated with Covaxin," Bharat Biotech said in a tweet. Paracetamol was recommended along with certain other Covid-19 vaccines and is not recommended for Covaxin, it asserted. "Through our clinical trials spanning 30,000 individuals, approximately 10-20 per cent individuals report side effects. Most of these are mild, resolve within 1-2 days, and do not require medication. Medication is only recommended only after you consult a physician," the company said. Last month, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years would start from January 3. Subsequently, India opened up vaccination for the 15-18 years age-group on Monday and so far over 85 lakh beneficiaries in the category have received the first shot. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-painkillers-or-paracetamol-recommended-after-covaxin-jab-bharat-biotech-1068314.html
05-01-2022||National||I-t sleuths conduct multi-state raids on perfume manufacturers for tax evasion||The Income Tax Department has carried out search and seizure operations against two groups engaged in the business of perfume manufacturing and real estate, covering over 40 premises in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat in connection with the matter. The first group is primarily based out of Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh. The search operations revealed that the group is found to be involved in tax evasion by under reporting sales of perfumes, stock manipulation, fudging books of accounts to shift profits from taxable unit to tax exempt unit, inflation of expenditure, etc. Evidences found in the sales office and main office have revealed that the group carries out 35-40 per cent of its retail sales in cash by 'kucha' bills and these cash receipts are not recorded in the regular books of account, running into crores of rupees. Evidence of booking purchases from bogus parties to the extent of about Rs 5 crore has also been unearthed. The analysis of incriminating evidence indicates that the unaccounted income generated is invested in various real estate projects in Mumbai, and acquisition of properties both in India and the UAE. It has also been detected that the group evaded tax amounting to Rs 10 crore on conversion of the stock-in-trade to capital as corresponding income has not been declared. The group has also not declared income amounting to Rs 45 crore on the benefits paid to retiring partners. Evidence has been found which substantiate that the promoters of the group had incorporated some offshore entities. However, such offshore entities have not been reported in their respective I-Tax Returns. The evidences collected during the search revealed that the offshore entities were run and managed by Indian promoters. Two of such offshore entities have also been found to own one villa each in the UAE. It has also been unearthed that one of the offshore entities of the group from the UAE purportedly introduced illicit share capital of over Rs 16 crore in an Indian entity of the group at an exorbitant premium. This recipient group entity also obtained a further sum of Rs 19 crore in the form of illicit share capital from certain Kolkata-based shell entities. One of the shareholder directors of these shell entities admitted on oath that he was a dummy director and invested in share capital of the group company at the instance of the promoters of the group. During the course of search action on another UP-based group, incriminating evidences substantiating unrecorded cash transactions of about Rs 10 crore have been found and seized. It is also gathered that the group did not maintain any stock register for its inventory. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-sleuths-conduct-multi-state-raids-on-perfume-manufacturers-for-tax-evasion-1068319.html
05-01-2022||National||Over 1 crore teens vaccinated against Covid-19 in India: Govt||More than 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to children in the 15-18 age group since the inoculation drive began for them on January 3, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. With this, the cumulative doses administered in the country has increased to over 148.58 crore, it said. More than 82 lakh vaccine doses had been administered till 7 pm on Wednesday. This includes 37,44,635 doses administered to beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group, the ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya praised the enthusiasm among adolescents for vaccination and congratulated them on this achievement. He also appealed to all eligible adolescents to get vaccinated at the earliest. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started on February 2. The next phase of vaccination commenced from March 1 for people aged above 60 and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged above 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above the age of 18 to get vaccinated from May 1. The latest phase of Covid-19 vaccination for children aged between 15 and 18 commenced from January 3. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-crore-teens-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-india-govt-1068344.html
05-01-2022||National||SC/ST of one state can't claim benefits of job, education or land in another: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said a person declared as Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe in one state cannot claim benefit of his status for employment, education or land allotment in any other state on migration. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna dismissed an appeal filed by Bhadar Ram through his legal representative against a Rajasthan High Court's division bench order of April 7, 2011. The HC declared a sale transaction in respect of land belonging to a landless SC person was in clear breach or in violation of Section 42 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955. Relying upon previous judgements, the top court said the appellant, being a Scheduled Caste belonging Punjab and being an ordinarily and permanent resident of Punjab, cannot claim the benefit of a Scheduled Caste in the state of Rajasthan for the purpose of purchase of land allotted to a landless Scheduled Caste person. The bench also said the top court's judgement in 'Action Committee on Issue of Caste Certificate to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State of Maharashtra and Another' (1994) would apply with full force in the present case. The top court had then held that a person belonging to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe in relation to his original state of which he is permanent or an ordinarily resident cannot be deemed to be so in relation to any other state on his migration to that state for the purpose of employment, education etc. "We see no reason to restrict the applicability of the decision of this court in the case of 'Action Committee' only with respect to employment, education or the like and not to make applicable the same with respect to purchase and sale of the property," the bench said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc/st-of-one-state-cant-claim-benefits-of-job-education-or-land-in-another-sc-1068347.html
05-01-2022||National||Army issues fresh advisory as Covid-19 cases rise||In view of rising cases of Covid-19 in the country, the Army has issued a fresh advisory to all its units and formations, recommending precautionary measures to check the spread of the infection. In the advisory, the Integrated HQ of the Ministry of Defence (Army) prescribed specific measures as per the weekly positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in its establishments besides suggesting health education and awareness campaigns to deal with the situation. It said the weekly positivity rate in the Army for the week ending December 31 was 2.34 per cent but added that the current rising trends necessitate re-visiting the existing measures. The advisory said if a station records the positivity rate in the range of one to two per cent, then all its personnel returning from leave and temporary duties should undergo Covid-19 tests and that all social gatherings should be cancelled. In such a scenario, the official meetings should be held virtually and quarantine facilities should be kept in a full state of readiness. If the weekly positivity rate is in the range of two to five per cent, then all personnel returning from outstation leave and duties should be quarantined for seven days and tested before allowing them to leave the quarantine facilities, the advisory said. It said teleconsultations for treatment should be resorted to if feasible besides activating quarantine facilities. The advisory recommended that attendance in offices should be restricted if the weekly positivity rate ranges between five to 10 per cent. It said all non-essential travel of service personnel should be curtailed in such a scenario. For stations that report a weekly positivity rate of over 10, the advisory recommended stopping physical attendance as well as all non-essential leave and temporary training. The advisory said the military hospitals will continue to provide all Covid-related and emergency/life-saving services. It said the hospitals should postpone "cold surgeries' ' if the bed-occupancy (ICU) is 40 per cent. The advisory also recommended ensuring "advance engagement and information campaigns" so that there is no misinformation or panic. It said actions will be taken to reduce overcrowding in offices, personnel lines and dining halls. Food timings in dining halls to be staggered, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-issues-fresh-advisory-as-covid-19-cases-rise-1068348.html
05-01-2022||National||70 years after extinction, cheetahs to return to Indian jungles||The introduction of cheetahs in India -- which are extinct for at least 70 years now -- will not just manage them as metapopulations, but the Environment Ministry also plans to use cheetah to ultimately restore open spaces and enhance capacity for carbon sequestration as a mitigation tool towards climate change. The 'Action Plan for Introduction of Cheetah in India' released on Wednesday mentions in detail the government's plan of action for cheetah translocation from Africa to Kuno National Park (KNP) in Madhya Pradesh, a project that was first conceived in 2009. "The primary aim is to establish a free-ranging population of cheetahs in and around KNP in Madhya Pradesh. Further, this population in KNP will be managed as a metapopulation with other two to three established populations of cheetah in India with occasional 'immigrants' brought in from Africa, as and when needed," said the Action Plan document released by Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav. Among the prominent aims, the first is to establish breeding cheetah populations in safe habitats across their historical range and manage them as a metapopulation. The document goes on to add, "To use the cheetah as a charismatic flagship and umbrella species to garner resources for restoring open forest and savanna systems that will benefit biodiversity and ecosystem services from these ecosystems" and "To enhance India's capacity to sequester carbon through ecosystem restoration activities in cheetah conservation areas and thereby contribute towards the global climate change mitigation goals" are its two other aims. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change also aims at using the ensuing opportunity for eco-development and eco-tourism to enhance local community livelihoods and to manage any conflict by a cheetah or other wildlife with local communities within cheetah conservation areas expediently through compensation, awareness, and management actions to win community support. About 12-14 cheetahs (8-10 males and 4-6 females) from various parks/reserves/areas that are ideal for establishing a new cheetah population would be imported as required from South Africa/Namibia /other African countries, as a founder stock for five years initially and then as may be required by the programme. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) would provide financial and administrative support to the cheetah introduction programme and a stand-alone budget for Project Cheetah has been earmarked as a part of the ongoing Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Project Tiger (CSS-PT) of the Government of India. "A long-term (at least 25 years) Cheetah Programme involving financial, technical and administrative commitments need to be guaranteed by the Central and the state governments to adhere to the Action Plan. Cheetah conservation should become a part of the mandate of the NTCA and under the Project Tiger Scheme of funding by the Forest Ministry. Financial commitments should be flexible to accommodate rational changes to translocation and population establishment plan during implementation and subsequent monitoring," the document mentioned. The Action Plan document also mentions criteria for success (of the project) and an exit plan. "If the introduced cheetahs do not survive or fail to reproduce in five years, the programme needs to be reviewed for alternative strategies or discontinuation," it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-years-after-extinction-cheetahs-to-return-to-indian-jungles-1068375.html
05-01-2022||National||Could never imagine Cong will ever go this low: Rijiju over PM's security breach||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday slammed the Congress over the breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security in Punjab, terming it a "vicious act" and said he could never imagine the party ruling the state would "ever go this low". Modi's Punjab visit was cut short on Wednesday after a "major security lapse" as he was stranded on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters, prompting the Union Home Ministry to seek an immediate report from the state government and strict action against those responsible. According to a Home Ministry statement, after the serious lapse in security, Modi's convoy decided to return without attending an event at a martyrs' memorial at Hussainiwala. The prime minister also could not attend a rally in Ferozepur. In a tweet, Rijiju said that he could never imagine that the "Congress party will ever go this low." For the Congress, only "one family" is important in India, the BJP MP from Arunachal Pradesh said, adding "I condemn the Congress Party for this vicious act." "The Prime Minister of India is a symbol of India's vibrant democracy," he said. Rijiju also shared a short video in which the prime minister's convoy is purportedly shown returning due to the blockade. "This video tells the story," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/could-never-imagine-cong-will-ever-go-this-low-rijiju-over-pms-security-breach-1068385.html
05-01-2022||National||Thrashed 'by BJP', injured Tripura TMC leader dies in Kolkata hospital||A Trinamool Congress leader of Tripura died in a Kolkata hospital on Wednesday, around four months after he was injured in an attack by alleged BJP supporters in that state, according to a TMC leader here. Mujibur Islam Majumder was beaten up by BJP supporters at the foundation day programme of the Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad on August 28 at Badharghat town of Tripura, the TMC leader alleged. He was shifted to the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata where he succumbed to his injuries. The BJP, however, said the party is not involved in the incident. Majumder quit the BJP to join the Trinamool Congress last year. Condemning the 'murder' of Majumder, Convener of Tripura TMC Subal Bhowmik claimed in Agartala that law and order had collapsed in the BJP-ruled state. Tripura police on Wednesday arrested 120 leaders and activists of the TMC from near Raj Bhavan where they had gone to protest against the alleged killing of Majumder and other issues. Bhowmik said the party wanted to submit a memorandum to Governor Satyadeo Arya but it was refused. "We were told by the governor's office today that he is unwell, though we had sought an appointment a month ago," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thrashed-by-bjp-injured-tripura-tmc-leader-dies-in-kolkata-hospital-1068388.html
05-01-2022||National||Entry of public at flag-lowering retreat ceremony in Attari stopped in view of Covid-19: BSF||The entry of the public at the daily flag-lowering retreat ceremony along the India-Pakistan border in Attari is being stopped with "immediate effect" because of the rise in Covid-19 cases, the Border Security Force (BSF) said on Wednesday. The entry of the public for this evening ceremony was resumed on September 15 last year after remaining suspended since March 7, 2020, as the coronavirus pandemic spread in the country. The event is held about 26 km from Amritsar city at Attari joint check post opposite Wagah of Pakistan. "In view of the Covid-19 situation in the country and latest guidelines issued from the office of the District Magistrate, Amritsar... dated 04.01.2022 vide which restrictions have been enforced for civil public, BSF authorities have reviewed the situation and taken a decision to stop the entry of civil public coming to witness the retreat ceremony at JCP Attari with immediate effect," the force said. India and Pakistan have been traditionally holding the flag-lowering ceremonies at the Attari-Wagah border for many years now and the event is attended by a huge number of people from both the countries as well as foreign nationals. The BSF conducts the synchronised ceremony in coordination with their counterparts Pak Rangers and it involves lowering of the flags of the two countries along with foot-stomping manoeuvres of the troops with patriotic songs playing in the background on either side. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entry-of-public-at-flag-lowering-retreat-ceremony-in-attari-stopped-in-view-of-covid-19-bsf-1068392.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||Congress postpones major rallies in poll-bound states amid Covid-19||As several questioned the conduct of elections during the third wave of Covid-19, Congress on Wednesday announced that it has postponed its major rallies in Uttar Pradesh and other poll-bound states even as Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain asked whether one wants AAP to stop campaigning and leave elections. Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said the party has decided to postpone major rallies in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. He said the central leadership has asked state units to assess the Covid-19 situation in their states and take a decision on holding rallies. When asked about AAP stopping rallies, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain shot back, "do you want us to stop campaigning? You want us not to contest elections?" There has been questions over holding political rallies as the country is facing a third wave of Covid-19. Cases are increasing across the country and several states have re-imposed restrictions. "Imposing curfew in the night and calling lakhs of people in rallies during the day – this is beyond the comprehension of the common man. Given Uttar Pradesh's limited healthcare systems, we have to honestly decide whether our priority is to stop the spread of the dreaded Omicron or show electoral power," Varun had tweeted, which was seen as a veiled criticism of the BJP-led government at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Kejriwal had come under attack for not wearing masks in public and conducting rallies. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted, "The rate at which the third wave is progressing, it seems an avalanche of Covid-19 cases are coming in the next few weeks. The Modi government is making the same mistakes it did during the second wave, which killed lakhs. Prime Minister Modi is himself often seen without masks. Will this government ever learn?" Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-postpones-major-rallies-in-poll-bound-states-amid-covid-19-1068124.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||Samajwadi Party leader killed, tension in Uttar Pradesh's Tulsipur||Samajwadi Party leader and former chairman Nagar Panchayat Tulsipur, Firoz Pappu, has been murdered by unknown assailants. The incident happened late Tuesday night. Police sources said that former chairman Firoz Pappu, 41, whose wife, Kahkashan, is the present chairperson of Tulsipur Nagar Panchayat, was returning home from Jarwa when unknown miscreants attacked him with sharp edged weapons. He was taken to the hospital in a serious condition where the doctors declared him brought dead, police said. As soon as the news of the murder spread, his supporters gathered on the streets and staged protests, demanding the arrest of the attackers. Superintendent of Police Hemant Kutiyal reached the spot and persuaded the protesters to disperse and sent the dead body for post-mortem. Additional force has been deployed in the area in view of prevailing tension. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-leader-killed-tension-in-uttar-pradeshs-tulsipur-1068127.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||Akhilesh asks Yogi to form 'Mafia BJP League' as video of absconding murder-accused playing cricket surfaces||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday sought to pick holes in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's oft-repeated claims of cracking down on criminals and mafias in the state. He shared a video purportedly showing former MP Dhananjay Singh, an accused in a murder case and a declared absconder, playing cricket after inaugurating a cricket tournament in Jaunpur district. "Babaji (read Adityanath) should form a cricket team of top ten mafias, who are close to him, and name it Mafia BJP League on the lines of IPL... the district police chief has laid a pitch for the team and he (Yogi) is, of course, captain... so the team is complete," Akhilesh said in a post on Twitter. He also shared a twenty-second video showing Singh practising a shot as some spectators look on. भाजपा का काम ~ अपराधी सरेआम! The SP president said that the mafias, who were 'close' to the CM were playing cricket but the 'bulldozer' of the "double engine" government had no inkling about the same. "The people are watching everything... BJP will be wiped out in 2022," he said. Singh was accused of murdering a former Block president from Mau district in the state Ajit Singh in the state capital in January last year. A cash reward of Rs 25,000 has also been declared on him.  Akhilesh's remarks came amid allegations that the BJP government in the state was not acting against criminals and mafia elements belonging to a particular caste (read Thakur) while targeting those from Brahmin and other communities. Prime minister Narendra Modi had also, during his speeches at public meetings in UP, heaped praise on Adityanath for acting against criminals and mafias.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-asks-yogi-to-form-mafia-bjp-league-as-video-of-absconding-murder-accused-playing-cricket-surfaces-1068178.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi calls for reducing prices of petrol, diesel||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday called for reducing prices of petrol and diesel after reports that global crude oil rates had fallen. He tagged a news report that said the price of crude oil has fallen by $7.3 a gallon and the price of petrol will fall by Rs 8 a litre if oil companies reduce prices. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also called for stopping the "loot" and for reducing the rates of petrol and diesel. He said now that the elections are also close the price of petrol and diesel should be reduced. "The 'election season' is also here. Should the government be reminded that when crude oil rates fall, the prices of petrol and diesel are reduced...? #StopFuelLoot," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress has been attacking the government over the high fuel prices and high taxes on petrol and diesel. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-calls-for-reducing-prices-of-petrol-diesel-1068220.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||PM Modi's rally was cancelled due to empty chairs, not security breach: Congress hits back at BJP||Congress on Wednesday hit back at the BJP for accusing it of playing "dirty tricks" and endangering Prime Minister Narendra Modi's life, claiming that around 10,000 security personnel were deployed for his rally and arrangements were made in tandem with Special Protection Group and other agencies. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said the cancellation of the rally in Ferozepur was not because of any security breach but because of empty chairs at the venue, while emphasising that his party considers the security of the Prime Minister paramount. He said there would not be any let-up in the security arrangements for the Prime Minister in Congress-ruled states. “The security will not be like in Gujarat where Rahul Gandhi’s carcade came under stone pelting,” he told a press conference. Surjewala said around 10,000 security personnel were deployed for the Ferozepur rally and all arrangements were made in tandem with SPG and other agencies. “Routes were carved even for all buses of BJP workers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Prime Minister decided to take a road trip to Hussainiwala. It was not part of his original schedule to travel by road," he said. He said the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has been protesting against Modi's visit and Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat has held two rounds of discussions with them. He said the farmers blocked the road as part of their protest against the Prime Minister and he was stuck only for 15 minutes. “Was the police supposed to fire at them? Were they terrorists? The police were removing them and they took 15 minutes. There was no breach,” he said. "Do you know why KMSC and Farmers are protesting against PM Modi? Their demands are: sack MOS Home Ajay Misra Teni, withdraw criminal cases against farmers in Haryana, Delhi and UP, compensation for the kin of 700 farmers who died and Committee on MSP and a quick decision," he said. He also alleged that post farmer’s agitation, the Modi government chose to totally ignore these promises. "Finally, the reason for cancelling the rally is that there were no crowds to listen to Modi-ji. Stop blame game and introspect on BJP’s anti-farmer attitude. Hold rallies but listen to farmers first," he tweeted. Dear Naddaji, Stop losing cool & all sense of propriety. Pl remember - He said the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has been protesting against Modi's visit and Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat has held two rounds of discussions with them. "Do you (Nadda) know why KMSC and Farmers are protesting against PM Modi? Their demands are: Sack MOS Home Ajay Misra Teni. Withdraw criminal cases against farmers in Haryana, Delhi and UP. Compensation for kin of 700 farmers who died. Committee on MSP & a quick decision." 3/46. Do u know why KMSC & Farmers are protesting against PM Modi? Surjewala also tweeted a video showing empty chairs at the rally venue in Ferozepur and said, "If you don't believe me, check it out. And yes, no nonsense rhetoric. Accept the truth of anti-farmer mentality and do self-churning. The people of Punjab have shown a mirror to the arrogant power by keeping distance from the rally." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-rally-was-cancelled-due-to-empty-chairs-not-security-breach-congress-hits-back-at-bjp-1068231.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||Congress tried to harm the Prime Minister of India: Smriti Irani||Union Minister and senior BJP leader Smriti Irani on Wednesday said that the Congress tried to 'harm' the Prime Minister of India. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach during his Punjab visit, Irani asked why the Director General of Police (DGP) give the all-clear to the Prime Minister's security detail about the route that he was to take if he was 'incapable of providing security support'. "We know the Congress hates PM Modi, but today, they tried to harm the Prime Minister of India. Such is the breakdown of law and order in Punjab that the DGP claims he's incapable of providing security support to the Prime Minister's Office and security detail," Irani said. "Never before in the history of our country were police functionaries in a state directed and convenienced to breach the security of a Prime Minister and bring him harm," she said. Hitting out at the Punjab government, Irani said, "Such is the state of administration in Punjab that a security detail and run that is a protocol administratively to be followed by a state head was dismantled so that Prime Minister Modi could be harmed. The questions we, as BJP karyakartas (workers) and the nation, need to ask the Congress government in Punjab is why did the DGP give an all-clear to the PM's security detail for the route that the Prime Minister was to take? Who in the Punjab government gave information about the Prime Minister's route to individuals who planted themselves atop the flyover? Video evidence, now publicly available, brings such questions to the fore," she said. She asked why those who lead the security on behalf of the state government did not respond to any call or efforts to secure the Prime Minister. Without naming anyone, she said, "When the PM had his security breached, Congress leaders erupted with joy, asking him how his 'Josh' was! PM Modi, magnanimous as ever, on his way back, gave a befitting reply 'Zinda laut raha hoon!' (Returning alive)." She said that the Congress must realise Narendra Modi became Prime Minister with the blessings of the people of India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-tried-to-harm-the-prime-minister-of-india-smriti-irani-1068297.html
05-01-2022||National Politics||BJP leaders slam breach of PM Modi's security in Punjab, demand apology||Senior BJP leaders on Wednesday slammed the Congress party for the security breach in prime minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade in Congress-ruled Punjab, and demanded that the party apologises for the breach. Home minister Amit Shah tweeted that there should be accountability for this. “Such dereliction of security procedure in the Prime Minister’s visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed,” Shah tweeted. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the Punjab government must apologise to the nation for the lapse. “The Congress has always undermined the constitutional processes of the country. This is a grave lapse, and mischief on the part of the Punjab government and the Congress,” the UP CM told reporters. BJP president J P Nadda said that the Congress was scared of an imminent defeat in the upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab. “What is extremely worrisome is that this incident was also a big security lapse as far as the PM is concerned. Protesters were given access to the Prime Minister's route while the Punjab CS and DGP gave assurances to SPG that the route is clear,” he tweeted. Union minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, in a press conference at the BJP headquarters, alleged that planted political instruments were given political patronage by the Congress government to breach the security of the prime minister. “Who in the Punjab government gave information of the PM’s route to individuals who planted themselves atop the flyover? When the PM’s security detail contacted Punjab Police with respect to the circumstances of the cavalcade, where there was a 20 minute exposure, why did the security lead of the area not respond to calls or communicate efforts to secure the PM?,” Irani questioned. “Never before in the history of this country has a state government knowingly constructed a scenario where the prime minister is brought to harm,” Irani said. “We know the Congress hates Modi but today they harmed the prime minister of India.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leaders-slam-breach-of-pm-modis-security-in-punjab-demand-apology-1068331.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab govt approves one-time internet allowance for students at higher educational institutions||The Punjab cabinet on Tuesday evening decided to give Rs 2,000 as a one-time internet allowance to all students studying in higher educational institutions to help them attend online classes in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.           The decision will help nearly 8.67 lakh students, said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi while addressing the media after the cabinet meeting.           In another decision, the cabinet approved a sum of Rs 6.65 crore, out of which Rs 4.03 crore would be spent to clear outstanding liabilities of 20 government cattle pounds and Rs 2.62 crore for the running cost for these cattle pounds for the next three months.           The cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to increase the honorarium of Anganwadi workers, mini Anganwadi workers and helpers by Rs 1,400, Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,050 per month, respectively. The state government has introduced an assured annual hike in the honorarium of Anganwadi workers, mini Anganwadi workers and Anganwadi helpers by Rs 500, Rs 250 and Rs 250, respectively, with effect from January 1, 2023. The decision will put an immediate financial burden of Rs 72 crore and an additional burden of Rs 23.88 crore each subsequent year on the state exchequer, according to an official release.           In recognition of the contribution of Punjabi hockey players of the Indian team, which recently brought laurels to the country in the Tokyo Olympic Games, the cabinet gave the approval to offer appointments as Punjab civil services officer or deputy superintendent of police to those having minimum qualification as graduation. After the cabinet meeting, the chief minister along with Sports Minister Pargat Singh handed over appointment letters to seven players. Channi also announced the cabinet's decision to elevate the captain of the Indian hockey team, who was earlier posted as a DSP in the Punjab Police, to the Superintendent of Police. The cabinet also approved the Punjab Government Rozgar Guarantee for Youth Scheme (PRAGTY) 2022'.           Earlier during the day, Channi had announced the launch of PRAGTY at a private university in Phagwara. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-approves-one-time-internet-allowance-for-students-at-higher-educational-institutions-1068056.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||3 JeM militants killed in encounter in Pulwama||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants, including a Pakistani, were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. “#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 03 #terrorists of terror outfit JeM including one #Pakistani national killed. #Incriminating materials, arms & ammunition including 2 M-4 carbine and 1 AK series rifle recovered. A big success for us: IGP Kashmir (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. The police said the encounter broke out during wee hours after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Chandgam village of Pulwama, 32 kms from here, following specific inputs about the presence of militants in the area. A police official said the trapped militant was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, the militant denied and instead fired indiscriminately upon the search party which retaliated leading to an encounter in which three ultras were killed. The new year started with encounters in Kashmir as the first five days of 2022 have recorded a gunfight every day so far resulting in the killing of eight militants, including top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander. Out of five gun-battles, the Srinagar district witnessed two encounters in a span of just one hour while Kupwara district in north Kashmir and Kulgam and Pulwama in south saw one encounter each. 171 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2021 and according to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir as on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. In 2021, out of 128 locals who became militants, 79 were killed and 17 arrested. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-jem-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-pulwama-1068089.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||UP businessman death case: CBI fails to find the motive||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the mysterious death of Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta at a hotel in Gorakhpur during a police raid, have not found any motive behind the crime. The accused policemen, sources said, are now likely to be charged with culpable homicide. The CBI team carried out a detailed probe, collected evidence and recorded the statements of the friends of the deceased Kanpur businessman present in the hotel room with him during police raid, but the murder charge could not be supported, while there was no logical motive for the crime. The CBI found that the policemen had a heated argument with the businessman during which he fell and suffered fatal head injuries. Investigations, however, found evidence of 'excessive use of power' by the policemen and the charge sheet to be submitted soon will contain all details, sources said. The CBI team found that though the businessman died following use of force, the sequence of events, nature of injuries, and absence of any possible motive does not suggest that the intention was to cause death. On November 2, CBI had initially registered a case of murder against six policemen, three named and three unidentified. It may be recalled that on September 27, Ramgarh Tal inspector JN Singh, Phalmandi police post in-charge sub-inspectors Akshay Mishra and Vijay Yadav and three other policemen had reportedly barged into the hotel room where businessman Manish Gupta was staying with his friends. The policemen were reported to have thrashed them after an argument during which Gupta died. All the six policemen named in the FIR are currently in jail. A CBI officer privy to the probe said the sequence of events was examined by forensic experts to know the pattern and nature of injuries, while call detail records of all the accused policemen were also checked to know if they had any prior connection with the victim, but no such link was found. The CBI team also took Gupta's friends Pradeep Chauhan and Hardeep Chauhan to the hotel and recreated the crime scene to match their statements to know what exactly took place inside the room on the fateful day. The officer further said that the investigative agency will, however, recommend disciplinary action against senior Gorakhpur policemen who had commented on Gupta's death. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-businessman-death-case-cbi-fails-to-find-the-motive-1068094.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||2,135 Omicron cases detected across 24 states, UTs||A total of 2,135 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 24 states and UTs so far, out of which 828 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 653 cases followed by Delhi at 464, Kerala 185, Rajasthan 174, Gujarat 154 and Tamil Nadu 121 cases. India saw a single-day rise of 58,097 new coronavirus infections, the highest in around 199 days, taking the country's total tally of cases  to 3,50,18,358, while the active cases were recorded above 2 lakh after around 81 days, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The death toll has climbed to 4,82,551 with 534 daily fatalities, the data stated. The active cases have increased to 2,14,004, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.01 per cent, the health ministry said. A total of 58,419 new infections were reported on June 20 last year. An increase of 42,174 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.18 per cent, while weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.60 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,43,21,803, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 147.72 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4, 2021 and three crore on June 23. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2135-omicron-cases-detected-across-24-states-uts-1068099.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab government invites farm leaders to meet PM on March 15||The Punjab government on Wednesday invited three farmer leaders -- Satnam Singh Pannu, Sawinder Singh Chautala, and Sarwan Singh Pandher for a meeting with PM Narendra Modi on March 15 to discuss pending demands of farmers. Some farmer unions are demanding from the government to bring a law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) and withdraw police cases against farmers, who protested the Centre's farm laws. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-government-invites-farm-leaders-to-meet-pm-on-march-15-1068101.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Congress leader booked for marathon incident in Uttar Pradesh||An FIR has been lodged against Congress district chief Mirza Ashfaque Saqlaini and other unidentified persons following a "stampede-like situation" during a marathon organised by the party in Bareilly. The event held on Tuesday, was held as part of the Congress party's "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" Assembly election campaign. Videos of the incident also went viral on social media. Bareilly Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan said, "A case was lodged on Tuesday night against the organisers of the marathon after a probe by the district administration. A police officer said that three girls fell and sustained injuries during the marathon." The case has been lodged under IPC sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and various other sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The SSP said, "We will identify others responsible for the event during further investigation." City magistrate Rajiv Pandey said, "Permission was given for 200 children. However, the number of those who actually turned up for the event was much higher." The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took suo-moto cognizance of the incident. In a letter to the Bareilly district magistrate, NCPCR asked the district magistrate to submit an action taken report within 24 hours. "The commission has taken suo moto cognizance from a news report wherein it has been brought to the notice of the commission that a 'women marathon' event was organised by the Congress in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh wherein during the programme, due to stampede-like situation, many children fell on each other. It is also noticed by the commission that the slippers and shoes of these children also got scattered," read the letter written by the Principal Private Secretary to NCPCR Chairperson Dharmendra Bhandari. "An action taken report with regard to the status of treatment of the injured children in the said incident may please be furnished to the commission within 24 hours and a detailed fact-finding enquiry report may also be shared with the commission within 7 days of receipt of this letter," the letter stated. The letter also claimed that prima facie, inviting children in such political activities appears to be in violation of Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and also a violation of Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government. The letter further stated, "Therefore, in view of the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that your good offices may kindly look into the matter and initiate necessary inquiry to ensure the welfare and safety of children by lodging an FIR at the first instance, under Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and relevant sections of lPC." Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi alleged that the notice sent by NCPCR was part of a conspiracy hatched by the BJP. "The women of UP have been empowered by the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi. The BJP is doing everything to stop the women from participating in politics. They are using the commission to target us. But we will not stop. Where was the commission when children were walking barefoot during the lockdown imposed due to Covid," said Awasthi. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader in Bareilly, Supriya Aron said, "People had gone for pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi and died there after the stampede. What will you call that? It is human nature to move ahead and reach first. These are young girls who are still in school and ran a little bit. I request the mediapersons that if anyone feels offended, I apologise. The entire media wants Congress to come back." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-booked-for-marathon-incident-in-uttar-pradesh-1068108.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||List of those exempted during weekend curfew in Delhi||Following is the list of all who will be exempted during the weekend curfew imposed in Delhi from Friday 10 pm to Monday 5 am in view of surge in Covid-19 cases: a) Officers and officials involved in essential and emergency services shall be allowed on production of valid identity card during night and weekend curfew. b) Officers and officials of Government of India, its autonomous or subordinate offices and PSUs on production of valid identity card and according to the restrictions imposed by the Union government. c) Judges and all judicial officers, staff members of all courts of Delhi as well as advocate, legal counsels, connected with the case hearing on production of valid identity card, service ID card, photo entry passes and permission letters issued by the court administration. d) Officers and officials in the offices of diplomats of various countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post on production of valid identity card. e) All private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and other hospital services such as hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing laboratories, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, medical oxygen suppliers and other medical and health services on production of valid ID card. e) Pregnant women and patients for getting medical and health services, along with attendant, on production of valid identity card and doctor's prescription f) Persons who are going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, on production of valid identity card. g) Persons coming from or going to airports, railway stations, inter-state bus terminuses allowed to travel on production of valid ticket. h) Electronic and print media on production of valid identity card. i) Persons or students shall be allowed to appear in examination on production of valid admit card. The examination staff deployed for exam duties shall be allowed to travel on production of valid identity card or examination duty order. j) Movement of individual for marriage related-gatherings up to 20 persons on production of soft or hard copy of wedding card. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/list-of-those-exempted-during-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-1068110.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav objects to 'farq saaf hai' campaign||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has raised objection to Uttar Pradesh government advertisements that show 'anti-social elements' wearing red caps and holding them responsible for all problems before 2017. In a statement, Akhilesh described the Yogi Adityanath government's 'Farq Saaf Hai' campaign as gross misuse of funds for political publicity of the ruling BJP. The Samajwadi president said that he would ensure that this splurging of public funds was probed and officials involved are brought under its ambit. "Information department's mandate is to publicise development projects and schemes of the government. Instead, they are releasing advertisements showing people wearing red caps to explain how the situation has changed for the better. This is pure political publicity. The Samajwadi government of 2022 will ensure that a thorough probe is conducted to assess the extent to which public money has been wasted on such political publicity and will also look into the role of the officials involved," Akhilesh said. The former Uttar Pradesh CM's statement came in connection with the publicity campaign in which the 'bad man' is shown wearing red caps identical to the one worn by all SP functionaries including Akhilesh Yadav, party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and all party leaders. The SP chief said ever since the BJP has formed the government, all that the party has done is to blatantly misuse the government machinery for everything except welfare of the people. "Since the BJP formed the government in 2017, public funds have been spent on publicity of the party," he stated. Akhilesh said the BJP regime was riddled with disturbing instances of crime against women. Farmers were crushed under the wheels of a jeep and despite involvement of a minister in the entire conspiracy, no action has been initiated against him. "Criminals got shelter to indulge in illegal liquor trade which claimed hundreds of lives. During the previous SP regime, the government did not allow such incidents to happen. The difference is clear between the SP and BJP regimes and the people of Uttar Pradesh have decided to vote out the non-performers," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-objects-to-farq-saaf-hai-campaign-1068113.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi likely to report 10,000 Covid-19 cases today: Satyendar Jain||Delhi is likely to report around 10,000 Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, with the daily positivity rate rising to nearly 10 per cent, Heath Minister Satyendar Jain said in a briefing. The third wave of Covid-19 has set in, he said.  He said the Delhi government had been sending samples of all Covid-19 patients for genome sequencing to determine if the Omicron variant had spread in the country. "It was just an academic exercise... Now we know that Omicron has spread in the country, only 300-400 samples are being sent for genome sequencing," Jain said. There are around 15,000 active cases in Delhi and only 14 patients are on ventilators. When the city saw an equal number of active cases last time, 20 times more patients were on ventilator support, he said in response to a question.   The minister said testing for Covid-19 has been increased and around 90,000 tests have been conducted on Tuesday. Latest government data showed the number of patients in hospitals in Delhi has increased from 247 on January 1 to 531 on January 4. In the last three days, the number of patients on oxygen support has increased from 94 to 168 and those on ventilators from four to 14. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said his government is ready to handle up to one lakh Covid cases a day in a worst-case scenario. The city government has activated a Covid war room which will maintain district and hospital-wise data about bed occupancy, patients, oxygen etc, Jain added. The Delhi government on Tuesday announced a weekend curfew and work from home for its offices as the city recorded 5,481 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest number since May 16, with a positivity rate of 8.37 percent and three fatalities. During the weekend curfew that will come into force at 10 pm on Friday and will be in place till 5 am on Monday to tackle a surge in Covid-19 driven by Omicron, all essential services will be allowed in the national capital. Along with weekend curfew, night curfew will also continue to be in place during weekdays. India on Wednesday recorded over a massive spike of 58,000 Covid-19 cases, highest since June last year and 534 fatalities -- sending several state authorities in panic mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-report-10000-covid-19-cases-today-satyendar-jain-1068117.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||7-year-old begins early campaign for father in Uttar Pradesh||Gauri Pandey is just seven years old but is already adept at campaigning. She has started campaigning for her father Tej Narain Pandey a.k.a Pawan Pandey, a claimant for a Samajwadi Party ticket from Ayodhya. Gauri begins campaigning at 7 am and goes from door to door seeking votes for her father. She is accompanied by a group of women, including her mother at times. A student of class 3, Gauri campaigns for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. "I am seeking votes for my father so that Akhilesh Yadav can become chief minister," Gauri says. Her father Pawan Pandey, a former student leader, is aiming to contest from Ayodhya for the third time. Pandey made his electoral debut in 2012 Assembly election as Samajwadi Party candidate and defeated BJP stalwart Lallu Singh, who is now an MP from Faizabad. He lost the elections in 2017 but is confident of regaining his seat now. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-begins-early-campaign-for-father-in-uttar-pradesh-1068122.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Dhindsa tests Covid positive||SAD (Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection and has isolated himself at his house, a party statement said. The Rajya Sabha member was scheduled to participate in a rally to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Ferozepur. Modi will lay the foundation stones of development projects worth over Rs 42,750 crore, including the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway and a PGIMER satellite centre at Ferozepur. Dhindsa's party Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's party Punjab Lok Congress have joined hands with the BJP for the 2022 state assembly polls. Dhindsa has urged people who came in contact with him to get themselves tested for the infection. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-sanyukt-chief-sukhdev-dhindsa-tests-covid-positive-1068140.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||I-T raids still continuing in Noida, Agra and Baghpat||The raids by the Income Tax Department continued on Wednesday at several locations in Uttar Pradesh, including Baghpat, Agra, and in several sectors of Noida. The I-T teams are still searching the premises of Ajay Chaudhary of ACE Group, a prominent builder group. Teams are still at his various premises, including his office and Khekra village-based farmhouse. The raids started on Tuesday morning. The I-T team said they have to recover a few documents. The Ace Group released a statement on Tuesday evening saying they were not violating any rules. "We, at Ace group, are fully cooperating with the agency. As a law abiding company, we strictly adhere to all laws, rules and regulations. Income tax had raided the group three months back and even that time too the group had fully cooperated with the agency," said a spokesperson of Ace group. Apart from Ace group, the Agra-based office of Nuova shoes, which belongs to Harsimran Singh Alag alias Mannu, is also being raided. Nuova shoe is a part of the RCKK company. Recently, the financial institutions including I-T, DRI and DGGI conducted raids on Kanpur-Kannauj based perfume businessmen. Peeyush Jain, who deals in perfume compounds, was arrested. The house and premises of Pushap Raj Pampi Jain were also searched by I-T teams along with four other businessmen. The raids are still going on and the I-T official said that once the raid was finally over then only they would be able to make any comment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-raids-still-continuing-in-noida-agra-and-baghpat-1068142.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||AIIMS doctors ask director not to convert trauma centre into Covid Care facility||The AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) has urged the institute's director not to convert the AIIMS Trauma Centre into a Covid Care facility, saying trauma services should not be ignored as most of the trauma victims are of a young age and are the sole breadwinners of their families. The RDA, in a letter, said that avenues like surgical block, MCH block, geriatric block and burns plastic block should be considered for rendering services to coronavirus patients. All trauma services were shifted to the main AIIMS campus on March 28, 2020, and the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Center (JPNATC) was converted into a dedicated Covid Care facility in view of the rising cases. It said that they were thankful that the trauma services were shifted back to JPNATC one month ago. "It took a month for trauma services to be restored to pre-Covid times. Now Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly but as we have seen in the last two waves of the pandemic, the cases of trauma are also not decreasing.  "With conversion of JPNA trauma centre to Covid-19 centre, it is expected for the trauma patients to suffer a lot again. Most of the victims of trauma are of young age who are the sole breadwinners of their families," the RDA said in the letter dated January 4. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-doctors-ask-director-not-to-convert-trauma-centre-into-covid-care-facility-1068144.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||In Madhya Pradesh, 45 cows crammed in 2 trucks rescued; 3 persons held||Police have rescued 45 cows crammed in two trucks and arrested three persons on charges of illegally transporting them in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district, an official said on Wednesday. Based on a tip-off, the police on Tuesday intercepted the trucks in Nikhai Talaiya village under Shahnagar police station area and found the cows with their legs and faces tied with ropes while being transported, Superintendent of Police Dharmraj Meena said. In one of the trucks bearing Rajasthan's number plate, 24 cows were found, while 21 cows were rescued from the other vehicle, he said. The police arrested three persons in this connection and registered separate cases against them under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Madhya Pradesh Govansh Vadh Pratishedh Adhiniyam, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-madhya-pradesh-45-cows-crammed-in-2-trucks-rescued-3-persons-held-1068146.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Online exam solving module busted, six arrested: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police has busted an online examination hacking/solving module and arrested six people, officials said on Wednesday. One of the accused persons, Raj Teotia, has a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his arrest from Haryana and was also wanted by CBI, police said. Russian hackers were also used by the syndicate to get access to various examination portals, police said. They got the access of the examination through remote access. The accused downloaded the disguised remote access software, which was not detected by the safety measures and proctor, a senior police officer said. A total of 15 laptops and nine mobile phones have been seized, they added. Further details are awaited.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/online-exam-solving-module-busted-six-arrested-delhi-police-1068147.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||DIAL completes refurbishing work on IGI Airport's British-era runway||Delhi International Airport Limited has completed refurbishing work on the 09/27 runway at Indira Gandhi International Airport and handed over the facility to ATC for commercial operations late last month, which will help in reducing the runway operations time, a release said on Wednesday. The newly rehabilitated runway, which was constructed during the British period, complies with Category-I (CAT-I) Instrument Landing System (ILS), which assists pilots during landing an aircraft in low visibility conditions, it said. DIAL undertook the rehabilitation work of runway 09/27 (first runway) as part of Delhi Airport's phase 3A expansion project. According to the private airport operator, the British constructed the 2,816 meter-long and 60 meter-wide runway in the pre-Independence era and used it during World War II. DIAL said it undertook major rehabilitation works, including milling down the entire length of the runway's flexible pavement to a depth of 60 mm and overlaying it with Polymer Modified Bitumen (PMB), which can withstand heavy-duty traffic and extreme weather conditions. “DIAL has successfully completed the rehabilitation work of Runway 09/27 and its taxiways. The British-era runway was rehabilitated and made operational for commercial operations as part of DIAL's effort to enhance the infrastructure and passenger experience at Delhi Airport to make it future-ready,” said I Prabhakar Rao, Dy Managing Director, GMR Group. He said the newly rehabilitated runway will have a design life of 20 years and would be instrumental in handling the increased air traffic movements (ATMs), once pre-pandemic level traffic returns to Delhi Airport. Runway 09/27 is on the northern side of Delhi Airport, and has a network of nine taxiways, out of which, 6 are connecting taxiways and 3 are rapid exit taxiways (RETs), DIAL said, adding it has also realigned a new 3.5 km-long taxiway, parallel to runway 09/27. This will reduce the Runway Occupancy Time (ROT) and help in improving the traffic flow. As part of the rehabilitation project, DIAL said it has also upgraded the Airfield Ground Lighting (AGL) system for runway 09/27 with a duct and pit system. Moreover, all the existing lights of the runway and taxiways (around 850) have been upgraded to an LED system for higher efficiency and reliability as a part of rehabilitation work, DIAL said. Post completion of Phase 3A expansion work, Delhi Airport's passenger handling capacity is expected to increase to 100 million passengers per annum (MPPA), and the airside capacity will enhance to handle 140 MPPA, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dial-completes-refurbishing-work-on-igi-airports-british-era-runway-1068153.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Samajwadi Party hits back on BJP's 'Farq Saaf Hai' film with video clip||The Samajwadi Party has hit back at the Yogi Adityanath government's campaign 'Farq Saaf Hai', by tweeting a video clip that shows former BSP MP Dhananjay Singh playing cricket. The tweet says that "Mafia connected top chief minister are playing cricket." It further says: "Dhananjay Singh carries a reward of Rs 25,000 and is enjoying the game under the police eye. The double engine government's bulldozers cannot find him. The people are watching all this - 2022 mein BJP Saaf." The BJP has been hitting out at Samajwadi Party with a series of short films titled 'Farq Saaf Hai'. In this series, the former SP regime has been blamed for corruption and crime and the situation has been compared with present regime. The short films are being aggressively aired on TV channels and also in the print media. "This is just the beginning. We are now going to expose the BJP and its double-faced policies on such issues," said a SP leader. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-hits-back-on-bjps-farq-saaf-hai-film-with-video-clip-1068154.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||PM Modi arrives in poll-bound Punjab after two years||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday arrived in Punjab to lay foundation stones for development projects at Ferozepur. Modi landed in Bathinda and then headed for the district located along the Indo-Pak border. "He has arrived in Punjab and is on his way to Ferozepur," Inspector General of Police (Bathinda Range) Jaskaran Singh told PTI over phone. Hours before his Punjab visit, the prime minister in a tweet on Wednesday said that he was looking forward to "being among my sisters and brothers of Punjab today". "At a programme in Ferozepur, foundation stones for development works worth Rs 42,750 crore will be laid, which will improve the quality of life for the people," Modi said in a tweet. The weather was inclement in many parts of Punjab, including Bathinda and Ferozepur on Wednesday. Tight security arrangements have been made by police along the Bathinda-Ferozepur route. Modi is visiting poll-bound Punjab after a gap of two years and it is his first trip to the state after repeal of the farm laws by his government. The three legislations had led to a year-long farmers' stir at Delhi borders. The prime minister will lay the foundation stones of development projects, including the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway and a PGIMER satellite centre. The projects also include four-laning of the Amritsar-Una section, Mukerian-Talwara broad gauge railway line and two new medical colleges at Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. Modi will also address a rally in the district.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-arrives-in-poll-bound-punjab-after-two-years-1068155.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Intermittent snowfall continues to disrupt flights operation at Srinagar airport||Intermittent rains and snowfall continued across Kashmir on Wednesday affecting air traffic at the Srinagar International Airport and leading to the cancellation of flights due to poor visibility. An official said that flight operations have not been possible at Srinagar airport till afternoon due to inclement weather. “The resumption of air traffic would depend on the weather conditions,” he said. The suspension of air traffic has resulted in hundreds of tourists, who had arrived here on New Year, getting stranded in the valley. “A large number of tourists had arrived in Kashmir to celebrate the New Year and were planning to return home now.  (But) due to the snowfall tourists intending to travel by air have been stranded since Tuesday,” he said. It has been snowing in most places of the valley intermittently over the past two days, but the arterial Srinagar-Jammu national highway was open for vehicular traffic till Wednesday afternoon, an official of the Traffic Department said. He said motorists have been advised to exercise caution while traveling on the national highway in view of the snowfall and threat of avalanches. While fresh snowfall resulted in a sharp increase in minimum temperature across the valley, it crippled normal life with most of the shops and other business establishments remaining closed and only skeletal traffic plying on the roads due to slippery conditions, reports said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ - the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intermittent-snowfall-continues-to-disrupt-flights-operation-at-srinagar-airport-1068162.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: SCAORA moves SC to restore relaxation on limitation period for filing court cases||A lawyers' body has moved the Supreme Court seeking to restore the relaxation on the limitation period for filing court cases in view of the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. The Supreme Court Advocates On Record Association (SCAORA) in its plea requested that the March 23, 2020 and April 27, 2021 rulings by which the orders extending statutory limitation were put in abeyance be restored. "There has been a sudden and drastic change in the situation with regard to the pandemic, as a new variant more particularly Omicron has seen a drastic surge…considering the alarming rate at which there is a rise in the mortality rate due to Covid and also the rise in the new cases, it becomes necessary to restore the relaxation with regard to the period of limitation," the plea said. The apex court had said in September had said that the relaxation granted on the limitation period for filing court cases in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic would come to an end on October 2. It had ordered that the period from March 15 last year till October 2, 2021 shall stand excluded from computing the period of limitation. The apex court had on March 23, 2020 invoked its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to extend the limitation period indefinitely for appeals from courts or tribunals on account of the pandemic with effect from March 15, 2020. On March 8, 2021, the top court had noted that the country is "returning to normalcy'' and had decided to end the extension of the limitation period which was granted in March 2020 to the litigants due to the pandemic. However, the court on April 27, 2021 took note of the onset of the second Covid-19 wave and again relaxed the statutory period for filing petitions, including election petitions, under the Representation of the People Act, 1951.  On March 8, 2021, the order dated March 23, 2020 was brought to an end, permitting relaxation of the period of limitation between March 15, 2020 and March 14, 2021. While doing so, it was made clear that the period of limitation would start from March 15, 2021,  it said. The bench said as the March 8 this year order was only a one-time measure, in view of the pandemic, it is not inclined to modify the conditions contained in that order. It said the period from March 15 last year till October 2, 2021 shall also stand excluded in computing the periods prescribed under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, the Commercial Courts Act, the Negotiable Instruments Act and any other laws which prescribe period of limitation. "The Government of India shall amend the guidelines for containment zones, to state.  Regulated movement will be allowed for medical emergencies, provision of essential goods and services, and other necessary functions, such as, time-bound applications, including for legal purposes, and educational and job-related requirements,"  the bench said in its order. While hearing the matter on September 23, 2021, the bench had taken note of the improved pandemic situation and observed that it will recall its April 27 order by which it had extended the operation of an earlier direction on limitation period. It had observed that the suo motu extension of the limitation period will be withdrawn and after that, the usual limitation period of 90 days for filing cases in courts will come into effect once again. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-scaora-moves-sc-to-restore-relaxation-on-limitation-period-for-filing-court-cases-1068176.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh has 39,598 voters above 100 years of age||There are over 39,598 voters in Uttar Pradesh who are above 100 years of age. The Election Commission will be providing them special facilities, including that of postal ballot service, to vote. The state has a total of 15.02 crore registered voters. According to the Election Commission official, these centenarian voters will not only be encouraged to cast their votes, they could also be made local ambassadors to motivate others to take part in the voting process. Lucknow district election officer, Abhishek Prakash, said, "The EC is offering postal ballot service at homes of voters who are above 80 years. Further if any senior citizen voters wish to visit a polling booth, our on-duty staff will assist them in every possible way." As per EC data, the highest number of centurion electors are registered in Aligarh (1,727) followed by Prayagraj (1,413), Azamgarh (1,252), Ballia (1,213), Ghazipur (1,135) and Shahjahanpur (948). Sultanpur and Mainpuri district recorded the least number of centurion voters 48 and 61 respectively. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi felicitated former two-time 106-year-old MLA Shri Narain a.k.a. Bhulai Bhai, who had represented the Naurangiya Assembly segment, now known as Khadda in Kushinagar. Political parties also seem considerably enthused about these 'super-senior voters'. Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said, "Centenarian voters have seen both colonial and free India. Their opinion in public has huge weightage. Our party will assist such voters to reach the nearest polling booth and vote for change." BJP spokesman Harish Chandra Srivastava said, "These voters have immense experience. They have lived under several regimes, and with their vast experience they can often predict the elections results. Also, such voters have a lot of following in their community and families who follow them to polling booths." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-has-39598-voters-above-100-years-of-age-1068201.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||'Vote for Akhilesh, New Uttar Pradesh': Samajwadi Party student wing begins poll campaign in varsities||The Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha -- the student wing of the Samajwadi Party (SP) -- has launched a 'Vote for Akhilesh, New Uttar Pradesh' campaign. The campaign has been launched from Lucknow University and will now be taken to all other universities and colleges in the state. The Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha functionaries will interact with the students and compare the achievements of the previous Samajwadi Party government with the BJP government. According to national president Neha Yadav, "The BJP government spent 79 per cent of the budget of 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme to advertise its false achievements." "In the BJP government's policies, there is no plan to empower youths. Instead of honouring the promise to create 70 lakh jobs, this government took away 2 crore jobs. Paper leak is the new normal in this government," she said. The SP government, she pointed out, had specially focused on youth empowerment. The 18 lakh laptops that were distributed then are still used for skill development and livelihood, she said. Neha Yadav added that under the SP government, there was special focus on women empowerment through various schemes. "As chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav played an important role in shaping the future of the students and youths. During the SP regime, more than 20 higher educational institutes were opened, new medical colleges with more seats were set up. Under 'hamari beti, hamara kal' scheme, Rs 30,000 annually was provided to girls to continue studies after high school," Neha said. She added that "For women safety, schemes like 'Women Powerline 1090, Rani Laxmibai award, Dial 100 were successfully implemented. There were other schemes that focused on health through initiatives like 'Hausla Poshan Mission', '108 ambulance service'. Arpit Sachan, Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha spokesperson, said that during the campaign all the office bearers and members of the Sabha will hold discussions on 'Ayenge Akhilesh, Banayenge Khushhal Uttar Pradesh' in all universities, colleges and hostels of the state. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vote-for-akhilesh-new-uttar-pradesh-samajwadi-party-student-wing-begins-poll-campaign-in-varsities-1068206.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Ex-MP, Mohammad Adeeb, who moved top court in Gurugram namaz row booked||Amid the ongoing row over offering Friday namaz in the open, the police here have lodged an FIR against former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb and others on a complaint filed by Hindu activists, accusing them of disrupting communal harmony and trying to grab land. The FIR was lodged against Adeeb, Abdul Haseeb Kashmi and Mufti Mohammad Salim Kashmi at the Sector 40 police station under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, officials said. When contacted, Kuldeep Singh, Station House Officer of Sector 40 police station, said the facts are being verified and action will be taken as per law. In December, Adeeb had moved the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against Haryana's director general of police and chief secretary for failing to comply with the court's directions regarding measures to curb communal and violent sentiments that result in hate crimes. The complainants, Dinesh Bharti, Himmat and Vikky Kumar, accused Adeeb of disrupting communal harmony and trying to grab land, actions that could lead to riots. They alleged that repeated attempts have been made to grab the land of locals. Bharti claimed that in Sector 40, a plot where the ancestors of one Mangtu Manihar were laid to rest, has been declared a graveyard and it is being demanded that a mosque be constructed there. "We are not targeting any religion. Land grabbing and encroachment and misuse of public land are our key issues. They (accused) are misleading people and trying to disrupt communal harmony," he said. Speaking to PTI, Adeeb said he was not aware of any FIR being lodged against him and had just learnt about it. "What is this case actually about? We are the ones talking about peace, calm and communal harmony and people who seek publicity glorifying Godse are out to blame us," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-mp-mohammad-adeeb-who-moved-top-court-in-gurugram-namaz-row-booked-1068211.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||J&K cops involved in counter-terrorism to get bullet-resistant jackets||The Jammu and Kashmir Police has initiated the process to procure over 8,000 bullet-resistant (BR) jackets for its personnel involved in counter-terrorism and security operations, official sources said. The police will also procure BR vehicles of various levels of protection and glasses for vehicles, helmets, ultra-wide CCTV surveillance systems and deep search mine detectors, they said. As many as 7,416 BR jackets of level-5 protection and 784 BR jackets of level-6 protection will be procured by the police to provide its personnel involved in counter-terrorism and security operations the best possible protection, the sources said. Levels-5 and 6 indicate a high level of threat and protection. They are tested to withstand at least five shots of a variety of weapons, they said. The police headquarters recently floated bids on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal for the purchase of these jackets. The jackets should protect police personnel from all sides and be available in all sizes, they added. These jackets will undergo mandatory ballistic testing at the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU) laboratory. The police have also floated bids on the GeM portal for the procurement of 47 BR light motor vehicles (LMVs) of level-3 protection, 15 BR LMVs of level-2, 10 BR LMVs of level-1, 100 ultra wide CCTV surveillance systems, 12 deep search mine detectors and 45 mini drones, among other things, the sources said. This is aimed at providing an edge to the police force, which is engaged in counter-terrorism operations, law and order maintenance and ensuring overall security, they said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-cops-involved-in-counter-terrorism-to-get-bullet-resistant-jackets-1068228.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||UP Polls: Congress, BJP cancel rallies amid spike in Covid cases||As the cases of coronavirus infections registered a sharp spike in Uttar Pradesh, political parties have started cancelling their scheduled public meetings and other events in the poll-bound state. While Congress has cancelled its 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' marathons scheduled to be held in different parts of the state, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's proposed mega rally at Lucknow on Sunday was also cancelled, according to sources. There were speculations in the political circles that the Election Commission (EC) might announce the dates of the elections in UP after the PM's Lucknow rally. BJP has also deferred its ambitious ''Beneficiary Contact'' program which was scheduled to start from Monday and conclude on Saturday. The saffron party had planned to reach out to the masses with the progress reports of the centre and the state government. Sources said that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's proposed public meeting at Noida on Thursday had also been cancelled. UP Congress sources said that the grand old party had postponed all its big public events in the state in view of the rising cases of coronavirus infection. Congress had planned to organise seven 'women's marathons' across the state in the days to come. The party drew criticism from various quarters after a stampede-like situation in its women's marathon at Bareilly town on Tuesday. Congress had written to the EC urging it to stop the rallies of Modi and Adityanath in the state keeping in view the spike in coronavirus cases. A  BJP leader here told DH that the party had made all preparations to reach out to the people through virtual rallies. "We are ready to hold virtual rallies... we have a team of trained party workers," said the leader. Around 1,000 new coronavirus cases were reported in the state till Tuesday taking the total number of active cases to 3,173.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-congress-bjp-cancel-rallies-amid-spike-in-covid-cases-1068233.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||After FIR, MP scripture narrator apologises for using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi||After an FIR was registered against him in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly using derogatory language while criticising Mahatma Gandhi in the context of the Partition of India, the narrator of Hindu scriptures, Tarun Murari, on Wednesday apologised for his remarks. In a video statement, Murari, a Bhagvat Katha teller, blamed media persons for "provoking" him. He said the remarks were made on the spur of the moment without the intention to insult the Father of the Nation. “A reporter made me speak impulsively which I should not have said. Everybody knows about Mahatma Gandhi and I did not intend to insult him. I seek apology from individuals, political organisations and the administration if they are hurt by my comments, which were made on the spur of the moment,” Murari said. On the complaint lodged by a Youth Congress leader, Murari was booked for terming Mahatma Gandhi an anti-national (deshdrohi) during a function held on January 2, Narsinghpur's Kotwali police station in-charge Amit Dandi had said on Tuesday while quoting the complaint. The case was registered against Tarun Murari under sections 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) and 153B (assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code, he said. Earlier last week, self-styled seer Kalicharan Maharaj was booked and arrested by the Chhattisgarh Police from Madhya Pradesh for his alleged derogatory remarks against the Father of the Nation during a Dharma Sansad in Raipur. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-fir-mp-scripture-narrator-apologises-for-using-derogatory-words-against-mahatma-gandhi-1068235.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi logs 10,665 Covid cases, positivity rate rises to 11.88%||Covid-19 cases leapt over 10,000-mark in Delhi on Wednesday to record the highest since May 12, while the positivity rate jumped close to 12 per cent, as the third wave of the pandemic firmly gripped the capital city. The latest health bulletin recorded 10,665 cases for the capital as against 5,481 on Tuesday. While 11.88 per cent positivity rate was recorded in Wednesday's bulletin, it was 8.37 per cent the day before. The surge numbers could be attributed to a higher number of tests as on Tuesday, the total number of tests was 65,487, while it rose to 89,742 on Wednesday. Eight deaths were recorded in the latest bulletin as against three. Eight deaths recorded on Wednesday has been the highest number since June 16 last year. There were only one death each on the first three days of January. In comparison, Delhi had recorded five Covid-19 deaths in September last year, four in October, seven in November and nine in December. The number of patients admitted in hospitals also rose from 531 to 782 in 24 hours. It was 247 on January 1. With rising cases, Delhi government has imposed weekend curfew in the capital while allowing only those government officials engaged in essential activities to appear for work in offices.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-10665-covid-cases-positivity-rate-rises-to-1188-1068266.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Himachal Pradesh amid rising Covid cases||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to impose a night curfew in the state from 10 pm to 5 am to check the spread of Covid-19, an official spokesperson said. It was also decided to close indoor sports complexes and cinema halls in the state and allow only 50 per cent attendance at gatherings in marriage and banquet halls, he said. The decisions were taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. It has been decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am across the state besides closing indoor sports complexes, cinema halls, multiplexes, stadiums, swimming pools, gyms and langars, the spokesperson said. It was also decided to allow only 50 per cent attendance at indoor gatherings including those at marriage and banquet halls, he said. Himachal Pradesh has been witnessing an uptick in Covid-19 cases. It recorded 260 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, 137 on Monday and 76 on Sunday, according to official figures. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-himachal-pradesh-amid-rising-covid-cases-1068295.html
05-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi deploys nodal officers on buses to avoid overcrowding||Amid soaring Covid-19 infections, the Delhi transport department has taken various steps like suspension of driving licence tests and deployment of nodal officers to prevent crowding in city buses, an order said on Wednesday. The order issued by Joint Commissioner Navkendra Kumar Singh stated that all activities related to driving skill test, fresh online appointments and tests for existing appointments for permanent and learners' licences are suspended in the wake of the DDMA's Tuesday order. All existing appointments will now be rescheduled and applicants concerned will be informed via SMS, it said. Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot took to Twitter to announce this. "Considering rising Covid cases and recent DDMA guidelines, all appointments for DL & LL tests (fresh & existing) at all RTOs will be suspended from tomorrow (6.1.22). Details for rescheduled dates will be sent to all applicants via SMS. We will extend validity of existing LLs," he said. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order directed work from home for government employees associated with non-essential services in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the city. It also directed for appointment of nodal officers to check overcrowding in buses and Metro trains. The DDMA allowed buses and Metro trains to run with full seating capacity to avoid crowding at bus stops and stations but barred standing commuters. The transport department order said the validity of existing learner licences will be extended in due course in public interest. All services will continue at zonal offices adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour, it said. Fitness tests of commercial vehicles will continue with owners and drivers following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Enforcement staff of the department, in addition to their present duties, will also check public transport vehicles for compliance of DDMA order, it said. The executive director of the Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT) is appointed the nodal officer for all three ISBTs in the city. He will take all suitable steps for adequate deployment of manpower at all times for monitoring of Covid-appropriate behaviour at the ISBTs. Further, he will appoint general managers of ISBTs as sub-nodal officers to monitor proper sanitization and adherence to guidelines as per the DDMA order. The management of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and the Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System, running public transport buses in Delhi, have also been directed to follow the DDMA guidelines. As per the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Wednesday, eight deaths and 10,665 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city in a span of 24 hours.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-deploys-nodal-officers-on-buses-to-avoid-overcrowding-1068345.html
05-01-2022||Oasis||Worshipping Mother Earth||The gifts of Mother Earth and nature are unlimited. She never fails in her duty to provide for the countless needs of all the ever-increasing creatures that dwell on her. And, she has been doing this tirelessly and endlessly for thousands of years. One look at the ingredients in our kitchen gives us an idea of the enormity and expanse of her bounty. Every single fruit and vegetable we cut and consume gives us an opportunity to multiply it through the seeds embedded in it. Not a single bird or insect remains hungry for long. Our body consists of minerals that come from deep within the earth and its surface. The food we eat, the water we drink, clothes we wear and the medicines that cure us — are all sourced from our planet. The air that sustains us is from the trees that are rooted in her soil. We are all greatly indebted to her. And yet we use, abuse and exploit her no end. We cannot help but place our feet on her and burden her with the weight of our development even though it is this mother earth that holds us and keeps us grounded literally and figuratively, nourishes us throughout our lives and finally embraces our mortal remains that mingle with her. In Vishwamitra Smriti 1/44-45, the following prayer is suggested: Samudra vasane devi! Parvata stana mandale lVishnupatni Namastubhyam! Paadasparsha kshamasv mei ll One who is covered with oceans as garments, one who cares for all living beings through the streams of milk in the form of rivers flowing from the bosom like mountains; Oh Mother Earth – wife of Vishnu, forgive me for touching your sacred body with my feet. This prayer does not mean anything if we do not find the ways to worship our planet through our deeds that are light on her. Think before you do every purchase or embark on every project, what it might mean to the planet. Everything ranging from reducing carbon footprint to saving forests and water sources matters a lot for the planet. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/worshipping-mother-earth-1068337.html
05-01-2022||Opinion||Work on your dreams||All of us aim at turning into a new leaf with each coming new year. Most of us pursue our resolutions meticulously for some time and lose sight of it sooner or later. When one diagnoses the reasons for losing sight of our goals, the reasons can be many. However, a close study of these reasons will display that we must have faltered on counts of one, some or all of these factors — the dream, determination, discipline, diligence or devotion, and then we wonder why we have not been able to arrive at our destination. A study of the Thiruppavai composed by the saint poetess Andal consisting of thirty Paasurams or stanzas offers a practical solution to this tardiness.  The lofty poem composed in praise of Lord Krishna her object of adoration seeks his company across births. The young lady takes up the Paavai Nombu, a ritual that spans thirty days during the Dhanur Masa of the Indian calendar. Each day, she gets up well before dawn, rallies her friends around, bathes in cold water and proceeds to the temple to worship her lord. When we scan these seemingly innocuous activities in an orthodox set-up of eighth century India, we can discover layers of meanings and interpretation. Goda imagined that she was a Gopika and dreamt of marrying her beloved Krishna.  In order to achieve this lofty aim, she took up the rigorous routine with vigour. She knew that she had to start early and keep at the habit regularly. She realised that mere waking up would lead her nowhere so she vowed to stay vegan, abstain from the cardinal sins, become charitable and give up on grooming herself through the month. These self-imposed restrictions gave her the requisite reprieve from distractions that could become a hassle in her path.  She regaled the various feats of Maha Vishnu in his tenfold manifestations with specific reference to Krishnavataram to her friends as she went to pick them up on her way to the temple. This exercise helped her to not lose sight of her objective. It also reflected that the possibility of rivalry did not occur to her. On the contrary her desire to empower them only energised her further.  Her actions spoke louder than her words and have become a beacon light for those of us who are determined to make our dreams come true. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/work-on-your-dreams-1068034.html
05-01-2022||Opinion||Is the Covid vaccine safe for children?||The government expanded the Covid-19 vaccination programme to those in the 15-18 year age group from this Monday. The announcement brought relief to many parents and students who anticipated going to physical school and college but were hesitant to do so due to fear of contracting coronavirus. A serosurvey in India during June-July 2021 after the second wave showed that seropositivity in children 6-18 years was similar to that in older age groups, indicating that children of all ages can become infected and can spread the virus to others. According to a WHO report, adolescents test positive for Covid-19 at a higher proportion than younger children, hence the need to first protect this age group.  However, many parents have questions about the safety of the vaccines available for children in India. As of now, the vaccines that have received emergency use approval in children by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) include Covaxin and ZyCov-D. Both have a different method of administration with Covaxin being administered intramuscularly in two doses at a gap of 28 days, while ZyCov-D is a needle-free vaccine administered intra-dermally in three doses at a gap of 28 days. Both the vaccines have been approved after a stringent evaluation process by the DCGI (Drug Controller General of India) that assesses safety and efficacy.  The ZyCov-D is unique in being the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine, the safety and efficacy of which is well established through a trial. DNA, also known as the building block of life has antigens encoded in the plasmids to produce an immune response. This is a relatively new technology.  Covaxin on the other hand has already been part of the adult vaccination programme launched last year. Recent results of a trial in the age group of 2-18 years have shown the vaccine to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic, meaning the vaccine is safe for children.  It should be noted that both the viruses don’t use the live virus that causes Covid-19. In clinical trials, it has been seen that most vaccine side effects are mild and resolve in a short period. The side effects are also similar to those seen in adults and with other vaccines recommended for children.  ZyCov-D and Covaxin have both received emergency use approval from the DCGI for use in the age group of 12-18 years. However, at present, the government has only announced the vaccination program for those in the age group of 15-18 years.  Globally, it has been seen that an increasing number of vaccines have been authorised for use in children, especially in the adolescent age group. The WHO also highlights the benefits of vaccinating children and adolescents beyond the individual benefit to the child. It decreases Covid transmission between children and from children to older adults, which may help in promoting a return to school thus minimising disruptions to education.  So, in conclusion, both vaccines are safe and we must get our children and adolescents vaccinated to ensure their well-being, health and safety.  (The writer is the president of a network of hospitals) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-the-covid-vaccine-safe-for-children-1068035.html
05-01-2022||Opinion||Why UP poll results could influence Rajasthan politics||Amid talk that the country's political skies would get reconfigured after the upcoming Uttar Pradesh (UP) Assembly elections, a theory has gained currency: The UP outcome could determine the continuance or otherwise of Ashok Gehlot as the Chief Minister in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. First, the disclaimers: For all of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's efforts to breathe fire and energy into the UP campaign, the Congress continues to be a marginal player that could at best increase its vote share (from six per cent in 2017) to around 12-15 per cent - converting into a win of between 20 to 50 seats in the 403-member assembly. Also, UP's political dynamics, which oscillate between the "Hindutva" and the "Lohiate" ideologies, are different from the easy-paced and orthodox politics of India's desert state that remains influenced by feudal traditions from the age of the maharajas. Yet, there are reasons to believe that UP will have a collateral outcome on Rajasthan. The revolving door Like Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and UP, Rajasthan has also been a revolving door for political parties in the last two decades. A repeat term has not been possible for either the Congress or the BJP, with Ashok Gehlot and Vasundhara Raje replacing one another every five years. With Gehlot 70 years old and Raje now 68, the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been contemplating a generational change. If the BJP retains UP, the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah team could dump Raje altogether. And, if the Congress performs reasonably well, the party leadership could get persuaded to try out an out-of-the-box and "Punjab-type" experiment to shore up its chances of overcoming the anti-incumbency in the 2023 Assembly elections. The importance of being Gehlot Gehlot has remained a valued asset for the Congress. He was the election in-charge of Gujarat in 2017 when the Congress gave the BJP a run for its money with the saffron party's tally was brought down under the three-figure mark in the 182-member Assembly. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and current party General Secretary KC Venugopal were accommodated in the Rajya Sabha from the Rajasthan quota. The late Ahmed Patel was also elected to the Rajya Sabha, with Gehlot ensuring Congres transporting party MLAs to Karnataka to prevent them from being influenced by the BJP. At critical moments, the Rajasthan chief minister has also come in handy by playing host to party MLAs from Assam, Karnataka or Maharashtra. While Congress governments fell because of large-scale defections of party MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Goa, Gehlot staved off the challenge posed last year by a group of legislators led by Sachin Pilot. In short, Gehlot has proven credentials as a party strategist who can also be trusted upon by the party high command.  Why the change Yet, there are reasons why Gehlot must take a break from Rajasthan. The most prominent is his over-exposure in ever-changing and youthful state demography. Gehlot's style of orthodox politics has become predictable and does not seem to be resonating in the same manner as earlier - particularly among the young and aspirational new generation.  In his third term, Gehlot is seen as having failed to live up to expectations. For instance, he has been unable to build a solid counter-narrative to the BJP's aggressive Hindutva push-falling back on the easy but dangerous ploy of resorting to "soft Hindutva". In the past three years, he has chiefly been seen engaged in firefighting -- quelling the rebellion by party MLAs or countering the Covid-19 outbreak. His "soft Hindutva" pitch - coupled with the state government's neglect of the party's core support base among Muslims and Dalits - has been threatening to unsettle the party's core support base.  "In the panchayat elections, the Congress won in three of the six district bodies on the strength of the bulk votes of the Muslims, but not one member of the community has been appointed chairman. The Rajasthan Public Services Commission (RPSC) does not have a single Muslim member. The manifesto promise on the appointment of madrasa teachers has not been fulfilled," complained Sikar-based social activist Ashfaq Kayamkhani.  PL Mimroth of the Centre for Dalit Rights conveyed similar sentiments. "While states including Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have passed an Act providing for mandatory budgetary allocation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes welfare, the Gehlot government has been sitting over the proposal. Atrocities against Dalits have risen, although this situation has come about because more First Information Reports (FIRs) in such cases are now being registered." Options for the Congress leadership Unlike some other states, the Congress roots run deep in Rajasthan. The party does fancy its chances of beating anti-incumbency in the 2023 Assembly elections, particularly if Raje is kept away from the BJP campaign. Both Raje and Gehlot have been accused of preventing the emergence of the second rung of leadership within their respective parties.  The challenges with the Congress high command are the following. Who to choose as Gehlot's replacement in the given situation of the state party's scarce talent pool? Since he cannot be summarily dumped, how can Gehlot be persuaded to step aside from the chief ministership? Gehlot's primary challenger, Sachin Pilot, could have been considered the obvious replacement. However, Gehlot can ruin the party's electoral prospects if not handled with care. In any case, the talk of a change of horses mid-course has opened up the game of thrones once more. The Jat community has revived its long-standing demand to elevate one of their own as the chief minister. Brahmin leaders such as former Union minister CP Joshi are beginning to fancy their chances. Manju Meghwal, Mamta Bhupesh and Harish Chaudhary are being discussed as other possibilities. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-up-poll-results-could-influence-rajasthan-politics-1068076.html
05-01-2022||Opinion||'Populist' promises: Why cities need more self-government||A few days ago, a Chandigarh-based researcher friend asked whether there was a provision in the local bodies laws to ensure contestants in elections, candidates and parties, make implementable promises. And if they were to promise something beyond the scope and capacity of the municipality, can they be sued in court. How I wished we could apply such a law to our prime minister's promise of Rs 15 lakh in every Indian's bank account. Indeed, candidates must only promise what they can deliver. The researcher friend was echoing a former mayor of Chandigarh, who lost in the recently held civic polls in the Union Territory. The mayor probably referred to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) promising to replicate its "Delhi model" in Chandigarh. The AAP emerged as the single largest party, worsting the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the polls for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. Not only did some of the BJP's former mayors lose despite the party's high decibel campaign, but its defeat was starker since the UT is under the Centre's control and its Member of Parliament is also from the BJP. The AAP's key promises were 20,000 litres of free water supply to all households each month, clearing garbage from the Dadumajra dumping site, installing CCTV cameras and making wifi accessible across the city. These poll promises require debate on urban governance issues. The demands and the slogans of the Chandigarh civic elections, like free water, free electricity and social housing, resonate and reinforce the concept of "democratisation of surplus". BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian constitution, spoke of "one person, one vote". It should also mean 'one man, one economic unit', but these slogans become more relevant because of the widespread and vast inequity. Cities have become centres of capital accumulation through expropriation, particularly in the last four decades. Twin processes have been at work. First, the State, which provided essential services to the citizens, has passed on this agenda to private capital. Services like water supply, education, healthcare, even housing are now sectors for private capital aggrandisement. According to an estimate, real estate is the foremost factor in capital accumulation in some cities. The other reason people have lost their capacity to attain or hold assets is the nature of capitalist production in the cities. According to one estimate, most workers - nearly 94 per cent - are engaged in the informal sector. This has substantially diminished the bargaining capacity of workers in the cities. The city itself has become a centre of capitalist accumulation. As several urban planners have commented, cities are the centres of surplus generation and hence must be considered factories. The democratisation of surplus in such urban centres and slogans linked to this idea, like free water and electricity, more health centres, are neither freebies nor populist ideas but connected to the class demand of the working people. Even in Chandigarh, the middle-class elite still voted for the BJP, whereas the poorer and marginalised sections voted for the AAP and Congress. Such democratising of surplus in the cities is taking place in different parts of the world. In many cities, re-municipalisation is being implemented in service delivery. For example, in Barcelona, progressive groups raised the slogan "Let's Win Barcelona", and after winning the elections, worked to democratise the urban commons, especially in the digital arena. Likewise, in Montreal, there's been an attempt to shift the city's mobility from high private driven vehicles serving the interests of oil and automobile capital to public transport. Second is the issue of the role of local self-government. After more than a quarter of a century of the 74th constitution amendment, functions, functionaries, and finances have not been transferred to local governments across the country except Kerala. The universally transferred function is that of garbage collection. We will soon have even the registration of births and deaths passed on to the central government. Cities are more like adjuncts of either the state or Centre. The demand for municipal cadre matching the state cadre services has not been implemented anywhere. Cities must be governed by the democratic decentralisation principle envisioned in the 74th amendment. City planning, apart from other functions, must be passed on to the city council, preparing plans through ward committee meetings and community participation. However, the reality is that citizens are alienated from the decision-making process. Thirdly, the debate on promises by candidates and political parties and their feasibility - promises are made to break the inertia of the existing delivery system and according to the class of people which a political party represents. Architect Charles Correa, the chairperson of the first urban commission formed in 1986, felt that urban governance in India desperately needed accountability. He said around the world, more and more cities are being run by political leaders directly elected by the people of that city. So, they champion the interests of the citizens, or they will not get re-elected. Unfortunately, in India, we find that cities are run by state chief ministers who are not elected by the city's citizens and hence utterly oblivious of the city's requirements and demands. Therefore, accountability in the elections must not just be narrowed down to the promises made during the elections but should be drawn to a larger canvas of "self-governance" in cities. This should be done by ensuring not just more extensive participation of people but democratising the entire process. (The writer is a former deputy mayor of Shimla) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/populist-promises-why-cities-need-more-self-government-1068139.html
05-01-2022||Panorama||BMLTA Bill: A misdirected mobility plan, made in bad faith||Who doesn’t want the traffic problems of Bengaluru to be solved? On the one hand, there is clamour for widening roads, building flyovers and signal-free elevated corridors as the solutions to traffic congestion. On the other hand, there are voices pointing out that such projects have massively depleted the urban environment and greenery and that private vehicles are the major contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. In answer to these questions, the government has come up with the Bengaluru Metropolitan Land Transport Authority (BMLTA) Bill. But there has been no pre-legislative public consultation on this important Bill though its provisions will have such major consequences for the public. As per the Bill, the BMLTA’s chief purpose is to prepare a Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) to provide “safe, clean and efficient urban transport”. The emphasis in the Bill appears to be on bringing coordination between the multiplicity of institutions, such as BMRCL, BDA, BMTC, DULT, etc., and the independent legislations that they are bound by, causing overlap in responsibilities and functions. The Bill claims to integrate them to streamline and improve urban mobility. Is that all? The Bill does mention in passing that the aim is “integration of social, economic, and spatial development policies and plans to advance sustainable urban transport”. But as several activists questioned during a recent webinar organised by the Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike (BBPV), what is the overall vision of the BMLTA? There is no commitment here to see ‘mobility’ as a right to access fundamental rights to livelihood, education, health, etc., that serve the widest sections of people, or to meet the Sustainable Development Goals or climate change goals. There is no commitment, for instance, on bringing the share of public transport to 70% or 83% as envisaged in many policy documents. Activists bemoaned that such an articulation of vision and intent is missing from the Bill. The Authority is supposed to prepare and implement policies on parking, non-motorised transport, multi-modal integration, etc. But will there be a mere ‘collation’ of these policies without ‘coherence’ between them and the overall goals? Will there be tokenistic cycle lanes encircling a few parks while an elevated corridor for private vehicles girds the entire city? But the suspicion that the entire Bill is an eyewash is evident from a damning and curious provision under Section 22.3. While the whole purpose of BMLTA is supposed to be to prepare the CMP, it is not known by many that BMRCL has already prepared a CMP, under conditionalities imposed by the Union government in its MoU with BMRCL. The CMP has also been already approved by the state government but not many are aware of what it contains! Activists point out that BMRCL has no jurisdiction to prepare the CMP and it has prepared it without any reference to an approved Master Plan for the city or process. To top it all, the Bill says further that prior to the constitution of the BMLTA, if a CMP has already been approved by the government, the BMLTA shall “if necessary” modify or revise such CMP. So, what is the purpose of BMLTA if a CMP has been prepared and approved already, which shall be modified only ‘if necessary’? Even more baffling and damning is the fact that the Bill proposes under Section 22 that the Master Plan for the city should take into account the transport plan as already envisaged in the CMP! The Bill says that the ‘Planning Authority’ shall prepare the land-use plan by taking into consideration the already prepared CMP; that it (the Planning Authority) shall necessarily consult the BMLTA, duly consider and incorporate the suggestions given by the BMLTA in the draft of the Master Plan, and if such suggestions are not incorporated, provide a detailed explanation to BMLTA with the reasons for the same! That the Master Plan has been made subservient to the CMP under Section 22.3 is “legally unviable” and a sign of “global investors dictating policy”, say experts in the know of things. And nowhere does the Bill mention which this “Planning Authority” is. Is it the BDA currently preparing the Master Plan unconstitutionally? A great fallacy in the entire Bill is that it nowhere recognises or even mentions that the Metropolitan Planning Committee (MPC) is the legitimate Planning Authority for preparing the Master Plan as per the 74th Constitutional Amendment. The Bill does not mention the MPC at all, and has no view of how the BMLTA will function with or under the MPC. Activists pointed out that “the BMLTA has been placed at a superior level to constitutional bodies” -- the MPC and the municipal corporation. They emphasised that “the BMLTA needs to be an agency subordinate to the MPC and not an independent parastatal, as currently proposed, which overrides a constitutional entity”. The Chief Minister is the chairperson and two other state ministers are members of BMLTA. This will lead to more concentration of power and decision-making at the state level, with little involvement from the BBMP council and the PRIs in the metropolitan area. The Bill does not also provide for a decentralised, bottom-up process involving people’s participation from the ward level and upward to shape the CMP. As a first step, the demand is that the Bill should be withdrawn and a participatory visioning of the city through a wider public consultation process undertaken. The BMLTA’s structure, functions and processes should emerge from such a vision. But the Bill is available only in English and not in Kannada, disabling large sections from engaging with and critiquing the Bill’s provisions. Ultimately, the BMLTA should be brought under the MPC and a new CMP prepared which is subservient to the Master Plan and not the other way around. (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bmlta-bill-a-misdirected-mobility-plan-made-in-bad-faith-1068036.html
05-01-2022||Panorama||The epic rise and fall of Theranos’ Elizabeth Holmes||Near the end of Elizabeth Holmes’ criminal trial, her lawyers submitted into evidence her punishing self-improvement plan. “4 am Rise and thank God,” the handwritten memo began. Exercise, meditation, prayer, breakfast (whey and, as she spelt it, “bannanna”) followed. By 6.45 am, a time when slackers were still fumbling for the alarm clock, she was at the office of Theranos, the blood-testing company she founded in 2003. Holmes had many rules at Theranos: “I am never a minute late. I show no excitement. ALL ABOUT BUSINESS. I am not impulsive. I know the outcome of every encounter. I do not hesitate. I constantly make decisions and change them as needed. I speak rarely. I call bullshit immediately.” It worked. Holmes’ resolve was so forceful, and fit so neatly into the Silicon Valley cliche of achieving the impossible by refusing to admit it was impossible that it inspired belief right up to the moment Monday when a jury officially convicted her of four counts of fraud. The verdict signalled the end of an era. In Silicon Valley, where the line between talk and achievement is often vague, there is finally a limit to faking it. From Stanford University dropout to Theranos’ $9 billion valuations to conviction, it is an epic rise and fall that will be chewed over in the coffee shops and juice bars of Palo Alto, California, until the tech industry departs for a new life in Elon Musk’s and Jeff Bezos’ off-world colonies. For a decade, Holmes fooled savvy investors, hundreds of smart employees, an all-star board and a media eager to anoint a new star even, or especially, if she had no qualifications. Just as Silicon Valley is a cartoonish version of American notions about the virtues of hard work and getting rich quick, so Holmes was a heightened version of Silicon Valley. As her self-improvement scheme made clear, she was trying to turn herself into a machine that had no time for anything but work. This was not for her own benefit, of course, but humanity’s. She perfectly encapsulated the Silicon Valley credo that tech was here to serve us, and never mind exactly how it did it, the billions it was making or whether it even worked. Whenever anyone — a regulator, an investor, a reporter — wanted to know a little more about exactly how the Theranos machines functioned, the company cried “trade secrets.” The real secret, of course, was that Theranos didn’t have any trade secrets because its machines didn’t work. But her answer worked for a long time. Hiding fraud behind the imperatives of secrecy wasn’t the only way Holmes’ actions were rooted in tradition. Her self-improvement plan dated back to Ben Franklin but found its most indelible expression in F Scott Fitzgerald’s creation of Jay Gatsby, the mysterious, alluring, handsome millionaire who also ran a few swindles. Gatsby was practically Holmes’ brother. He, too, got where he was with a schedule and rules, in his case written inside a book when he was a striving youth: 5 pm-6 pm: Practice elocution, poise and how to obtain it. 7 pm-9 pm: Study needed inventions. The parallels with Holmes extended even to Gatsby’s equally loose grasp of spelling. “No more smokeing or chewing,” he admonished himself. Gatsby was a bootlegger but also used Wall Street to cheat. He sold fake bonds. Holmes chose Silicon Valley, the last and greatest of all human dreams. In the first decade of the century, it promised to reinvent transportation, friendship, commerce, politics, money. Blood-testing must have seemed like a breeze by comparison, especially since Holmes was a natural salesperson, as good at bending reality as Steve Jobs himself. Here she was in an interview with the radio show Tech Nation in 2005, explaining what Theranos was all about: “We focused on creating a customised medicine tool that could be used in the home by every patient, so that every day, a patient can get real-time analysis of their blood samples.” Who could not applaud such an invention? Theranos was making a messy, uncertain and time-consuming medical process into something effortless and painless. “A little teeny needle that pulls a little teeny drop of blood,” she said. Software would do the rest. Tech Nation’s host, Moira Gunn, has a master’s degree in computer science and a doctor of philosophy in mechanical engineering, but she was dazzled. “How old are you, Elizabeth?” she asked. “I’m 21,” Holmes said. Her age was brought up not to knock down her claims but to underline how impressive they were. “I’m gonna go tell my two children, they better get off their duffs,” Gunn exclaimed. Holmes said Theranos’ device was in “the production phase.” She added, “We hope to release it, actually, to a pharmaceutical partner around mid-to-late this year.” Thirteen years later, when the company dissolved, it had never successfully released a device. In 2005, however, even reinventing blood-testing at 21 was not enough, so deep was our expectations of genius. Holmes was asked about her future, and gave the stock Silicon Valley response: You ain’t seen nothing yet. Theranos already had the “next generations” of its device in prototype, she said. It was miniaturized to make it even faster, to make it “more high-throughput.” It would be automated: “You don’t even have to touch your finger on the device.” So, in one of the first media interviews Holmes ever did, she said Theranos had a working device that would be able to analyse your health without actually touching you. No one called her on it. No wonder she and her deputy and boyfriend, Ramesh Balwani, the company’s chief operating officer known as “Sunny,” thought they could brazen it out in the Silicon Valley tradition until they had something that actually worked. This is a credulous age. William Perry, a Theranos board member, was Secretary of Defence under President Bill Clinton, a mathematician, engineer and Stanford professor. Not, in other words, a fool with regard to Silicon Valley. Yet, he told The New Yorker in 2014 that Holmes “has sometimes been called another Steve Jobs, but I think that’s an inadequate comparison. She has a social consciousness that Steve never had. He was a genius; she’s one with a big heart.” Jobs, who died in 2011, might as well have been a recruiter for Theranos. Adam Rosendorff, a lab director at Theranos, testified during Holmes’ trial that he thought the company was going to be “the next Apple.” He applied for the job after reading a biography of the Apple co-founder. “The whole excitement around Steve Jobs was very compelling to me,” he said. “I wanted to make a more global impact on healthcare and I thought that joining a diagnostics company would help me do that.” Rosendorff grew disillusioned before Theranos’ misleading claims were exposed, but Perry stuck it out until December 2016, when the start-up was forced to change its board in a futile attempt to survive. With believers like these, Holmes’ dream must have seemed so close that she could hardly fail to grasp it. A couple more late-nights from the engineering team, a few more magazine covers declaring her a genius, and it would be as good as done. So where does this conviction leave the rest of us — her marks, her enablers, her investors and former fans? Ripe for the next huckster that comes along, probably. Some Silicon Valley promises are so sweet we just can’t get enough of them. Immortality. Crypto. Flying cars. Mars. Digital harmony. Wealth beyond compare. As Fitzgerald wrote, we will always be a sucker for the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-epic-rise-and-fall-of-theranos-elizabeth-holmes-1068037.html
05-01-2022||Panorama||Would govt please make public the 'adverse report' against certain NGOs?||Critics sarcastically called it a ‘Christmas gift’. It was on December 25 that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) rejected an application from the Mother Theresa-founded Missionaries of Charity (MoC) to renew its licence to collect foreign donations, citing “adverse reports” against the NGO. Neither the MHA nor MoC, which issued separate statements, spelt out what the “adverse reports” were.   A week later, the number of organisations that lost their licences under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) rose to over 6,000. Among those who lost their licence effective January 1 were Oxfam India, Jamia Milia Islamia, IIM Bengaluru and Kolkata, IIT-Delhi, Biocon Foundation, Azim Premji Foundation, the government’s labour think-tank VV Giri National Labour Institute, and Satyajit Ray Film and TV Institute. By January 5, there were 12,422 NGOs whose FCRA licences had expired. Some 179 of them lost their permission to collect foreign funds after the MHA claimed to have found violations in their application and activities. They have an option to appeal the rejection and some of them are moving in that direction.  The renewal exercise was necessitated by a 2015 amendment that mandated that the licence to collect foreign funding would have a validity of five years only. A large number of NGOs were granted licences in November 2016, and their validity ended on October 31. The MHA first extended the validity of the licence till December 31, and then to March 31, 2022. It said, however, that the extension was only for those NGOs whose renewal applications were still pending before it. The likes of MoC don’t have that luxury.   The issue became public when West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Dec 27 that a freeze had been ordered on the bank accounts of MoC. Following public outrage, the MHA issued a statement within hours that MoC’s application for FCRA renewal had been rejected but it had not ordered a freeze on the NGO’s bank accounts. The quick damage control came perhaps as the government – already facing criticism over the Haridwar ‘Dharma Sansad’ -- did not want adverse international publicity on account of action against a reputed international humanitarian organisation. The MHA confirmed that it had rejected the MoC’s application for renewal over “adverse inputs” against the NGO, which it did not specify, and went on to claim that the State Bank of India had informed it that it was MoC itself that had asked its accounts to be frozen. The NGO corroborated that the MHA had not ordered any freeze, but it also clarified that it had not approached the SBI to freeze its accounts, rather that it had only asked its own centres not to operate any accounts dealing with foreign funds until the FCRA matter was resolved. As suspicion arose that the government may have arm-twisted MoC to issue its statement, Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien tweeted: “First, the Government of India intimidates. For weeks, right through to December 25. And then, they pile on the pressure to extract this (MoC statement). Shame on the MHA and its shameless damage control tactics.” Oxfam, on its part, issued a long statement explaining how the government action would puncture its work in 16 states during the third wave of Covid-19 as it would hit the NGO’s plans to set up oxygen plants and deliver life-saving equipment to hospitals, among others. While the MHA remained mum on where the NGOs had erred, neither MoC and Oxfam India nor other NGOs impacted by the decision have said what reasons the authorities have cited to reject their renewal applications. Governments trying to put a squeeze on NGOs is nothing new. It was not long ago that then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had raged against those protesting against the Kudankulam nuclear power plant, citing national interest. The UPA government amended the FCRA to make it stringent, the Modi government has taken it much further. Soon after it came to power in 2014, the Modi government opened a broad front against NGOs like Greenpeace, Amnesty International, Ford Foundation, and several others. A large number of NGOs lost their licences in the purge. It further amended the FCRA to make it more difficult for NGOs to obtain funds from abroad – including mandating all NGOs seeking foreign donations to open a dedicated account with the SBI in Delhi. Civil society is curiously silent over the latest episode, even as opacity rules the government’s actions against the NGOs. Were the renewal applications of MoC and Oxfam India hastily and summarily rejected? Whose reports are these “adverse reports” that the government is relying on and citing? The MoC has long been a target of Hindutva outfits; Oxfam, meanwhile, has been critical of the Modi government on occasion. Why have some 150 NGOs been taken off the list of organisations with expired licences in the past few days? One explanation is that they filled in their applications after the MHA updated the list (at 7 PM) but before the deadline of midnight on December 31-January 1. It is not easy to find out which these NGOs are since there is no consolidated list of NGOs that applied at the last minute. Is it a question of “our” NGOs versus “your” NGOs? Every government would love to have a pool of NGOs that support it. The UPA regime had institutionalised its interaction with NGOs through the National Advisory Council (NAC) but the relationship went awry as civil society turned against it. The Modi government has amplified the UPA government’s argument that many NGOs were acting against the country’s economic interests, but it may have added an ideological bias to what’s already a messy problem.  At a time when the government is fast withdrawing from the social sector and India’s ability to achieve many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals come into question, the role of NGOs is rising and critical. To tar a certain section of them with a selective brush and to squeeze them out of existence may do the country no good.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/would-govt-please-make-public-the-adverse-report-against-certain-ngos-1068335.html
05-01-2022||Panorama||How to help a tribal block with better healthcare?||Attapadi, India’s first tribal block, located among the hills adjoining the Silent Valley National Park in Kerala is home to the Irula, Muduga and Kurumba Adivasi communities. In 2013, reports about infant deaths in Attapadi caught national attention. That this happened in Kerala, globally renowned for the good health and wellbeing of its population, added to the shock. Both the Centre and the state governments swung into action with targeted schemes and a special financial package to reverse the alienation of the Adivasi communities and improve their health status. However as recent reports indicate, despite all these measures, the spate of infants continues. Since 2013, a lot has changed in the local health system in Attapadi. Currently, there is a well-functioning Tribal Speciality Hospital, a Community Health Centre, three Primary Health Centres and twenty-eight sub-centres spread across Attapadi. All health facilities are staffed with several medical officers, Nurses, ASHAs etc. The Tribal Speciality Hospital has multiple specialists. All healthcare, both in-patient and outpatient’ is provided completely free with even indirect costs such as travel expenses, food etc. being reimbursed. Despite all these measures, why does infant mortality continue to haunt this tribal block? Recent news reports and researches conducted in Attapadi have shown that community engagement and ownership are missing here. Recent research on healthcare in Attapadi has described how potentially well-intentioned actions have led to the stigmatisation and alienation of the local communities. The lack of meaningful engagement with the village chiefs (moopans) or the community forums such as the village assembly (ooru kootams) while planning interventions has led to activites that have no real impact on the health status. In its efforts to ensure that hospital-based care for all, the local health system also took the path of forced compliance of the community to its directives. This led to a trust deficit among the community of the local healthcare system. A key feature of successful indigenous health programs globally is the importance given to culturally safe healthcare delivery by placing indigenous traditions and customs in a central role. Culturally, safety is not about learning a few indigenous words or practising art. It is about changing the approach to providing quality healthcare by focusing on the rights of indigenous communities to receive healthcare that is not only technically sound but respects them and their worldview. The health system should take concrete steps to integrate itself with the right of indigenous communities to lead a life that is in keeping with their cultural and spiritual belief systems. Community involvement One of the key lessons that we learnt from the National Health Mission (NHM) was the importance of village health committees in ensuring quality healthcare. Given the unique features of indigenous communities, this initiative needs to be adapted and integrated into their worldview. The traditional system of governance among the indigenous communities of Attapadi is headed by the ooru moopan who was assisted by a council. All matters of common interest were discussed and decided by the ooru kootams convened by the moopan when required. While the roles of the moopan and the ooru kootams have gradually been replaced by the governance mechanisms of the state, they still hold immense cultural significance. Instead of imposing a system from outside, the local health system in Attapadi needs to adapt itself to these cultural institutions so that they can work together as allies in pursuit of the common goal of health for all. To achieve this, the department of health should ensure that: Village-level health committees are formed immediately in each village consisting of the moopan and the ooru ASHA. Sensitise and train all health personnel working in Attapadi on culturally safe approaches to providing healthcare within the next six months. Mandate that all doctors and nurses should attend the village assembly in their area at regular intervals to discuss issues faced by the community and promote awareness of the various initiatives of the department. Involve local indigenous organisations to build capacities of the Indigenous communities to engage with the health system. (The writer is a research fellow, Health Research Institute, University of Canberra. He carried out ethnographic fieldwork in Attapadi between 2018-19 for his PhD thesis that investigated the reasons for poor access to healthcare in among indigenous communities in Attapadi) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-help-a-tribal-block-with-better-healthcare-1068336.html
05-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Island in the sun||In the '60s, Ulsoor Lake (Halasuru) was a familiar getaway. We were in our teens. My friends would rent a boat for about 50 paise per hour and spend half a day on one of the islands with picnic baskets and a guitar. The boats were wooden, just about functional, with shaky rowlocks and oars, and would seat about six to eight persons. None of us knew how to row and would ‘goof’ our way around, sometimes in circles, till we reached the Horseshoe Island. The thought that we could capsize and drown never even entered our heads. Even when boats leaked, we would just bale out the water unperturbed. Life seemed so safe those days. Once on the island, we would play games, enjoy a sing-song, scramble up the trees, eat our lunch, laze around and carry on those mild flirtations of teenage years.   The lake was clearer then because it was cleaner then!  Come evening, we would return the boat and ride home, after a ‘one by two or four by six’ of coffee and dosa, at the lakeside restaurant. These are my happy memories of fun and exercise during '60s and '70s. Later, when we got involved in serious romances, many a proposal was ‘popped’ and a match ‘sealed’ while sitting by the lake on a moonlit night. Even now I feel a thrill of nostalgia when I pass by Ulsoor Lake, though unfortunately, I happen upon sights that are not so pleasing to the eye. The lake still looks serene and beautiful, but only on the surface. Not many years ago, a shoal of dead fish was found floating on the water. Gone is the blaze of Mayflower trees (Gulmohar) on the islands, so spectacularly in contrast to the green and blue hues of the lake and the abundant spring blooms on surrounding roads — Jacaranda, Acacia, Bohemia, Tabuebia heralding the April showers. The children’s play area could do with more equipment and a facelift. The park benches too need to be made more comfortable and stable and the gardens more appealing. The restaurant is as primitive as ever but is the only recourse for hungry tourists. Taking a boat out on one’s own is not allowed anymore, nor is disembarking on the islands, I am told.  The spirit of Ulsoor Lake needs to be awakened! Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/island-in-the-sun-1068042.html
05-01-2022||Right in the Middle||Real-life entertainer||Back in the good old days, when cable TV was not yet popular, we enjoyed going to the movies for wholesome entertainment. Our parents’ wedding anniversary was one such occasion that was celebrated at the erstwhile Puttana Kannagal theatre in South Bengaluru. “I hope it’s a nice movie, is it a Vishnu Vardhan-starrer?” my mother asked eagerly. Mind you, this was circa 1997. My sister quickly said, “No Amma, this is a Hindi movie with the three biggest stars of Bollywood”. Keeping them guessing, we quickly finished lunch and headed to the theatre almost an hour before the movie started. Squeezing through the crowd, I brought four balcony tickets. The guy at the counter had told us the balcony had the best cushions. The definition of best seats in those days was certainly not a recliner, but two out of the four seats were towards the exit door. I ran excitedly towards my parents brandishing the tickets in my hand. My elation was certainly not contagious as it failed to elicit any smile on their face while my sister was gleaming with happiness. Being fans of Dharmendra, Vishnu Vardhan and Guru Dutt, my parents merely stared at the poster of Dil to pagal hai. In an effort to lighten their mood, I said, “You will simply love this movie, the review says this story has touched the hearts of people across all age groups.” With a rather stoic mind, they entered the movie hall. As the credits began to roll, there were whistles and claps from the people in the front seats. One hour into the movie, I could sense my dad’s restlessness. He kept asking, why is there no interval in the movie? His boredom notwithstanding, I diverted my attention to an intense scene. The silence in the theatre was suddenly broken by a singular voice! My dad was standing with his hands thrown in the air, shouting “Hum toh pagal ho gaye”! Over 200 eyes were now focused on my dad, while my sister quickly chose to slide from her seat in a desperate bid to escape from this ‘embarrassing’ situation. As I pleaded with my dad to sit down, the roar of laughter around us was deafening! “See, most of them were craving for some comic relief,” remarked my dad. A gentleman sitting behind us showered praises on my dad and called him a real-life entertainer! Even today, if he sees a song or sequence of the movie on TV, my father cheekily asks, “is this hum to pagal ho gaye” movie? Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/real-life-entertainer-1068333.html
05-01-2022||Second Edit||Mekedatu project: Step back and think||The Mekedatu project, which has been a bone of contention between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for a few years now, is once again in the thick of politics, this time between political parties within Karnataka, with the Congress, set on doing a padayatra demanding its early execution. The Congress has accused the BJP governments at the state and Centre of delaying the project to build a balancing reservoir at the confluence of river Cauvery and its tributary Arkavathy to provide drinking water to Bengaluru and generate 400 MW of power. Karnataka is no doubt entitled to the water awarded to it by the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal as modified by the Supreme Court and is empowered to “regulate within its boundaries the use of water or to enjoy the benefits of waters within the state, not inconsistent with the order”. But it would be wise to objectively analyse the cost-benefit ratio of the project in view of its potential environmental impact in a time of climate change. The Rs 9,000 crore project which aims to store 67 TMCft of water will submerge over 12,000 acres of forest land, including 4,500 acres of the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, which is a prominent elephant corridor and home to several endangered species. The impact on wildlife during the construction period itself can be easily imagined -- the pre-feasibility report mentions the use of 2,000 tonnes of explosives to clear the rocks at the dam site. Post-project, even if the government takes up compensatory afforestation, a promise that in most cases remains only on paper, a man-made monoculture ‘forest’ cannot replace a natural forest. Another relevant question to address: Will bringing water from Mekedatu be enough for an ever-expanding Bengaluru, whose need for water, power and other resources is insatiable? While successive governments have for long-promised to set up investment hubs across the state to ease the pressure on Bengaluru, this has been a non-starter so far. Even if the Mekedatu project is implemented, the ever-growing city and its burgeoning population are certain to run out of water within years. Therefore, it is important to adopt a sustainable approach, including such measures as widespread rainwater harvesting, use of treated and recycled water, rejuvenation of Bengaluru’s lakes and its stormwater drain system. While Karnataka cannot be denied the right to appropriate its due share of Cauvery water, the government should explore if Bengaluru’s water security can be achieved through more environmental-friendly means, rather than the conventional way of building dams and reservoirs. An objective environmental impact assessment would make matters clear. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/mekedatu-project-step-back-and-think-1068040.html
05-01-2022||Second Edit||ESA notification: States have learned no lesson||With the Centre extending the validity of the draft notification on the Kasturirangan report, which made recommendations for the preservation of the Western Ghats, a decision on this important matter has again been postponed. The draft notification, which was issued in 2018 and expired on December 31, has been extended for the fifth time as various states have raised concerns about the recommendations. The deadline for the final notification has been put off for another six months. But it is not certain whether there will be any decision even by June 30, considering the pressures being brought upon the Centre by the states. Kerala and Karnataka have the most serious objections. The states have conveyed theirs concerns to the Centre, and the Centre took the easy way out and put off a decision, obviously on political considerations. The Kasturirangan committee had in 2013 recommended that an area of 56,825 sq km spread across the Western Ghats be declared an Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) where many activities like mining and quarrying would be banned or restricted. The committee had in fact diluted the recommendations of the Madhav Gadgil committee that came before it. Governments are now unwilling to accept even the watered-down proposals and want thousands of square kilometres of the Ghat region to be exempt. Karnataka wants exemption for 6,500 sq km out of the proposed 20,668 sq km, and Kerala for 1,337 sq km out of the proposed 9,993 sq km. While Kerala is worried about how the notification would affect habitations in the higher ranges, Karnataka’s concerns are about ‘development’ activities, a euphemism mostly for mining and quarrying and changing land use. These activities involve the destruction of the environment, pollution and even deforestation. It is unfortunate that the states are unwilling to see the dangers of the unchecked assault on nature that has gone on for decades. The Western Ghats are among the most ecologically sensitive areas in the world and very rich in biodiversity. They have a big role in regulating the weather and climate of the states they straddle. The extreme climate events and natural calamities witnessed in the past few years in these states in the form of floods, landslides, etc., are to a good extent the result of the liberties taken with nature in the Western Ghat region. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said last month that the state cabinet had decided to oppose the implementation of the Kasturirangan report in the interest of ‘development’ and the livelihood of people. That is a wrong and unwise decision and will hurt the interests of the state and the people. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/esa-notification-states-have-learned-no-lesson-1068340.html
05-01-2022||South||39.8% Andhra 15-17-year-olds administered first Covid jab: GoI||Andhra Pradesh tops the list with 39.8 per cent of the target population in the age group of 15-17 years being administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the first two days since the inoculation drive began for this category of beneficiaries in the country. The southern state is followed by Himachal Pradesh, which has jabbed 37 per cent of the target beneficiaries in this category with first dose, and Gujarat at 30.9 per cent, officials said. India opened up vaccination for the 15-18 years age-group on January 3 and so far over 85 lakh beneficiaries in the category have received the first shot. According to officials, in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, 28.3 per cent of those of the 15-18 age group have been administered the first dose followed by Karnataka at 25.3 per cent, Uttarakhand 22.5 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 20.6 per cent and Chhattisgarh 20.5 per cent. The vaccine option against Covid-19 for children in the age group of 15-18 years is Covaxin only. The registration for this category of beneficiaries opened up on January 1 and according to the guidelines, they can self-register, online through an existing account on CoWIN or by creating a new account through a unique mobile number. At present, this facility is available for all eligible citizens. Such beneficiaries can also register onsite by the verifier/vaccinator in facilitated registration mode. Appointments can be booked online or onsite (walk-in). With the administration of more than 96 lakh (96,43,238) vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 147.72 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am, the health ministry said on Wednesday. This has been achieved through 1,58,21,510 sessions. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years to be vaccinated from May 1. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/398-andhra-15-17-year-olds-administered-first-covid-jab-goi-1068123.html
05-01-2022||South||K-Rail: Daggers drawn between Vijayan and Sudhakaran||The pet project of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan - K-Rail (Silverline) has now become controversial after State Congress president K. Sudhakaran sais that the project will not happen. On Tuesday, Vijayan presided over a meeting of around 200 invited guests at an indoor stadium here, and explained the project and also took questions from the guests and no sooner did the meeting get over, Sudhakaran went public and said he will pull out all the stones that have been laid as part of the alignment work for the proposed rail project. "If Vijayan fails to answer the questions raised by the common man, this project will not be allowed to go forward by the Congress party. And if the law and order situation in the state is affected because of it, only Vijayan will be responsible. We are ready to withdraw our protests if Vijayan is ready to give answers," said Sudhakaran. With Vijayan and Sudhakaran both hailing from Kannur and have been arch foes for several years, none will be keen to bow down and hence an interesting battle is on the cards. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Vijayan has lately become closer to corporates and has gone away from common man. "Just look what happened when Vijayan called a group of people when he should have actually called the people's representatives and explained. We will be reaching out to the people," said Satheesan. And on Wednesday morning Kerala woke up with the news that the stones laid for the alignment in Kannur-Madaipara were pulled out. CPI-M state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnanm trying to play down the opposition, said even though stones were be pulled out, the alignment will not be changed nor will the project be shelved. "Those who oppose this will go down in history as those who are opposed to development in the state besides will have to face legal action also," said Balakrishnan. With a fresh assembly session in the offing , this project will be the most discussed topic and with neither Vijayan nor Sudhakaran willing to budge, a battle is in the offing. The project, if completed will set up a 529.45 km corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod and a high speed train which will run this distance will complete its journey in around four hours.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-rail-daggers-drawn-between-vijayan-and-sudhakaran-1068151.html
05-01-2022||South||Kerala government defends work on SilverLine project without Centre clearance||Amidst stiff resistance to its ambitious SilverLine project from the opposition Congress-led UDF and BJP, the Left-front government defended in the Kerala High Court the laying of boundary stones for the project by saying that "only preparatory and preliminary works" were being carried out. In an affidavit filed in the high court, the state has said that it only issued a government order (GO) on August 18, 2021, according sanction for conducting a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) study and for constituting an expert group to evaluate the report of the same. The state government has said that in the August 2021 order, it has been made clear that steps to proceed with land acquisition would be taken only after getting the final approval for the project from the Railway Board. However, in the same affidavit, the state has also said, "It is also pointed out that as per GO(MS) No.3642/21/RD dated December 31, 2021, revised orders have been issued according for the acquisition of 1,221 hectares of land of various villages for the Semi High Speed Railway Line - SilverLine - project." The state government further said the boundary stones were being laid to enable the SIA team to identify the land and conduct the study. "The social impact study shall include the extent of lands, public and private, houses, settlements and other common properties likely to be affected by proposed acquisition amongst other things. So as to identify the lands proposed for acquisition, they should be demarcated," the government has contended in its affidavit. It has also said that tenders were invited for carrying out Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study or fieldwork and preparation of Comprehensive EIA (CEIA) report as well as Environment Management Plan (EMP) and as per letter dated September 2, 2021, the offer submitted by EQMS India Pvt Ltd has been accepted. "The government is confident that the approval of the appropriate authority can be obtained. Being a major project, necessary preparatory and preliminary works are to be done. Unless the same is done in a proper manner, as detailed above, the same may affect the very outcome of the project," it added. The affidavit has been filed in response to a plea by one M T Thomas, alleging that the state was carrying out land acquisition proceedings for the semi-high speed rail corridor, SilverLine, without necessary clearances from the Centre and other authorities concerned. The plea, filed through advocate K Mohanakannan, has sought contempt action against the state government and the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail) for allegedly violating the assurance given to the court in January last year that they will proceed with the project only after getting the concurrence from the Centre, Railway Board and other statutory authorities. The state government, in its affidavit, refuted the allegation that it violated the assurance given to the court. "The respondents (government and K-Rail) have not violated the assurance as recorded in the judgement (of January last year), and that only preparatory and preliminary works are going on," it told the high court. Thomas, in his contempt plea, contended that even the tender invited for carrying out an EIA study was in "total disregard" of the undertaking. The petitioner's land in Mulakulam grama panchayat in Kottayam district is proposed to be acquired for the project, the plea has said. Kerala government's ambitious SilverLine project, which is expected to reduce travel time from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod to around four hours, is being opposed by the opposition Congress-led UDF, which has been alleging that it was "unscientific and impractical" and will put a huge financial burden on the state. The 540-kilometre stretch from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod would be developed by K-Rail, a joint venture of the Kerala government and the Railway Ministry for developing railway infrastructure in the southern state. Starting from the state capital, SilverLine trains will have stoppages at Kollam, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Tirur, Kozhikode and Kannur before reaching Kasaragod. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-defends-work-on-silverline-project-without-centre-clearance-1068202.html
05-01-2022||South||Metroman asks Kerala govt not to fool people by hiding facts on K-Rail||With the Pinarayi Vijayan government determined to go forward with the K-Rail project, Metroman E. Sreedharan on Wednesday asked the government not to fool people by underestimating costs and hiding facts. If completed, the pet project of Vijayan will see a 529.45 km corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod and a high speed train will run this distance in around four hours. And on Tuesday for the first time Vijayan met up with an invited audience of around 200 people in the state capital city and explained the project and based on it Sreedharan has raised a few questions. Sreedharan said that Vijayan in his interaction with selected invitees stated that Kerala State would not be divided by the K-Rail, as over bridges or under bridges will be provided every 500 m, at all places where the K-Rail is on the ground. "On either side high concrete or masonry walls have to be provided to prevent trespass of people and animals - fencing will not do as it can be violated easily. Providing solid walls on either side is a sure environmental disaster as it will block natural drainage and will be an eye-sore as well," said Sreedharan. He goes on to say that the fate of Kuttanad which gets flooded easily will get repeated over the entire length of 393 km, where K-Rail is at ground level. "Further, over 393 km about 800 ROBs/RUBs will have to be constructed. Each will cost at least about Rs 20 crore. That means a total cost of about Rs 16,000 crore. This cost has not been included in the present estimate. Further for 800 ROBs/RUBs a lot of additional land has to be acquired which has not been foreseen. The extra cost of land and time for acquisition has to be reckoned," said Sreedharan. He went on say that at Tuesday's meeting it was said that the detailed report of major projects are not made public. "This is a total lie. I had prepared DPRs for at least 10 major projects and none of the DPRs was kept away from the public. Why should the government, fool the people by underestimating costs and hiding facts," asked Sreedharan. It was Sreedharan who was largely instrumental in seeing the Kochi Metro becoming a reality, but after the Pinarayi Vijayan government took over in 2016, for some reason the two never got along well and it worsened after Sreedharan became a candidate of the BJP in the April 2021 assembly polls and gave a fright to the sitting Congress legislator Shafi Parambil, who eventually managed to win.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metroman-asks-kerala-govt-not-to-fool-people-by-hiding-facts-on-k-rail-1068207.html
05-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu government announces more curbs, night curfew to contain Covid-19||To tackle the rising coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday ordered fresh curbs which includes state-wide night curfew between 10 pm and 5 am with effect from January 6. A shutdown would be enforced on Sunday (January 9) and only 50 per cent occupancy shall be allowed in buses, suburban trains, and Metrorail, the government said. All government and privately organised harvest festival 'Pongal' and cultural events are postponed and entertainment and amusement parks would be shutdown, an official release here said. Public would not be allowed in all places of worship on three days - Fridays, Saturday and Sunday- a week. The present bar for social, cultural and political congregations would continue to be in place. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-announces-more-curbs-night-curfew-to-contain-covid-19-1068241.html
05-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu government says it will continue to oppose Karnataka's Mekedatu project||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday once again asserted its stand on sharing of river water with neighbouring states by opposing the Mekedatu reservoir project being planned by Karnataka and declaring its intention to take necessary steps to restore the full reservoir level (FRL) of 152 ft in Mullaperiyar Dam located in Kerala. The state government’s stand on inter-state disputes with Karnataka and Kerala were articulated by Governor R N Ravi in his maiden speech in the Tamil Nadu Assembly which convened on Wednesday for the first time in the new year. The Governor’s address was boycotted by principal opposition AIADMK and DMK’s ally VCK, which attributed its walkout to the Governor “sitting on” a bill passed by the Assembly seeking exemption from NEET for students from Tamil Nadu. The 45-minute speech by Ravi in English also reiterated that Tamil Nadu will continue to implement the “dual language” policy of using Tamil and English thereby opposing Hindi, and nudged the Centre to extend the GST compensation till 2024 and asserted the state’s opposition to entrance exams like NEET. “While extending constructive co-operation to neighbouring states, Tamil Nadu will continue to fight for its rightful share of river waters. This government, which is committed to the welfare of farmers, will never allow construction of Mekedatu Dam by Karnataka across Cauvery river,” the Governor said in his speech. Tamil Nadu’s assertions come amid Karnataka’s renewed attempt to build a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery. While Karnataka contends that the reservoir will fulfil the water needs of Bengaluru, Tamil Nadu says no structure can be built across Cauvery without its permission. On the Mullaperiyar dam issue, the Governor said after many years, the state was able to store water at the current permissible limit of 142 feet for many days continuously and the government will take all necessary measures to restore the full reservoir level of 152 feet in line with a Supreme Court verdict. The Governor’s address said Tamil Nadu has sought Rs 6,230 crore from the union government for relief and rehabilitation of flood-affected areas and urged the Centre to release funds from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). Emphasising the steps to promote Tamil, the Governor mentioned the government’s decision to declare Tamil Vaazhthu as the State Anthem and popularize the Tamil language in government institutions, private schools, shops and commercial establishments. On farmers, the Governor said due to timely desilting of channels, the release of water from Mettur dam as per schedule and implementation of Kuruvai package for Rs.61 crore, a record paddy coverage of 4.9 lakh acres has been achieved in the Kuruvai (short-term crop) season this year. Contending that entrance exams create an “unequal platform by being inherently discriminatory against rural students”, the Governor said the Government is of the firm view that entrance exams like NEET are unnecessary for student admissions to professional courses and “will continue to reiterate this position." The Governor’s address also praised Chief Minister M K Stalin for his gesture to personally visit the Narikuravar and Irular families in their homes and redress their grievances. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-says-it-will-continue-to-oppose-karnatakas-mekedatu-project-1068249.html
05-01-2022||South||Madras HC dismisses petition against verdict on Jayalalithaa’s bungalow||Holding that there were “procedural irregularities” in acquiring the Poes Garden residence of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, the Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed appeals filed by AIADMK and one of its leaders against an order by a single judge striking down the acquisition of the bungalow in 2020.  A division bench of justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup dismissed the appeals filed by the AIADMK and former Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugham, while maintaining that there was “no public purpose” in acquiring the palatial bungalow for converting it into a memorial for its owner, Jayalalithaa.  Justice N Seshasayee had on November 24 handed over the residence to Jayalalithaa’s brother’s children after striking down an order passed by the previous AIADMK government to acquire the property and convert it into a memorial for her.  As per the judgement, the keys for the residence were handed over to Deepa and Deepak by the Chennai district administration in mid-December. However, the AIADMK decided to appeal against the single judge order. In their order on Wednesday, the division bench said the Single Judge, on the basis of the material on record, has arrived at the conclusion that there were procedural irregularities in the acquisition in question and therefore it is held to be illegal.  "...We are in agreement with the finding recorded in the impugned judgement that, the acquisition in question was procedurally illegal and we confirm the said part of the judgement,” the judges said in their order. They also observed that it would neither be “legal nor proper” for the court to order the current government to carry on with the acquisition of the bungalow against the wishes of the owners of the property – Deepa and Deepak.  Former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his then deputy O Panneerselvam had issued orders in 2020 to acquire the residence against the wishes of Deepa and Deepak and convert it into a memorial. Though the memorial was inaugurated in January, it was not thrown open to the public due to a court order.  Though Jayalalithaa did not leave a will, the Madras High Court had in May 2020 declared the sister-brother duo as her legal heirs. Even after Jayalalithaa’s death, her long-time aide V K Sasikala was staying at the bungalow till her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case was confirmed by the Supreme Court.  The sprawling mansion in upscale Poes Garden was where Jayalalithaa resided for nearly 50 years after her mother, Sandhya, bought the bungalow in the late 1960s.  The bungalow, whose market value is nearly Rs 100 crore as of date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya for a mere Rs 1.32 lakh in 1967. Sandhya bought the front portion of the mansion in the 1960s, but Jayalalithaa expanded the bungalow by acquiring nearby properties. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-dismisses-petition-against-verdict-on-jayalalithaa-s-bungalow-1068252.html
05-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu to launch publication division to release books on temples and architecture||Tamil Nadu’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department will establish a publication division to bring out books that speak the rich history and architecture of temples in the state and the magnificent Tamil literature.  The department, which has assumed the centre stage after the M K Stalin-led cabinet assumed office in May last year, will also launch a drive to preserve rare palm leaf manuscripts available in temples and mutts across the state.  In his address to the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday, Governor R N Ravi said the publication division will be established with state-of-the-art facilities to publish books on the history and architecture of temples, and the rich Tamil literature, including Bhakti literature. The facility, officials said, will be established very soon and experts will be roped in for publishing of the books.  “Major temples will be encouraged to have bookstalls wherein books about the history of temples, heritage, culture and Tamil language will be displayed,” the Governor said.  The Governor also announced that retired officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) have been appointed as archaeological advisors for conservation, preservation and renovation of ancient temples under the control of the department.  Ravi, in his speech, also said the government has issued appointment orders to 58 trained archakars (priests) belonging to different caste denominations. He also said 432.82 acres of temple lands at an estimated value of Rs 1,628.61 crore have been retrieved after clearing encroachments ever since the DMK assumed office last year.  The DMK government, which assumed office in May this year, has taken several steps to infuse greater transparency in the functioning of temples and has begun uploading details of temple lands, buildings, and other records on its website as the first step. As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR&CE department which manages and controls them. The department is also conducting a drone and DGPS survey of nearly 5 lakh acres of land owned by various temples and trusts that come under it after which 3D images of the land will be published online. HR & CE department is also reviving the Archakar Payirchi Palli (Priest Training Schools), which were lying idle since 2008, to train more people from all communities as priests. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-launch-publication-division-to-release-books-on-temples-and-architecture-1068265.html
05-01-2022||South||Protest against Kerala's K-rail project takes ugly turn||Protest against the proposed semi-high-speed rail project of Kerala is taking an ugly turn with stones laid for demarking land for the project found removed in the Kannur district. Incidentally, the development took place close on the heels of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran, who is also a Lok Sabha MP, stating on Tuesday that if the Left Front government went ahead with the project ignoring the protests, the stones being laid would be removed with the support of people. Stones for the project were found uprooted in parts of the district, which is generally known as a stronghold of the CPI(M). The incident took place on Tuesday night, hours after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan started his deliberations with community leaders to gain support for the project and the government announced a compensation package offering two to four-fold of market value. The chief minister reacted that even if stones were removed, it would not affect the project. The eco-friendly project that reduces travel time between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod to less than four hours, which now takes around 10 hours by road or rail, was essential for state's development, he reiterated. The state has been so far witnessing aggressive and emotional protests by people against laying the stones for the project. A family in the Kollam district threatened to end their lives by dousing themselves in kerosene. With CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stating that the law would take its course against attempts like uprooting the stones laid for the project, a law and order breakdown could not be ruled out in Kerala too. Even the CPI(M) leaders recently stated that the opposition parties were planning a stir on the lines of the Nandigram agitation of West Bengal. Known activists like Medha Patkar also extended solidarity with the action council against the project. Meanwhile, the opposition party in Kerala — Congress-led United Democratic Front — on Wednesday demanded the government to convene a special session of the Kerala Assembly to discuss the project. The UDF also decided to go ahead with statewide protests. The BJP also announced a protest against the project. Experts like 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, and environmentalists have also raised serious objections against the project. An action council against the project has workers and supporters from all parties, including the ruling front also. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protest-against-keralas-k-rail-project-takes-ugly-turn-1068274.html
05-01-2022||South||On the run for 20 days, former Tamil Nadu minister Rajenthra Bhalaji arrested in Hassan||After being on the run for 20 days, former AIADMK minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji was on Wednesday arrested by the Tamil Nadu Police in Hassan district in Karnataka in connection with cheating cases. Bhalaji, who was Dairy Development Minister in the Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet, was picked up in Hassan when he was travelling to another location. The former minister went missing on December 17 after the Madras High Court dismissed his petitions seeking anticipatory bail in two cases. Since then, the TN police have been trying to track him down. Sources said police came to know that Bhalaji was hiding in Hassan district while tracking the mobile number of his aides. They claimed a few district-level BJP office bearers in Tamil Nadu helped Bhalaji to keep his location a secret. Bhalaji is accused of cheating Rs 3 crore from various persons after promising government jobs for them. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/on-the-run-for-20-days-former-tamil-nadu-minister-rajenthra-bhalaji-arrested-in-hassan-1068283.html
05-01-2022||South||DMK demands resignation of Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi||Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Governor R N Ravi for “sitting on” the legislation passed by the Assembly seeking exemption from NEET for nearly four months and not forwarding it to the Centre for the President’s consideration. The DMK also condemned Union Home Minister Amit Shah for not giving an audience to an all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu despite several requests. The all-party delegation of MPs led by DMK Treasurer and Parliamentary Party leader T R Baalu has been camping in New Delhi for the past few days to meet Shah regarding the NEET bill. “The legislation seeking exemption from NEET for students from Tamil Nadu was sent to the Governor on September 18, 2021. Nearly four months have passed but the Governor has not forwarded the Bill to the Union Home Ministry for the consideration of the President. The Governor is acting against the Constitution,” Baalu told reporters in New Delhi. AIADMK MP A Navaneethakrishnan was also present at the briefing. He said the people of Tamil Nadu “do not need a Governor” who does not act under the Constitution and demanded his resignation. “If he cannot function according to the Constitution, he should resign. That is our stand,” Baalu said. The call for Ravi’s resignation came on the day he made his maiden address in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. Baalu said the Governor “sat on” the bill for four months despite repeated reminders from Chief Minister M K Stalin and his ministerial colleagues. On Shah refusing to meet the delegation from TN, Baalu said the Home Minister’s office kept cancelling appointments granted which is “condemnable” and that “we are still waiting to hear.” NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu which passed a bill seeking exemption from the exam for the second time in four years. The first bill passed in 2017 was rejected by the Centre. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-demands-resignation-of-tamil-nadu-governor-r-n-ravi-1068293.html
05-01-2022||South||BJP means 'Bakwas Jumla Party', says TRS leader K T Rama Rao||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president K T Rama Rao on Wednesday described BJP as 'Bakwas Jumla Party' and hit out at the saffron party’s chief J P Nadda for his recent comments against Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao. Alleging that the BJP attacks its political opponents by using some of the regulatory agencies, Rama Rao sarcastically said the constituents of NDA at the Centre are BJP, CBI, ED, NIA and similar institutions. "So far we thought BJP means Bharatiya Janata Party. It is not Bharatiya Janata Party. It is Bakwas Jumla Party (party of rubbish and false promises) . They speak nonsense and make useless comments. Other than that there is no useful activity for the country and people during the past seven and half years. They have nothing to claim about achieving anything. It is zilch," Rama Rao said. Till now people had an opinion that Nadda was educated and reasonable, but after his comments yesterday it was understood that there was no difference between him and Bandi Sanjay Kumar as far as making cheap comments was concerned, Rama Rao alleged. "There is no difference between the national president of BJP and its state’ head considering their comments to pass on cheap remarks and despicable comments against other leaders," Rama Rao said. He alleged that several poll promises made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi were not fulfilled. On Nadda’s allegations that large-scale corruption took place in Kaleshwaram project, Rama Rao said Minister of State for Water Resources Bishweswar Tudu gave a clean chit to the TRS government in Parliament. Referring to the stoppage of Modi’s convoy for 15 to 20 minutes in Punjab due to blockade by some protesters, the minister said no Prime Minister in the country has faced such a depressing situation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-means-bakwas-jumla-party-says-trs-leader-k-t-rama-rao-1068299.html
05-01-2022||South||Telangana HC orders state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay's release||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the state police to release state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay from jail immediately. Bandi was arrested on Sunday night in Karimnagar when he sat on a protest demanding the scrapping of a state government order (GO 317) pertaining to transfers of government employees and teachers. Opposition parties are alleging that the transfers are being executed by the K Chandrasekhar Rao government against the wishes of employees. Stating that no permission was given due to Covid-19, police took Bandi into custody. The saffron party has been holding protests since the arrest and party chief JP Nadda too attended a candlelight march in Secunderabad on Tuesday evening condemning the TRS government's action. Based on Bandi's petition, the court has reportedly questioned the manner of arrest, swift registration of FIR, the inclusion of sections like IPC 333 and remand report details. The court then directed the Lok Sabha MP's forthwith release on furnishing personal bond and the matter was posted to 7 February. Condemning Bandi's arrest, Nadda called chief minister Rao the “most corrupt and autocratic ruler in the country.” “I came to show our solidarity with Bandi and the Telangana unit which is fighting on the ground for the sake of people, employees of the state,” Nadda said at the BJP state office after the march. Nadda said that Bandi was holding dharna in a peaceful manner in his MP office at night following Covid-19 rules. "But the police barged in detaining the participating employees. They used gas cutters to enter the room, manhandled Bandi and arrested him. The police used water cannons, tear gas, while lathi charging at the party cadres,” Nadda said. The BJP leader said that his party would continue to agitate publicly in a democratic manner. “What has happened over the last two days is the murder of democracy. TRS's is a dynastic rule steeped in corruption of gigantic proportions. We will fight till we remove this anti-democratic, autocratic family rule. We won't stop now whatever you (Rao) do,” Nadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-hc-orders-state-bjp-chief-bandi-sanjays-release-1068303.html
05-01-2022||South||Bengaluru-based Malayali offers 18,001 ghee-filled coconuts at Sabrimala||A Bengaluru-based Malayali businessman made 18,001 ghee-filled coconuts as offering at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, which is the highest ever. The devotee, identified as Vishnu Sharan Bhatt, made the offering on Wednesday, at a cost of Rs 18 lakh. It was for the first time that this many ghee coconuts were offered by a devotee at the temple, the temple authorities informed. Ghee coconut is one of the main offerings at the hill shrine. It requires 2,280 kilograms of ghee and 7.5 tonnes of coconuts. Ten priests had taken couple of days to fill the ghee in the coconuts and it was transported to the hill shrine in tractors. The devotee was not present while making the offering. Instead his relatives and friends were present. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-based-malayali-offers-18001-ghee-filled-coconuts-at-sabrimala-1068315.html
05-01-2022||South||With 4,824 infections, Tamil Nadu records sharp surge in new Covid-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported a massive spike in daily cases with 4,824 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in a day, over 40 per cent higher than Tuesday’s figure, even as the government tightened the restriction by imposing a night lockdown to curb the further spread.  The day also saw the Health Department declaring that Omicron was the “dominant variant” in the state pushing Delta, which led to the second wave of Covid-19 infections, to the second spot. However, the only solace was Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan’s statement that none of the over 100 Omicron patients in the state so far needed oxygen support and that the infection was mild.    Over half of Wednesday’s patients – 2,481 – are from the capital city of Chennai which has been almost doubling the cases for the past few days, even as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) asked people with symptoms to get tested immediately at any of the 140 Urban Primary Health Centres which have facilities to conduct RT-PCR tests.  With the cases increasing rapidly, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced a night lockdown from 10 pm to 5 am during weekdays and a slew of restrictions, including a full-day lockdown on January 9 (Sunday). The restrictions, the government said, was the need of the hour to control the spread of the Covid-19, especially the Omicron variant.  As many as 4,824 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday from 1,17,382 persons whose samples were collected, and nine deaths were reported. While Chennai reported 2,481 cases, up from 1,489 on Tuesday, neighbouring Chengalpattu stood second with 596 fresh cases.  As of Tuesday, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in the state stood at 2.6 per cent and the active cases as of Wednesday stood at 16,577, including those under home isolation. Radhakrishnan said as per the latest genomic sequencing report, Omicron was the “dominant variant” in the state with 65 per cent of the patient being infected with Omicron and only the remaining 35 per cent with Delta. While asking people not to panic, the Health Secretary stressed the need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and washing hands at regular intervals.  The hospital beds situation was under control, officials said. Of the 74,450 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in the state, only 4,315 was occupied of which 1,994 are oxygen-supported, 1,913 normal beds and 408 ICU beds.   Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-4824-infections-tamil-nadu-records-sharp-surge-in-new-covid-19-cases-1068332.html
05-01-2022||South||Women protest against loan sharks with 'swords and blades' in Palakkad||A group of women in Palakkad district of Kerala on Wednesday took to the streets with 'swords and blades' to protest against loan sharks. The women's wing of Janata Dal staged the unique protest march against the menace of loan sharks (private money lenders) and private microfinance firms, that are widely referred to as blade mafias in Kerala. Around a hundred women holding models of swords and blades took out the protest march. They alleged that despite the financial crunches caused by Covid-induced lockdowns and repeated directives of governments to give loan repayment holidays, the loan sharks and some microfinance institutions were harassing and threatening families, especially women. The lack of effective measures from the police against the menace was the provocation for staging the symbolic protest, they said. State general secretary of the Mahila Janata Dal led the protest march to the district collectorate. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-protest-against-loan-sharks-with-swords-and-blades-in-palakkad-1068349.html
05-01-2022||South||Telangana lags in 15-17 age group Covid vaccine administration||Telangana is lagging behind many states in the administration of Covid-19 vaccine to teenagers. The TRS government was able till Wednesday to give the first dose of Covaxin to only 2.25 lakh teenagers in the 15-17 age group, while in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh 12.93 lakh teenagers received their first jab, data available on Cowin portal shows.  In Bihar, the compliance figure is 7.41 lakh while in Karnataka it is 11.17 lakh. All these states, following the central government guidelines, have started the under 18 years age group vaccination on Monday. Even going by the figures handed by the state health authorities, Telangana has completed the first dose of only 10 per cent of the target 18,41,000 beneficiaries till the end of Tuesday. That is 1,87,538 teenagers covered in two days. In comparison, Andhra Pradesh has administered the first dose to 4.92 lakh teenagers on Monday, the first day itself. Phone calls made and queries posed on WhatsApp to Telangana’s public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao, the only official “authorised” by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao administration to divulge any information related to Covid-19, went unanswered. The dawdling on the part of the health department goes unexplained as according to the daily Covid-19 bulletin, the state has a stock of 16,01,645 Covaxin doses available with it as of Tuesday. The Bharat Biotech made immunogen is the only Covid-19 vaccine being given to under 18-year-olds, at present.  “We are all involved in Covid-19 mitigation but since we should all be on the same page on all aspects related to the pandemic, no other official is authorised to speak,” a senior IAS officer in the health department told DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-lags-in-15-17-age-group-covid-vaccine-administration-1068370.html
05-01-2022||State||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu returnees screened in Shivamoggav||As a part of containing the spread of Covid-19, Karnataka health department officials screened those who had returned from 'Om Shakti Yatra', held in Tamil Nadu, at Sahyadri College Stadium on Wednesday.  Over 4,000 people from Shivamogga had left for Tamil Nadu in 86 KSRTC buses on December 30 to take part in the 'Om Shakti Yatra'. After knowing this, health department officials decided to screen each returnee and conduct a Covid test for them. The officials screened all returnees at the college stadium and all of them tested negative for Covid-19 so far. However, they have been directed to follow home quarantine guidelines for seven days. Speaking to DH, District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said, if they have symptoms, they would be tested again after a gap of seven days. Those who are returning to Shivamogga from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra are being screened at the border of the state. "We are collecting details of such people coming to Shivamogga and directing them to stay at home for seven days." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-tamil-nadu-returnees-screened-in-shivamogga-1068184.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Parents wary as doubts on Covaxin's shelf life persist||Confusion over the expiry status of Covaxin has created widespread hesitation among parents, who remain unswayed by a central government clarification on the matter. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in a statement on Monday, affirmed that the shelf life of the vaccine was extended from 9 to 12 months. However, a December 23 letter by the Immunisation Division of the Ministry decreeing that label-expired vaccines should not be used is still causing apprehensions among parents, according to the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). The Centre has approved only Covaxin for vaccinating those below 18 years. The drive began on January 3. “When the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had extended the shelf life of Covaxin, there was no reason for the ministry to comment further on its shelf life. Now, even though a clarification has come, a lot of damage has been done. Apprehension and doubt about Covaxin have gone ‘viral’ among parents,” said Dr H M Prasanna, president of PHANA. Multiple private hospitals reported that parents continue to demand to see expiration dates on vials before they consent to have their child inoculated.  A representative of Bharat Biotech told DH that the firm had already issued two clarifications about the extension of the shelf life, in November and December. “The extensions were made based on scientific data,” the representative said. This was elaborated by Dr Raches Ella, Project Lead at Bharat Biotech, who tweeted: “Usually, the shelf life of a vaccine is 1-2 years. Covid vaccines have only been around for a year; evolving data will extend the shelf life. This process will be constantly repeated until we know the (maximum) period.” However, this has not convinced many parents. Mohammed Shakeel, President, Voice of Parents, said the confidence of parents has been first shaken by the low sample size of human trials and second, by an apparent non-transparent extension of shelf life. “Parents are divided on the matter. Only a small number of them in our association have actually opted to get their children vaccinated. The attitude of the majority is that their child is not a ‘guinea pig.’ These parents have a wait-and-watch attitude,” he said.  Meanwhile, Dr Prasanna said that Bharat Biotech has taken back 90 per cent of the six-lakh-odd label-expired doses in the city for relabelling. He added that the vials are likely not to be returned for 14 days. This will prevent many private hospitals from being able to offer vaccinations to the public during that period. “In the interim, private hospitals have been getting queries from private schools and even RWAs to hold vaccination camps for children aged 15-17, but in the current situation, our hands are tied,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parents-wary-as-doubts-on-covaxins-shelf-life-persist-1068043.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to get an index for youth development||Karnataka is likely to get a first-of-its-kind index focusing on youth development that will map the state of their education, health and mental well-being among others.  The Youth Development Index (YDI) will cover the 15-29 age group, and once in place could serve as a proxy indicator for the state's development, which is otherwise measured only by the GDP. A committee constituted by the government to frame Karnataka’s Youth Policy is holding consultations on developing the index and a draft could be ready by April 2022. Education, health, emotional status, contribution to the economy, potential livelihood opportunities are among the parameters that will be considered for the index. The idea is being tested by Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development, Sriperumbudur. However, no state has implemented it yet.   Speaking to DH, Chairperson of the Committee Dr R Balasubramaniam, who is also the founder of Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement (SVYM), said the proposal is at the consultation stage at present. The index will be broken into district level as well as rural and urban indices. According to him, these indices could work as tools to stop unnecessary migration to larger cities and to redirect potential investments to different parts of the state. Among the interesting proposals floated by the committee include a social credit system that aims to incentivise youth to actively take part in nation-building by looking beyond elections. For example, a person demonstrating voluntary work would get social credits, which could be considered during university admissions.  The new Youth Policy will be Karnataka's second after the first one that came out in 2012. The new policy will look into transformations in the education sector owing to the pandemic and will also lay emphasis on their mental health. That apart, harnessing the gig economy and capitalising on emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence will be part of the considerations. To ensure policy implementation, the committee will recommend a monitoring and evaluation mechanism headed by the Chief Minister who will review it annually. It will also recommend a six-month review by the youth affairs minister and a quarterly review by the additional chief secretary. An online survey is open for public participation at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/N6K325J. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-get-an-index-for-youth-development-1068044.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Allow pregnant women, cancer patients to WFH till Feb-end: TAC to Karnataka govt||The State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that special groups like pregnant women in their third trimester, lactating mothers, specially-abled people, those on kidney dialysis, persons on anticancer treatment, the immune-compromised and patients who have undergone cardiac surgery/implant of stent should be permitted to work from home till the end of February, 2022, both in the government and private sectors. Karnataka is seeing its daily Covid case tally double every two to three days amid the spread of Omicron over the past nine days. Dr Anitha GS, Assistant Professor, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), who has attended some TAC meetings said, the rationale behind the recommendation was that after 28 weeks of pregnancy, the risk of complications is high. "If there is respiratory compromise, it may become more severe. This is more so if she has other comorbidities like BP, hypertension and preeclampsia. So far in the Covid positive mothers we have treated, complications are fewer in the early stages of the pregnancy compared to the later stages. That is why we are recommending a work from home option for them at least till the Covid spread reduces in the state so that expecting mothers don't have life-threatening conditions," said Dr Anitha. BMCRI has delivered more than 600 Covid positive mothers so far and has witnessed four deaths so far, due to respiratory collapse in mothers aged 30 and above. Dr C Ramachandra, Director, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, said, the move if implemented would be beneficial to cancer patients as they have to halt chemotherapy for patients at least one-and-a-half month after Covid recovery. "Such measures are recommended so that cancer patients don't contract Covid at their workplace. There is no chance of giving Chemotherapy or any other treatment till Covid infection is resolved. Their immunity is very low and even planned surgeries have to be postponed. We never allowed any cancer patients who tested Covid positive at Kidwai to get Covid treatment at the hospital because of risk to other patients. But luckily our treatment outcomes were good during both the waves despite Covid," he said. Cardiologist Dr CN Manjunath, TAC member, and Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research said, "Any patient who has undergone cardiac surgery comes under the high-risk category. During the second Covid wave, the mortality in cardiac patients with Covid was 19% to 20% in our hospital. While mortality in heart patients without Covid was 5% to 6%. So definitely, mortality in cardiac patients with Covid is three times more than those without Covid. Hence, work from home should be an option for those who have undergone angioplasty or bypass surgery, as if they get infected, morbidity and mortality in them will be more." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allow-pregnant-women-cancer-patients-to-wfh-till-feb-end-tac-to-karnataka-govt-1068156.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Remain cautious for next 4-6 weeks, follow Covid-19 guidelines to control next wave: Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said people need to be cautious for the next four to six weeks to control a possible third wave of Covid-19 and the spread of Omicron variant in the state. The minister called on the people to follow the guidelines and containment measures announced by the government and cooperate with the administration. "New Covid guidelines have been released after a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister. My appeal to the people is, four to six weeks is crucial. As we have observed worldwide, it is declining in five to six weeks. This wave will not be for too long, like in the first and second wave that was for three to four months," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the latest wave spreads fast and will also decline in the same phase. "If we remain cautious for at least four to six weeks, we will be able to control it," he said, adding that there is no need to worry in case of infections. Noting that the Omicron variant of coronavirus enters the throat through the nose, but entering the lungs is very rare, the minister, who is also a medical professional, said. This is the reason why the cases requiring oxygen, ventilators and ICU are very less this time, he added. "But, its effect may be more on those who have not taken both the doses of Covid vaccination. So, I request people with folded hands to get vaccinated with both doses mandatorily," Sudhakar said. Those above 60 years and with comorbidities will be given the third preventive dose of vaccination from January 10 along with health workers and front line Covid warriors, he said adding that "our fast phase vaccination effort has helped Karnataka to control the large scale spread of the virus." Speaking about the ongoing vaccination drive for those between the age group of 15-18 years that was rolled out on January 3, Sudhakar said Karnataka is at the third place in the country by covering about 25 per cent of the age group in the state. "One in every four children (adolescents) in this age group have been vaccinated so far. It is happening at a fast phase," he said, adding that the vaccine drive is on track to with the government's target to cover the entire population in the age group within 10 to 15 days. Covaxin is being administered to adolescents between 15-18 years as per central government guidelines and the second dose will be given after a gap of 28 days. The minister also sought cooperation from all stakeholders, including opposition parties and organisations, to join hands with the government in containing the spread of the virus. To a question on Congress organising the Mekedatu padayatra (march) from January 9 amid the outbreak of cases and government imposing restrictions, he said, "People will decide. They are watching everything. We (the government) have not released the guideline without any malice." "We are seeing the Covid spread before us. I hope Congress will understand, as they too want to protect the public interest. They too have been in government for long," Sudhakar added. Asked if there will be any action on violations, he said, "Law will take its course." The Congress is organising the march from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, covering a distance of over 100 kilometres, demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project across Cauvery river, which is being opposed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/remain-cautious-for-next-4-6-weeks-follow-covid-19-guidelines-to-control-next-wave-sudhakar-1068258.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP leader CT Ravi's 'Goli Maro' tweet sparks a row||BJP national general secretary CT Ravi triggered a controversy on Wednesday with his tweet that was construed as a call for violence by some sections of social media users. While many users reported the tweet alleging that it was against Twitter policy, others tagged official handles of the state police seeking action against the BJP leader. A few also urged the senior leader to delete the tweet and apologise. Kannada activist Ganesh Chetan quote retweeted the post, calling Ravi a "Sanghi goon". All India Students Association president N Sai Balaji tweeted saying, "Another BJP leader inciting violence." Activist Vinay Sreenivasa tagged state police chief and Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and asked: "How safe are people in our state when your party general secretary gives an open call for violence??" Twitter user Floyd wrote: "How is this tolerated @Twitter @TwitterIndia? This is openly in breach with Twitter policies. How is this account not suspended yet? This is absolutely bonkers," adding some expletives at the end. Ravi's line is similar to what junior finance minister Anurag Thakur said at a BJP rally in Delhi last year: “Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro saalon ko." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-leader-ct-ravis-goli-maro-tweet-sparks-a-row-1068286.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka liquor shops to be shut during weekend curfew||Liquor shops will remain closed during the weekend curfew in the wake of fresh Covid-19 curbs imposed by the government, Karnataka Excise Minister K Gopalaiah said Wednesday.  The weekend curfew will kick in from 10 pm this Friday until 5 am on Monday. Another weekend curfew will be in force from the night of January 14 till early morning January 17. Speaking to DH, Gopalaiah said no liquor will be available during the weekend when the curfew is in place. "We will have to close all the shops in line with the government's weekend curfew guidelines," he said. This means that there won't be any takeaway facility available, too. This will continue for as long as the government's weekend curfew is in place, according to the minister, who added that an official order in this regard will be issued on Thursday. During the weekend curfew that was imposed last year, the government had allowed standalone liquor outlets to remain open from 6 am to 2 pm.  The closure of liquor shops may impact excise revenue for the government, which has a target of mopping up Rs 24,580 crore by the end of the current fiscal. In the last week of December, the run-up to the new year, beer and Indian Made Liquor (IML) saw sales worth Rs 977 crore - up from Rs 844 crore in December 2020 and Rs 878 crore in December 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-liquor-shops-to-be-shut-during-weekend-curfew-1068310.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government asks Centre to relax lending norms to sugar factories||Karnataka on Wednesday requested the Centre to liberalise banking norms to extend loan to ethanol units and existing sugar factories to overcome the financial crisis due to low sugar price and Covid-19 pandemic. Sugar and Textiles Minister Shankar B Patil Munenakoppa, who met Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal here, said that ”due to low sugar price for the past 4-5 years, coupled with Covid-19 pandemic, sugar factories have not generated expected revenue leading to poor balance sheets which eventually affecting their loan borrowing. To help them, flexibility should be given in providing loans." The state minister also requested the Centre to extend the export subsidy to sugar, which was announced during last year by Centre, to this year also. He also requested Goyal to shift the execution of the drip irrigation subsidy distribution programme from the existing Department of Agriculture to Commissioner for Cane Development and Director of Sugar. He also requested the Union Minister to take steps to ensure oil marketing companies clear the bill for supplying ethanol by 7 days instead of existing 21 days. The ethanol units have also requested for early finalisation of supply and lifting of ethanol, which will help them with continuous production and supply, the state minister brought to the notice of Goyal. Since Karnataka is a major sugar producing state with 70 sugar factories, the minister requested the Centre to suggest the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy to approve the state proposal to set up the Centre of Excellence on Green Energy in Belagavi. The centre proposed by S Nijaligappa Sugar Institute aimed at providing technical knowhow, including marketing issues related to bio-energy, and it will be established by the state government with the help of the Centre, Munenakoppa said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-asks-centre-to-relax-lending-norms-to-sugar-factories-1068312.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress to go ahead with Mekedatu padayatra from January 9 despite Covid curbs||A day after the BJP government prohibited rallies and protests, the Congress on Wednesday decided to go ahead with its agitation demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project.  The Congress has planned a 10-day foot march or padayatra starting January 9, from Mekedatu to Bengaluru.  “There's no politics in this. We had announced this before. We will take all precautions. We're doing this for a cause. We will go ahead with our agitation,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah told a news conference that he addressed alongside Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar.  Shivakumar even claimed that the government is cooking up Covid-19 numbers to impose curbs. Siddaramaiah also accused the BJP government of imposing curbs just to “thwart and scuttle” the Congress’ foot march. He also called out the BJP for doing nothing about its own leaders holding rallies and mass events. “What was the CM doing in Ramanagara? What is he doing in Nagamangala? Isn’t Modi continuing to hold rallies,” he asked. “It’s not that we want to commit the mistake they’ve made. We want to expose them.”  When asked about the Congress cancelling its 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' women's marathons scheduled to be held in different parts of the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Siddaramaiah said: “We’re going ahead with our programme after discussing with the party high command. We will make sure nobody gets infected.”   The Mekedatu project was first announced in 2013 and it is estimated to cost Rs 9,000 crore. The balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project to regulate the flow of water to Tamil Nadu will be used to generate 400 MW power and utilize 4.75 tmc water for Bengaluru. “Water is our right. Doesn’t Bengaluru need drinking water?” Siddaramaiah asked. He hit out at the BJP whose Tamil Nadu chief K Annamalai has opposed Karnataka’s project. On Congress being an ally of the ruling DMK, Siddaramaiah said: “Will DMK listen to us just because we're allies? Whose party is Annamalai in?”   Shivakumar sought to project the foot march differently. “It’s not a padayatra, a rally or a protest. It’s a walk for water.” CM Bommai warns Congress Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government would take “suitable action" and that it is up to Congress to comply with rules. “The Opposition should behave responsibly. They can do whatever agitation they want after Covid-19 comes under control,” he said, adding that the rules apply to all.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-to-go-ahead-with-mekedatu-padayatra-from-january-9-despite-covid-curbs-1068321.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka orders special Covid-19 surveillance on people from Goa||The Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered special surveillance measures, including a negative RT-PCR, for people coming to the State from Goa in view of the rise in Covid-19 there. In its order, the government said the negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours must be produced by the passengers travelling on flight, bus, train or personal transport to Karnataka. This is also applicable for passengers boarding connecting flights from Goa, the order said. It further said the airlines concerned should issue boarding passes only to the passengers carrying the negative certificate. Similarly, Railway authorities should see to it that all passengers travelling by trains from Goa to Karnataka carried the certificates. For all the passengers travelling by bus originating from Goa, the bus conductors concerned should be directed to ensure passengers possess the negative RT-PCR report, the order said. Deputy Commissioners of Belgavi and Uttara Kannada districts, which border Goa, have been directed to set up check-posts and deploy necessary staff to ensure that all the vehicles entering Karnataka are checked. Regular travellers from Goa to Karnataka would need to have the negative report. These restrictions would not be applicable to the constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals, and children below five years. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-orders-special-covid-19-surveillance-on-people-from-goa-1068346.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't write off JD(S), it will bounce back: Gowda||Saying that the JD(S) has managed to win 50 seats in the recently held ULB polls in north Karnataka, party supremo H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday said that the BJP and Congress cannot finish the regional outfit. Speaking to reporters here, Gowda said, “A leader who hopped from JD(S) to the Congress had recently said that the regional party will go extinct by next elections. I agree that the party has become weak, but it is here to stay. Our candidates have won even in the districts like Dakshina Kannada and Udupi.” Gowda said that BJP has turned into a one-man party. Over-dependence on Modi is highly evident. On the other hand, Congress is no more the force that once it was, he added. Replying to a query, Gowda said, “I will do my bit to revive the third front, though it is difficult. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is a strong leader. She is making efforts to stitch an alternative force against the Modi-led BJP government. Let’s see...” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-write-off-jds-it-will-bounce-back-gowda-1068390.html
05-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP calls off ‘Chintan Baitak’ amid Covid scare||The state BJP unit on Wednesday called off the Chintan Baitak scheduled to be held from January 7-9, following fresh restrictions announced by the state government to curb the Covid pandemic. The BJP had announced the meeting of state Cabinet members and office-bearers of the state party unit following the state executive meeting held at Hubballi recently. The three-day conclave at Nandi Hills was expected to discuss the upcoming Cabinet reshuffle, apart from strategies to the 2023 general Assembly polls. Though party bigwigs - Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J P Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh were scheduled to participate in the meet, party sources had hinted that only Santosh could participate. Though the next date of the Baitak is yet to be scheduled, sources said that it would likely to take place once Covid curbs are lifted by the state government. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting at the state BJP office in Jagannath Bhavan. He urged members of the party to form Covid war rooms and call centres at the ward level to offer assistance to the public during the third wave of the pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-calls-off-chintan-baitak-amid-covid-scare-1068391.html
05-01-2022||West||Ahead of polls, BJP presents Goa government's report card to people||For winning the third election in a row in the state, the Goa BJP has started presenting a report card of state government to people. The party workers are visiting every household with the works of the BJP government in the last ten years. A well placed source said that a campaign has been launched to reach every house in the state with the works of the BJP government in 10 years. "We have started presenting our report cards to people. Report card contains works of the BJP government in the state since 2012. The campaign started on January 1 and will continue till January 10. In these 10 days, BJP workers will reach out to each and every household in the state and tell the voters what our government has done in the last 10 years," he said. Goa Assembly polls will be held in February- March next year along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur. The BJP has been in power in the coastal state since 2012. Apart from knocking each door in the state, the BJP workers and leaders are also meeting eminent personalities with the report card and taking their suggestions. "We are meeting eminent personalities and influencers giving details of our government in the last two terms," a party leader said. The saffron party, meanwhile, is organising meetings at different levels to activate its cadres. "Assembly level convention of the party has started and workers' meetings are also being organised across the state," he said. It has set a target to win over 25 seats in the 40-member Goa Assembly. BJP national general secretary and state in-charge, CT Ravi said that BJP will form the government for third term by winning more than 25 seats. "People have seen development in the last ten years under the BJP government and will once again elect a BJP government to further accelerate the pace of development of the state. We are going to win over 25 seats," Ravi said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-polls-bjp-presents-goa-governments-report-card-to-people-1068132.html
05-01-2022||West||Gujarat HC issues notice to state govt on police encounter killing of 14-year-old boy||The division bench of Chief Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Ashutosh Shashtri issued notice to the state government and sought its response by January 18. The court also asked the government lawyers to take instruction and file an affidavit accordingly. The PIL has been filed by Sohana Malek, whose father Hanifkhan Jatlamalik alias Kalu Munno and brother Madeenkhan were killed in the police encounter on the night of November 6 under Bajana police station in Surendranagar district. The petition stated that police team led by police sub inspector V N Jadeja and others came to her house in "a private vehicle, dragged her father and put him in the vehicle". "Looking at the atrocity, the 14-year-old brother of the petitioner went to why his father was dragged and followed him. Seeing this, respondent - 5 (Jadeja) shot the brother of the petitioner point blank in the chest," read the petition filed by advocate Vicky Mehta and being argued by senior advocate Yatin Oza. The petitioner claims that "seeing his son being shot in cold blood" the father also got angry and "as he came to see his child, he was also shot dead. No doubt, there are many offences registered against the father of the petitioner herein i.e Hanifkhan. However, this will not give an automatic licence to the respondent number 5 to 11 to carry out a fake encounter." On the other hand, the police had claimed in the FIR that Hanifkhan aged 44 years old, while his son Madeen, aged 18, were shot while they were trying to escape the police team. Police claimed that they had to resort to firing after Hanif shot at the police team to resist his arrest and was being assisted by his son and others. Hanif was wanted in Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GUJCTOC) Act for his involvement in several criminal cases of loot and theft. He was part of the Gedia gang and was named in 86 FIRs and wanted in 59 cases, police stated in its report. Police had claimed that a seven-member police team led by Jadeja had gone to the village to nab Hanif based on a specific information. Jadeja reportedly fired in self defence after being shot at and hit by a sharp weapon by Hanif's son. One of the bullets hit Hanif in his chest while another one hit his son Madeen. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-issues-notice-to-state-govt-on-police-encounter-killing-of-14-year-old-boy-1068166.html
05-01-2022||West||More RATs, home quarantine cut to 7 days in Maharashtra, says Rajesh Tope||Amid the sweeping third wave of Covid-19,  Maharashtra would have a seven-day quarantine period, state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said.  According to him, monitoring of home quarantine and home isolation is a major challenge.  He also said that because of increasing infections the pressure on laboratories for RT-PCR tests are very high. "We are looking at more Rapid Antigen Tests," he said.  Asked about lockdown, he said, "The Covid-19 Task Force has come out with a new term.... 'augmented restrictions'...we are not thinking of lockdown as of now."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-rats-home-quarantine-cut-to-7-days-in-maharashtra-says-rajesh-tope-1068189.html
05-01-2022||West||Known devil better than unknown saint: Goa Congress MP on new political parties||A known devil is better than an unknown saint, Goa Congress Lok Sabha MP and former Chief Minister Francisco Sardinha said on Wednesday, urging voters to shun new political parties and vote for Congress in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "Do not lie in Goa. Do not go by assurances. A known devil is better than an unknown one. A known devil is better than an unknown saint," Sardinha said at a press conference here on Wednesday, while obliquely referring to the Trinamool Congress's populist pre-poll assurances related to doles for women. "There are new parties in Goa. What have they done for Goa needs to be known. So far it is easy to say we will do it (fulfil assurances). Ask them what have they have done in their states?" Sardinha said. The former Chief Minister also claimed while the TMC has assured a dole of Rs 5,000 per woman head of the household in the state, the party's government in West Bengal paid only Rs 500. TMC Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra has, however, dismissed the charge of inconsistency in doles in both states, claiming that every woman registered under the West Bengal government's Laxmi Bhandar scheme was entitled to Rs 500, while in Goa the dole of Rs 5,000 was being allotted to every woman head of household. Leaders of the TMC which has taken a plunge into Goa politics months ago, have been crossing swords with their counterparts Congress party, over which party is more capable of taking on the ruling BJP. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/known-devil-better-than-unknown-saint-goa-congress-mp-on-new-political-parties-1068216.html
05-01-2022||West||Mumbai reports record 15,166 new Covid-19 cases; active cases above 61,000||Mumbai on Wednesday breached the 15,000-mark in Covid-19 cases, jumping past the peaks of the first and second waves of the pandemic.  A total of 15,166 new cases and three deaths were reported in a single day, taking the tally to 8,33,628 and 16,384, respectively.  The active cases in the city now stand at 61,923, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The peak of the first wave was on October 7, 2020, when 2,828 single-day cases were reported, while the peak of the second wave was on April 4, 2021, when 11,296 cases were reported in a day.  Meanwhile, the BMC administration has been requesting people not to panic. “The cases are rising indeed and so are the rumours! Mumbaikars, we have been battling this together & we hope you trust us more than the gossip mongers  Please get in touch directly with us over call on ward war room or online for any help. We are prepared everyday to support,” the corporation posted on s social media platforms.  The cases are rising indeed and so are the rumours! Mumbaikars, we have been battling this together & we hope you trust us more than the gossip mongers Please get in touch directly with us over call on ward war room or online for any help. We are prepared everyday to support. “Since cases are on rising, one has to be extremely careful and follow the guidelines. There is a need for all to stay informed,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, President, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. “With such percentages coming from all over, it seems at least 5 to 10% of the population is infected in this surge till date. And that's a huge huge number,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, who is an infectious disease expert. Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said, "If you have symptoms, get yourself tested and contact your doctor... most have mild disease, if you are vulnerable, be cautious and complete vaccination if not done." More than 150 doctors in Mumbai city and its suburbs have tested Covid-19 positive. According to BMC, 87 per cent of the patients were asymptomatic. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reports-record-15166-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-above-61000-1068287.html
05-01-2022||West||143 passengers on board Cordelia cruise ship test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai||Out of 1,827 passengers on board Cordelia cruise ship that has returned to Mumbai from Goa, 143 have tested positive for coronavirus in addition to 66 other travellers already diagnosed with the infection, a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, told PTI that the civic body has received RT-PCR test reports of all 1,827 passengers on board the ship, which returned to Mumbai from Goa on Tuesday evening, and 143 of them have tested positive for Covid-19. She said these 143 Covid-19 positive passengers were apart from 60 others who tested positive for coronavirus when the ship was in Goa (out of total 66 infected travellers, 6 had disembarked in Goa and 60 came to Mumbai). Last night, the civic body conducted RT-PCR tests on 1,827 passengers after the vessel anchored at the International Cruise Terminal at Ballard Pier in South Mumbai. The civic body has arranged five ambulances for ferrying the infected passengers to quarantine centres. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/143-passengers-on-board-cordelia-cruise-ship-test-covid-19-positive-in-mumbai-1068288.html
05-01-2022||West||Goa health minister expresses concern over rising Covid positivity rate||Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday expressed concern about the rising positivity rate in Goa, while also stating that there was a delay in identifying Omicron cases in the state as the health administration do not have the requisite genome testing machinery to identify the Omicron variants among patients who have tested positive for Covid. “13 per cent is also a bit high, but at the same time, we are ensuring that testing is increased,” Rane told reporters here. “Our job is to flatten the curve. We have got more Omicron cases in the state. As a result, all these Delta cases which we get as Delta are getting converted to Omicron. The problem is that it is getting a little late because we do not have a genome sequencing machine,” Rane also said. Currently, all Covid positive samples are sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, where the samples are put through genome sequencing tests for identification of the Omicron variant. The process causes a 10-12 day delay in confirming the presence of the Omicron strain in a Covid patient in Goa. However, Rane said the state government was in talks with US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Johns Hopkins Program for International Education in Gynaecology and Obstetrics (JHPIEGO) over the free procurement of a genome sequencing machine for Goa. “So in view of that, USAID and JHPIEGO have already told the government of Goa that through USAID they are going to give us a genome sequencing machine and it should come on the 15th of this month. If that comes, we will be immediately able to test fast,” the Health Minister said. “They will give us kits for one year free of charge, at no cost to the state government. The machine costs around Rs 2 to 3 crore,” Rane added. Rane also said the state government had also worked out a stage-wise action plan to tackle the third wave of the pandemic, which saw the daily infection rate cross four-figures for the first time, with 1,002 cases reported on Wednesday. There are currently 3,718 active Covid cases reported in Goa. “If anybody feels, among the doctors who are dealing with the situation, that the government is not taking any steps, it is absolutely a myth, because the government has already planned exactly stage 1 stage 2, stage 3, stage 4 at what stage we will be, where are the facilities, everything is in black and white and put down (on paper),” the Health Minister also clarified. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-health-minister-expresses-concern-over-rising-covid-positivity-rate-1068330.html
05-01-2022||West||Maharashtra's active Covid-19 cases heads towards 1 lakh mark as government plans 'augmented restrictions'||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the state, Maharashtra is set to cross the one-lakh mark of active patients even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is contemplating coming out with “augmented restrictions” rather than a lockdown.  There are a total of 87,505 active cases in the state, according to the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department. The total number of active cases has surged to above 85,000-plus from a mere 7,000 just a fortnight ago. During the day, the state recorded 26,538 cases and 8 deaths, taking the progressive total to 67,57,032 and 1,41,581, respectively. “The increase in cases is exponential,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. Amid the growing cases, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar undertook a review of the situation with top officials and members of the Covid-19 Task Force. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was also briefed about the situation and is expected to approve the new guidelines that would come in force.  Asked whether the state would impose a lockdown, Tope said: “The Task Force has come out with a new terminology suggesting ‘augmented restrictions’…the need for a lockdown has not arisen yet.” “A lockdown means totally shutting off all activities which we are not going to do. However, the challenge at the moment is to make sure that the restrictions already announced are implemented properly,” said Tope. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-active-covid-19-cases-heads-towards-1-lakh-mark-as-government-plans-augmented-restrictions-1068343.html
