06-01-2022||Comment||Aadhaar-voter ID linking: A road best not taken||India takes great pride in her Election Commission, an independent authority entrusted with the conduct of free and fair elections for the Parliament and state Assemblies. It has the reputation of being independent and impartial, and it ensures people vote without fear, and that there is a level playing field among contestants. The EC was born one day before the Republic of India, i.e., on 25 January 1950. The EC is bound to act within the legal framework enshrined in the Representation of People Act, 1951 (RPA). Only Parliament has the power to amend the RPA, which has been done from time to time. It has been amended a few times in the past 70 years. One notable amendment was the transfer of election petitions from tribunals to High Courts, which was why Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s election petition was heard in the Allahabad High Court, where her election in 1975 was declared null and void. But major amendments to RPA have been pending for too long.  There are, for instance, various recommendations of Law Commissions over many years that have not been implemented. The EC itself has written to the Prime Minister and the government to ensure that some important electoral reform laws are passed by Parliament. But this has fallen on deaf ears. One of the most important suggestions has been to disqualify candidates facing criminal charges from standing for election. As of now, the disqualification criteria in the RPA are too weak and have failed to check the rising number of elected lawmakers who face serious criminal charges.  In the absence of any action from Parliament, the Supreme Court has often stepped in to remedy certain anomalies. This is how the NOTA (none of the above) button came on the ballot. This is how we have instant unseating of convicted lawmakers, even if the criminal case goes for appeal in a higher court. This is how, thanks to a 2003 judgement, the voters get to know the criminal antecedents of their candidates through self-sworn affidavits. None of these reforms were brought in by Parliament but are in force thanks to the Supreme Court in response to public interest litigations. The desire of the public to bring political parties under the ambit of Right to Information is still languishing in the courts. This reform is also a reform too far.  When Parliament has chosen to act, it has often done so to wrong ends. One example is that of introducing electoral bonds, touted as increasing transparency in political funding. That law makes it impossible for voters to know the identity of the donor or the recipient, negating the very idea of transparency completely. The word “transparency” is used for this legislation almost in an Orwellian sense!  One more recent example of parliamentary action on the RPA is the amendment passed last month. This is to link Aadhaar with the voter identity card issued by the EC. It was passed in the Lok Sabha on December 20 without any discussion. It was passed in the Rajya Sabha the next day with a voice vote, even when there was strong demand for recording the vote. The video of the voice vote clearly shows the resounding vocal opposition to the bill, but it was still passed.  The Aadhaar linking is problematic, for several reasons. Firstly, this amendment directly contradicts, at least prima facie, the Supreme Court judgement of 2018 which clearly said that Aadhaar is not mandatory for all citizens. Only for those receiving welfare benefits, and for a limited purpose only, can Aadhaar be made a requirement. That was a landmark judgement delivered in what was the second-longest case ever heard by the Supreme Court.  Secondly, Aadhaar is meant to be a proof of identity, not of citizenship. It was never meant to be a proof of being a citizen and of the eligibility to vote. In fact, the construction of the voter roll is a critical responsibility of the Election Commission, and cannot be outsourced to another agency outside its ambit. The Aadhaar authority is not under the control of the EC. The power to add, delete and modify a voter record is with the electoral registration officer, and is circumscribed by the stringent requirement of physical verification. This can’t be outsourced to an authority like the Unique Identity Authority, i.e., Aadhaar.  When the EC undertook a pilot project, a ‘purification’ exercise in 2015 to link the Aadhaar to voter ID, it was struck down by the Supreme Court. But some damage had been done in that pilot project in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. With the Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) and Aadhaar linking exercise undertaken by the EC as part of its ‘National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme’, millions of voters were affected. Nearly three million voters in Telangana and 2.1 million voters in AP were struck off the rolls due to a “de-duplication” exercise, which created a big furore. None of these voters were given a chance for a hearing and neither was the deletion subjected to a rigorous verification exercise, as would have been done under normal EC procedures.  Thirdly, even if the current amendment says linking Aadhaar is voluntary, it is not clear what that means. Will the linking be done at enrollment or at the voting time? How is the Aadhaar number going to be verified, if not by the biometric method? But that has been explicitly ruled out. Will the electoral officer just put a tick mark against the voter record or will the Aadhaar number be entered? In which case it would be in the public domain, violating a very basic requirement of privacy of the Aadhaar number. The current wording of the legislation says that denial to furnish the Aadhaar number to the electoral officer can only be due to a “sufficient cause”. Which implies that blanket denial is not to be allowed.  The government itself, via an affidavit before the Supreme Court, has said that the Aadhaar biometric identification fails on average 12% of the time. That is a huge error margin, especially when elections are keenly fought and winning margins can be as thin as single digits. In Jharkhand, it was found that 88% of the ration cards deleted because of Aadhaar verification failure were genuine cases. So, Aadhaar failure invariably is a burden that largely falls on the poor, the vulnerable, the indigent who often live in backward areas lacking in the infrastructure of electricity and connectivity. Finally, the real fear is that Aadhaar linking can become a powerful tool for voter profiling, wholesale disenfranchisement, gerrymandering and all kinds of electoral mischief, in the hands of those who have the database. The linking of the Aadhaar with the voter identity card is a path best not taken.  (The writer is an economist and  Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/aadhaar-voter-id-linking-a-road-best-not-taken-1068636.html
06-01-2022||First Edit||PM's security breach: Leave politics out, probe professionally||There are different versions of and explanations about the incident in Punjab when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was stuck on a road flyover for about 15-20 minutes on Wednesday. But the most important fact that should not be lost sight of in the politics over the matter is that there was a major security lapse. The Prime Minister was stuck because his route was blocked by protesting farmers. He had taken the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur after landing in Bathinda. This was a change of plan said to have been forced by inclement weather. The programme was eventually cancelled and the Prime Minister returned to Delhi. The Union Home Ministry has termed it rightly as a security lapse and called for a report from the Punjab government. The BJP has blamed the state government for the lapse. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has expressed regret for the incident but has said that there was no threat to the Prime Minister’s security. The state government has ordered an inquiry, too.  The Punjab government has said that it had no information about the change of route affected at the last minute. Congress has said that the programme was cancelled because the BJP had failed to attract a crowd to listen to the Prime Minister. The return of the Prime Minister without attending the function lent much drama to the incident. The political slugfest that has erupted should not obfuscate the main issue that is involved in the incident. A lot of planning is involved in the Prime Minister’s travels and many agencies have their roles in ensuring fool-proof security. There are different layers, alternative plans and strategies to deal with even the most unexpected contingencies. It is not known if the chances of a sudden protest and a blockade had been taken into consideration. The cancellation of the programme should be the last option because there is an admission of failure in it. But that would also be the only option when the Prime Minister’s safety could not be ensured. The investigation should be done professionally and should identify and pinpoint the individuals or agencies who were responsible for the lapse, without being influenced by politics. The Prime Minister’s security is not a political issue. India has paid a high price with the death of two Prime Ministers for lapses in security. There have also been breaches of security without serious damage, as when Indira Gandhi was struck with a stone at a meeting or when her cavalcade was attacked. But these are different and more difficult times and there cannot be any laxity or complacency in ensuring the safety and security of the Prime Minister or, indeed, of anyone.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pms-security-breach-leave-politics-out-probe-professionally-1068633.html
06-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||‘HD Kumaraswamy developed Ramanagara’||While the BJP and the Congress are engaged in muck throwing on who has better intentions for Ramanagara, it is the JD(S) that has in reality contributed to the lives of the people here. It was H D Kumaraswamy who declared it as a district, JD(S) MLC and party spokesperson K T Srikante Gowda said. JD(S) MLCs Srikante Gowda and Bhoje Gowda addressed media persons here on Wednesday. Gowda was talking about the recent clash between Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Congress MP D K Suresh at a public event in Ramanagara. It was Kumaraswamy who worked for the overall development of the district, be it roads or water connections. When Kumaraswamy was the CM, he wanted to have the RGUHS campus in Ramanagara. However, D K Shivakumar wanted to shift it to Kanakapura, while Sudhakar wanted it in Chikkaballapur. The BJP and the Congress are working with vested political interests, Srikante Gowda alleged. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hd-kumaraswamy-developed-ramanagara-1068394.html
06-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||35 med students test Covid positive in Ballari; 40 more devotees contract virus in Srirangapatna||As many as 35 students of Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) have tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The district also saw 31 more fresh cases of Covid in the day. “The infected medical students have been admitted to the district hospital. All hostel inmates of the infected have been subjected to the Covid test. Throat swabs of as many as 650 girl students from the women’s hostel are being collected,” said VIMS Director Dr Gangadhara Gowda. He added that only the test reports will confirm if the students are infected with the Omicron variant of the virus.  “All the infected students are recovering. Chances of doctors, who have come in contact with the infected students, of contracting the disease are high,” the VIMS director said. District Surgeon Dr Basareddy said that a total of 35 students and 18 others are being treated at the district hospital. Meanwhile, 13 fresh Covid cases have been reported from various parts of Toranagallu hobli, he said. The infected people will be shifted to Morarji Desai school of Banahatti village near Toranagallu, Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati said. Meanwhile, 40 more ‘Om Shakti’ devotees tested positive in Srirangapatna, Mandya district. All of them had been on a pilgrimage to a temple in Tamil Nadu. Thirty-three such devotees tested positive on Tuesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/35-med-students-test-covid-positive-in-ballari-40-more-devotees-contract-virus-in-srirangapatna-1068425.html
06-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka women cop suspended for negligence in POCSO case||Six police personnel, including a female Sub-Inspector Rosamma, attached to a women's police station in Dakshina Kannada were suspended for gross negligence of duties and indiscipline in separate incidents by the Mangaluru Commissioner of Police Shashi Kumar N. SI Rosamma was suspended for delaying the registering of a case under POCSO against a head constable, Sashi Kumar said. The others suspended, five police officers, attached to the women's police station, including two ASI and head constables, were found dancing and making merry inside the police station. "Based on CCTV footage, reports of ACP and DCP, the action to suspend five cops was taken, " the Commissioner said. He also added that the entire staff in Pandeshwar Womens police station had been replaced.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-women-cop-suspended-for-negligence-in-pocso-case-1068491.html
06-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Don't impose Covid curbs in districts with low infection rate: Ministers||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday came under pressure from his own Cabinet colleagues to relax Covid-19 curbs in those parts of the state where the pandemic situation is not as bad as it is in Bengaluru.  Some ministers told Bommai in the Cabinet meeting that the night curfew and weekend curfew should not be imposed in districts where the rate of infection is less. They even asked him to allow liquor shops to operate during the weekend curfew.  However, the government has decided not to revisit the Covid-19 protocols for now. The curbs will be in force till 5 am on January 19.  “Several civil society groups have placed their demand. In the Cabinet also, some things were discussed, such as allowing excise shops. But, we haven’t decided anything,” Bommai said. “Based on the severity of the infection in the coming days, we will take a call.”   Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said the government will review the applicability of the rules on January 14 or 15. “Some ministers raised the issue that the guidelines shouldn’t apply everywhere. We’ve decided to wait for some days before thinking of relaxing curbs wherever possible,” he said.   Before the Cabinet meeting, RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa voiced his opposition. “A single rule for the entire state is wrong. Districts, where the problem is less, should have separate rules,” he said. “In fact, there’s no curfew in Shivamogga (his constituency). The order hasn’t even reached us.”  Defending the imposition of the stay-at-home orders every night and during weekends across the state, Madhuswamy said the government wants to get a grip on the situation early and not after things go out of control. “We saw what happened last time. People went from Bengaluru to other places and the infection spread. We want to make things safe everywhere,” he said.  The third wave of Covid-19 will not be as bad as the second one, Madhuswamy said. “We believe that the rate of hospitalization won’t be high. The third wave will be unlike the second one in terms of hospitalization and requirement of oxygen,” he said, adding that controlling the rate of infection is key.  DKS writes to Bommai Meanwhile, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar wrote to Bommai on relaxing curbs in hotels and restaurants. “Livelihoods of a lot of people will be at stake. There are workers who come to Bengaluru every day for work,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-impose-covid-curbs-in-districts-with-low-infection-rate-ministers-1068687.html
06-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Differences between BJP MP, Madhuswamy in Tumakuru come to fore||Differences between MP G S Basavaraju and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy came to the fore on Thursday. The two BJP leaders hail from the Tumakuru district. A casual conversation between the MP and Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, caught on the camera, exposed the differences.  The minister was in the city to kickstart projects under Tumakuru Smart City Limited. The two leaders had a casual talk minutes before a press conference. Basavaraju is heard referring to Madhuswamy in the singular, “This man, our minister, you know how is he? He’s like a South Korean kingpin (a possible reference to North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un). He has spoiled our district. We can’t get even one seat because of this spoiled man.” The MP continues, "Even before he begins to speak, he says hit, cut. He tells an engineer that the officer is fit to wash his wife’s saree. He asks the engineer to get out of the meeting.”  Madhuswamy had blasted an engineer at a progress review meeting last year. Byrathi Basavaraj, trying to calm down the MP, wants to know whether the engineer was his man. He suggests the MP to continue the conversation later. However, the MP continues, “He (Madhuswamy) brought a man to our district who declared about Rs 1,000 crore worth assets. He neither invited nor spoke to us.” The MP is believed to have referred to Lokesh Gowda, who was a candidate in the MLC elections. It is said that Madhuswamy brought Gowda to Tumakuru. Byrathi Basavaraj ends the talk and gets ready for the press conference. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/differences-between-bjp-mp-madhuswamy-in-tumakuru-come-to-fore-1068691.html
06-01-2022||National||India’s rising Omicron wave brings a grim sense of déjà vu||When the Omicron coronavirus variant spread through India late in December, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged the nation to be vigilant and follow medical guidelines. Arvind Kejriwal, chief minister of the capital region of Delhi, swiftly introduced night curfews, shut down movie theatres and slashed restaurants and public transport to half capacity. Then, both men hit the campaign trail, often appearing without masks in packed rallies of thousands. “When it is our bread and butter at stake, they force restrictions and lockdowns,” said Ajay Tiwari, a 41-year-old taxi driver in New Delhi. “There are much bigger crowds at political rallies, but they don’t impose any lockdown in those areas. It really pains us deep in the heart.” As Omicron fuels a rapid spread of new infections through India’s major urban hubs, the country’s pandemic fatigue has been intensified by a sense of déjà vu and the frustration of mixed signals. It has been just a few months since the deadly Delta variant ravaged the country when government leaders vastly underestimated its threat and publicly flouted their own advice. The memories of overwhelmed hospitals and funeral pyres working around the clock are still all too fresh here. The metropolis of Mumbai on Wednesday reported more than 15,000 new infections in 24 hours — the highest daily caseload since the pandemic began, beating the city’s previous record of about 11,000 cases during the second wave in the spring. In New Delhi, the number of daily infections increased by nearly 100% overnight. The sheer size of India’s population, at 1.4 billion, has always kept experts wary about the prospects of a new coronavirus variant. In a few places around the world was the toll of the Delta as stark as in India. The country’s official figures show about 500,000 pandemic deaths — a number that experts say vastly undercounts the real toll. Omicron’s high transmissibility is such that cases are multiplying at a dangerously rapid pace, and it appears to be ignoring India’s main line of defence: a vaccination drive that has covered about half the population. Initial studies show that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, a locally manufactured version of which has been used for about 90% of India’s vaccinations, does not protect against Omicron infections, though it appears to help reduce the severity of the illness. Sitabhra Sinha, a professor of physics and computational biology at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai, said his research into the reproduction rate of the virus — an indicator of how fast it is spreading that is called the “R-value” — in major cities like Delhi and Mumbai shows “insanely high” numbers for cities that had built decent immunity. Both had a large number of infections in the spring, and a majority of their adult populations have been vaccinated. “Given this high R-value, one is looking at incredibly large numbers unless something is done to stop the spread,” he said. But officials appear to be latching onto the optimism of the early indications from places like South Africa, where a fast spread of the variant did not cause devastating damage, rather than drawing lessons from the botched response to the Delta wave in the spring that ravaged India. Dr. Anand Krishnan, a professor of epidemiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi, said India’s messaging of the new variant as “a mild illness” has led to complacency. “The health system has stopped being complacent. But the population is complacent. People are not wearing masks or changing their behaviour,” Krishnan said. “They think it is a mild illness, and whatever restrictions are being imposed are seen more as a nuisance than necessary.” Scientists say any optimism about Omicron is premature simply because of how many people the variant could infect. “Even if it is a microscopic percentage who require hospitalisation,” Sinha said, “the fact is that the total population we’re talking about is huge.” Although the percentage of newly infected people turning to hospitals has been increasing in recent days, data from India’s worst-hit cities — Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata — showed that only a small number of Covid-designated beds were occupied so far. Data compiled by the Observer Research Foundation showed that about 3% of the known active cases in Delhi and about 12% in Mumbai have required hospitalization. Dr. J. A. Jayalal, until recently the president of the Indian Medical Association, said what worried him was not hospital beds or oxygen running out — a capacity that Indian officials have been trying to expand after the deadly shortfalls during the Delta wave — but that the health system might face an acute shortfall of health workers. About 1,800 Indian doctors are known to have died from Covid-19 since the pandemic began, Jayalal said. Health workers are struggling with pandemic fatigue. Tens of thousands of doctors only recently called off a strike protesting being overworked and a delay in recruiting new doctors. Reports in local media suggest hundreds of doctors and medical workers have tested positive in recent days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-rising-omicron-wave-brings-a-grim-sense-of-d-j-vu-1068435.html
06-01-2022||National||PM Modi congratulates new German Chancellor||Modi congratulated Scholz on his appointment as Chancellor of Germany. He expressed his appreciation for the “immense contribution” of Scholz’s predecessor Angela Merkel in strengthening the India-Germany strategic partnership. He said that he would look forward to continuing the positive momentum and working with Scholz. The two leaders agreed that there was significant synergy in the governance priorities announced by the new German Government and India's own economic vision. They reviewed the potential of ongoing cooperation initiatives, including promoting investment and trade links. They agreed on the potential for further diversifying cooperation and exchanges in new areas, according to a press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi. They expressed hope to commence new cooperation initiatives in the areas of Climate Action and Green Energy, to enable both countries to achieve their respective climate commitments, it added. The Prime Minister conveyed his good wishes for the New Year to the new German Chancellor and looked forward to meeting him soon for the next meeting of the bilateral Inter-Governmental Consultations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-new-german-chancellor-1068441.html
06-01-2022||National||MHA's non-renewal of licence to impact social work: Oxfam India||With the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) not renewing its licence to collect foreign funds, Oxfam India has said the decision would have an impact on its ongoing humanitarian and social work in 16 states across the country, especially Covid-19 related programmes. The MHA has rejected its application to renew its licence under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 2010. In a statement, Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar said they will reach out to the MHA and will urge them to lift the funding restrictions to ensure vulnerable communities keep receiving the support they need at this critical time brought forth by the pandemic. “Over the years, our work has always been in public interest and guided by the principle of creating lasting solutions to address the injustice of poverty, to leave no one behind and to end discrimination and create a free and just society. The MHA’s refusal to renew Oxfam India’s FCRA registration will not reduce Oxfam India’s commitment to serve the vulnerable communities in the country and uphold values enshrined in the Indian Constitution," he said. He said Oxfam India has been working in public interest with the government, communities and frontline workers in the country for decades now and during the Covid-19 pandemic, they joined hands with health departments, district administrations and ASHA workers across the nation to provide life-saving equipment and support. "We are also working with various state governments to ensure bridging the learning gap in school education due to Covid-19. We have worked to enhance women's livelihood and worked with forest dwellers to ensure that they are not denied their rights. We have worked in some of the most flood prone districts to make communities resilient and provide a lasting solution. The Ministry of Home Affairs' decision to deny renewal of FCRA registration will severely hamper these collaborations which were providing relief to those who needed it the most during times of crisis," he said. The MHA decision would "severely" hamper 'Mission Sanjeevani’, its Covid-19 response programme, the Oxfam India said. Under the initiative, Oxfam India provided six Oxygen generating plants and distributed over 13,388 lifesaving medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, BiPAP Machines, concentrators, and ventilators, over 116,957 safety and PPE kits, over 9929 diagnostic equipment such as thermometers and oximeters, and 20,000 testing kits in 16 states. "We reached to over 141 district-level hospitals, 171 Primary Health Centres, and 167 Community Health Centres," it said. Since March 2020, Oxfam India said it was at the forefront whenever Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon NGOs and civil society to join the fight against Covid-19 by helping the government to strengthen health services and accelerate pace of vaccination drive. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mhas-non-renewal-of-licence-to-impact-social-work-oxfam-india-1068450.html
06-01-2022||National||In a massive spike, India reports 90,928 new Covid-19 cases||India registered a single-day rise of 90,928 cases, a significant rise from the previous day's 58,097 Covid cases in a span of 24 hours. A total of 325 deaths have also been reported in the same time, said the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday. With the addition of new deaths, the death toll has reached 4,82,876. Meanwhile, the active caseload has jumped to 2,85,401 which constitutes 0.81 per cent of the country's total positive cases. The Omicron infection tally has climbed to 2,630 across the nation. However, out of total Omicron positive cases, 995 have been discharged from hospitals. So far 26 states have reported Omicron cases, said the Union health ministry on Thursday. The recovery of 19,206 patients in the last 24 hours has increased the cumulative tally to 3,43,41,009. Consequently, India's recovery rate stands at 97.81 per cent. Also in the same period, a total of 14,13,030 tests were conducted across the country. India has so far conducted over 68.53 crore cumulative tests. Meanwhile, the weekly positivity rate has climbed to 3.47 per cent amid a sudden spike in cases. The daily positivity rate stands at 6.43 per cent. With the administration of over 91 lakhs vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid inoculation coverage has reached 148.76 crore as of Thursday morning. More than 18.43 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories to be administered, according to the health ministry as of Thursday morning. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-massive-spike-india-reports-90928-new-covid-19-cases-1068451.html
06-01-2022||National||8 booked under Gangster Act for creating trouble during PM Modi's Kanpur visit||The Kanpur police have invoked Gangster Act against five former Samajwadi Party workers and their three aides, accused of plotting a ruckus during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally on December 28. The action has been taken on the orders of the commissioner of police, Asim Kumar Arun, in view of the investigation done so far and criminal record of the accused. During the police investigation on the basis of the viral video it came to fore that the vehicle, which was vandalised on the day the Prime Minister visited the city, belonged to SP leader Ankur Patel. The conspiracy was hatched by another SP leader Sachin Kesarwani, a resident of Awas Vikas Colony in Naubasta. Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Kanpur on December 28, a video went viral on social media in the evening on the same day. In the video, SP workers could be seen indulging in vandalisation and burning effigies of BJP leaders, including Prime Minister and the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in front of a four-wheeler. So far, the police have arrested eight persons, including Ankur Patel (SP leader), Sachin Kesarwani (SP leader), Sukant Sharma (SP worker), Abhishek Rawat (SP worker), Nikesh Kumar Yadav (SP worker) and Ansh, Jitendra and Arun in this connection. They have been sent to jail. The Samajwadi Party has also expelled the five accused in the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-booked-under-gangster-act-for-creating-trouble-during-pm-modis-kanpur-visit-1068467.html
06-01-2022||National||Explained: PM's security detail and the SPG||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security was compromised for nearly 20 minutes on Wednesday in Punjab’s Ferozepur when his cavalcade was stranded on a flyover due to a protest. The incident snowballed into a political controversy with the BJP accusing the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government and the Congress party of trying to “physically harm” India’s Prime Minister. Here’s a look at the Prime Minister’s security arrangement and the Special Protection Group (SPG), the body responsible for its planning. What is SPG? The SPG is solely responsible for the planning of the PM’s security protocol, based on broad guidelines stated in the Blue Book issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The group conducts a compulsory Advance Security Liasion (ASL) with security officials of the respective state, including Intelligence Bureau officials and state police officers, three days before the PM’s planned visit. An ASL report is released after the meeting, on the basis of which security is planned. The meeting discusses every minute detail of the PM’s visit, including how he is expected to arrive (by air or road) and how he reaches the final venue and contingency plans in case of emergencies. The venue is secured with entry and exit frisking and metal detectors for visitors. The strength of the stage that the PM is supposed to stand on is also checked. “Fire safety of the venue is also audited. Even weather report for the day is taken into consideration. If the PM is likely to take a boat, the functional readiness and safety of the boat is authorised on a certificate. If there are bushes on the route that the PM is supposed to take, SPG may ask them to be cut down. Narrow patches of the route are mapped and more men are asked to be posted there for route security,” a senior police officer who was on PM’s security detail multiple times said. The local police is reportedly supposed to do anti-sabotage checks and review security with men placed on roads and snipers on rooftops. If the PM is supposed to stay in a place, an SP-level officer is deputed as camp commandment for security reasons. An SP-level officer in plain clothes is placed during public rallies and road shows. What if plans change? Security forces have a contingency plan in advance. “What if because of bad weather, the PM can’t fly to the venue? So, an alternative route by road is planned in advance. The route is sanitised and security is placed on the road even if the PM is supposed to fly. You can’t arrange security at the last minute,” the officer said. This is what happened in the Ferozepur rally. PM Modi was supposed to travel to National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by a chopper but due to rain, visibility was low. It was then decided that he would take the road. There are elaborate measures in place to deal with any spontaneous protests that may erupt during the PM’s visit. “There is a list of suspicious people or potential protesters with the local police. They are picketed in advance. Physical and electronic surveillance is mounted to gather information on such surprises. If there is a planned protest that cannot be stalled, then the route is avoided,” an officer is quoted as saying in the report. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-pms-security-detail-and-the-spg-1068475.html
06-01-2022||National||Satya Pal Malik and the emperor's new clothes||It is very odd that Satya Pal Malik, Governor of Meghalaya, has launched a frontal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Odder that even after three days, the government and the party are quiet. No counter; no riposte. What is odd about the entire episode is that Malik has targeted the prime minister over an old meeting, recounting it much after the farm laws have been repealed and agitating farmers have left the year-long sit-ins. Although Malik has been openly supporting the farmers in the last six months, he has never before launched a frontal attack on the prime minister. In November, he taunted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for being unfeeling, "Even when an animal dies, Delhi netas' express condolences. But they could not pass a condolence motion for 600 farmers in the Lok Sabha." He did not name Prime Minister Modi. Why then has he chosen to engage the prime minister so adversarially at this juncture and escaped censure? Some political observers claim that the governor wants to be sacked so that he can contest the Uttar Pradesh (UP) legislative elections. But he could have done so by resigning peaceably from his gubernatorial assignment. The BJP might have backed him as their pro-farmer face, who would attract the Jat caste vote in Western UP. If this is indeed a consideration for Malik, clearly, in his judgement, the BJP's prospects are not very bright in UP. The government seems to be in a quandary about what to do with Malik. As a constitutional authority, he can be dismissed for politicking. However, if the Union Cabinet (on whose recommendation the president acts) recommends such punitive action, it could be said that he has been punished for telling the truth. There is also fear of the Jat vote in Western UP turning against the BJP. On the other hand, not removing Malik would make Prime Minister Modi seem weak and erode his authority. He is known for never having forgiven an adversary (even those from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) either in his term as the chief minister of Gujarat or as prime minister. If Malik is not brought to heel, Prime Minister Modi could become fair game for others in the BJP as well. If Malik is not sacked, the message that goes unchallenged across the country is that the prime minister is arrogant, self-centred and does not care for the deaths of Indian citizens, even if they die in hundreds. Yet, more than 72 hours since Malik trained his guns on Prime Minister Modi, everyone has maintained radio silence on Malik's comments. Malik had earlier said that he had been appointed by "two or three powerful people in Delhi" and that they alone could remove him. But the cat seems to have got their tongue. Does the failure to orchestrate an effective defence of its leader indicate goings-on within the government and the party which outsiders have not fathomed? Even Union Home Minister Shah – considered the prime minister's right-hand man - allegedly spoke of the prime minister being misled. With such perceptible loss of authority, it is difficult to see how Prime Minister Modi can lead the BJP in the 2024 general election. Prime Minister Modi has failed to combat growing unemployment. The economy is not doing great. Poverty and inequality have gone up. The prime minister has shown no statesmanship in taking along the Opposition on important national issues. His much-touted national security credentials lie in shreds as he is unable to even admit to the fact of Chinese aggression in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. Distributing freebies before elections and Hindu-Muslim polarisation is too fragile a political platform to support his candidature for a third term. The deafening silence in the party and government may be the first admission of this. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satya-pal-malik-and-the-emperors-new-clothes-1068476.html
06-01-2022||National||India records biggest single-day rise of 495 Omicron cases||India on Thursday saw the biggest single-day jump of 495 Omicron cases, taking the total number of infections of the new variant of coronavirus to 2,630, according to union health ministry data. Of the total cases, Maharashtra has the maximum at 797, followed by Delhi at 465, Rajasthan 236, Kerala 234, Karnataka 226, Gujarat 204 and Tamil Nadu 121. The country reported 90,928 fresh coronavirus infections, the highest in over 200 days, that pushed its caseload to 3,51,09,286, the data stated. As many as 91,702 new infections were reported on June 10 last year. The death toll climbed to 4,82,876 with 325 fatalities, the ministry said. The number of active cases stands at 2,85,401, comprising 0.81 per cent of the total infections, it said. An increase of 71,397 cases was recorded in the active caseload in a day. The national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 97.81 per cent, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 6.43 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate stood at 3.47 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,43,41,009. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent, the ministry said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 148.67 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 325 new fatalities include 258 from Kerala and 17 from West Bengal. So far, 4,82,876 deaths have been reported in the country including 1,41,581 from Maharashtra, 48,895 from Kerala, 38,357 from Karnataka, 36,814 from Tamil Nadu, 25,121 from Delhi, 22,916 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,827 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-biggest-single-day-rise-of-495-omicron-cases-1068480.html
06-01-2022||National||AIMIM to host conference on status of Muslims in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will host a conference on 'Muslims in UP - Development, security and inclusion', in Lucknow on Friday. The conference will dwell at length on a recent study on the current conditions of Muslims in terms of demography, challenges in education, including madrassas, participation in industrial sector, entrepreneurship, population aspects, criminalisation and incarceration. The study, which will be tabled at the conference, is based on data collected mostly from government reports available in public domain and from works of well-known names in the field of research. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said that talking about various aspects related to the Muslim community without backing it with credible empirical data were usually dismissed as rhetoric. "More than 80 per cent of the data used in the study has been picked from government records available in public domain. The remaining data has come from exhaustive academic works of leading researchers," Owaisi said. "The data available does not give a rosy picture of what the community is dealing with at present and more effort is required from all quarters to improve the situation. "Muslims constitute 19.25 per cent of the total population of Uttar Pradesh against the national figure of 14.23 per cent. However, 71.2 per cent of Muslims above 15 years are illiterate or educated below the primary level in the state as compared to the national average of 58.3 per cent. The educational profile of Muslims in 2019-20 as per PLFS shows that at least 40.83 per cent Muslims are illiterate as compared to the overall illiteracy rate of 34.01 per cent. Such data is essential to fix responsibility on those responsible for the state of affairs," he said. The conference in Lucknow is being held just ahead of the Assembly elections and while addressing the media, Owaisi said that the idea was to attract attention from all quarters of the society on the condition of Muslims in India. "And what better a time than before the elections when issues related to communities and people get more attention," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimim-to-host-conference-on-status-of-muslims-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1068492.html
06-01-2022||National||Key conspirator in 'Bulli Bai' app case arrested from Assam||A 20-year-old engineering student, whom Delhi Police describes as the “main conspirator and creator” of the derogatory ‘Bulli Bai’ app that posted pictures of over 100 Muslim women and conducted online auctions, was arrested from Assam on Thursday. Neeraj Bishnoi, a resident of Assam’s Jorhat, was apprehended by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of Delhi Police's Special Cell following investigations into a case registered by it following a complaint by a young woman journalist earlier this month. This is the first arrest by Delhi Police in the case while Mumbai Police has apprehended three youths – an 18-year-old Uttarakhand resident Shewta Singh, 20-year-old Delhi University BSc Chemistry student Mayank Rawat from Uttarakhand, a 21-year-old engineering student in Bengaluru Vishal Kumar Jha hailing from Bihar – in a case registered separately. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said Bishnoi is the main conspirator and creator of 'Bulli Bai' app on GitHub platform and the owner of the main Twitter account of the app. He is a second year student of Vellore Institute of Technology in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal. Malhotra claimed Bishnoi, whose father is a businessman, has confessed about the creation of the application. "Forensic remnants of the creation have been found in his laptop...The IFSO worked out the case using technical analysis, IPDR (Internet Protocol Detail Records) and other gateways," he said, adding Bishnoi allegedly sent the app to social media propagators.  An Assam Police officer said the operation to arrest him lasted about 12 hours and the arrest took place within hours of information being shared by Delhi Police, PTI reported. The Bulli Bai app, which surfaced six months after a similar Sulli Deals app surfaced, came to light on January 1 when some of the women whose pictures were used and auctioned online spotted these on Twitter. An outrage followed and Union Information and Technology Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw assured action. A number of vocal Muslim women, which included journalists, political party activists, a radio jockey, mother of a JNU student who went missing and anti-CAA student activists among others. Delhi Police had registered a case on the basis of a complaint by Ismat Ara, a  journalist with news portal The Wire. While the app was taken off, Github, the platform that hosted both the Sulli Deals and Bulli Bai apps, was asked to provide details of the creator of these apps. Activists had said that the investigations in the previous Sulli Deals app failing to catch the perpetrator had emboldened others to come up with the Bulli Bai app Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-conspirator-in-bulli-bai-app-case-arrested-from-assam-1068496.html
06-01-2022||National||FORDA moves SC saying revision of OBC, EWS quota criteria will further delay counselling||The Federation of Indian Doctors (FORDA) has filed an intervention plea in the Supreme Court, which is currently hearing petitions challenging validity of EWS quota in postgraduate medical courses. FORDA has been protesting against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. It emphasised that the revision of the OBC and EWS reservation criteria at such fag-end of the process shall certainly lead to furthermore delay in the commencement of the NEET PG counselling and the final selection thereafter. The top court will take up the matter later in the day. In a plea filed through advocate Archana Pathak Dave, FORDA said the application is being filed to put forth the grievances of the resident doctors and the doctors working to strengthen the healthcare system of India. The plea added that the applicant is seeking indulgence from the top court with respect to the commencement of the counselling of the NEET PG examination which has been put on hold for more than a year and induction of the first-year postgraduate doctors (junior resident doctors) to fill the void created in the healthcare infrastructure of the nation. "That it would be necessary to bring to the notice of this Hon'ble Court that the Postgraduate Doctors (hereinafter referred to as the aceJunior Residents") hold an indispensable position in the healthcare system of the nation and their timely induction is significant to ensure the seamless functioning thereof", said the plea. It further added, "That every year an estimated 45,000 candidates are inducted as postgraduate doctors through the NEET PG examination. However, in the year 2021, the said process of induction of postgraduate doctors into the medical workforce was hindered due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent delay in the holding of the NEET PG examination". The applicant said due to non-commencement of the counselling process, no first-year postgraduate doctors/junior residents have been inducted till date, resulting in deficiency in the number of doctors and the hospital/medical colleges being understaffed at a time as crucial as a pandemic. "The Applicant Association humbly submits revision of the reservation scheme at the present stage i.e. towards the end of the entire process of the NEET PG examination may further delay the NEET PG counselling and have adverse impact over the students, health care institution, as well as the nation at large", added the plea. The Centre has accepted the report of a three-member panel constituted to revisit the EWS criteria. The panel, in its report, said: "Firstly, the EWS's criteria relates to the financial year prior to the year of application whereas the income criterion for the creamy layer in OBC category is applicable to gross annual income for three consecutive years." The panel added, "Secondly, in case of deciding the OBC creamy layer, income from salaries, agriculture and traditional artisanal professions are excluded from the consideration whereas the Rs 8 lakh criteria for EWS includes that from all sources, including farming. So, despite being the same cut-off number, their composition is different and hence, the two cannot be equated". The top court is hearing writ petitions challenging 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC) and 10 per cent reservation for EWS in all-India Quota seats for postgraduate medical courses. As many as 15 per cent seats in MBBS and 50 per cent seats in MS and MD courses are filled through All India Quota from the candidates selected through NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forda-moves-sc-saying-revision-of-obc-ews-quota-criteria-will-further-delay-counselling-1068501.html
06-01-2022||National||BharatPe CEO says viral audio clip with him hurling abuses is fake||After an audio clip surfaced on social media carrying abuses allegedly being hurled by BharatPe CEO Ashneer Grover and a family member on a Kotak Group employee, Grover tweeted on Thursday that it was a fake audio by some seamster trying to extort money from him in Bitcoins. The unverified audio clip went viral this week allegedly over the non-allocation of shares in fashion ecommerce firm Nykaa that recently went public. The viral audio was posted by an anonymous handle along with the tweet: "how rich founders treat poor bank employees". "Folks. Chill ! It's a FAKE audio by some scamster trying to extort funds (US$ 240K in bitcoins). I refused to buckle. I've got more character. And the Internet has got enough scamsters :) (sic)," Grover posted in a tweet. He also shared a couple of email exchanges between himself and a startup marketer that goes by the name of UniconBaba. In one of the emails, UniconBaba allegedly asked for a payment of $200,000 for BharatPe's promotion and marketing-related expenses. "You can expect 800-1,000 potential startup deals in 2 years easily. Also, I will help you in image building strategy that will change the narrative. And give 20-25 positive shoutouts and PR plus in the same period," the alleged email shared by Grover read. A vocal voice in the Indian startup ecosystem, Grover recently took on the overpriced Paytm IPO, saying in media reports that "it did not listen to market voices and spoilt the market for the immediate listings". He criticised Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma's decision to "misprice" the public offering, Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharatpe-ceo-says-viral-audio-clip-with-him-hurling-abuses-is-fake-1068516.html
06-01-2022||National||Delhi HC dismisses Swamy's plea seeking to set aside Air India disinvestment process||The Delhi High Court on Thursday dismissed BJP leader Subramanian Swamy's plea seeking to set aside the Air India disinvestment process on the allegation that the methodology adopted by the government in the valuation of the national carrier was "arbitrary, illegal and against public interest". The order was passed by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The court said a detailed order will be uploaded. “Dr. Subramanian Swamy, sir we are dismissing this matter… For the aforesaid reasons, we are dismissing this writ petition,” the bench said. Swamy has sought to set aside and revoke any action or decision or grant of any further approvals, permissions or permits by authorities with respect to the Air India disinvestment process. On January 4, the court heard the arguments put forward by Swamy, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared in the matter on behalf of Talace Private Limited, and had reserved the order. Swamy also sought a CBI investigation into the role and functioning of authorities and the submission of a detailed report before the court. The plea was opposed by the counsel for Centre and Talace Pvt Ltd. In October last year, the Centre accepted the highest bid made by a Tata Sons company for 100 per cent equity shares of Air India and Air India Express, along with the government's 50 per cent stake in ground-handling company AISATS -- the first privatisation in the country in 20 years.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-dismisses-swamys-plea-seeking-to-set-aside-air-india-disinvestment-process-1068521.html
06-01-2022||National||Manipur ambush: NIA announces cash reward for information on 10 PLA, MNPF militants||The NIA also released photographs of the 10 insurgents and announced cash rewards ranging between Rs 4 and 8 lakh against each of them.   Militants ambushed the convoy of Commading Officer of 46 Assam Rifles, Colonel Viplab Tripathi, his wife, five-year-old son and four other personnel near Sialsih village under Thinghat police station near Myanmar border, killing all seven and injuring six others. The PLA and MNPF had issued a statement soon after the attack claiming responsibility.   The case was first registered by police in Manipur but was later handed over to the NIA on November 27. The NIA registered the case under Section 121, 121-A, 302, 307, 326 and 34 of IPC, Section 10 amd 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sections of Arms Act and Explosive Substance Act. Cash reward of Rs 8 lakh each was announced against Chaoyai alias Pukhrambam Mani Meetei and Sagolsem Inaocha alias Ranjit Naorem. The NIA announced cash reward of Rs 6 lakh against another PLA insurgent Sanatomba, while Rs 4 lakh each was announced against five others, Khaba, Khwairakpa, Nongyai, Joseph, Rocky, Balin and Kanta alias Santa.  The NIA released phone numbers and email IDs for sharing information related to the suspects. "Identity of the informant will be kept secret," the NIA said in a statement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-ambush-nia-announces-cash-reward-for-information-on-10-pla-mnpf-militants-1068524.html
06-01-2022||National||PM Modi meets President Kovind over security breach issue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday briefed President Ram Nath Kovind on the security breach during his visit to Punjab, drawing his concern over the serious lapse. In a tweet, the President's secretariat said, "President Ram Nath Kovind met Prime Minister Modi at the Rashtrapati Bhavan today and received from him a first-hand account of the security breach in his convoy in Punjab yesterday. The President expressed his concerns about the serious lapse." Modi said after the meeting, "Called on Rashtrapati Ji. Thankful to him for his concern. Grateful for his good wishes, which are always a source of strength." Earlier, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu spoke to Modi and expressed his deep concern over the incident. Naidu also expressed the hope that stringent steps will be taken to scrupulously adhere to established security protocol and ensure such a situation doesn't recur in future, the Vice President's office said on Twitter. In a "major security lapse", the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has denied any security lapse or political motive behind it and said his government is ready for an inquiry. The Punjab government on Thursday constituted a two-member high-level committee to conduct a "thorough probe" into lapses during Modi's visit to Ferozepur, an official spokesperson said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-president-kovind-over-security-breach-issue-1068529.html
06-01-2022||National||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute on January 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata on January 7 via videoconferencing, his office said on Thursday. The second campus of CNCI has been built in line with Modi's vision to expand and upgrade health facilities in all parts of the country, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. CNCI was facing a heavy load of cancer patients. A need for expansion was being felt for some time, and the second campus will fulfil it, it said. The second campus of CNCI has been built at a cost of over Rs 530 crore. Around Rs 400 crore was provided by the Union government and the rest by the West Bengal government in the ratio of 75:25, the PMO said. The campus is a 460-bed comprehensive cancer centre unit with cutting-edge infrastructure for cancer diagnosis, staging, treatment and care. It is equipped with modern facilities like Nuclear Medicine (PET), 3.0 Tesla MRI, 128 slice CT scanner, Radionuclide therapy unit, endoscopy suite, modern brachytherapy units etc. The campus will also work as an advanced cancer research facility and provide comprehensive care to cancer patients, especially those from eastern and northeastern parts of the country, it said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-second-campus-of-chittaranjan-national-cancer-institute-on-january-7-1068534.html
06-01-2022||National||Why Centre decided against mix-and-match of Covid-19 vaccines: Report||National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, or NTAGI, met on January 3 and decided that the same vaccine will be used as the "precaution dose" and arrived at an understanding that mix-and-match of vaccines resulted in increased "reactogenicity." Reactogenicity refers to reactions that occur immediately after immunisation.  "There was a total consensus on the decision on using the same vaccine as a precautionary dose as it was seen that the reactogenicity increases if the vaccines are mixed and we decided to go ahead with the same vaccine," sources familiar with the matter told the publication.  PM Narendra Modi on December 25 last year announced that healthcare and frontline workers along with people over age 60 with compromised immunity will receive a third dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the 'precaution dose' which is globally known as a booster shot. An NTAGI member told the publication that a series of meetings were held before it was decided that the same vaccine will be used as a booster too. The member also reportedly said that the advisory group is assessing more evidence and the norms could be changed if need be.  "We are open to modifications. Mix-and-match of vaccines will be done if we have more evidence that suggests that benefits outweigh risks," another member said, according to the publication.  The member also reportedly said that a study revealed that the third dose of Covishield gave enough immunity. However, the member informed, there was no evidence for Covaxin, the Bharath Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine. The group is awaiting the results of the studies that are still undergoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-centre-decided-against-mix-and-match-of-covid-19-vaccines-report-1068540.html
06-01-2022||National||Covid-19 antiviral drug Molnupiravir has major safety concerns: ICMR chief||ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava said on Wednesday that Covid antiviral drug Molnupiravir has major safety concerns and has not been included in the national protocol for treatment of coronavirus. During a press briefing, he said the World Health Organisation and the UK have not included it for treatment. "We have to remember that this drug has major safety concerns. It can cause teratogenicity, mutagenicity and it can also cause cartilage damage and can also be damaging to muscles also. Contraception will have to be done for three months for male and female if this drug is given because the child born could be problematic due to teratogenic influence," he told reporters. Bhargava said the US has approved it based on only 1,433 patients in which three per cent reduction was observed in symptoms in patients with mild to moderate disease. He stressed that it is not part of the national treatment protocol for Covid. "We have concerns about the drug and its use during lactation, in children, soft-tissue injuries, reproductive age group," he said, adding that they have debated on its usage twice and will further debate over it. India's Drug Regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on December 28 had approved Molnupiravir for restricted use in emergency situations. "Molnupiravir will now be manufactured in the country by 13 companies for restricted use under emergency situations for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19 and who have high risk of progression of the disease," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had said. Molnupiravir is an antiviral that inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication by viral mutagenesis. The UK MHRA on 04.12.2021 granted approval for Molnupiravir under special condition for treatment of mild to moderate coronavirus disease in adults with a positive SARS-COV-2 diagnostic test and who have at least one risk factor for developing severe illness, an official statement had said. The US FDA on December 23 had granted EUA for Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease in adults with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing, and who are at high risk for progression to severe Covid-19, including hospitalisation or death, and for whom alternative Covid-19 treatment options authorised by the FDA are not accessible or clinically appropriate. The CDSCO had received 22 applications for manufacture and market of the drug Molnupiravir in the country. "Considering the emergency and unmet medical need in Covid, the SEC on December 27 recommended for grant of permission to manufacture and market the Molnupiravir 200mg capsule with recommended dose of 800 mg twice daily for 5 days for restricted use under emergency situation in the country for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19, with SpO2 over 93 per cent and who have high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalization or death subject to various conditions," the statement said. According to the conditions, the drug should be sold by retail only under prescription of medical specialists and the recommended dose should be 800mg twice daily for five days.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-antiviral-drug-molnupiravir-has-major-safety-concerns-icmr-chief-1068543.html
06-01-2022||National||PM's security breach: Punjab BJP seeks dismissal of state Home Minister||A delegation of the Punjab BJP unit on Thursday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and sought dismissal of state Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyay for breach of security of the Prime Minister. The delegation, led by state party President Ashwani Sharma, alleged disruption of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Ferozepur on Wednesday. The state Congress government on Thursday announced to constitute a high-level committee for a thorough probe into the lapses. An official spokesperson said the committee would comprise Justice (retd) Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary (Home Affairs) Anurag Verma. The committee will submit its report within three days. Regretting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to cancel his scheduled visit to Ferozepur midway, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said there was no security lapse that led to the cancellation of the Prime Minister's visit to the district bordering Pakistan. "We were told that the Prime Minister would fly by helicopter from Bathinda to Ferozepur. But all of a sudden, he decided to move by road. If there were any security lapses during PM Modi's visit, we are ready for probe the matter," Channi had told the media here. Modi at the last minute cancelled his visit while en route to Ferozepur, where he was scheduled to lay foundation stones for projects worth Rs 42,750 crore. The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes. This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-security-breach-punjab-bjp-seeks-dismissal-of-state-home-minister-1068547.html
06-01-2022||National||SP leader booked for calling PM Modi a 'liar'||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Atul Pradhan was booked after a video in which he can be heard calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi a 'liar' went viral on the social media. The Meerut police took suo motu cognisance of the same and lodged an FIR. Pradhan said that he had not said or done anything wrong and the BJP government was "misusing its powers by booking all those who are raising their voice against the ruling party." Narendra Sharma, station house officer (SHO) of the Daraula police station, said that Pradhan has been booked under Section 505 (2) of the IPC, which entails a maximum of five years of imprisonment. He said the section is slapped on those who hurt 'sentiments of people'. The SHO said, "I have found a 32-second video in which Atul Pradhan can be seen making indecent remarks about the Prime Minister. His statements have created a furore among people." Pradhan, meanwhile, said that he had spoken against the Prime Minister via Facebook live and that he did not regret what he had said. "Doesn't the Prime Minister keep making remarks about others during his rallies? An FIR against me is a misuse of powers by the ruling party, which is fearing defeat in the upcoming polls," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-leader-booked-for-calling-pm-modi-a-liar-1068555.html
06-01-2022||National||Indians still careless despite Omicron: Poll||As the third wave of Covid grips India, the IANS-CVoter Omicron Snap Poll reveals shocking levels of carelessness and nonchalance by Indians. The snap poll had a sample size of 1,942. To a question if people were generally wearing masks and taking precautions, only 21.8 per cent of the respondents agreed that people were indeed wearing masks and taking precautions. In sharp contrast, 41.5 per cent said wearing of masks and other precautions were being followed "only sometimes" while another 33.8 per cent said they were mostly not being followed. In effect, 3 out of every four Indian are still not taking the basic preventive steps against Corona despite repeated warnings, exhortations and threats by the government, scientists and doctors. This is happening at a time when there is virtual unanimity that the third wave of Covid led this time by the super spreading Omicron variant has already arrived in India and is heading rapidly towards a peak. A recent study by IIT Kanpur suggests that the peak of the third wave would be reached anytime between the first and second week of February this year. It has also been established unequivocally that the Omicron variant breaches through the defences of people who have already taken two doses of the vaccine. There has been a massive increase in the number of infections in major metro cities, particularly Mumbai and Delhi. In Delhi, the positivity rate shot up to an alarming 11.6 per cent by January, 2022 and more than 150 patients are on oxygen support with about 22 on ventilator support. Authorities, hospitals and doctors will find it difficult to manage yet another surge unless ordinary Indian citizens realise the true gravity of the situation and come out of the comfort zone of thinking that the Omicron variant is very mild. It could mutate into something far more deadly without any warning, as it happened with the Delta variant during the second wave. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-still-careless-despite-omicron-poll-1068559.html
06-01-2022||National||EC reviews Covid-19 surge in poll-bound states with Health Secy, chiefs of ICMR, AIIMS||The Election Commission on Thursday reviewed the Covid-19 surge in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab, even as it completed preparation to announce the schedule of the assembly polls in the five states – notwithstanding the onset of the third wave of the pandemic in the country. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and the two Election Commissioners, Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, had a meeting with the Union Health Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, and the Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava, to review the Covid-19 surge in the five poll-bound states as well as the containment measures put in place. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi, was also present in the meeting, which took place at the Nirvachan Sadan, the headquarters of the EC in New Delhi. The EC also reviewed the law and order situation in the five states in a separate meeting with Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. The commission is likely to announce the schedule of the assembly polls in the five states soon. The polling is likely to take place in February and March. The Model Code of Conduct will come into effect with the announcement of the schedule of the assembly elections. A source told DH that the Health Secretary had briefed the CEC and the two other ECs about the rate of SARS-CoV-2 infection and pace of anti-Covid-19 vaccination in the five states. Chandra, Kumar and Pandey also discussed with Dr Guleria and Dr Bhargava the special measures, which should be adopted in addition to its own August 2020 guidelines for holding polls during the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh, the largest of the poll-bound states, at present has 5,158 active Covid-19 cases, with as many as 1,985 people being tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past 24 hours. Punjab and Uttarakhand reported 1,748 and 346 new Covid-19 cases respectively in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases to 4,434 and 1,000 in the two states respectively. Goa and Manipur now have 3,718 and 268 active cases respectively, with 955 and 11 people being tested positive in the past 24 hours, according to the data the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare released and shared with the EC on Thursday. Uttar Pradesh so far confirmed 31 Covid-19 cases caused by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2, while six of them have already recovered. Manipur and Punjab reported one and two cases of infection by Omicron respectively, but all of them have already recovered. Five of the eight Omicron-infected people in Uttarakhand recovered. Goa reported five cases of infection by Omicron, but four of them have  recovered so far, according to the MoHFW data. Goa and Uttarakhand reported anti-Covid-19 vaccination coverage for the first and second doses higher than the national average. But Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur reported vaccination coverage below the national average. The source said that the CEC had asked the Union Health Secretary to speed up vaccination campaigns in all the five states so that all eligible people could be inoculated with both doses of the Covid-19 jabs at the earliest. The EC also stressed on vaccination of the poll personnel, who would be deployed to conduct the elections. Altogether 7.61 crore adults in Uttar Pradesh were fully vaccinated till 7:00 am on Thursday. Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa fully vaccinated 95.69 lakh, 64.95 and 11.15 lakh adults of the populations in the states respectively. Manipur reported inoculation of 9.99 lakh adult people with the first and second doses of the vaccines. The CEC and the two ECs stressed during the meetings with the Health Secretary that the Centre should coordinate with the governments of the five poll-bound states to ensure that adequate measures are put in place to contain the surge in the Covid-19 cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-reviews-covid-19-surge-in-poll-bound-states-with-health-secy-chiefs-of-icmr-aiims-1068564.html
06-01-2022||National||Delhi: One more arrested in connection with wrestler's death in Chhatrasal stadium brawl||The Special Cell of the Delhi Police has arrested a 24-year-old man in connection with the Chhatrasal stadium brawl that led to the death of a wrestler and left two of his friends injured, officials said on Thursday. The accused, Parveen Dabas, is a resident of Sultanpur Dabas village, they said, adding that he was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on information leading to his arrest. Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar has already been arrested in the case. Acting on a tip-off about Dabas coming to his village to meet one of his associates, police laid a trap near the Prem Piyao road in the village on Monday and arrested the accused, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh said. Dabas told the police that he, along with Kumar and 18 to 20 of his associates, armed with hockey sticks and wooden sticks, had beaten up the members of their rival group on the intervening night of May 4 and May 5 at the Chhatrasal stadium here, the DCP said. Sagar Dhankar, Sonu Mahaal, Amit and others of the other group sustained serious injuries in the attack. The assault was orchestrated by Kumar and his associates to settle a personal score with the members of their rival group to teach them a lesson and establish their dominance in the area, Singh said. Dhankar succumbed to his injuries in the hospital the next day. He was the nephew of notorious gangster Kala Jathedi, who was outraged at his death after being beaten up by Kumar and his associates, police said. Kumar had the support of the Neeraj Bawana gang in his suspected shoddy property deals and in terrorising the members of his rival group, they said, adding that a total of 18 people have so far been arrested in the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-one-more-arrested-in-connection-with-wrestlers-death-in-chhatrasal-stadium-brawl-1068565.html
06-01-2022||National||Muslim cleric's call of 'Dharam Sansad' against hate speeches gets support||Founder of Ittehad-e-Millat Council Tauqeer Raza Khan's call for a 'Dharam Sansad' on Friday has got support from All India Tanzeem ul Islam, which on Thursday asked the community members to gather in large numbers. The protest has been called to offer 'mass sacrifice' in protest against hate speeches delivered in Haridwar. Raza Khan appealed to muslims of Uttar Pradesh to gather in large numbers at the Islamia School in Bareilly on Friday for "mass sacrifice" in protest against recent hate speeches made in Haridwar. The announcement was made on Saturday where he said, "the recent Dharam Sansad against which objections were raised by our community was not the first one but it has been happening for many months, but the present government was never ready to hear anything." "Our ulemas have conducted three meetings but we never called it Dharam Sansad, but the language used in Haridwar can never be used by our ulemas and the ulemas show the path of peace, patriotism and love to disciples," he added. The cleric said that the hate mongers want to kill 20 lakh Muslims. "We have decided that we are ready for it. I urge the government that they can send their people to kill us and on Friday at least 20,000 Muslims will surrender before them. The best way is that Muslims sacrifice their lives to ensure peace in the country." Khan has got support of Tanzeem which recently advocated united India as it was in medieval period. Mujahid Hussain Qadri of Tanzeem said that people want to create disharmony between Hindus and Muslims but they will not succeed. The hate speech was reportedly made during an event in Haridwar held from December 17 to 20. Video clips of the event, circulated on social media, say that "Hindus should arm themselves like those seen in Myanmar, every Hindu must pick up weapons and conduct a Safayi Abhiyan." The event was organised by Yati Narasimhanand, a controversial religious leader who has been accused in the past of inciting violence. The Uttrakhand Police have lodged an FIR in the case against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi -- former Shia Waqf board chairman, who recently converted to Hinduism. In a similar incident, Chhattisgarh Police had arrested Kalicharan Maharaj for allegedly using derogatory language against Mahatma Gandhi from Madhya Pradesh's Khajuraho. The police had registered an FIR and arrested the religious leader and others for allegedly making derogatory comments on Mahatma Gandhi and praising Nathuram Godse. The Congress is criticising the delay in action against the accused in Haridwar. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-clerics-call-of-dharam-sansad-against-hate-speeches-gets-support-1068566.html
06-01-2022||National||MoS Home Nityanand Rai tests Covid-positive||Union Minister Nityanand Rai tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a day after he attended an event where chiefs of Central Armed Police Forces were present. Rai, 56, a Lok Sabha member from Bihar, is Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. "I have tested positive for Covid. I have completely isolated myself. People who came in contact with me are requested to take necessary steps," Rai tweeted in Hindi. On Wednesday, the minister attended an event here where Ayushman health cards were distributed among CAPF personnel. Chiefs of CRPF, BSF, ITBP, CISF and SSB attended the event. The NSG was represented by an Inspector General-rank officer. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mos-home-nityanand-rai-tests-covid-positive-1068570.html
06-01-2022||National||Cabinet approves Rs 12,000 crore for 2nd phase of Green Energy Corridor||The Cabinet on Thursday approved Rs 12,000 crore for the second phase of the Green Energy Corridor to facilitate grid integration and power evacuation of about 20 GW of renewable energy projects in seven states. The scheme targets to add approximately 10,750 circuit kilometres of transmission lines and about 27,500 mega volt-amperes transformation capacity of sub-stations. The scheme will facilitate grid integration and power evacuation of approximately 20 GW of Renewable Energy (RE) power projects in seven States namely, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, said a statement from the Union Ministry of Power. The second phase will be implemented during 2021-22 to 2025-26 fiscal years. The central assistance is 33 per cent of the total investment. The scheme will help in achieving the target of 450 GW installed RE capacity by 2030. The scheme will also contribute to long term energy security of the country and promote ecologically sustainable growth by reducing carbon footprint. It will generate large direct and indirect employment opportunities for both skilled and unskilled personnel in power and other related sectors, said the statement. In the first phase, already 80 per cent of the phase has been completed and remaining works is expected to be completed in 2022. The outlay of the first phase was Rs 10,142 crore, which is already under implementation in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu for grid integration and power evacuation of approximately 24 GW of RE power, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-rs-12000-crore-for-2nd-phase-of-green-energy-corridor-1068589.html
06-01-2022||National||BJP leaders pray for PM Modi's long life after security breach||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday increased pressure on the Opposition Congress over the issue of a lapse in the cavalcade of prime minister Narendra Modi.  In addition, PM Modi called on President Ramnath Kovind to give him a firsthand account of the incident, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.   “President Ram Nath Kovind met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Rashtrapati Bhavan today and received from him a first-hand account of the security breach in his convoy in Punjab yesterday. The President expressed his concerns about the serious lapse,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan's handle tweeted.  Several ministers of Modi’s Cabinet raised the issue in a meeting of cabinet ministers, and expressed “concerns'', said sources. Many of the ministers asked for “exemplary action”.  “This is an unprecedented incident, and there should be accountability and exemplary action,” said a minister on condition of anonymity.  While announcing Cabinet decisions, union minister Anurag Thakur told reporters that the home ministry will take tough decisions.  “The Home Ministry will take action. After we have enough information, whatever big and tough decisions have to be taken, we will do it. Whenever there is a breach like this, then whatever steps have to be taken will be taken. There are some people who have approached the Supreme Court, too,” Thakur too.  BJP leaders and workers across the country chanted the mahamrityunjaya mantra at various places to pray for the long life of prime minister Narendra Modi, a day after the party alleged an attempt to the PM’s life in poll-bound Congress-ruled Punjab.  Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan chanted prayers at the Gufa Mandir in Bhopal. Reports said that 108 priests will recite the mantra over the next three days.  Prayers were conducted at two other temples in the state — Ujjain's Mahakaleshwar Jyotirlinga and Khandwa's Omkareshwar temple — both centres of worship of Shiva.  The mahamrityunjaya mantra is a verse from the Rig Veda, a canonical treatise of the Hindus, and the mantra is chanted to pray for longevity.  In Delhi, too, several leaders conducted prayers. BJP General Secretaries Arun Singh and Dushyant Gautam led prayers at Preeti Vihar’s Durga temple and Connaught Palace’s Hanuman Mandir, respectively. Vice-president Baijayant Panda led prayers at the Jhandewalan Temple.  Tripura CM Biplob Deb also conducted prayers at Agartala’s Meher Kalibari temple, and BJP legislator Rekha Verma prayed at her constituency Dhauraha’s Shiv temple. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, too, tweeted the mantra in support. Special prayers will also be conducted at Varanasi’s Kaal Bhairav Mandir. On Wednesday, PM Modi’s cavalcade was stuck for 15-20 mins atop a flyover in Bathinda as protestors blocked roads. The BJP has alleged that this lapse of security was an attempt to his life aided by the state’s Congress government.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-pray-for-pm-modis-long-life-after-security-breach-1068595.html
06-01-2022||National||Bridge over Pangong lake being built in area under Chinese occupation for last 60 years: Centre||India on Thursday said that China’s new bridge over Pangong Tso near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations was being built on its territory illegally occupied by the neighbouring communist country. New Delhi pointed out that India had never accepted the illegal occupation of its territory by China. It also called upon the Chinese Government to work constructively with it to mutually withdraw the front-line troops deployed by the two nations along the LAC to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi stated that the Government of India was closely monitoring the construction of the bridge over Pangong Tso. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, told journalists. “India has never accepted such illegal occupation (by China),” he added. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is apparently building the bridge to link the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in order to quickly respond to any future move by the Indian Army to gain a strategic edge. The MEA spokesperson also said that the government had been taking all necessary steps to protect the security interests of India along the LAC with China. “As part of these efforts, the government has also, in the last seven years, increased significantly the budget for the development of border infrastructure and completed more roads and bridges than ever before,” Bagchi said, adding, “These have provided much-needed connectivity to the local population as well as logistical support to armed forces. (The) the government remains committed to this objective.” New Delhi also termed China’s recent move to rename 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh of India in its own language as a “ridiculous exercise to support untenable territorial claims”. “Calling Tuting as ‘DouDeng’ or river Siyom as ‘XiYueMu’ or even Kibithu as ‘Daba’ does not alter the fact that Arunachal Pradesh has always been and will always remain an inalienable part of India,” Bagchi said, dismissing China’s bid to buttress its claim on territories of India. “We hope that instead of engaging in such antics China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along with the Western Sector of the LAC in India-China border areas,” added the MEA spokesperson. He also objected to the recent letters written by the Political Counselor of the Embassy of China in New Delhi to the Members of Parliament of India regarding their participation at a dinner hosted by the Tibetan Parliament in Exile based at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. “The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. The Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and the Hon’ble MPs, as representatives of the people, undertake activities as per their views and beliefs,” Bagchi told journalists on Thursday. “We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping normal activities by Hon’ble MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bridge-over-pangong-lake-being-built-in-area-under-chinese-occupation-for-last-60-years-centre-1068600.html
06-01-2022||National||MoU for bridge between India and Nepal at Uttarakhand's Dharchula gets Cabinet nod||Union Cabinet on Thursday approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Nepal for construction of a bridge over Mahakali river at Dharchula in Uttarakhand. Briefing the media on the Cabinet decisions, I&B Minister Anurag Thakur said the MoU between India and Nepal will be signed in the “near future” and the bridge will be completed within three years. “The construction of the bridge will help people living in Dharchula in Uttarakhand and in the territory of Nepal,” he said. Thakur said as close neighbours, India and Nepal share unique ties of friendship and cooperation characterized by an open border and deep-rooted people-to-people contacts of kinship and culture. The diplomatic relations between the two countries will further improve with the signing of the MoU, an official statement said. It noted that India and Nepal have been working together on different regional forums such as SAARC and BIMSTEC as well as the global fora. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mou-for-bridge-between-india-and-nepal-at-uttarakhands-dharchula-gets-cabinet-nod-1068603.html
06-01-2022||National||Former J&K chief ministers to lose SSG security cover||Four former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, including Farooq Abdullah and Ghulam Nabi Azad, are likely to lose their Special Security Group (SSG) protection as the union territory's administration has decided to "right-size" the elite unit established in 2000, officials said on Thursday. The move comes a little over 19 months after the Centre had issued a gazette notification -- Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020 -- on March 31, 2020, amending the Special Security Group Act of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir government by omitting a clause that provided former chief ministers and their families with SSG security. Officials said the decision was taken by the Security Review Coordination Committee, a group that oversees the threat perception of important leaders in Jammu and Kashmir. The officials said the SSG will be "right-sized" by reducing the number of the elite force to the "bare minimum". It will be headed by an officer below the rank of Superintendent of Police as against Director, who is of the rank of Inspector General of Police and above. However, the officials feel there was a re-think over the downsizing of the SSG as some experts within the police force feel that this may hamper the preparedness of the elite unit. The SSG will now be entrusted with the security of serving chief ministers and their immediate family members. The decision will entail the withdrawal of the security cover of Farooq Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and two other former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at a time when a number of terror incidents have taken place in Srinagar. All these former chief ministers except Azad reside in Srinagar. However, Farooq Abdullah and Azad will continue to be provided the security cover of the National Security Guard, also known as Black cat commandoes, as both of them are Z-plus protectees. Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba will continue to have Z-plus security cover while in Jammu and Kashmir, but are likely to have reduced security outside the union territory. The leaders will be provided security by the district police as well as the security wing based on the threat assessment, the officials said. Some of the SSG personnel would be posted with the security wing of the Jammu and Kashmir Police for "close protection team", they said. The officials said the remaining SSG personnel are likely to be posted to other wings so that the police force can make the best use of their training and knowledge. Vehicles and other gadgets will be transferred to the security wing of the Jammu and Kashmir Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-jk-chief-ministers-to-lose-ssg-security-cover-1068606.html
06-01-2022||National||PM's 'security breach': BJP wanted Punjab govt to kill protestors, claims Assam Cong||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy got stranded due to a blockade in Punjab, the Congress' Assam unit on Thursday alleged that the BJP wanted the state government there to kill the protesting farmers, as five anti-CAA protestors were done to death by the saffron party administration in the North-eastern state in 2019. Punjab, where the assembly election is due this year, is ruled by the Congress. The grand old party also claimed that public attendance at the PM's rally on Wednesday was extremely low, which led the BJP and Modi to find the excuse of ‘security breach’ as the reason for his failure to attend it. “Just like the manner in which the BJP government here (Assam) had reined in the anti-CAA agitation by killing five people, they wanted our Congress government in Punjab to kill the protestors. But that is not in the Congress culture to use violence on citizens," Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Bhupen Kumar Borah told a press conference. Five anti-CAA protestors were killed, at least three of them in police firing, in December 2019 in Assam. “It is clear the BJP wanted to save itself from embarrassment at the rally and hence, cancelled the PM’s trip,” Borah said. The BJP had arranged for 70,000 people at the rally in Punjab, but by the time the PM reached Bhatinda airport only about 5,000 people had assembled at the venue, he claimed. “This made them look for an excuse to cancel the rally and then, it was suddenly decided that PM will proceed by road. As there was no prior information of Modi using that route, some farmers were staging a protest and once they learnt that he was coming, they blocked it,” he said. Modi, who landed in Bathinda and had to take the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of inclement weather on Wednesday, was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by some farmers, an incident the Union Home Ministry described as a "major lapse" in his security. “The Punjab government wanted 15 minutes to clear the road peacefully, but using security breach as an excuse, the PM decided to return,” Borah said. Congress Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi, who was also present at the press meet, claimed that people refrained from attending the PM’s rally and the BJP used the "security breach" as a face-saver for itself. He asserted that the Punjab government had not compromised the PM’s security in any manner. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has denied any security lapse or political motive behind it and said his government is ready for an inquiry. There was a sudden change in the PM's travel plan from Bathinda to Ferozepur and everything was handled by central agencies, he told reporters at Chandigarh on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-security-breach-bjp-wanted-punjab-govt-to-kill-protestors-claims-assam-cong-1068612.html
06-01-2022||National||Event by Tibetan Parliament-in-exile: India hits out at Chinese embassy for writing to MPs||Over a week after the Chinese embassy wrote to several Indian lawmakers after they attended an event hosted by the Tibetan Parliament-in-exile, India on Thursday asked the mission to refrain from hyping up normal activities by MPs and said the substance, tone and tenor of the letter were "inappropriate". The Chinese embassy, in the letter to some of the MPs of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, expressed concern over their attendance at the reception and asked them not to provide support to the Tibetan forces. "We have seen the reports about the political counsellor at the Chinese embassy writing letters to honourable members of Parliament on their participation in an event," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. "The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and Hon'ble MPs, as representatives of the people, undertake activities as per their views and beliefs," he said. He further said: "We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping normal activities by honourable MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/event-by-tibetan-parliament-in-exile-india-hits-out-at-chinese-embassy-for-writing-to-mps-1068614.html
06-01-2022||National||SC for NEET-PG counselling to begin in national interest; reserves order on plea against EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Thursday acknowledged the situation involving NEET PG courses and in the national interest, demanded the counselling to begin, as it remained halted due to opposition to reservation for the Economically Weaker Sections in all-India quota seats.  "We are in a situation, where in the national interest the counselling has to begin,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna said while wrapping up hearing on a batch of petitions challenging the government notification for OBC and EWS quota in all India quota seats. The top court fixed the matter for pronouncing the order on Friday. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted that all candidates eligible for EWS quota as per existing criteria have got their certificates for registration and seats in all government colleges have been increased to accommodate them. “So, this will not harm the chances of general category students,” he maintained. He strongly defended the government's decision to fix Rs 8 lakh annual income to qualify for the EWS, saying there was a study, application of mind, and wide consultation. “We are not in the exercise to find who is poor. The Constitution uses the word economically weaker section…..whether economically weaker meritorious students can compete with other students, afford tuition, etc, are the considerations," he said. Mehta clarified that income in the present case is family income and if there are three members in the family earning Rs 3 lakh per year, then their income would be Rs 9 lakh and they would not come under EWS category.  Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing some petitioners, argued that there was no proper study undertaken to arrive at the Rs 8 lakh income limit. A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. As much as 50 per cent seats in PG courses are filled through all India quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-neet-pg-counselling-to-begin-in-national-interest-reserves-order-on-plea-against-ews-quota-1068616.html
06-01-2022||National||RailWire Saathi kiosks to come up at 200 stations||Passengers in 200 railway stations across India can soon use RailWire Saathi kiosks to recharge their mobiles, pay electricity bills, fill up Aadhaar and Pan Card forms, and even file taxes. RailTel, a PSU of the Ministry of Railways, in partnership with CSC e-Governance Services India Limited (CSC), a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, will set up kiosks at railway stations. These kiosks will be run by Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs), the RailTel said in a statement. To begin with, the RailWire Saathi CSC kiosks at Varanasi City Railway station and Prayagraj City Railway station in Uttar Pradesh have been made operational on a pilot basis. Similar kiosks will be operationalised at around 200 railway stations, mostly in rural areas, in phases, the statement said. The services offered by CSC include booking of travelling tickets (train, air, bus etc.) and services involving Aadhaar Card, Voter Card, Mobile recharge, Electricity bill payment, Pan Card, Income tax, banking, insurance and many more. "These RailWire Saathi kiosks will bring these essential digital services at rural railway stations to support the rural population,”  Puneet Chawla, CMD/RailTel, said. RailTel has created one of the largest integrated Wi-Fi Networks in the world by providing Public Wi-Fi (under the brand name ‘RailWire’) at 6,090 stations out of which 5,000 are in rural areas. Utilizing this existing infrastructure at stations, RailTel, in partnership with CSC, plans to deliver broadband services to rural areas which will go a long way in bridging the digital divide in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railwire-saathi-kiosks-to-come-up-at-200-stations-1068618.html
06-01-2022||National||RPF saved 601 lives on railway premises in 2021||The Railway Protection Force (RPF), tasked with the responsibility of security of railway property, passenger area and passengers, saved the lives of 601 people and rescued 630 others from human traffickers in 2021. The RPF also rescued more than 11,900 children in need of care and protection. A total of 132 child help desks are functional across the country, said a statement from the Ministry of Railways. Last year, the RPF arrested more than 3,000 criminals involved in offences against passengers and handed them over to the respective state police. A total of 8,744 people were arrested for damaging railway property and over 4,600 people involved in illegal ticketing were apprehended in 2021. With the arrest of 620 drug peddlers, the RPF seized narcotics worth Rs 15.7 crore, said the statement. The RPF personnel also apprehended more than 25,000 people unauthorisedly travelling in the coaches reserved for women and 9,307 people from the coaches reserved for persons with disabilities during 2021. More than 80,000 calls/complaints received from passengers in distress on toll-free helpline number 139 and on Twitter were promptly attended and resolved, said the statement.   The force retrieved luggage worth over Rs 23 crore and escorted 522 oxygen special trains last year. The RPF also ensured implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour at trains and stations. Twenty-six RPF personnel died after contracting Covid while on duty, the statement said. Under "Mission Jeewan Raksha", the RPF has saved the lives of 1,650 people in the last four years. The RPF also deployed 244 "Meri Saheli" teams at major railway stations across India for the safety of women, said the statement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rpf-saved-601-lives-on-railway-premises-in-2021-1068624.html
06-01-2022||National||Study identifies states with high chance of Covid hotspots||States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh were the hotspots for the Covid-19 pandemic in India and travelling needs to be monitored, according to a comprehensive study by the Indian Institute of Technology-Mandi. Researchers reviewed the past pandemics and found common patterns between the Spanish Flu (1918-1919), H1N1 (2014-2015), Swine Flu (2009- 2010), and Covid-19 (2019-2021) outbreaks.  It shows water bodies have a strong influence on a region’s microclimate in terms of temperature and humidity, contributing significantly to regional climate change. It is commonly referred to as the lake effect. The states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were the hotspots. “In almost all of these states, international migration is a significant factor. For this reason, the researchers recommend that in future cases of pandemic outbreaks, travel to and from these states should be carefully monitored,” a note by IIT-Mandi said.  The research was led by Dr Sarita Azad, Associate Professor, School of Basic Science, IIT-Mandi, and co-authored by Neeraj Poonia, research scholar, IIT-Mandi.  The research findings have been published in Current Science, a prestigious peer-reviewed journal. Explaining the key findings of this research, Dr Azad said, “There has been a striking similarity in the focal point and route of transmission of different epidemics in India, such as Spanish flu, H1N1, Swine flu and Covid-19. Mostly all the pandemics have started and found their epicentres in the northern, western, and southern parts of India.” “Later, we also found that districts with direct access to large water bodies had a sudden increase in cases during monsoon (as high as 800 per cent) compared to the preceding season. Hence, strict precautionary measures should be imposed in these districts before the beginning of monsoon season during an outbreak,” she added. Furthermore, the researchers have examined the temperature variations across districts that are close to large bodies of water to understand the spread of Covid-19 in these areas. The average minimum and maximum temperatures in these districts are about 3 and 5 degrees Celsius lower than neighbourhoods in July, which is attributed to the lake effect. The cooler climate conditions may have contributed to the increase in cases in districts that are close to water bodies. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-identifies-states-with-high-chance-of-covid-hotspots-1068626.html
06-01-2022||National||MHA forms committee to probe into PM Modi's security breach in Punjab||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Thursday set up a committee to probe the security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cavalcade in Punjab, an issue that has become a political war between the BJP and the Congress.  The panel will look into the "serious lapses" in the security arrangements during Modi’s visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday, which led to the "exposure of the VVIP to grave security risk", an MHA spokesperson said. The three-member committee will be led by Secretary (Security) in Cabinet Secretariat Sudhir Kumar Saxena and will include Intelligence Bureau Joint Director Balbir Singh and Special Protection Group Inspector General S Suresh, IG, SPG.   Ministry of Home Affairs(MHA) has constituted a committee to enquire into the serious lapses in the security arrangements during Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur, Punjab on 05.01.2022,which led to the exposure of the VVIP to grave security risk. The committee has been directed to submit the report at the earliest. Modi was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes while on way to Hussainiwala as protesting farmers blocked the roads. The MHA had blamed the Punjab government for the "serious security lapse". On Wednesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had targeted the Congress for the "security breach" and said "such dereliction" of security procedure is "totally unacceptable" and accountability will be "fixed". He had said, "today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity. The topmost echelons of the Congress owe an apology to the people of India for what they have done." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-forms-committee-to-probe-into-pm-modis-security-breach-in-punjab-1068647.html
06-01-2022||National||Row over PM Modi's 'security breach' to defame Cong govt: Kharge||Rajya Sabha’s Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday said the Congress government in Punjab cannot be blamed for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motorcade getting stuck on the road. "The entire episode of ‘security breach’ in Modi’s motorcade was nothing but “politics of polarisation, blame game and an attempt to defame the Channi-led Congress government in Punjab,” Kharge said.  Addressing a press conference, Kharge said it was Modi who did not stick to his itinerary, deciding to take the road instead of a helicopter. “The minute-to-minute programme of the PM was shared with the Punjab government. Modi did not follow this. He was to address a massive public meeting at Ferozepur. He was to go there via helicopter to the venue even though the state government had told him that the weather isn’t good,” Kharge said.  “Suddenly, the man who had to go by helicopter changed the plan saying the weather wasn’t good, which was informed earlier itself. He went by road,” he said.  According to Kharge, the BJP expected 70,000 people at the Ferozepur event. “But, there were hardly 700-800 people. To avoid embarrassment, the PM chose to blame the state government,” he said.  Kharge pointed out that the Punjab government has formed a committee to probe the security lapse. “If there’s any lapse on the part of the state government, then there will be punishment,” he said. “The incident itself is unfortunate and we shouldn’t make too much politics out of it.”  Learn from the past, says HDD JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda said on Thursday that the controversy on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security is “very unfortunate”. In a tweet, the former prime minister said: "At no point should we be complacent when it comes to protecting the highest executive office of India. We should learn from the past." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-pm-modis-security-breach-to-defame-cong-govt-kharge-1068656.html
06-01-2022||National||Modi most impactful personality of 2021: Survey||Over 40 per cent Indians believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the most impactful celebrity of 2021, followed by cricketer Virat Kohli (4 per cent), Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath (3 per cent), Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin (3 per cent), and cricketers Rohit Sharma (3 per cent) and MS Dhoni (3 per cent). The survey was conducted by consumer data intelligence firm Axis My India. The survey was conducted via computer-aided telephonic interviews with a sample size of 10,563 people across 36 states. Of the sample size, 71 per cent belonged to rural areas while 29 per cent belonged to cities and urban areas. In addition, 64 per cent of the respondents were male while 36 per cent of the respondents were female.  The survey vetted 20 personalities, and found that opposition leaders Mamata Banerjee (2 per cent) and Rahul Gandhi (1 per cent) were miles behind Modi. The late CDS Bipin Rawat, actor Sonu Sood, and businessman Mukesh Ambani had comparatively better ratings of 2 per cent. Pradeep Gupta, chairman and managing director of Axis My India, said that Modi’s overwhelming popularity had no competition. “His popularity seems to be growing at a time when world leaders are facing dwindling popularity. This poll is yet another demonstration of his grasp over the pulse of the nation,” Gupta said. Respondents also expressed concern about new variant of the virus, and 52 per cent believed that the opening up of the economy will get affected by Omicron. While 23 per cent were unsure of the strain’s impact on the economy, another 23 per cent felt that the economy will remain unaffected. In addition, a majority of 82 per cent believes that with regards to the upcoming virus variant, vaccine booster dose should be given to the countrymen instead of exporting vaccines to other countries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-most-impactful-personality-of-2021-survey-1068672.html
06-01-2022||National||PIL filed in SC to stop physical rallies in poll-bound states||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Election Commission to issue guidelines to all the political parties against holding physical election rallies in five States to face Assembly elections within months, in view of the recent Covid-19 and Omicron surge. The plea filed by advocate Chandan Kumar Singh contended the Election Commission was just playing the role of mute spectator and was doing nothing on rising Covid and Omicron cases due to political rallies, while FIRs were being lodged against poor people for not following Covid-19 guidelines. It pointed out several political rallies and functions are being organised, attended by lakhs of people without observing Covid appropriate behaviour. In the morning, political leaders are chairing high-level meetings on how to tackle the current Covid and Omicron variant surge situation but on the same day, they address rallies without safety protocols, it pointed out. “If such election rallies are not stopped forthwith, the whole country has to suffer the consequence,” the plea claimed. States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa are set to face Assembly elections in a couple of months. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-to-stop-physical-rallies-in-poll-bound-states-1068696.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||RJD pushes Nitish to take 'bold decision' on caste-based census||Amid differences of opinion amid the ruling coalition majors, JD-U and BJP on the former's push for a caste-based census, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has emerged as a forceful proponent of the move and is urging Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to take a "bold decision" on the issue. The assurance was made by state RJD President Jagadanand Singh on Wednesday. The issue has split the ruling partners with the BJP's top leadership ruling it out while Nitish Kumar and his JD-U's top leadership are in favour of it. Nitish Kumar has already announced to conduct a caste-based census at the expense of the state government. He has also called for an all-party meeting and blamed the BJP for delaying it. After his Janata Darbar on Monday, he said that all political parties of Bihar are in favour of a caste-based census except the BJP. After Nitish Kumar's statement, Jagadanand Singh appealed to him to take a positive decision on the caste-based census and said that the RJD will support him. "The Narendra Modi government at the Centre ruled out conducting a caste-based census in the country but it has allowed states to do the same if anyone wants to. In this case, why is Nitish Kumar delaying on taking decisions on it? We want to assure him that he should go for it, the largest political party of the state is with him," he said. RJD leaders always claimed that the issue of the caste-based census was first raised during the Rabri Devi government. Hence, RJD wants to take the edge on this issue and also create differences between JD-U and BJP. "After the clear stand of the Centre, there is no bar for Nitish Kumar to take a decision on it. Still, he is making excuses. I appeal to Nitish Kumar to become brave and take bold decisions. Don't give excuses. Take decisions in the interest of large sections of society," Singh added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-pushes-nitish-to-take-bold-decision-on-caste-based-census-1068434.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | Mega rallies cancelled ahead of Assembly polls||As the cases of coronavirus infections registered a sharp spike in Uttar Pradesh, political parties have started cancelling their scheduled public meetings and other events in the poll-bound state. While Congress has cancelled its 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' marathons scheduled to be held in different parts of the state, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's proposed mega rally at Lucknow on Sunday was also cancelled, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-mega-rallies-cancelled-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1068439.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||BJP will win elections in 2022, form govt in 2024: Nitin Gadkari ||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has said that the BJP will win the Assembly elections scheduled to be held this year and also form the government in 2024 under the leadership of Prime Minister Nardenra Modi again. During an interaction with IANS, Gadkari also blamed the Congress-led government in Punjab for the lapse in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying "this has never happened in the history of Indian democracy". The Union Minister also spoke about several other issues, including the political situation in Punjab. Q: Despite all the political differences, allegations and counter allegations, there has been a political tradition in the country that no political game play happens over the security of individuals holding constitutional posts. How serious, do you consider, the matter of lapse in the security of the Prime Minister in Punjab? A: It is very unfortunate. In a democracy, there has been a tradition regarding the post of President and Prime Minister that everyone respects them. There can be differences in politics but such politics has not happened in the country till date... It has not happened in the history of Indian democracy that the Prime Minister has not been able to attend his programme due to the lack of security by the state government. The incident is sad and unfortunate. The more it is condemned, the less it is. Q: But the Congress is not accepting it as a "mistake". The party said the farmers were angry on the BJP-led government, so they taught a lesson to your "arrogant government". A: The world knows the Prime Minister could not move ahead as he was stopped on the bridge. The responsibility of providing security to the Prime Minister and the responsibility of handling law and order was with the state government. Why did they let people sit on the road? Why were barricades not put up? The state government should answer why the police did not stop those people. It is clearly visible that the people who blocked the road had the support of the Congress government of Punjab. The government is responsible for this unfortunate incident and they should take responsibility for it but they are doing politics on this too... it is wrong and unfortunate. When we are in the state or Central government, we are the representatives of the government, not the party. Q: Let's talk about Uttar Pradesh. You have been visiting the state for inauguration and foundation laying. So far, as the Minister of Road Transport and Highways, what gifts have you given to the people of the state and what are the plans for the future? A: So far in Uttar Pradesh, we have completed 4,500 km of road works by spending an amount of more than Rs 1.80 crore. The work on 3,000 km is underway. We have announced projects worth more than Rs 3 lakh crore, and will do more work worth Rs 5 lakh crore in Uttar Pradesh in the coming five years. We will make US-like infrastructure in the state in the next five years. Q: But Akhilesh Yadav is saying that he had started the work, and you (BJP) people are just visiting and cutting ribbons... A: Everything is on record. It was us who started these projects and we are inaugurating them. Now, the election is round the corner, and since he is in the Opposition, he has to say something. Q: According to you, what is going to be the biggest issue in the Uttar Pradesh elections? A: Law and order has improved in Uttar Pradesh, and for that, the credit has to be given to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the force with which he has ended the "goondaraj", and has provided security to the common people. People have faith and confidence in him. Apart from this, as a result of the developmental work done by the Central and state governments in every field, we will definitely get the support of the people, and also form the government in the state with a thumping majority. Q: You have termed law and order, and development as major election issues, but as the elections are getting closer, again Ayodhya, Ram Mandir and Kashi Vishwanath are being discussed and now the issue of Mathura is also being picked up... A: The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is not a political question but a symbol of the country's history, heritage and culture and we do not want it to become a political issue. Such issues should not be dragged into politics. Q: But your Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister talk about Mathura. An MP says it is Lord Krishna's wish to make Yogi Adityanath contest from Mathura. Akhilesh Yadav also talks about his dreams... A: I do not have the details of who has said what. So I will not comment on it. I would only say that our government has done unprecedented developmental work. We should go to the people's court regarding those work. People are looking at the "changed Uttar Pradesh". Q: How many seats will BJP win in Uttar Pradesh? A: BJP is going to win the state like last time, and we are going to form the government again in the state under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath and Keshav Prasad Maurya. Q: Till now, no party has been able to form the government for the second consecutive time in Uttarakhand. BJP also had to change three chief ministers in the state, so what is the probability of BJP winning there? A: Even in Uttarakhand, the overall atmosphere is in favour of the BJP. I am looking into a project of Chardham worth Rs 12,000 crore there. The road from Pithoragarh to Mansarovar is being built. AIIMS has been established in the state under the leadership of PM Modi. Ganga river has become clean and purer. People are happy with our work, and we will definitely get its benefit in the elections. Our government will make a comeback in the state. Q: Last time in Goa, your party had won fewer seats than the Congress, but you defeated the Congress and formed the government in the state. What is the situation this time? A: In Goa also, we will form the government... It is my belief. (Late Goa Chief Minister) Manohar Parrikar did a good job in the state and Pramod Sawant has done an equally good job after him. Only my ministry has done work worth Rs 23,000 crore in the state. Goa is changing and we are going to form the government there again. Q: The condition of Manipur in 2017 was also similar to that of Goa. There too, you had barely formed your government by defeating the Congress by getting the support of other parties. What do you expect this time? A: Considering the overall atmosphere I witnessed in Manipur, I can definitely say that our government will be re-elected there. Q: Once again, talking about Punjab, for the first time you are going to fight elections in the state in the role of "elder brother" after parting ways with the Akali Dal. A: We have had an alliance with the Akali Dal in Punjab for a long time. Together, we used to contest around 20 seats but this time we have got a chance to contest more seats. This time, the party will definitely expand in the state and our strength will increase. Q: The roads also carry development along with it. But when it comes to road transport, safe and comfortable travel comes first. What have been the achievements of your ministry in this regard? A: The condition of roads were improved, and expressways and highways were made. Everything has changed... however, I have not been able to do till now, it makes me said, and I have no problem in accepting it. I am talking about accidents which cause a loss of 3-4 per cent to the GDP of the country. But more than the economic loss, I am saddened by the loss of lives. I have tried a lot for this but the success that should have been achieved, is yet to be achieved. I am very sad about this, but I will continue to work along with the co-operation of all the parties in the coming times... and I am sure that one day we will get success on this issue as well. Q: You are heard talking of, and trying continuously about many things like pollution, engine of vehicles, green hydrogen, ethanol etc. How much success has been achieved on this front so far? A: We have achieved a lot on all these issues. I am talking about ethanol since 2004. Cars will run on ethanol instead of petrol. 100 per cent petrol or 100 per cent ethanol, anything can be used. Many companies have agreed to make such engines and in the coming days many other companies will also be ready. With this, farmers will get good price, youth will get employment and pollution will also be reduced. Green fuel, green hydrogen and more electric vehicles will change the whole environment of the country. Our dependence on oil imports will be reduced and I assure you that in the coming times, we will not import energy but will export on a large scale. This will be a huge work in the direction of self-reliant India. Q: The year 2022 is going to start with the Assembly elections of five states including Uttar Pradesh, and will end with Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat Assembly elections. How do you think 2022 will decide that who is going to win the Lok Sabha in 2024? A: We will win the elections in 2022, and by winning the elections in 2024 we will form the government again under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi... there is no doubt in my mind about this. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-win-elections-in-2022-form-govt-in-2024-nitin-gadkari-1068469.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||Punjab forms high-level committee to probe PM's security lapse||The Punjab government on Thursday constituted a two-member high level committee to conduct a "thorough probe" into lapses during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Ferozepur, an official spokesperson said. The committee, which will submit its report within three days, comprises Justice (Retd.) Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, Anurag Verma. “In order to carry out a thorough probe into the lapses that occurred during the Prime Minister's visit to Ferozepur yesterday, the Punjab Government has constituted a high level committee,” the spokesperson said. In a major security lapse, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally.       The Union Home Ministry has directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment. Home Minister Amit Shah said such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed.       Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has denied any security lapse or political motive behind it and said his government is ready for an inquiry.       The incident triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue.       Modi who had landed in Bathinda had to take the road route to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of inclement weather.         When the convoy reached near village Piareana on Ferozepur-Moga road, around 30 km away from Hussainiwala, some protestors blocked the road following which the PM's cavalcade was halted for almost 15-20 minutes on a flyover. Modi, who was visiting Punjab after two years, was scheduled to lay the foundation stones of development projects worth over Rs 42,750 crore, including the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway and a PGIMER satellite centre. He was also to address a rally in Ferozepur.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-forms-high-level-committee-to-probe-pms-security-lapse-1068474.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||Health secretary to brief EC on Covid situation in poll-bound states||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/health-secretary-to-brief-ec-on-covid-situation-in-poll-bound-states-1068483.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||SC to hear plea related to 'breach of PM's security' in Punjab on January 7||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to consider an urgent plea raising the issue of breach of security to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Punjab's Bhatinda. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana asked senior advocate Maninder Singh, who brought up the matter, to serve the copy of the plea filed by 'Lawyers Voice' with the Punjab government counsel and posted it for hearing on Friday. Singh sought an "efficient and professional" probe into the entire episode to avoid its recurrence in future. He asked the top court to direct the District Judge, Bhatinda to take into possession of the entire records related to the breach of security. The Punjab government has also formed a high-level committee to probe lapses during Modi's visit. On Wednesday, Modi's convoy remained stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur. The incident forced the PM to cancel his rally and other events planned in poll-bound Punjab. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-to-hear-plea-related-to-breach-of-pms-security-in-punjab-on-january-7-1068494.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||PM exposed Congress game to push country into the 'fire of riots': BJP||The BJP has claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has foiled the conspiracy of 'Pakistan, Khalistanis and the Congress', and said he exposed the Congress's game to push the country into the fire of riots. On Wednesday night, the BJP shared a video 'understand the chronology of the attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi' on Twitter. A little over two-minute long video starts by asking whose plan was it to attack Modi. "Was it the plan of Pakistan? Was it the plan of Khalistanis? Who is supporting the full plan? Was Congress supporting the full plan?," the video questioned. The video further said that on January 4, threats were made to not allow the programme, on January 5 people going to the event were threatened, vehicles were stopped and the BJP flags were torn. "On January 5, first Prime Minister Modi's route was given clearance. Then the Prime Minister's cavalcade was stopped for 20 minutes. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi did not talk when he was contacted," it said. The video further asked what would happen if the Prime Minister had moved ahead on the route? "A riot, an attack, violence and bloodshed, an attempt to kill the Prime Minister," it asked. The video claimed that the Prime Minister told the truth after returning from the spot. The video also shared a news report where the Prime Minister reportedly told the officials at Bathinda airport to thank Punjab chief minister that he returned alive. "The Prime Minister failed the conspiracy of Pakistan, Khalistani supporters and the Congress. The Congress game to push the country into the fire of riots has been exposed," the video ends with this claim. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi was visiting Ferozepur, Punjab to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 42,750 crore. The Prime Minister cancelled his scheduled visit to Punjab's Ferozepur due to a security breach. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security was breached during the Punjab visit. Taking cognisance of the security breach, the MHA has sought a detailed report from the state government. The MHA also asked the Punjab government to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-exposed-congress-game-to-push-country-into-the-fire-of-riots-bjp-1068498.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||Congress accuses PM of insulting ‘Punjabiyat’ as BJP goes on prayer mode for Modi’s long life||As the BJP took the ‘prayer’ route to cash in on the security breach of the Prime Minister convoy, the Congress on Thursday accused Narendra Modi of lowering India’s image and insulting Punjab and ‘Punjabiyat’ by suggesting that his life was in danger in the poll-bound state. “You went to Pakistan suddenly. You feel safe there. Because of the hatred you have for your own people, you are defaming the whole region…You cannot demonise, insult Punjab and Punjabiyat,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told a press conference. Taking exception to Modi’s purported comments to officials to thank their Chief Minister for him reaching Bhatinda airport alive, Khera said, “Modi is not just BJP’s Prime Minister but the whole country’s. People of Punjab know the value of their Prime Minister’s life…The bravehearts, who sacrificed their lives, have been wrapped in tricolour more than the number of times the BJP-RSS waved the tricolor.” The Congress's attack came as BJP fanned senior leaders across the country to hold ‘Mahamrityunjay Jap’ for the long life of Modi, who was stuck on a fly-over in Punjab following a security breach due to farmers blocking a road. Several BJP leaders like External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who tweeted a Sanskrit verse with a hashtag #ModiJiJiyoHazaroSaal (1,000 years for Modi), took to social media as part of a campaign. As the BJP sought to put the Congress in a spot over the security breach in party-ruled Punjab, Khera said India was not a banana republic and no one should dent the morale of security forces. He said the Prime Minister could have waited for 15 minutes to allow the Punjab Police to clear the protesters from the road but he instead chose to defame Punjab. He said Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi had on such occasions engaged with protesters but Modi “hates questions, protesters, Opposition and accountability”. He referred to a few incidents in which Modi faced protests during his visits and getting stuck in traffic jams. He said Modi never made comments like the one he did in Bhatinda airport when girl students of Banaras Hindu University protested during his visit to Varanasi in September 2018 or when his cavalcade had taken a wrong route in December 2017 in Uttar Pradesh. Highlighting an incident in which Modi got stuck in Delhi traffic, Khera said the BJP had then celebrated it as ending the VIP culture. “Modi did not say thank you Chief Minister then,” he said. Recalling the 2017 Gujarat poll campaign, he said Modi had accused former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former Vice President Hamid Ansari and former Army chief General Deepak Kapoor, among others of conspiring with Pakistan.  “Late Arun Jaitley had to express regret in Parliament for this. When the polls are around, just see how some people lower the standards,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-accuses-pm-of-insulting-punjabiyat-as-bjp-goes-on-prayer-mode-for-modi-s-long-life-1068554.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||CPI(M) finds fault with Opposition parties not talking about anti-Muslim Dharam Sansad||The CPI(M) on Thursday found fault with a section of Opposition parties for not raising their voice against the anti-Muslim ‘Dharam Sansad’ in Haridwar due to the upcoming Assembly elections, saying they are unable to grasp the enormity of the danger posed by “fascistic Hindutva forces”.  In an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘People’s Democracy’, the CPI(M) said the men and women in saffron who made the anti-Muslim speeches and call for violence to eliminate them were “not some fringe elements” but represented the “mainstream of the Hindutva forces, which include the RSS and the BJP”. It also said that they have the “state patronage” and it was evident from a picture that emerged of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Dhami touching the feet of one of the “inciters at the Dharam Sansad, Swami Prabodhananda”. The editorial said the Haridwar event was part of the “speeches and rhetoric” of the leaders of the RSS outfits and the BJP that are “taking place with greater frequency” and cited Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s “constant Muslim baiting speeches” to BJP MP Tejashwi Surya’s recent call to use mutts and temples to reconvert Muslims and Christians to Hinduism. These are “not just ‘hate speeches’ in the realm of rhetoric but it is being translated daily into acts of violence and intimidation” of Muslims and Christians on the ground, it said. However, the editorial said that it was “regrettable” that some of the secular opposition parties are “unable to grasp the enormity of the danger posed by the fascistic Hindutva forces”.   “Some issued statements of disapproval or condemnation while some others sought to avoid the issue given that elections are around the corner in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Not just condemnation in words but concerted united action is the need.  When the BJP-ruled states are letting these forces run amok, it becomes the duty of the secular and democratic forces to unitedly rebuff and counter these forces,” it said. However, the CPI(M) did not specify which Opposition party or parties it was referring to. The editorial said the speeches at the Dharam Sansad fall under the sedition as per the Supreme Court interpretation that the provision was applicable only when there is a call or incitement to violence. "The evidence is all there in the public domain.  The event had been live-streamed and videos of the speeches widely circulated. They all show speaker after speaker, calling for arms to be taken up, the massacre of Muslims, cleansing the villages off them and one speaker even saying that he would have shot (former) Prime Minister Manmohan Singh with a revolver if he had had the opportunity to do so,” it said. “The speeches do not constitute just ‘hate speech’, but are an open incitement to violence and ethnic cleansing,” it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-finds-fault-with-opposition-parties-not-talking-about-anti-muslim-dharam-sansad-1068591.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||Congress can't be forgiven for PM security breach: Rajnath||Holding the Congress government in Punjab responsible for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach on the way to Ferozepur, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that the party cannot be forgiven for the serious lapse. Singh said a prime minister represents the country and his office is an institution which everyone should respect. "The Congress is in power in Punjab. Could we have imagined a security breach in the prime minister's convoy like the one that happened there yesterday (on Wednesday)?" he asked. "If we cannot ensure safety of institutions like that of the prime minister, it would be difficult to prevent disintegration of the country's democratic institutions," Singh said addressing the BJP's concluding Vijay Sankalp rally in Uttarkashi. Modi's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. The Union Home Ministry directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment, while Home Minister Amit Shah said such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed. "I have also been chief minister. We never accepted ugly politics of this kind," Singh said and asked people if the Congress can be forgiven for what happened to the prime minister's security in Punjab. He also attacked Congress campaign head for Uttarakhand Harish Rawat for saying that Modi keeps visiting the state for marketing. The minister also accused Rawat of trying to grab credit for Kedarnath reconstruction by saying that Modi was meditating in a cave built during his chief ministership. "If that is true, why couldn't you ever pluck the courage to meditate in that cave?" Singh asked. However, Singh did not name Rawat and referred to him as a former chief minister who wanted to be chief minister again. "I have never levelled unfounded allegations against any of our prime ministers, be it Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Manmohan Singh or Deve Gowda because the prime minister's office is a democratic institution which should be respected by all," the Union minister said. On Congress' allegation that the BJP had changed two chief ministers in Uttarakhand, Singh said all the party's chief ministers had performed well. "If we had gone to polls projecting someone as the chief ministerial candidate, we would not have changed him. The party fought the polls and made whoever it thought was right for the job of the CM. It is the party's internal matter,” he said. "A national party has many things to take care of. Whose services are needed for the organisation and whose for Parliament... We may change our chief minister 10 times if we so wish. Why should it bother you?" he said. Singh said the difference between the BJP and other parties is that there is no gap between what the BJP says and what it does. Citing the examples of revoking Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya in support of his argument, Singh sought another term for the BJP to make Uttarakhand a model state under the leadership of Modi as envisioned by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-cant-be-forgiven-for-pm-security-breach-rajnath-1068596.html
06-01-2022||National Politics||BJP may need to get into the good books of regional parties||The confidence of the ruling BJP that usually does not squander a chance to proclaim having foreseen electoral victory seems to have faltered slightly with the presidential and Rajya Sabha polls approaching. As Ram Nath Kovind finishes his term as President of India by July of this year, an electoral college of MPs and MLAs will gear up to elect a new President. It is not just the presidential polls, but also elections to replace 75 soon-outgoing Rajya Sabha members (26 of these seats are BJP-held presently) that has the saffron party biting their nails. Also set in an electoral college system, the upper house polls will involve MLAs from particular state assemblies casting their vote. While some opposition parties continue to bear clear-cut motives to topple the BJP’s presence, some allied parties have been seen forging a new distance. Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur are headed to polls soon and regional parties are proving to be a force to reckon with. “With elections coming up, there is a greater mobilisation to occupy the anti-BJP space. There is also more dynamism in the regional parties’ opposition to the BJP...We cannot predict how it is going to be, but the party is conscious of this,” the BJP leader was quoted telling the publication. As many as 11 of 75 Rajya Sabha seats are from the country’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party’s strength in the new assembly would be of much importance in this scenario. Punjab is represented by 7 seats. The very state where Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s convoy was stopped earlier by protesters, leading him to eventually return to the airport. The Congress-rules state has been marred with its own internal factionalism too, something the BJP has tried hard to capitalise on, but without much fruition. The BJP, therefore, are trying to ally with small parties alongside this. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are both represented by 6 seats each in the upper house. What is a common denominator for the BJP in these two states are rival parties having their numbers. Andhra Pradesh has 4 seats. While the BJP enjoys a majority in the Lok Sabha, such is not the case in the Rajya Sabha. In order to make gains in the upper house, they have to try being on the good side of regional parties who make up the strength. However, if the numerous interruptions in the Rajya Sabha during the Parliament’s Winter Session were an indicator, it was to the Modi-Shah led camp being shown they do not enjoy the favour of most regional parties such as the TRS or BJD. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-may-need-to-get-into-the-good-books-of-regional-parties-1068651.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Delhi's New Lajpat Rai market||A fire broke out at New Lajpat Rai market opposite the Red Fort in Chandni Chowk here early on Thursday, Delhi Fire Services officials said. There were no casualties in the incident, they said. The fire engulfed around 60 "khokas" (kiosks) in the market, police said. A call about the fire at New Lajpat Rai Market was received around 4.43 am and 13 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Delhi Fire Services Director Atul Garg said. The fire has been doused and the cooling process is underway, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, "The fire was brought under control by 7 am. Prima facie, a short-circuit seems to have caused the fire. Legal action will be initiated as per complaints." New Lajpat Rai market is famous for clothes and utensils.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-delhis-new-lajpat-rai-market-1068449.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SIT issues summons to 12 farmers||The special investigation team (SIT), has now summoned 12 farmers in connection with the alleged lynching of three BJP workers during the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that took place on October 3 last year. Most of these farmers had earlier stated that they were present at the spot but were not involved in the attack. They were, at that time, charged under bailable sections such as 'rioting' and 'voluntarily causing hurt' and were let off by the SIT officials under Section 41 of the CrPC. Seven farmers have been arrested in the case so far and the SIT is looking for more suspects. An SIT member said, "We have issued summons to record statements of the farmers who were present on the spot and were part of the mob. A few of them appeared before us earlier but none were arrested." Advocate Harjeet Singh, who is representing the farmers, said, "A few farmers were earlier summoned for questioning under lenient sections as they were part of the mob but were not involved in the violence. The farmers who received the summons now are the ones who are witnesses in the case of the murder of farmers. We are waiting for the SIT to find the two other accused in the convoy who managed to escape." Four farmers and a journalist were reportedly mowed down by Union Minister Ajay Misra Teni's son Ashish Misra's convoy. Angry farmers had then in retaliation allegedly killed three BJP workers and torched two SUVs that were part of the convoy. Cross FIRs were registered in the case and the SIT submitted a charge sheet in which 14 people, including Ashish, who are in jail for the death of the farmers, were named. Seven farmers have been arrested in the lynching case. The investigation in the latter case is ongoing. Meanwhile, a copy of the charge sheet filed by the SIT in court against Ashish and 13 others for the deaths of farmers has been given to their counsel Avadesh Kumar Singh. Ashish's bail plea will be heard by the Lucknow High Court on Thursday. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-sit-issues-summons-to-12-farmers-1068453.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||After Congress, BJP, SP cancel programmes in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||After the Congress cancelled its Pink Marathons and rallies in view of the surge in the cases of Covid, the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have also cancelled their election programmes. According to official sources, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's proposed rally in Lucknow on January 9 is likely to be cancelled in view of the Covid situation and also inclement weather conditions. "We have been informed of the cancellation through an official communication in this regard is awaited," said a party functionary. The Samajwadi Party has also cancelled its Vijay Rath Yatra on January 7, 8 and 9 which was to be led by party chief Akhilesh. As per the schedule, Akhilesh was to address public meetings in Gonda, Basti and Ayodhya on January 7, 8 and 9, respectively. The SP leaders said that the decision on meetings scheduled after January 9 will be taken after assessing the spread of Covid-19 in the next couple of days. Akhilesh's Ayodhya visit had generated a lot of curiosity in the political circles as it was his first visit to the temple town this election season. Recently, during his visit to Ayodhya on December 26, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had claimed that Akhilesh was planning to stop the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya if voted to power in the 2022 Assembly polls. The Samajwadi Party had, however, dismissed Shah's allegations as baseless. "Ram temple in Ayodhya is being constructed in Ayodhya on the orders of the Supreme Court. No individual, party or authority in India has the guts to stop the construction. The BJP knows it will be voted out and are desperately targeting SP every day," Akhilesh had said in response to the charge. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-congress-bjp-sp-cancel-programmes-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1068462.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi likely to log over 14,000 new Covid-19 cases on January 6: Jain||A day after it breached the 10,000-mark, the national capital is likely to report 14,000 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. "Coronavirus cases in Delhi have seen a spike in the past few days. Today it is going to be near 14,000," Jain said. Currently, the death ratio is 1 on 1000, indicating that the situation is fine as compared to last time. "Yesterday we had 9,000 beds, today it has become 12,000, so our preparations are complete. We are now conducting close to 90,000 tests," the minister added.  On Wednesday, the minister asserted that the third wave has started in the national capital. "The Covid cases can jump to nearly 10,000 today with the infection rate nearing 10 per cent by today evening in Delhi", he had said, adding that it is obvious now that the third Covid wave has started in the union territory. Delhi, on Wednesday, reported 10,665 fresh Covid cases, a significant rise of 94.58 per cent from yesterday. It was the highest single-day rise after May 12 when the tally stood at 13,287. The new cases pushed the infection tally to 14,74,366 in the city. Meanwhile, a total of eight Covid deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, which is the highest since June 26 when only nine deaths were reported. With this, the death toll has climbed to 25,121.The active cases in Delhi have also gone up to 1.58 per cent. In the meantime, India's tally of Omicron-positive cases went up by nearly 500 on Thursday morning to reach 2,630, according to the Union health ministry update. The new variant of Coronavirus has now reached 26 states, the ministry' data further showed. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-log-over-14000-new-covid-19-cases-on-january-6-jain-1068487.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Haryana orders closure of cinema halls, multiplexes till Jan 12 in six more districts||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Haryana, authorities have ordered the closure of cinema halls, multiplexes and sports complexes in six more districts till January 12, according to an official order. The six districts where the restrictions will be applicable are Karnal, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Rohtak and Jhajjar. The restrictions were imposed in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat from January 2 to 12. According to the latest order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday, the restrictions will be applicable in all 11 districts till 5 am on January 12. Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes shall remain closed, the order stated. Malls and markets will be allowed to open till 6 pm. However, shops selling essential items like milk and medicine shops will be allowed to open at all times to enable them to serve the public at large, it said. According to the restrictions imposed earlier in five districts, the closing time for malls and markets was 5 pm. All sports complexes, swimming pools and stadia shall remain closed except when being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international sports events, the order said. All entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions are prohibited, it said. Government and private offices, except for emergency/essential services have been advised to function with 50 per cent staff attendance, it added. The order stated that other restrictions released vide its order dated January 1 and applicable till January 12 shall continue as before. Notably, Haryana has witnessed a big spike in Covid cases over the past week. The state reported 2,176 Covid cases on Wednesday, up from 1,132 on Tuesday, according to official data. Of the 2,176 cases reported on Wednesday, 1,178 were from Gurgaon alone, the data stated. Many other districts are also witnessing a surge in cases. To check the spread of the viral infection, the state government banned people eligible for vaccination but not fully vaccinated from entering shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets, among other crowded places, starting January 1. A night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am is already in force in the state||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-orders-closure-of-cinema-halls-multiplexes-till-jan-12-in-six-more-districts-1068522.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||J&K govt's decision to notify land in tourist places as ‘strategic areas’ for use of armed forces triggers row||J&K government’s decision to declare 170 acres of land at tourist places as “strategic areas” for operational requirements of armed forces has created a new controversy with former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti alleging that the Center wants to "convert J&K into a military garrison.” “Allocating thousands of kanals (8 kanals = one acre) to armed forces, that too in tourist areas, confirms GoI's intention to convert J&K into a military garrison. Under the ‘state land’ pretext, our land is up for grabs and to add insult to injury, locals are being evicted from their homes,” Mehbooba tweeted. However, Kashmir’s Divisional Commissioner, P K Pole said that the land was already under use by the army for years and there was no change or transfer of land being made. “The land is already under use by the army for decades, even for more than 30 to 40 years now, for training and other relevant things. The army has already acquired land in these places and some are requisitioned land,” he said. In an order issued on December 31, 2021, the government notified 129.30 acres of land at famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir and 44.25 acres at another tourist spot of Sonamarg in north Kashmir as “strategic areas” while exercising powers under the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act following a request made by the Army’s Corps Commander. According to the order, the Corps Commander shall ensure strict adherence to the environment laws to prevent any environmental hazard. “Corps Commander shall ensure that no other applicable law in force in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is observed in breach,” reads the order. This is the first notification issued by the government to declare any area as “strategic” for armed forces after the Union Home Ministry amended Jammu and Kashmir Development Act-1970 in October 2020 through an executive order under the J&K Reorganization Act-2019. The decision to notify an area strategic will allow armed forces to carry out construction work and build infrastructure in places, even at the ecologically fragile areas like Gulmarg and Sonamarg. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govts-decision-to-notify-land-in-tourist-places-as-strategic-areas-for-use-of-armed-forces-triggers-row-1068535.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||BJP forms 24-member election committee for Uttar Pradesh||The BJP has formed a 24-member election committee in Uttar Pradesh, including four special invitees, to prepare for the upcoming Assembly polls. Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantradev Singh, state Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma are members of the committee. Union Ministers Sanjeev Balyan and S P Singh Baghel and Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti are also members of the BJP Uttar Pradesh election committee. Uttar Pradesh BJP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, co-incharges Sunil Oza, Y Satya Kumar and Sanjeev Chaurasiya are members of the election committee as special invitees. Party national vice presidents Baby Rani Maurya and Rekha Verma, national general secretary Arun Singh, national secretary Vinod Sonkar are also part of the election committee of Uttar Pradesh BJP. State general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, and joint general secretary (organisation) Karmvir Singh are also part of the committee along with senior leaders of state and members of state cabinet. Son of former Chief Minister Kalyan Singh and Lok Sabha member Rajveer Singh is also part of the committee. Elections for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls will be held in February-March this year along with Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The BJP has organised 'Jan Vishwas Yatras', which covered all the 403 Assembly constituencies, to reach out to the people with the works of the party-ruled government at the Centre and state. The BJP will have a community outreach plan to pacify Brahmins, who reportedly were upset with the party, and explain to the community about the government welfare schemes which benefited them. To reach out to the youth, the party is organising youth conferences in all the districts in which senior leaders and youth leaders of the party are participating. The saffron party also has planned several programmes to strengthen its booth management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-forms-24-member-election-committee-for-uttar-pradesh-1068537.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||J&K govt signs MoU with LuLU group to set up food processing units in Srinagar||In a major development, Jammu and Kashmir government signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with hypermarket and retail giant LuLu Group to set up a food processing and logistics hub in Srinagar. LuLu Group is an Emirati multinational conglomerate company that operates a chain of hypermarkets and retail companies, headquartered in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. An official spokesperson said the MoU was signed in the presence of J&K Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha and LuLu group Chairman, Yusuff Ali MA in Dubai. On the occasion, Sinha also inaugurated Jammu & Kashmir promotion week at the LuLu hypermarket, Dubai, he said. “Relations between India and UAE are long-standing and deep rooted. People-to-people contact and trade have seen momentum in the recent years under the leadership of Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the Lt Governor said. “The world-famous GI tagged saffron has been launched at LuLu Hypermarket, which I see as a major step towards boosting Jammu Kashmir and Dubai partnership. LuLu group is already importing apples from Jammu Kashmir and with saffron, we are adding Kashmir's finest spice to the basket. I am certain this new beginning will take our trade to unprecedented levels,” he said. “Trade between Jammu & Kashmir and Dubai has remained steady, despite Covid-19 challenges and it reflects the resilience of our deep economic linkages. The MoU will further expand Jammu Kashmir-Dubai collaboration and Jammu Kashmir-Lulu Group partnership,” LG Sinha added. It is pertinent to mention that Jammu & Kashmir is number one in the production of Saffron, Apple, Walnut and Almond in India. The MoU with the LuLu group will help the UT to reach out to shoppers at 190 LuLu Hypermarkets across the GCC and Egypt. Earlier in October, J&K government entered into an agreement with the government of Dubai for real estate development in the Union Territory (UT). According to the agreement the investors can invest in building industrial parks, IT towers, medical colleges, super specialty hospitals and other sectors in the UT. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-signs-mou-with-lulu-group-to-set-up-food-processing-units-in-srinagar-1068539.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||UP Polls: A tough electoral battle in caste ridden 'Poorvanchal'  ||The politically crucial 'Poorvanchal' (eastern) region of Uttar Pradesh appears to be heading for a tough electoral battle in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state with the BJP and its main rival Samajwadi Party (SP) striving hard to expand their base beyond their core vote bank. BJP had swept the region by bagging 115 of the 164 seats in the 2017 assembly elections riding its alliance with the Apna Dal (AD) and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP). SP had won 17 followed by the BSP, which had emerged victorious on 14 seats. Congress could manage only two seats while the others, mainly the alliance partners of the BJP, had bagged 16 seats. The situation this time, however, has changed drastically. BJP's 2017 ally, the SBSP, which enjoys considerable support among the 'Rajbhar' community, has joined hands with the SP in the forthcoming assembly polls. Although the 'Rajbhar' community formed only four per cent of the total electorate in the state, they formed 12 to 23 percent of the electorate in several districts in the 'Poorvanchal' region, especially in Varanasi, Azamgarh, Jaunpur, Mau, Ballia and Ghazipur. Similarly, the Janvadi Party (Socialist), which wields considerable influence over the 'Nonia' community, which are in sizable strength on around a dozen seats in the region, has also allied with the SP this time.  Political experts opine that if the SP manages to bring the votes of the 'Rajbhar' and Nonia' communities to its kitty then along with the support of its core voters-Yadavs and Muslims-it may give the saffron party a run for its money in the region, which sends more than one third MLAs to the state assembly. Interestingly even in 2017 assembly polls, which the BJP had swept, the latter could manage to win only one out of 10 seats in Azamgarh four out of nine seats in Jaunpur, three out of seven seats in Ghazipur, two out five in Ambedkar Nagar and two out of seven in Pratapgarh districts. In the last year's panchayat polls also, the SP had defeated the BJP nominees in Azamgarh, Ballia, Sant Kabir Nagar and some other districts. BJP would need to repeat its 2017 performance in the eastern region in the forthcoming assembly polls if it were to nurture any hope of returning to power. The 'Poorvanchal' region has assumed added significance for the saffron party in view of the perceived anger among the 'Jat' community in the western UP, which had been on the forefront of the farmers' agitation against the now scrapped farm laws. No wonder the BJP has been striving hard to maintain its grip on the region. The party has been highlighting its 'Hindutva' agenda in its public meetings along with showcasing the newly built expressways. Prime minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and union home minister Amit Shah have referred to the development of Hindu religious places, including Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and Varanasi to woo the voters.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-a-tough-electoral-battle-in-caste-ridden-poorvanchal-1068544.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Yogi compares Yadav clan to Mahabharat characters||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday mounted a blistering attack on the Samajwadi Party, comparing the SP president's family with the Mahabharat characters. "Kaka, mama, nana, bhatija -- you must have heard of them either in Mahabharat or between 2012 and 2017," he said. "Before 2017, the recruitment charge in different departments was given to the family members. Some to uncles, some to brothers, and others to nephews. They are the reincarnated characters of Mahabharat who impeded Uttar Pradesh's progress by launching a war just like they did at the time of Mahabharat," said the chief minister while distributing appointment letters to the newly-selected naib tehsildars, lecturers and assistant teachers through the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission at Lok Bhavan in the state capital. The chief minister said, "You are the backbone for making the state the number one economy in the country. If the backbone breaks, the entire system falls. The previous governments had made this state without a backbone. We intend to bring the state to number one in the country with efficient people like you." Continuing his attack on the previous government, Adityanath said: "When merit and honesty are at a discount and recruitments are made on the strength of caste and money, the state has to suffer." "Did you too have to get recommendations from ministers, politicians or officials for the appointments?" asked the chief minister. "This is the same state which was considered a hindrance in the country's development. However, today, UP is leader in implementation of 50 development schemes," Adityanath pointed out. "Similarly, UP also improved its ease of doing business rank from 14th four years ago to 2nd in 2021. Stable law and order in the state now has helped us gain the confidence of industrialists and investors which is why UP has emerged as one of the favourite investment destinations." he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-compares-yadav-clan-to-mahabharat-characters-1068557.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||'Farq Saaf Hai' war goes beyond social media in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||The ongoing war of words in campaigning in the forthcoming assembly polls between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) has moved to the media with both the rivals coming out with advertisements in the newspapers claiming that Uttar Pradesh developed more under their regimes. It all started when the BJP put out posters and hoardings on the busy thoroughfares and streets of the state capital comparing the regimes of the SP before 2017 and the BJP after the saffron party assumed power following 2017 assembly polls. The BJP hoardings claimed that the state was virtually under mafia rule during SP president Akhilesh Yadav's government. SP came out with huge advertisements in the newspapers in which it compared the SP and BJP governments and claimed that the state had progressed more during the former's rule. The SP ads also carried pictures of burning bodies at the crematoriums in Lucknow during the second wave of Covid 19 and also late night cremation of the body of the Hathras rape victim, who was murdered thereafter to corner the BJP government. ''Fark Saaf Hai...22 mein BJP saaf hai'' (the difference is clear...BJP will be wiped out in 2022,'' the ad said. In reply the BJP also put out advertisements in the newspapers on Friday and showcased its government's achievements during its tenure. The ads carried pix of expressways and claimed that UP had developed rapidly during the BJP regime. BJP has practically flooded the cities and towns with its hoardings and posters listing the achievements of the state and central governments. ''The state grows under a double engine government,'' one of the posters said. Barely a few days back Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had while addressing a public meeting here said that there were more than two thousand hoardings of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Delhi alone.  The ad war is only expected to intensify as the polls will draw closer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farq-saaf-hai-war-goes-beyond-social-media-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1068560.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Female, third gender voters increase in Delhi||The total number of voters in Delhi have increased by 3,94,185 in a year with an addition of 20,558 women, and 119 third gender voters, as per the latest electoral roll for this year. There were total 2,05,30,444 voters in the final roll published on January 15, 2021. The number of electors increased to 2,09,24,629 on January 5. While there has been an increase in women and third gender voters, the number of male voters has declined by 19,587 and stood at 81,38,593, the electoral roll stated. "The gender ratio of the electors registered in the final electoral roll has increased to 831 as compared to the gender ratio of 826 in the previous final roll last published in 2021," Delhi Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Ranbir Singh, said. He further called this increase in gender, "a step in realising the ECI's vision of No Voter to be left behind. "The increase in the number of third gender voters also demonstrates the positive result of intense efforts made by the electoral machinery towards ensuring an inclusive electoral roll," he said in a statement. A huge chunk of voters, i.e. 43,44,198 belong to the age group of 30-39. Meanwhile, 1,15,146 belong to the age group of 18-19 years. According to the latest roll updated by the CEO on Wednesday: "Of the 70 Assembly constituencies in Delhi, Matiala is the largest with 4,31,337 electors, and Delhi Cantonment is the smallest with 1,07,734 electors. Tilak Nagar had the highest gender ratio (950) and Tughlaqabad had the lowest (687)." "The three Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), i.e., North, East and South will go to polls in April. For the convenience of the public and to prevent crowding during the pandemic, the number of polling stations in the city has been increased from 13,789 to 13,820 this year. "The primary goal of the Special Summary Revision 2022 was to facilitate new enrolment, i.e., those who had reached the age of 18 or more as of the qualifying date of January 1, 2022, and also to provide opportunities for correction in electors' particulars," the statement added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/female-third-gender-voters-increase-in-delhi-1068561.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||125 passengers on charter flight from Italy test positive for Covid in Amritsar||A total of 125 passengers on a Milan-Amritsar charter flight were found to be Covid-positive when tested on arrival, government officials said on Thursday. Officials said there were a total of 179 passengers on the charter flight YU-661 that landed at the Amritsar airport at around 1.30 PM on Wednesday. Since Italy is one of the "at risk" countries according to the Union Health Ministry, all eligible passengers -- 160 in this case -- were tested for Covid-19 and 125 of them were found to be positive, they mentioned. Out of total 179 passengers, 19 were children or infant so they were exempt from on-arrival RT-PCR testing, they said. The charter flight between Milan in Italy and Amritsar in Punjab was operated by Portuguese company EuroAtlantic Airways, they mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/125-passengers-on-charter-flight-from-italy-test-positive-for-covid-in-amritsar-1068574.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||These leaders will be missed in UP elections||The absence of four top political leaders will be sorely felt in the upcoming UP assembly elections this year. These leaders were not only crowd-pullers for their parties but also represented vote banks that have the capacity of making and marring fortunes. The biggest loss in these elections will be for the BJP. The party's best-known face in state politics - Kalyan Singh - is no more. The former chief minister, who passed away in August last year, was the OBC face of the BJP and commanded respect among the people. He was also a torchbearer of the Ayodhya movement and one of the first faces of Hindutva. His appeal extended beyond caste lines and his rapport with opposition leaders helped the party in times of crisis. Though Kalyan Singh did not campaign in the 2017 assembly and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections since he was holding a gubernatorial assignment at that time, his presence was palpable in the polls as candidates and leaders rushed to him for advice. Another stalwart who is already being missed in this election season is Lalji Tandon who passed away after prolonged illness in July 2020. Tandon was one of the few leaders in the BJP who rose beyond caste lines and was known for his election management and excellent administrative qualities. He was also the party's crisis manager who handled the BJP's turbulent relationship with the BSP. "He was one leader in the party to whom one could pour out his or her 'mann ki baat' in the true sense of the term, and he would listen patiently. Today, the leaders have no time to hear the workers' problems," said a minister who requested anonymity. Despite being a close associate of former Prime Minister, late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Lalji Tandon was a people's leader and known to keep an open house where one could walk in without an appointment - a phenomenon no longer seen in state politics. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Chaudhary Ajit Singh, who died in May last year, was the tallest political leader in western UP. Though his Rashtriya Lok Dal is poised for a revival after the farmers' agitation, Ajit Singh's absence is being deeply felt by his party workers. "He knew all party workers by name and heard every point of view before taking a decision. He was one leader with whom we could even voice dissent on issues and he would listen. This is an extremely crucial election for the party and also for Jayant Chaudhary and we are all missing 'Chaudhary saheb', as he was affectionately called," said a party leader. The Samajwadi Party, on the other hand, will find it difficult to find an orator as powerful as Mohd Azam Khan, who was also among the party's star campaigners. Azam Khan has been lodged in jail since February 2020 on charges that range from statue theft, buffalo theft, goat theft, books theft, land grabbing, encroachment and forgery. With Azam Khan missing in action, the SP does not have a Muslim face in the upcoming elections and the entire burden of campaigning now rests on the shoulders of Akhilesh Yadav. Mulayam Singh Yadav, the Samajwadi patriarch, will also remain away from the campaign though he may make one or two appearances. The veteran leader is facing health issues and has been advised to keep away from crowds, especially at a time when Covid cases are surging. "Netaji (Mulayam Singh) may issue a video appeal for all constituencies and may even address a rally or two if the situation eases during campaigning," said a source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/these-leaders-will-be-missed-in-up-elections-1068577.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Hindus expelled from Pakistan, Bangladesh given land in UP, says Yogi||Hindus expelled from Pakistan and Bangladesh, and living in Uttar Pradesh, have been accommodated in the land that the state government freed from encroachers, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday. He also said his government has introduced transparency in all government exams, thereby marking a paradigm shift in the recruitment process from the previous regime. "Hindus, who were living in Meerut for decades after facing expulsion from Pakistan and Bangladesh, could not afford to build their own houses or buy lands. We have given 63 such Bengali Hindu families two acres of land and 200 square yards for housing per family in Kanpur Dehat. These lands were freed from 'bhu mafia' (land grabbers)," he said. Each of the 63 families is also given Rs 1.20 lakh under 'Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana', Adityanath said at a programme organised to distribute appointment letters to candidates selected for various posts in government services. The chief minister said all the land freed from "encroachers" was brought under a 'land bank' and these pieces of land will be used for setting up schools, industries and other businesses. "Many facilities of the Defence Industrial Corridor have also been built on these recovered lands," he said. According to the chief minister, the state government currently has 64,366 hectares of the recovered land and it is being allotted for the poor to build houses. Adityanath had earlier said in the Legislative Council that the anti-land mafia task force had freed 67,000 acres of land belonging to the revenue department.    Speaking about introducing transparency in recruitment to government services, the chief minister said without taking any names, "Before 2017, whenever vacancies were announced, the uncle and nephews used to carry out extortion up to the village level. While they used to extort, the officials involved in the recruitment process were made the scapegoats. "But... now whenever there is any irregularity in the selection process, we have not desisted from cancelling it and taking stern action against those involved." Adityanath handed over appointment letters to 57 naib tehsildars, 141 spokespersons of government colleges and 69 assistant teachers on the occasion. The chief minister claimed that the state government has so far appointed more than 1,75,000 teachers in primary, secondary and higher education departments. "Never before were so many teachers recruited. The recruitment process was completely transparent," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindus-expelled-from-pakistan-bangladesh-given-land-in-up-says-yogi-1068582.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||MHA will take big and tough decisions: Anurag Thakur on security breach during PM's Punjab visit||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Thursday said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is gathering information on the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab and "big and tough decisions" will be taken. Responding to questions on the issue of security breach during a briefing on a Union Cabinet meeting, Thakur noted that some people have already approached the Supreme Court in this regard. "The home ministry has also spoken about taking action. After gathering information, whatever steps...big and tough decisions will be taken by it," he told reporters here. "It is my firm belief that the country's judicial system does justice to everyone and when such mistakes happen, whatever steps need to be taken will be taken," the minister added. Besides the Cabinet meeting and a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, the prime minister also chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security on Thursday. Modi also met President Ram Nath Kovind, who expressed concern over the security lapse during the prime minister's visit to Punjab on Wednesday. In a "major security lapse", Modi's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mha-will-take-big-and-tough-decisions-anurag-thakur-on-security-breach-during-pms-punjab-visit-1068585.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||PM Modi returned as barely 700 people turned up for rally: Punjab CM Channi||Barely 700 people turned up for the BJP rally and that forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "retrace his steps" and later the blame was pinned on the state government citing security threats, said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Thursday. Challenging those questioning the nationalistic credentials of Punjab, Channi said that "Punjabis have never ever shied away from making sacrifices for the nation and are as patriotic as any other people in the country". Referring to Wednesday's incident of the Prime Minister having to go back without addressing the crowd at Ferozepur, the Chief Minister said in Machhiwara town that barely 700 people turned up at the rally site which forced the Prime Minister to return. "The truth is that five days before the scheduled rally of the Prime Minister, the Special Protection Group (SPG) took over the landing spot, rally site, and security detail. But later on, the Prime Minister's cavalcade suddenly took the land route," said Channi, adding the route was cleared by the SPG. He reiterated that if there is any danger to the Prime Minister then "every Punjabi is nationalist enough to shed his blood and face the bullets as they have done before in the service of the nation". Sounding a note of caution, Channi asked the forces inimical to Punjab to stop defaming the state. He questioned what the intelligence paraphernalia around the Prime Minister were doing and whether they had sensed any threat perception to the latter's safety. Likewise, the Chief Minister asked the "anti-Punjab" forces to shun vendetta politics and advised them to ponder over why the people, especially farmers, "do not like them". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-returned-as-barely-700-people-turned-up-for-rally-punjab-cm-channi-1068588.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab CM, his deputy behaved like 'cowards': Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday lashed out at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for behaving like "cowards" by running away from their responsibilities. Addressing a public meeting in Samana town, Capt Amarinder said: "There was a grave security lapse and the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister, who heads the Home department, should own the responsibility." He said true leaders own up responsibilities and do not pass the buck on others. "This is no leadership, it is cowardice", he said while referring to the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister trying to shift blame on others over the grave security lapse during the Prime Minister's visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday. He criticised the Chief Minister for not receiving the Prime Minister personally at the Bathinda airport. Capt Amarinder also appealed to the farmers that they should stop blocking roads and railway tracks now and instead focus on what is in their interests and that of Punjab and he will support them like he did in the past. "I supported the farmers when they were staging dharna at Tikri and Singhu borders and not only that, those farmers who died during the protest, I paid Rs five lakh each to their families and one government job," he said. The former Chief Minister regretted that Punjab had suffered a loss in image over Wednesday's incident. "Whole world was watching that the Punjab government failed to provide safe and secure passage to the Prime Minister to launch various development projects," he said, while adding, it was Punjab's loss on other fronts also as the Prime Minister was supposed to inaugurate projects worth Rs 43,000 crore, which included few hospitals and roads and which have now got delayed. Capt Amarinder appealed to the people to vote cautiously and carefully and not get carried away by the unrealistic promises made by people like Arvind Kejriwal and Navjot Singh Sidhu. He said while Kejriwal was promising Rs 1,000 per month to every woman, Sidhu was promising Rs 2,000. He said even if only Rs 1,000 was paid to all women of Punjab every month, the state will need about one lakh twenty thousand crore rupees for this purpose only as the total population of women in the state is about one crore. "And do you think it is financially feasible when Punjab is under a debt of about Rs five lakh crore?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-his-deputy-behaved-like-cowards-amarinder-1068593.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Dubai's DP World to build dry port in Jammu and Kashmir, says Manoj Sinha||Dubai ports giant DP World is set to build an inland port in Jammu and Kashmir as part of plans by the emirate to invest in the Indian territory, the head of the region said on Thursday. Centre last year said Dubai, part of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), would invest in infrastructure and other projects in the region. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is in Dubai this week to promote investment, said DP World would soon visit the 250 acre site earmarked for the inland port facility. "We will finalise it shortly," he told Reuters, describing the project as a "firm commitment" by state-owned DP World. A DP World spokesperson said the company had a "productive meeting" with Sinha on Thursday and that it was preparing a proposal for the project. The announcement last October that Dubai would invest in the region was the first by any foreign government since Kashmir's autonomy was revoked in 2019 and the Muslim-majority state was divided into two territories directly ruled by New Delhi. Emirati newspaper Khaleej Times reported this week that Dubai developer Emaar Properties would build a mall in Srinagar. Lulu Group, an UAE-headquartered company headed by an Indian billionaire, also plans to set up a food processing hub there. But investment in the heavily militarised Jammu and Kashmir is fraught with risk. There are frequent attacks by militants, while the Indian government has at times faced international criticism for widespread crackdowns there by security forces. "As far militancy is concerned, we are dealing with it ... and I can assure it will be dealt (with) fully" said Sinha, who insisted the region was a safe place for foreign investment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dubais-dp-world-to-build-dry-port-in-jammu-and-kashmir-says-manoj-sinha-1068607.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||PM Modi got 'troubled' in 15 minutes, while farmers camped for a year: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was “troubled” with only 15 minutes of wait whereas farmers protested against the farm laws for a year. In a "major security lapse", Modi's convoy was left stranded on a flyover in Ferozepur on Wednesday after some protesting farmers blocked the road forcing the PM to return from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event or rally. “I want to ask Pradhan Mantri Sahab, our farmer brothers camped at the Delhi borders for over one year ... tell me, they stayed there for one and half-year. Your media did not say anything. And yesterday you had to wait for 15 minutes,” Sidhu said addressing a rally at Barnala. “Why these double standards,” he asked. He alleged instead of doubling farmers’ income as promised, Modi took whatever little the farmers had. He said only 500 people turned up at the BJP rally which was to be addressed by Modi at Ferozepur. Sidhu also called former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh “shameless” for addressing “empty chairs” at the rally. Later, Sidhu in a tweet alleged that the whole event was to divert attention from the low turnout at the rally. “PM couldn't have addressed empty chairs like shameless Ex CM Captain (Amarinder Singh). Only way out was to divert media attention to the alleged security threat & save humiliation of addressing 500 people on 70000 chairs. "This is a colossal failure of BJP in Punjab. They were like a burst balloon!!” he wrote. Addressing a press conference earlier in the day, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma dismissed as baseless claims that not many turned up for the BJP's Ferozepur rally and alleged that the state police was instructed not to allow party workers from reaching the rally site. He alleged the government was deliberately preventing the Prime Minister to inaugurate developmental projects worth thousands of crores, as it feared the BJP will gain public support. "Congress leaders say that chairs were empty at the Ferozepur rally, but despite obstacles our workers faced, thousands reached the rally venue. You should question the government why were our buses were stopped at several places?" asked Sharma. Activists of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) on Wednesday had blocked the road near village Piareana on Ferozepur-Moga road as part of their protest. The PM's convoy got stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes when it reached near village Piareana on Ferozepur-Moga road. Faced with the blockade, the PM's convoy drove back to Bathinda airport. Modi after landing in Bathinda on Wednesday had to take the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of the inclement weather.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-got-troubled-in-15-minutes-while-farmers-camped-for-a-year-navjot-singh-sidhu-1068699.html
06-01-2022||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath slashes power rates for Uttar Pradesh farmers by half||Amid various political parties seeking to woo voters with promises of free power and other freebies ahead of the assembly polls, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced a 50 per cent cut on farmers’ electricity bills for running their tubewells. The Chief Minister's office made the announcement on its official Twitter handle that said the decision to slash the power bills has been taken in the interest of farmers. While the CM’s office tweet tagged a picture of a newspaper advertisement announcing the relief for farmers, it also mentioned a cut in power bills for urban areas by half.  It was not immediately clear if the relief in urban areas was meant only for farmers in urban villages or all urban residents. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who is committed to the prosperity of farmers has decided to provide a 50 per cent rebate on the present rate of the electricity on their private tubewells,” the tweet said. Accordingly, the revised rate for metered power connection would be Rs 1 per unit instead of Rs 2 now and the fixed charge on one horsepower motors would be Rs 35 instead of the present rate of Rs 70 per meter, it said. Likewise for power connection without meter, the charge would be Rs 85 for one horsepower, half of Rs 170 taken presently. In Urban areas, those having metered connection, electricity charge per unit would be Rs 3 in place of the present rate of Rs 6 and fixed meter rental charge of Rs 65 instead of Rs 130 collected currently. It may be noted that various political parties have been outdoing each other in promising freebies, especially free electricity, among others ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. In Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party and Aam Aadmi Party have promised to provide free up to 300 units of electricity, if voted to power. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-slashes-power-rates-for-uttar-pradesh-farmers-by-half-1068700.html
06-01-2022||Oasis||Desirelessness is genuine wisdom||Ramana Maharishi was one of the greatest sages who lived in the last century. He was known for his patience and compassion, and his uncompromising disposition to encourage the devotees to move in the highest path to attain wisdom. His utterances went straight to the heart of the matter and would leave spiritual seekers spellbound by the ability to respond to their innermost needs. He espoused silence as the highest means of spiritual initiation in contrast to initiation by touch, sound or sight. He often recounted the story of Lord Shiva in the form of the young Dakshinamurthy who gave self-realisation to the sons of Lord Brahma through silence. Ramana was once asked to distinguish between desirelessness and wisdom, and explain their connection. He replied: “The two are not different; they are the same. Desirelessness is refraining from turning the mind towards any object. Wisdom means the appearance of no object. In other words, not seeking what is other than the Self is detachment or desirelessness; not leaving the Self is wisdom." This reply was characteristic of the deft way the silent sage of Arunachala handled the questions that were posed to him. Like most of his replies, they went directly to the heart of the matter. According to the sage, the seeker must focus his mind on the Self and allow it to waver in the direction of sense objects. This is the real meaning of desirelessness. Wisdom on the other hand is being firmly grounded in the Self and no objects appear in front of the mind. This is the state of self-realisation. He would often say that the state of self-realisation is difficult to describe in words as it is a state whose reality can only be experienced. He did, however, provide two clues. In the first instance, he said the realised master does experience the triad of seer, sight and seen. This means that in the state of self-realisation, there is only one subject. There is no other. This explains why the realised master is incapable of seeing others as being apart from himself. In the second instance, Ramana said that just as an ordinary individual finds it difficult to do without thought, the realised master has difficulty in entertaining a thought. It is about the seeker dying to his own ego. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/desirelessness-is-genuine-wisdom-1068635.html
06-01-2022||Opinion||UP polls: Plummeting economic growth versus Hindutva||Ignore the huge cutouts, giant hoardings, paid supplements in newspapers and endless ads on TV news channels showing images of the transformation that has taken place in Uttar Pradesh under the not so benign leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his saffron-robed protégé, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The bitter truth, though, is that not just UP's growth rate has plummeted, but also it has fallen abysmally on all governance issues.  Contrary to the findings of many social scientists, last-minute sops and announcements of grand projects seldom yield positive electoral outcomes. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is promising highways, airports, and universities to a state where it has fiercely pursued identity politics and demonised minorities. Why does it need to shore up its image as a party serious about the state's development and growth? Is it because the politics of Hindutva is flagging, or is there some other reason? If economic performance is the criterion that the voters use to re-elect a government, then the BJP should bite the dust in the coming polls in February-March 2022. But the ruling party never gives an impression that it came to power on economic issues but triumphed due to muscular nationalism and the promise of Hindu primacy, which also meant diminishing secularism and the role Muslims enjoyed in the state's plural society. That is why the party leadership chose a monk-like Yogi Adityanath rather than a moderate like Manoj Sinha. Expectedly, Yogi built temples and deepened the fears in the majority community towards Muslims. As his priorities were different, UP's growth rate fell since Adityanath became the chief minister in 2017. Under his predecessor, Akhilesh Yadav, the state's growth rate during his five-year term was 6.92 per cent, compared to that, it is 1.95 per cent under Adityanath. The state's economy has been further savaged by the high unemployment rate of youth, who can be heard wailing on news and YouTube channels of how the government has abandoned them and used brute force to smother their protests.  According to economist Santosh Mehrotra, for graduates and those with technical education, unemployment during Adityanath's term has jumped to 51 per cent and 46 per cent, respectively. So grim is the unemployment situation in UP that students struggle to complete any competitive examination as the test papers are leaked, and the entire process is abandoned. Many students from rural areas are putting an enormous burden on their parents by staying in cities hoping to participate in a competitive examination and snag a 'government' job. This government is addressing this monstrous challenge by making promises for infrastructure development that could hopefully lead to job growth. Ever since the BJP came to power at the Centre, electoral outcomes have seldom dampened its ardour to form the government even when it has lost in the vote count. It has used muscle and financial power to engineer defections in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Goa, etc. What gives it legitimacy is a high-powered election campaign in which friendly media and pollsters are partners in building a narrative of electoral invincibility. That allows many gullible people to believe in this fiction that the party wins the polls even if it loses. Hence, there was nothing wrong with manipulating the outcome and keeping the "corrupt" Congress out of power. It was only in Maharashtra that the BJP was paid in the same coin. If we keep the post-poll interventions out of this analysis and restrict our exploration to what impacts voting behaviour, we will find that it is both sophisticated as well as primeval. Till it was busted, Cambridge Analytica tried to use the platform of Facebook and artificial intelligence (AI) to shoehorn content for specific voters to build support for populist leaders and their causes. Donald Trump, Brexit, and the stunning loss that Jeremy Corbyn experienced in the UK were attributed to Cambridge Analytica. There was no evidence that it was involved in India's parliamentary elections in 2014, but the results are eerily similar. However, in a study conducted in 2004 for the think tank ICRIER (Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations), titled, 'Economic growth, governance and voting behaviour: An application to Indian elections', economist Arvind Virmani found plenty of corroboration to his thesis that economic growth does impact voting behaviour. He took into cognisance several states that went to polls during the period of the study (2002-04) and found that some of them came to grief due to lazy growth rates. Madhya Pradesh's per capita had come down to 0.5 per cent, and Rajasthan was worse. It had collapsed from a high of 6.7 per cent to 0.5 per cent. Both for Parliament and Assembly elections, the Congress got angry thumbs down.  According to the study, Gujarat was an exception. Here again, GDP growth had fallen considerably during 1998-2003 compared to the previous five years of 1993-98. The belief is that the Congress would have won the elections in Gujarat if there was no Godhra incident in which a train coach carrying devotees from Ayodhya mysteriously caught fire. Narendra Modi strode to power based on this vote. Interestingly, Virmani says that the "growth factor reasserted itself", and Gujaratis voted for the Congress party a few months later.  In his conclusion, Virmani claims that parties that have made a sincere effort to improve governance - such as the quality and quantity of public goods and services supplied to citizens - have been able to beat the anti-incumbency factor once. On this count, too, Adityanath's performance has been pathetic, as evidenced during the horrific second wave of the pandemic. So inhuman was the handling of the crisis that it deepened the suffering of those impacted by the virus. There was an industrial scale undercounting of the dead even when visible to naked eyes to dress up the UP government's performance. Bodies were floated in the river Ganges as people did not have the money for firewood to cremate their dead. The ire of those who suffered during this horrific phase may impact the voting in the Assembly elections. Quite evidently, with Modi and Adityanath leading the charge for re-election, the BJP again is hoping to return to power based on non-economic issues. Besides, it will also rely considerably on the chimera it manages to create with the help of bogus surveys and friendly media reporting to feed the narrative about its electoral invincibility. (The author is the Editor of 'Hardnews' magazine) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-plummeting-economic-growth-versus-hindutva-1068527.html
06-01-2022||Opinion||Laughing at Matt Damon, and other meme-stock metrics||By Lionel Laurent Taking the musings of social media seriously was one of last year’s expensive lessons for sophisticated investors. From GameStop Corp.’s epic short squeeze to the boom in cryptocurrencies, non-fungible tokens and ETFs, retail punters poured money into trending market tips while sharing their highs and lows on Twitter, TikTok and Reddit. US investors shoveled more than $1 trillion into equities last year — more than the past two decades combined. Hedge funds and investment banks have resolved not to be caught out by the crowd, and have developed new tools to glean signals from the social media hive mind. Highly paid analysts now send out natural language processing-based alerts that read like trading haikus: “crypto, china, stake, btc, eth, dip, hold, ada, long, moon.” The next test for the social-media scrapers will be figuring out how seriously to take mockery. This week, the online peanut gallery turned against actor Matt Damon’s ad for the trading app crypto.com, on display at screenings of the new Spider Man movie and American football games (presumably a sign of the target demographic).  In the ad, Damon pays homage to history’s explorers, innovators and astronauts, before exhorting regular folks to follow his lead into the volatile world of crypto trading. “Cringe” and “yuck” were among the glowing reviews, as viewers wondered how Dogecoin — described as “pretend computer dog money” — could be compared with climbing Mount Everest.  The sniping reaction to the cringeworthy crypto commercial could be an interesting signal for sentiment bots for two reasons. The first is that celebrity crypto endorsements, from adopting laser-eye avatars to promoting apps, might be losing their power as drivers of retail-investor enthusiasm. Judging by criticisms of Damon’s wealth, influencers look vulnerable to the same kind of populist backlash that they’ve tried to co-opt. Their reach is also under close scrutiny by governments. The second reason is that the crypto world’s advertising blitz, from stadium sponsorships to billboards, hasn’t delivered market gains either. Bitcoin’s price in December suffered its worst monthly drop since a 35 per cent rout in May, and Coinbase Global Inc shares have fallen 30 per cent in two months on the back of worse-than-expected quarterly results. Trading app Robinhood Markets Inc, the symbol of meme-stock mania, hit all-time stock-price lows recently. One ETF explicitly designed to capture meme-stocks, SPACs and “whatever happens to be trending at the time,” dubbed the FOMO ETF, has slumped 12.6 per cent in six months. Idealistic moonshot bets are struggling in a post-Covid, inflationary world, as famed active manager Cathie Wood’s ARK fund attests. To be sure, the proliferation of filter bubbles means that what dismays some corners of Twitter still excites others. Your author recently joined a virtual cryptocurrency seminar led by RadioShack investor and self-help guru Tai Lopez, where dozens of participants posted messages like “money is worthless,” “gold is king” and “I am excited to learn.” Maybe for every Twitter critic throwing mud at Damon — an actor who is easy to mock, as fans of Team America World Police can certify — there are several silent speculators gearing up to buy. Eternal crypto optimists will also point to institutional investor interest in digital assets as an alternative to gold — what Goldman Sachs calls the “store of value” market, of which Bitcoin is an estimated 20 per cent, and which could imply a $100,000 price target for the cryptocurrency one day. Still, there is clearly something fragile about the current wave of retail-driven “bubblets,” as Morgan Stanley’s Ruchir Sharma called them this week. Crypto, SPACs, clean energy and unprofitable tech companies have seen falls of 35 per cent or more from their recent peaks.  Beyond the market realities that rising interest rates might bring — such as competition from cash savings accounts — there will be an “emperor’s new clothes” effect when promises of ever-rising prices fail to bear fruit. Research by the Financial Conduct Authority, the UK regulator, has found a strong element of competition with peers and word-of-mouth driving crypto investments. When expected gains aren’t delivered, the message becomes harder to spread. It also matters that NFTs have been rejected as naked cash grabs by the very communities that are supposed to adopt them, such as gamers and musicians. With Reddit eyeing its own initial public offering, maybe the Matt Damon Mockery Index deserves to see the light of day. The world is looking for signals of whether funny memes will continue to mean serious money — and whether celebrities should worry about, not embrace, laser eyes. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/laughing-at-matt-damon-and-other-meme-stock-metrics-1068551.html
06-01-2022||Panorama||For India, challenges abound in framing an Afghanistan policy||Despite the lull and drawdown in media coverage, international engagement in Afghanistan is at a critical juncture. A looming humanitarian crisis, driven primarily by constraints in food and resource, economic turmoil and harsh winter, should underscore the immediacy of combined international action in this regard. The most prominent impediment to taking international steps in Afghanistan is the Taliban, their inability to form an inclusive government and, above all, provide assurance to the international community that there will be a genuine follow through on critical tenets of governance and security. In fact, the Taliban’s return to the helm has only compounded challenges ranging from militancy and violence to human rights violations, for nations near and far. Consequently, international engagement with Afghanistan is bedevilled by the dilemma of choosing between inactivity on the one hand and engaging the Taliban, despite their anachronistic policies, on the other. India finds itself at the heart of this quandary, divided between restoring Afghanistan as a strategic priority in its policy and the practical hurdles on the ground. Currently, India is assessing three broad ways of potential engagement with Afghanistan: providing humanitarian assistance, exploring a joint counterterrorism effort with other partners, and talking to the Taliban. The end goal of all these is to restore people-to-people links and prevent backsliding of the gains Delhi’s developmental aid has made in Afghanistan in the past two decades. India has undertaken more than 400 key infrastructure projects in all 34 Afghan provinces and has signed strategic agreements to enhance trade and bilateral relations. Beyond the historical and civilisational links that India and Afghanistan share, in the immediate circumstance, India recognises the importance of its investments in Afghanistan’s peace and development. Today, there is an open assertion made by India regarding Afghanistan, calling for the urgent, non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sectors of the Afghan society. As a responsible power and the largest in South Asia, India has deep stakes in not just the reconstruction of Afghanistan but also in safeguarding the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of Afghan society. India has voiced its obligation to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan at numerous multilateral fora.  In delivering assistance, India has opted to coordinate with other stakeholders, instead of with the Taliban. Apprehensive of the Taliban exploiting the current humanitarian crisis and following a partisan distribution process, India is more inclined towards distributing assistance through international agencies like the UN and the FAO as their involvement comes with an implicit larger consensus. For India, one of the vital components of the ‘enabling environment’ is the establishment of a stable humanitarian aid corridor through Pakistan. Although Pakistan finally relented in permitting a free two-way transit between India and Afghanistan, its reluctant, conditions-based authorisation and deteriorating relations with Delhi rule out complete reliance on any such corridor. India’s policies toward Afghanistan have been underpinned by the terrorism threat that emanates from Pakistan. The recent rise in terrorist attacks in Kashmir could well be a pointer of things to come. As such, India is cautious about a terror corridor that might be facilitated from eastern Afghanistan leading up to Kashmir, should a land-based link be established. Such concerns ride on the proximity of the Taliban with Islamabad and some of the Taliban’s statements on Kashmir. India has consistently reaffirmed its support for UNSC Resolution 2593 and staunchly maintains that Afghan soil should not be used for anti-India terrorist activities. Counterterrorism is likely to play an increasingly pertinent role in shaping India’s policies vis-à-vis Afghanistan, even as India seeks an alignment in its broader Indo-Pacific obligations and its immediate South Asian goals. India has demonstrated a growing interest in developing more robust counter-terror approaches across various multilateral fora, including the UNSC and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. More recently, the Quad’s focus on counterterrorism apropos Afghanistan could provide a rare opportunity to combine capacities with Australia, Japan and the US. The Quad members share a consensus on the significance of cooperation, the necessity of regulating funding channels and of closely monitoring means of recruitment via online media. The hosting of the very first counterterrorism table-top exercise (CT-TXT) by the National Investigation Agency has presented an opportunity to Delhi to lead the Quad’s counterterrorism narrative. This could include the country using its bilateral intelligence-sharing networks with the US as a strong plank to improve and consolidate the intelligence-sharing capacities of the group. Additionally, India could also propose the development of a Quad-led counter-terror ecosystem: a regional structure bringing together the South Asian neighbourhood to deliberate over the best practices to regulate terror groups and combat violent extremism in the region. With India’s permanent representative to the UN recently named the new Chair of the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee, India could amplify such concerns at the global level. In its wait and watch policy, India’s stance on the official recognition of Afghanistan under the Taliban and engaging Kabul finds resonance with most international and regional countries. Delhi is reluctant to draw sharp conclusions on the nature of the Taliban rule. However, there is a realisation that India should stay relevant and preserve its influence in the region. This has manifested in the events that led up to the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, assembling NSAs of regionally important countries. While Delhi sought to convene critical stakeholders and pave a new political roadmap for a unified regional response to the Taliban, it experienced multiple hurdles in convincing the South Asian neighbourhood to align with its leadership. For instance, Pakistan and China chose to attend the Troika-plus deliberations, instead of joining India. These competing approaches to Afghanistan will be a reality going forward. A realistic assessment of its goals, both long-term and short-term, together with readjustments, is the need of the hour in framing a strategically sustainable Afghanistan policy. Delhi rethinking the issue of opening its embassy in Kabul could be a good start. (Mishra is Fellow, Observer Research Foundation; Dhabhai is Research Intern, Kalinga Institute of Indo-Pacific Studies) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/for-india-challenges-abound-in-framing-an-afghanistan-policy-1068634.html
06-01-2022||Panorama||Distinguish between civil and criminal cases||Recently, the Supreme Court of India made a statement: “It is necessary to take notice of a growing tendency in business circles to convert purely civil disputes into criminal cases”. This is not peculiar to India alone. A lot of other democracies, especially ones that follow a common law are experiencing but the ‘conversion’ as referred by the Supreme Court is peculiar to India. In India, there is a specific division that is made at the time of litigation. There exists a dividing line between a civil case — which a common person will interpret as lengthy litigation and a criminal case — which a common person will interpret as a black mark on her status as a citizen (excluding the abnormal and deviations from the normative standard of a society). In business, it is even more dangerous to have a criminal case against you because you fear the remand by law enforcement agencies which will endanger the business and family. This divide existed and exists for a reason — the cost of endangering the fundamental right to liberty and being under detention is far too high. Thus the courts have typically set a high standard for a case to be brought before them and to start a ‘trial’. Nowhere in the Constitution do we find the dividing line of civil and criminal cases — it is specific statutes that bring in the criminality with them if they are deemed fit. Largely, the specific law apart from the solely beneficial laws — contains a civil aspect mixed with a criminal aspect. One cannot categorically say that the law prima facie is a civil matter. Let us take the example of the Companies Act - 2013, which, from the face of it, looks benign but contains enough provisions to make a criminal case. If that was not enough, we have the 420 cases (as a common person would understand) i.e. the Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to ‘cheating’. This add-on which makes a litigant scratch her head over what exactly is the issue poses a larger problem if the court or a tribunal hearing the matter scratches its head. This is referred to as a maintainability matter. Let us look at some statistics of the Supreme Court of India to get a better perspective. As of October 1, 2021, the SC had a total of 69,922 cases. About 51,581 matters are pending or admission i.e, for the court to determine whether there exists a case in the first place and 18,341 cases are at a hearing stage where the court has made its preliminary observation that there exists a point of law to be determined and the SC alone can do it. Another data that we may look at is, matters that are being heard by larger benches (5,7,9 judges), the total of which stands at 421. Of this, 372 are connected matters, which means matters which appear in bunches because they contain the same issue or same person. It is apparent that roughly 73.76% of the cases are waiting at the door to be allowed entry. More worryingly, the judicial time of larger benches is taken by roughly 88.36% of the cases. This is a gross misuse of the judicial time which is revered and sacred. The SC is right in saying that this tendency of mixing a criminal element into a civil case is exhausting the courts and the legal community must do something about it. One would ask: Are there no checkpoints at the lower judiciary to ensure a civil case is purely culled out, and the judge to decide on whether to nip a case in the bud by separating a civil case from a criminal case? This involves a participative action by the judiciary and law enforcement as the latter is the largest litigant. The punishment laws laid down by the Indian Penal Code have been here for a century and a half. Civil law has been here for more than a century i.e, the Code of Civil Procedure 1908. But we still seem to fail to distinguish between the two. Should the Constitution of India intervene to set this right? (The writer is a Legal Counsel) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/distinguish-between-civil-and-criminal-cases-1068639.html
06-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A pet in my pocket!||“Do you want to see my favourite animal which I always carry in my pocket?”, so saying, much to the amazement of the teachers and students seated in the auditorium, I pulled out a one-rupee coin with the four-headed lion, our national emblem. The deafening claps enthralled me. Needless to say, I bagged the first prize in the oratorical competition. I was in the fourth grade then. A few days before the contest, I was a totally different person. Basically an introvert by nature, I loved to be in my own shell. When the date and topic ('My favourite animal') were announced, I was the least interested. Yet, I pulled out my school diary and noted down the details. I remember many kids enthusiastically giving out their names for the contest. I had then felt that speaking in front of a huge audience was beyond my capability. I forgot all about it until my mom pulled out my diary. When she asked me about it, I told her that the competition was only for extroverts. She did not prod me further. That night as I was about to sleep, I saw my dad writing something. When I went near him, he held out a paper and said that the contents written in it were for me. I reached out for the sheet. The writing began with “My favourite animal: The Lion”. It took a few minutes for me to gather that he had noticed my childhood appreciation of the majestic lion as the king of the forest and had prepared hints on the speech. My surprise grew into disappointment as I knew what was coming up. I vividly remember my mom and dad sitting near me and encouraging me to join the contest. My initial reaction was a big ‘NO’. I shuddered at the thought of speaking about the animal. My parents asked me to state my apprehensions and deal with them one by one. I finally decided to give it a try.  That was definitely a turning point for me! My dad helped me with the way how a speech should be delivered. I also learnt that, while your eyes should be on the audience, your concentration should be on what you speak. Thus, while preparing for the speech, I forgot everything else and kept in mind only the subject of the talk. When the D-day arrived, though I was frightened a bit, I confidently delivered the speech. As the climax, I pulled out the coin to exhibit to all how my favourite animal ever remained not only in my pocket but also in everybodys! The thunderous applause made my confidence grow. I became quite popular in school and there was no looking back. I could also bag even a state-level prize! The golden advice, “Where there is a will there is a way” given by my parents, rings in my ears even today. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-pet-in-my-pocket-1068638.html
06-01-2022||Second Edit||Health index: Visible north-south divide||The NITI Aayog’s health index report for 2019-20, like its previous editions, ranks all states on a weighted composite score and gives a useful picture of the relative state of health and healthcare across the country. The score is based on 24 indicators and covers three broad domains —health outcomes, governance, and information. It gives a more rounded view of health because factors like the availability of medical facilities and personnel, use of contraceptives, success rate of government programmes, etc., are also taken into account. The states are ranked in three categories — large and small states, and UTs. Kerala and Tamil Nadu are the top two states in overall performance. Uttar Pradesh stands last. Southern states generally lead the index; the northern states figure at the bottom. Karnataka has gone down from the 8th position to the 9th in the overall index and from the 16th position to the 19th in the incremental index. The state’s overall score slipped from 59.29 to 57.93. While the rankings are on expected lines, there is a lot of information that gives a detailed picture and should help action in future. UP ranked first in incremental performance while Kerala and Tamil Nadu are ranked 12th and 8th, respectively, among the larger states. But it should be noted that UP had a low base and so could make a big jump from the previous year, without achieving a major outcome. Several smaller states and UTs also have higher incremental scores than UP. Some experts have questioned the classification of states and have felt that a single category would be more useful for comparison. Others have noted that the index did not cover mental health and non-communicable diseases. These could be considered in the coming years.  The index covers the year before the pandemic broke out. The state of health could be worse now because much of the attention in the last two years has been to fight the pandemic. But the pandemic has underlined the importance of public health and its social and economic value. The states will have to study their weaknesses and frame health policies accordingly. Karnataka has much to do in many areas, to not only stop its slide but to improve its performance. It should also be noted that the position of most states is below the desired level of health and healthcare. Only the southern states, except Karnataka, have scored above 70 points on a possible 100. Even Kerala’s overall score is only 82.2, while UP’s score is 30.57. All states need to improve their performance. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/health-index-visible-north-south-divide-1068632.html
06-01-2022||South||Covid-19: Kerala not closing schools, colleges yet||Despite a spike in new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, state education minister V Sivankutty on Thursday said no decision has been taken at the moment to close down educational institutions. "Right from the day we decided to open educational institutions till now, we are keeping a close tab on the numbers of Covid cases. An expert committee is keeping a watch on things and they will be taking the call as and when required if the educational institutions need to be closed. At the moment we are not going to close down educational institutions," he told reporters. As of Wednesday, Omicron cases in the state have reached 230 and the daily case number spiked to 4,801. In the past two days, the test positivity rate has increased to more than 6 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-not-closing-schools-colleges-yet-1068528.html
06-01-2022||South||Muslims in Hyderabad rush to get married ahead of passage of marriage age bill||The Central government's move of raising the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years has led to an unprecedented rush for marriages in the Muslim community in Hyderabad and other towns of Telangana. Hundreds of marriages are being solemnised in the state every day due to the panic which has set in ever since the Child Marriage Amendment Bill 2021 was tabled in Parliament last month. Though the Bill was referred to the Select Committee following objections raised by the opposition parties, the fears of the Bill getting Parliament's approval in the next session of Parliament are driving parents to advance the marriages originally fixed for later this year or next year. Fearing that the legislation will delay the marriages of their daughters by three years, parents are convincing the parents of bridegrooms to advance the marriages. In many cases, only the legal formalities are being completed with both sides agreeing to have reception, Valima and other rituals as per the original schedule. Several qazis are performing 10-20 nikah each every day. Nikahs are not just being solemnised in mosques and function halls but also at homes. Qazis, who are appointed by the State Waqf Board, are seen rushing from one place to other to complete the legal formalities. Nikahs are usually held in mosques in the evenings but due to the huge demand nikahs are also being performed in the afternoon. On normal days, mosques see one to two nikahs each every day but now this number has gone up to eight-ten. Qazis say they have never seen a situation like this in the past. Even at the peak of the marriage season, they used to perform 3-4 nikahs. "This is unprecedented. Parents are very worried and they want the nikah to be solemnized as early as possible," a qazi said. Parents are in a hurry to complete the entire process by obtaining the marriage certificates from Wakf Board, Some unscrupulous elements are cashing on the situation by offering anxious parents to help them complete the formalities and documentation. Appeals by Muslim leaders and organisations to parents not to panic are apparently not having much impact. The parents fear that if the Bill is passed they not only have to wait for a couple of more years but may even lead to cancellation. The situation has forced Telangana State Waqf Board to step in. Its chairman Mohammed Saleem held a meeting with qazis and advises them to help allay the apprehensions among parents. "I have urged qazis to counsel both sides not to panic as the Bill has not yet passed and the legal age of marriage for women continues to be 18. We are appealing to parents not to take wrong decisions in a hurry," said Saleem A leader of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Saleem hopes that the Bill will not be passed as several parties were against the move to enhance the legal age of marriage of women. He claimed that 90 per cent of parents in all the communities marry off their daughters at the age of 18-20 and only 10 per cent give them higher education. The Waqf Board chairman said even if the Central government pushes through the Bill it is not likely to be passed early. He pointed out that the Bill has already been referred to the Select Committee. The panel will have consultation with members of different parties and this process itself will take a few months. He said TRS and other parties would oppose the Bill in Parliament. Since the Bill has to be passed by both the houses and the President has to give his assent to make it a law, he believes that the entire process may take two years. United Muslim Forum, an apex body of various Muslim socio-religious organisations, has also appealed to the community not to rush through the marriages as the Bill has still not passed by Parliament. The Bill has already drawn flak from several Muslim groups, who see this as an interference in Muslim Personal Law. They say Islam permit marriage of a girl once she attains puberty. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/muslims-in-hyderabad-rush-to-get-married-ahead-of-passage-of-marriage-age-bill-1068532.html
06-01-2022||South||Pinarayi Vijayan brand ambassador of Omicron: Democratic Party||Democratic Party, an ally of the BJP-led NDA, on Thursday termed Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the brand ambassador of Omicron, saying he has no moral right to ask people to maintain Covid protocol as he and his party are violating it through their ongoing party meetings. The Democratic Party asked Vijayan to immediately postpone the ongoing party meetings of the CPI-M. Democratic Party president George Sebastian said, "The people of Kerala used to be glued to TV sets not long ago keenly hearing Vijayan in his customary press meetings held practically every day and today see what's happening -- their party meetings are being held across the state to the run up of the upcoming State Party conference and the Party Congress." Since the past few weeks, Vijayan is seen addressing various party meetings across the state, and with several more district party meetings scheduled, it is unlikely that total shutdown will be announced soon, he said. "Vijayan no longer has the moral right to ask people to maintain Covid protocol as it has been totally violated by his party through their ongoing party meetings. Vijayan is now the brand ambassador of Omicron," said Sebastian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-brand-ambassador-of-omicron-democratic-party-1068548.html
06-01-2022||South||70% of Covid cases in Telangana may be Omicron||More than 70 per cent of Covid-19 cases being detected in Telangana may be cases of Omicron as the new variant has already spread in the community, a top health official said on Thursday. "Omicron is already in the community. Our estimates are that more than 70 per cent are Omicron cases. We cannot do genome sequencing for all," said director of public health and family welfare Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The official warned that a bigger surge in cases in Telangana is likely after the Sankranti festival this month. The official said the number of cases increased with New Year and maximum number of infections are being reported from Greater Hyderabad. The state has witnessed a four-fold jump in the number of cases during the last five days. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,520 new infections. Telangana had reported 1,052 new cases on Tuesday. This was after a gap of more than six months the state's Covid tally had crossed 1,000. The positivity rate is more than three per cent. The director of public health said in case of any symptoms people should approach the doctor instead of self medication. Reiterating that the department is geared up to tackle the third wave, he said two crore Covid testing kits and more than a crore home isolation kits were ready. As part of the measures to tackle the third wave, the department has canceled leaves of all healthcare workers. The staff will not be granted leave for next four weeks. Srinivasa Rao said despite the state logging hundreds of cases every day, the impact was not severe. No significant increase in hospital admissions was noted. Even those found infected by the new variant are recovering in five days. The genome sequencing test is being conducted only for those samples collected from Covid positive among air passengers from at-risk countries and about two per cent random samples taken from the travelers coming from non-risk countries. The state has so far reported 94 Omicron cases. Of them 43 have recovered while the remaining are currently under treatment. Stating that the treatment protocol is not different for Omicron, the officials said there was no need to differentiate between Omicron and other variants. Srinivasa Rao said the coming four weeks will be critical as a bigger surge is likely this month. He, however, hoped that the surge may subside in the middle of February. He appealed to all to abide by the guidelines issued by the government to check the spread of Covid. Stating that protection from virus is in the hands of people, he said they should always wear masks, maintain social distance, frequently wash hands and take vaccines. The health department has set the target of 100 per cent vaccination of the second dose by January 26. The state has already administered doses to 10 per cent of the children in the age group of 15-18. The department has now decided to reach out to children to give the vaccine. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/70-of-covid-cases-in-telangana-may-be-omicron-1068568.html
06-01-2022||South||Case against Kerala Sangh Parivar leader, 200 activists for provocative slogans||Valsan Thillankeri, a prominent leader of the Sangh Parivar in Kerala, and over 200 activists of an outfit have been booked for allegedly making provocative speech and slogans during a rally organised by the Hindu Aikya Vedi here, police said on Thursday. Police said the rally was organised by the Hindu Aikya Vedi, a Sangh outfit, on Wednesday demanding action against "extremist forces" operating in Kerala. Besides Thillankeri, cases were registered against over 200 activists of the outfit, they said. Thillankeri is the working president of the Hindu Aikya Vedi. According to police, the alleged provocative slogans were raised during the protest march organised by them in the town. The march was held from bank road to stadium corner in the politically volatile district. The case was registered under various sections of IPC including 143 (Unlawful Assembly) and 147 (Punishment for rioting), police said. Rallies were organised over 100 places across state under the aegis of Hindu Aikya Vedi on Wednesday in view of recent killings of RSS workers allegedly by the activists of Popular Front of India (PFI) and its political offshoot Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). There was heavy deployment of police in various places following intelligence inputs that there could be trouble during the marches when it passes through SDPI pockets in the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-kerala-sangh-parivar-leader-200-activists-for-provocative-slogans-1068578.html
06-01-2022||South||Kerala logs 50 fresh cases of Omicron; tally at 280||Omicron cases continued to increase in Kerala with the state on Thursday reporting 50 fresh cases of this new variant of Covid-19, taking the tally to 280, the health department said. A day ago the state had logged 49 cases of Omicron. Of the 50 patients reported on Thursday, 18 were from Ernakulam, 8 from Thiruvananthapuram, 7 from Pathanamthitta, 5 each from Kottayam and Malappuram, 3 from Kollam and 1 each from Alappuzha, Thrissur, Palakkad, a health department release said. Besides these, a Coimbatore native, who returned from Egypt, also tested positive for Omicron while he was in Kerala, the release said. According to the release, 32 of the Omicron infected persons had come from the UAE. The remaining came from Qatar, Saudi Arabia, USA, UK, Italy, Ukraine, Sweden, Singapore and the Maldives. "With this, Omicron has been confirmed for a total of 280 people in the state. Of them 186 came from low risk countries and 64 from high risk countries. A total of 30 people were infected through contact," the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-50-fresh-cases-of-omicron-tally-at-280-1068586.html
06-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu convenes an all-party meeting on Saturday to discuss NEET||Terming as “anti-democratic” Union Home Minister Amit Shah “refusing” to meet a delegation of MPs from Tamil Nadu with regard to NEET, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday announced that an all-party meeting will be convened on Saturday to discuss the future course of action on seeking exemption from the national-level entrance exam.  Making a statement in the Assembly on Thursday, Stalin sought the support of all political parties in exerting pressure on the Union Government with regard to the state’s opposition to NEET, which is now the qualifying exam for admissions into medical colleges.  He announced that the all-party meeting on Saturday will discuss the next course of action vis-à-vis NEET. Tamil Nadu has been opposing NEET since its introduction and the state government has so far passed two legislations against the exam.  “I request floor leaders of all political parties to participate in the meeting. The bill was passed with support from you. Based on the decisions taken at the meeting, our protests against NEET and for establishing social justice will continue,” Stalin said. In response, the AIADMK said it will support the efforts taken by the government vis-à-vis NEET. Contending that Tamil Nadu is a “model state in the country on ensuring social justice”, Stalin said history shows that several victories that the state secured were after a slew of political, legal, and public protests.  “I am duty-bound to inform this house that the progress achieved by Tamil Nadu so far has been through such protests. Likewise, we will consider the fight against NEET as the next protest of the Social Justice movement. We will not budge from our stand,” Stalin told the Assembly.   Recalling that the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed legislation – the second one in four years – seeking permanent exemption from NEET for students from Tamil Nadu on September 13, 2021, Stalin said the bill was still pending with Governor R N Ravi, who has been briefed on the issue.  As a follow-up, a delegation of MPs from all political parties in Tamil Nadu submitted a memorandum to the office of the President of India on the delay in considering the legislation on December 28. Following the meeting, the President’s office communicated to the delegation that the memorandum has been sent to the Union Home Ministry for its perusal, Stalin said.  “To stress the issue in person, the delegation sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. However, they have not been granted an audience so far. It is anti-democratic for a Home Minister to refuse to meet elected representatives of the people. Since the Home Minister did not grant an appointment, a petition has been submitted to his office,” Stalin said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-convenes-an-all-party-meeting-on-saturday-to-discuss-neet-1068615.html
06-01-2022||South||Woman who entered Sabarimala attacked in Kozhikode; man held||Bindu Ammini, one of the two women who entered the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in 2019, was manhandled by a man at Kozhikode district in North Kerala on Wednesday. The police arrested the man in connection with the incident after it triggered strong protests from various quarters. Video footage of a scuffle between Bindu and the man, identified as Mohandas of Beypore in Kozhikode, had gone viral. Initial reports suggested that the clash took place following a verbal duel over parking her vehicle and the man was in a drunk state. But Ammini later alleged the role of Sangh Parivar outfits behind the attack. The accused was also said to be an RSS worker. Kerala Higher Education Minister R Bindu and various rights forums flayed the incident and demanded action. On Thursday afternoon the police held Mohandas from his house. He alleged that he was assaulted by Ammini and showed injury marks on his leg. He also gave a counter-petition against Ammini to the police. According to the Vellayil police in Kozhikode, the political background of the accused was being verified. A case would be registered on the basis of his complaint too. It was during the strong protests against allowing women in the 10-50 age group to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple following a Supreme Court order that Ammini and another woman Kanakadurga entered the hill shrine on January 2, 2019. Both women have since faced threats and even suffered attacks on some occasions. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-who-entered-sabarimala-attacked-in-kozhikode-man-held-1068617.html
06-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly beams live part of the proceedings||For the first time, the Question Hour and Chief Minister’s statement under Rule 110 in the Tamil Nadu Assembly were beamed live on Thursday, partly fulfilling a promise made by the ruling DMK before the assembly elections.  Speaker M Appavu said the decision to beam live the proceedings, a long-standing demand from various quarters, was historic and thanked Chief Minister M K Stalin for his help in this regard. The proceedings were beamed live on the YouTube channel of the Tamil Nadu Department of Information and Public Relations (TNDIPR).  While the promise was to telecast live the entire proceedings, it has now been decided to beam live the Question Hour and statements and interventions by the Chief Minister. As the live proceedings began, the first question was asked by Pallavaram MLA A Karunanidhi (DMK) which was answered by Stalin.  Karunanidhi wanted to know whether the Government has plans to expand the Metro Rail network from the Airport in Meenambakkam to Kilambakkam where a mofussil bus terminus is coming up. Responding to the question, Stalin said there was a need to provide Metro connectivity to Kilambakkam.  “A detailed project report for extending the metro network from Airport to Kilambakkam has been formulated. Works on this are underway,” Stalin said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-beams-live-part-of-the-proceedings-1068657.html
06-01-2022||South||Telangana winding up airport surveillance as 'Omicron spread is now local'||Covid-19 cases in Telangana are rising at an alarming rate but the top health official said that they are winding up the airport surveillance as “Omicron has now spread in the local community.” “There is not much use now testing the foreign returnees. We are removing the Omicron data columns from our Covid-19 bulletins too from today,” Telangana public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao said while addressing a press conference on Thursday. The state health officials said that they are not in favor of imposing lock-down like restrictions which could “hurt the economy and livelihoods of people.” The state has reported 1,913 new cases on Thursday, up from 1,520 on Wednesday and 1,052 on Tuesday. On Monday, the new cases were 482. The new case load was below the 200 mark for many weeks until 10 days back. Out of the 1,913 cases from across Telangana on Thursday, Hyderabad contribution alone is 1,214. Rao stated Omicron as apparently "playing a vital role in the surge.” “We would see a big surge in cases in the coming four weeks. January last week could be the peak in the country and the state and by the middle of February the wave might go down as quickly as it came up,” Rao said. Till Wednesday, the state has officially recorded 84 Omicron cases. “Knowing the variant does not make any difference as the treatment is the same for Covid-19, be it Delta, Omicron or any other mutation.” However, medical teams would be deployed at the borders with Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to screen the entering people. Telangana government has decided to operate fever/Covid-19 clinics in all the state run medical facilities from Thursday. Authorities said two crore testing kits, and over one crore home isolation kits with nine medicines for Covid-19 are readied and dispatched to all the districts Even now only 2.3 percent of the hospital beds are filled, the same proportion of last few months. No one required oxygen as of now, Rao said. “But people need to be extremely careful. Take vaccines, wear masks, avoid gatherings. We also appeal to political parties, public organizations to cancel their programmes for the next few weeks. Even one percent of the infected needing hospitalizations would put an undue pressure on our medical infrastructure,” the official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-winding-up-airport-surveillance-as-omicron-spread-is-now-local-1068697.html
06-01-2022||South||Newborn kidnapped from hospital in Kerala traced within 1 hourr||A newborn girl child was kidnapped from a hospital in Kottayam district in Kerala on Thursday. The swift police action, however, traced the infant within an hour. The shocking incident took place at the Kottayam medical college in Kerala. The accused woman lifted the child by dressing up as a medical staff. Police later traced the woman and the child from a nearby hotel room. According to the police,  the child was only three days old. Pretending to be medical staff, the woman took the child from its mother in the afternoon, stating that the child need to be subjected to tests for "yellowish eyes". Since there was no information after sometime, the mother enquired with the nursing staff, and thus, the kidnapping came to light. The hospital authorities immediately alerted the police. The accused, identified as Neethu residing in Ernakulam district, booked a cab and told the cab driver that she wanted to travel to Kochi with an infant and another child. The cab driver, upon suspicion alerted the authorities of the hotel where the lady was put up. The police searched the hotel and recovered the child. Police sources said that the lady was being quizzed to know the real intention behind kidnapping. Kerala cooperation minister V N Vasavan who visited the spot later said that a child trafficking racket was suspected to be involved, and a detailed probe would be conducted. Another boy was also found along with the lady. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/newborn-kidnapped-from-hospital-in-kerala-traced-within-1-hourr-1068702.html
06-01-2022||State||SpiceJet flies B737 Max 8 aircraft on Belagavi-Delhi route||SpiceJet flew the B737 Max 8, 189-seater aircraft flight on the Belagavi-Delhi sector on Thursday. An event was organised at the airport to celebrate the landing of the B737 Max8 189-seater flight. Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya welcomed the crew, garlanded both the captains of the flight and cut cake to mark the occasion. Maurya thanked Spicejet for operating the B737 Max8 189-seater flight and believing in Belagavi. SpiceJet has been providing air connectivity to the national capital since last August 13 and passengers have patronised the service with passenger load being near cent per cent on many days. A total of 77 passengers arrived from Delhi and 76 departed towards Delhi on Thursday. SpiceJet started air services on the Belagavi-Delhi sector on August 13, 2021, by Boeing 737-700 aircraft three times a week and since December 20, services have been increased to four times a week on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. At present, as per the schedule, the flight departs from Delhi at 6.35 am and arrives at Belagavi at 9.30 am. The flight departs from Belagavi at 10 am and reaches Delhi at 12.30 pm. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/spicejet-flies-b737-max-8-aircraft-on-belagavi-delhi-route-1068680.html
06-01-2022||State||BJP is delaying Mekedatu project for political gains in Tamil Nadu, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that the BJP government in the state was hesitant to implement the Mekedatu drinking water project in order to expand its political base in Tamil Nadu.  “The BJP government, ruling the state for the last two-and-half years, has ignored the Mekedatu project. The party is hesitant to implement it only to expand its political base in Tamil Nadu,” he told reporters.  He added, “The Congress party has decided to follow Covid-19 guidelines and take out a padayatra seeking early implementation of the Mekedatu project. Precautionary measures are being taken to prevent the spread of the virus. I and KPCC president D K Shivakumar alone will walk as part of the padayatra if the government imposes prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC.” He said that Congress had prepared a detailed project report when it was in power. The party made efforts till 2018 for the implementation.  “Temples under the Muzrai department should not be handed over to the RSS or else devotees will be compelled to fold their hands in front of the RSS,” he said. On the BJP state president Nalin Kumar’s recent statements he said, “Kateel is not politically mature.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-is-delaying-mekedatu-project-for-political-gains-in-tamil-nadu-says-siddaramaiah-1068689.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||MLCs must uphold values of Upper House, says Karnataka CM||Of late, the relevance of the Legislative Council is often questioned in various quarters. However, the Upper House value-adds to the decisions taken in the Assembly, by adding new dimensions to discussions, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. He was speaking at the farewell function of the 25 MLCs who retired. Elections for their vacancies were held in December. Recalling that he began his political career as an MLC, Bommai said he had learnt a lot by being a member of the Legislative Council. “Several Bills got a new direction owing to discussions in the Council. I remember several such instances when it comes to education where the Bills have been discussed at length. The Council is a place where burning issues are discussed as many experts from various fields are members of the House,” he said. However, amid concerns about the relevance of the Upper House, it’s also imperative that the Council members work towards upholding the values, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlcs-must-uphold-values-of-upper-house-says-karnataka-cm-1068396.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar says third Covid wave won't last long||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday that this wave (third wave) of Covid triggered by the Omicron variant would not last long and the looming threat of the infection would fizzle out in a few weeks. The minister’s statement is aimed at allaying fears among the public and reassuring the industry affected by the curfew orders.  Drawing a parallel from other parts of the world where the Omicron variant is fuelling the Covid surge, Sudhakar told media persons, “Unlike the first and second wave that lasted for 3 to 5 months, the third wave triggered by the Omicron variant will not last long. But the ensuing five to six weeks are crucial to deciding on its future. If we stay cautious, then we will sail through this difficult phase. It will come down at the same speed in which it is doubling now. World over, this has been the case. Hence, keeping in mind the safety of all of us, we have to adhere to the rules issued by the government.” The minister said that Karnataka is currently in the third position in the country in vaccinating youths in the 15-18 years age group. “We have already vaccinated 25% of the target population. One in every four children is vaccinated in Karnataka. We are working on a direction to complete the vaccination of this target group in another 10 to 15 days,” Sudhakar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-says-third-covid-wave-wont-last-long-1068397.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||C T Ravi's 'Goli Maro' tweet triggers outrage||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi triggered a controversy on Wednesday with his tweet that was construed as a call for violence by some sections of social media users. “Desh Ke Gaddaron Ko Goli Maro!” Ravi tweeted from his official handle @CTRavi_BJP. The tweet translates to “Shoot the traitors of the country.” The tweet came in the backdrop of a security breach Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s convoy faced in Punjab. While many users reported the tweet alleging that it was against Twitter policy, others tagged official handles of the state police seeking action against the BJP leader. A few also urged the senior leader to delete the tweet and apologise. Kannada activist Ganesh Chetan quote retweeted the post, calling Ravi a “Sanghi goon.” All India Students Association president N Sai Balaji tweeted saying, “Another BJP leader inciting violence.” Activist Vinay Sreenivasa tagged state police chief and Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and asked: “How safe are people in our state when your party general secretary gives an open call for violence??” Twitter user Floyd wrote: “How is this tolerated @Twitter @TwitterIndia? This is openly in breach with Twitter policies. How is this account not suspended yet? This is absolutely bonkers,” adding some expletives at the end. Ravi’s line is similar to what junior finance minister Anurag Thakur said at a BJP rally in Delhi last year: “Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro saalon ko.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/c-t-ravis-goli-maro-tweet-triggers-outrage-1068398.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Fresh Covid cases nearly double in 24 hours in Karnataka||Fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka nearly doubled in 24 hours to 4,246 on Wednesday, taking the count to 30,17,572 and the fatalities to 38,357, with two new reported deaths. The state, on Tuesday, had reported 2,479 new cases. Of the new cases, 3,605 were from Bengaluru Urban, which also saw 264 being discharged and two deaths. The total number of active cases is now 17,414. The state has been registering a steady surge in fresh infections for the last week. A total of 362 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,61,772. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.33%, the case fatality rate was 0.04%. Dakshina Kannada recorded the second-highest of 111 new cases, Udupi 88, and Mysuru 59, followed by others. Cumulatively, 5,69,99,461 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,27,328 were tested on Wednesday. The state vaccinated 6,71,477 people on Wednesday, taking the total vaccination doses to 8,84,01,580. This includes 7.96 lakh 15 to 17-year-olds vaccinated over two days, till 9.30 pm on January 4. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fresh-covid-cases-nearly-double-in-24-hours-in-karnataka-1068405.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Portal hack: CID sat on search warrant against nonprofit||The Cyber Crime police of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) waited 15 months to raid the premises of a Nagpur-based nonprofit Uday Gram Vikas Sanstha (UGVS), which received Rs 10.5 crore after notorious hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki hacked the e-procurement portal in 2019. The hack was reported to the Cyber Crime Police Station (CCPS) in August 2019. But it had to wait till November 2020 to search the premises of UGVS, even though a search warrant was first obtained in December 2019 itself - raising serious questions on the pace of the probe to recover stolen government funds. The premier agency was first alerted of the hack on August 26, 2019, and the recovery to date has been around Rs 1.5 cr - which was recovered by Enforcement Directorate. Application of search warrant by CCPS, first filed with the jurisdictional court on December 7, 2019 - around three months after the hack - noted that the bank account of the NGO received the illegal transfer. “... the authorities of the said organization are not cooperating with the investigation. There are possibilities that evidential materials, as well as the case proceeds, may be recovered” if the NGO and seven others identified by the police are searching, the application read. The court issued the warrant on December 10, 2019. Another application seeking an extension of the search warrant was filed a week later on December 15, 2019. “(sic) Due to some important official works assigned by the superior officers and engaged in investigation of other cases, it was not able to execute the search warrant within the given time,” CCPS told the court. The next application to re-issue the warrant, according to the charge sheet filed in connection with the case, was on November 2, 2020 - fifteen months since the hack. CCPS quoted the excuse of “important official works assigned by superior officers, engaged in investigation of other cases” along with “crisis of Covid-19 pandemic” for the delay in executing the warrant. Subsequently, CCPS went on overdrive arresting the prime accused who received the funds and those who encashed the amount. Notices were served to banks involved in the transaction on November 5 and 6, 2020 and statements of nine accused in connection with the case were recorded between November 7 - 10. Curiously, this came days before the arrest of prime accused Sriki by City Crime Branch police in connection with a drug case in the third week of November 2020. The delay in raiding the NGO, according to sources, hindered the possibility of recovering the stolen proceeds from the accused. A lion’s share of the stolen proceeds is yet to be recovered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/portal-hack-cid-sat-on-search-warrant-against-nonprofit-1068407.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||No restrictions on interstate travel: C N Ashwath Narayan||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that interstate borders would not be closed, but in wake of a Covid-19 surge, RT-PCR negative report and certificate of two doses of vaccine have been made mandatory for those arriving from the neighbouring states. Dr Ashwath Narayan told reporters here on Wednesday that people entering the state from Maharashtra, Goa, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and other affected states have to bring with them a negative RT-PCR report and Covid vaccine certificate for both the doses. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-restrictions-on-interstate-travel-c-n-ashwath-narayan-1068410.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron driving Covid surge in Karnataka, say experts||The number of known Omicron cases may be relatively small in the state, but there is little doubt that the new variant is driving the fresh surge, experts said. As of Tuesday, Karnataka had 226 confirmed Omicron cases even though it has recorded 21,102 Covid-19 cases since December 2, when the first two Omicron cases in the state were made public. “There is little doubt in my mind that Omicron is driving the current surge in cases. Based on the epidemiological pattern, four out of five new cases being found in the country are due to Omicron,” virologist Dr T Jacob John told DH. State Health Commissioner D Randeep concurred that Omicron cases have started to comprise a large chunk of cases from January onward. “Genomic sampling will increasingly show this in the days to come,” he said. An analysis by DH of existing sequencing results in the state for the last one month had found that while the Delta sub-lineages are continuing to play a role in the outbreak, showing a 141% increase in the last 30 days, Omicron cases have bolted upwards at a rate of over 11,000%. A national-level genomic expert in government, who did not want to be named, also told DH that "in Delhi and in Mumbai which has sequenced, (Omicron) has dominated and become a major proportion". While in Karnataka too, the scale of Omicron’s presence in this new outbreak could be verified by genomic sequencing, ongoing lag in results means a genomic picture of the outbreak that is slightly outdated, officials said. “There is a delay of 3 to 8 days before the sequencing result comes back. Furthermore, only about 1% of samples from positive cases are being sent for sequencing,” officials said, clarifying these limitations are due to the state’s capacity for sequencing having been reached.  Amid this handicap (which also extends to other states), experts noted that epidemiological patterns can help make a determination. “The current surge is marked by a higher test positivity rate, a higher R-value and a faster doubling period than can be caused by the Delta variant or its sub-lineages,” Dr John pointed out. When DH looked at the state’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in the first seven days of the Delta-driven second wave (from March 12 to 18), the rate was found to have risen by 40.7%. In the first seven days of this latest surge (from December 29 to January 4), the TPR rose from 0.52% to 2.60%. A data expert formerly with Covid-19India.org said that while Bengaluru’s rate of increase is high compared to the second wave, it has not yet reached the scale of Delhi or Mumbai to offer conclusive confirmation that Omicron is responsible. “However, low testing in Bengaluru could be blamed for this,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-driving-covid-surge-in-karnataka-say-experts-1068413.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Newly elected MLC Pujar tests positive for Covid-19||A newly elected member of the legislative council (MLC), P H Pujar, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was scheduled to take the oath of office on Thursday. Before leaving for Bengaluru, Pujar underwent an RT-PCR test. The report has returned positive. A family member of the MLC has also tested positive for the virus. Both are asymptomatic and have been sent to home isolation for a week. The MLC has requested his contacts to undergo the Covid-19 test. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/newly-elected-mlc-pujar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1068416.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Land Reforms Act can't be a tool for undeserving persons: HC||The high court has said that the Karnataka Land Reforms (KLR) Act should not be allowed to be used as a tool for aggrandising undeserving persons by showing them as tenants in respect of the lands. A division bench made this observation while allowing the appeal filed by Admar Mutt, Udupi. “The Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, is undoubtedly beneficial legislation. It is important to remember that this piece of legislation is meant to preserve, protect and also confer benefits on persons who are able to clearly establish the factum of the agrarian relationship as tenants in respect of the land, for which Form No. 7 is filed by them to register them as occupants. Such legislation should not be allowed to be used as a tool for aggrandizing undeserving persons by showing them as tenants in respect of the lands,” a division bench comprising Justice P S Dinesh Kumar and Justice P Krishna Bhat observed in the order. The facts of the case were that the Admar Mutt had given land measuring 3,267 sq ft, including a house, to a cook by the name G Anantha Bhatta in Shivalli village, which is presently in the heart of Udupi town.  He filed an application in form number 7 of the KLR Act in respect of the land and the Land Tribunal passed an order in December 2003, granting occupancy rights. Admar Mutt challenged this order before the high court and the single judge bench dismissed the petition. Allowing the appeal filed by the Mutt, the division bench noted that the land granted by the Tribunal being an urban property cannot be land within the meaning of section 2 A (18) of the KLR Act. Moreover, there was no written document evidencing the ‘chalgeni’ tenant relationship between the applicant and the Mutt, the court observed. “In this case, it is necessary to notice that the alleged landlord is a Mutt, which is a religious and charitable institution. Lands are endowed upon such institutions by devotees in the hope that by using the usufructs and other benefits derived out of the land, the Mutt could be run and it could promote the religious and charitable activities,” the bench observed and quashed the order passed by the land tribunal. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-reforms-act-cant-be-a-tool-for-undeserving-persons-hc-1068420.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Back to online mode: campus joy short-lived for students, teachers||The government’s decision to suspend physical classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses from Thursday has upset the student community as well as the faculty and parents. Students, parents and faculties are upset because the government had previously allowed unvaccinated students (classes 10, 11 and 12) to attend offline classes while suspending classes for those fully vaccinated now.  Another reason is, they are not comfortable attending online classes due to difficulties in comprehending the lessons.  “The offline classes resumed a few months ago and we were happy. Now, sitting at home will be difficult,” said a student in II years BCom. Freshers too are unhappy. “We lost even the pre-university college days due to Covid-19 and lockdown. We were expecting to enjoy campus life at least in undergraduate courses. Now, it looks like this is not going to happen,” said Kowshal, a first year engineering student. The final year students are worried about the placements and exams. “Our semester examinations are approaching in a month or two and switching to online classes will create lot of confusion. We will also be having our placements and we have to prepare for them. Doing everything online will not help us in any way, “ Nishchith A, a final semester engineering student, said. ‘Poor network’ The faculties also feel the same. T M Manjunath, president of the Karnataka Government College Teachers Association, said, “As teachers, we face many problems in conducting online classes. There is no proper network in colleges. The government should allow work from home even for teachers.” “Technical education cannot be conducted in online mode. Most of the things have to be dealt with in offline mode. The decision for online classes is a shock for us. But with the rise in Covid cases, we have to support the government. We request students to attend classes online. We will not be able to conduct practical classes,” said Prof Sreenivasa T N, principal, Atria Institute of Technology, Bengaluru. The higher education department has said that attendance is mandatory during online classes and those who fall short of attendance will not be allowed to write the examinations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/back-to-online-mode-campus-joy-short-lived-for-students-teachers-1068421.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||HC directs mental health authority to inspect rehab centres||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Karnataka State Mental Health Authority to immediately inspect the government rehabilitation centre and beggars’ colony and take steps for providing medical treatment to the mentally ill inmates. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi passed this order on a PIL filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). The PIL was filed in 2010 on the allegation that there was gross negligence and official apathy in the Karnataka Rehabilitation Center. The bench observed that several directions have been issued for improving the living conditions of the inmates of the rehabilitation centers and destitute centers in the past decade. The court perused the orders passed in the petition from time to time and noted that 30% of the inmates are mentally ill and no proper treatment is being given to them. The bench directed the Karnataka State Mental Health Authority to undertake inspection within one month and take appropriate steps. "The purpose for which the writ petition was filed in 2010 has been fulfilled. The counsel for the petitioner admits that the reason for which the petition was filed no more exists. We are of the view that we cannot keep this petition alive for an indefinite period. The writ petition needs to be disposed of," the bench said. The court directed the counsel for the petitioner to communicate the order to the Karnataka State Mental Health Authority. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-directs-mental-health-authority-to-inspect-rehab-centres-1068422.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to see 1.2 lakh Covid cases daily from February 1, claim experts||Professors from the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have predicted that Karnataka, at the peak of the spread of the Omicron virus in February, will have 1.2 lakh cases per day in the worst-case scenario.  In the best-case scenario, it will report 40,000 cases per day, they have predicted. They have taken into account Omicron’s high transmissibility rate. Prof Siva Athreya, a probability theorist specialising in statistical physics and population biology from ISI, and Rajesh Sundaresan, dean of the division of EECS (Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Sciences) from IISc and his team from the Centre for Networked Intelligence, IISc, have made Omicron projections for January-March for India and the states. “Past infection and vaccination (if the immunity has waned) make a certain fraction of the population susceptible to the new variant, the authors said, on the IISc website, summarising their model. This has been taken as a parameter in their projections. According to the model, after February 1, if 100% are considered ‘susceptible,’ then the daily cases will cross 1,20,000. If 30% are considered susceptible, then a few days before February 1, the state may see a daily case count of 40,000 cases. In the moderate scenario, if 60% are thought to be susceptible, the daily case tally may be more than 80,000, a few days before February 1. The authors estimated the contact rates for the model by comparing contact rates for South Africa (the epicentre of the Omicron outbreak) from May 15–June 15, 2021, and December 1-12, 2021. The model assumed the contact rate for Omicron to be 1.41 times of Delta.  “On day 0, each state is seeded with 20 cases. Once stimulated, a suitable delay is added to align to the increasing trend during 27 December 2021–2 January 2022,” the summary read.  1.2k admissions a day Dr Rajath Athreya (senior consultant and HoD, paediatrics and neonatology, Sakra World Hospital), who is a member of the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, told DH, “Even if 1% of the cases need hospitalisation, it will mean 400 to 1,200 admissions per day.” TAC chairman Dr M K Sudarshan said the CM might be briefed about these projections on Tuesday evening. ‘Cases doubling every 2-3 days’ Confirming the rapid spread of cases, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted that data showed cases are doubling every two to three days in Karnataka.  Data over nine days from December 27 to January 4, showed that while the daily new cases on December 27 was 289, it doubled to 566 on December 29. This further doubled on January 1, when 1,033 new cases were reported. On January 4, the positivity rate shot up to 2.59% in Karnataka with 2,479 new cases. Bengaluru’s case count also crossed the 2,000-mark with 2,053 cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-see-12-lakh-covid-cases-daily-from-february-1-claim-experts-1068423.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Museum on Ambedkar to come up in Bengaluru soon||A Dr B R Ambedkar memorial museum showcasing his contributions will come up near Yelahanka in Bengaluru.  Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A Narayanaswamy told reporters here on Wednesday that it will be the largest museum of Ambedkar in South India. The minister said that seven acres of land had been identified for the museum near Bengaluru International Airport. The museum will display objects from the life of Ambedkar, starting from his birth till his Mahaparinirvana. A memorial will also come up near the museum to attract tourists from around the country. The government plans to lay the foundation stone for the project on Ambedkar Jayanthi Day in April this year. The fund for the project will be shared by the state and the central governments. Earlier, he held a meeting of senior officials regarding the implementation of various projects of the department. To a question, Narayanaswamy replied that there was no proposal before the Central government to conduct a caste census. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/museum-on-ambedkar-to-come-up-in-bengaluru-soon-1068424.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||11-year-old’s one-man play seeks to metamorph society’s views on kids’ issues||At the age of 11 years, young Gokula Sahrudaya wants to make his friends understand issues like hunger and qualities like compassion through his one-man show ‘Chitte’. Gokula plays the role of Paapani, who looks at the world from a child’s perspective. The duration of the play is 65 minutes and Gokula says he enjoys every minute of the play. ‘Chitte,’ which translates to butterfly, is a play directed by Krishnamurthy Kavathar and aims to remind every individual of his or her responsibility to nurture, mentor and shape a child.   Since March 2021, he has performed in 26 productions of the play in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kittur and other parts of the state. He also recently entered the Kalam Book of Records as the youngest artiste to perform one-man shows. Gokula says that this play is special to him as it also depicts his father’s (Belur Raghunandan, playwright of the show) childhood struggles. “This play is about the struggles my father faced when growing up. He is my inspiration. I also want to educate my peers about hunger, compassion and humanity through this play,” Gokula told DH. Recalling his fondest memories of the show, Gokula said that once he performed two shows with a break of just five minutes as the audience loved it. He says he practises his dialogues and expressions for weeks before performing the show and gives much credit to his director. Currently studying in class 6 at Presidency School in Nandini Layout, Gokula is also learning Carnatic classical music. When asked what he wants to be when he grows up, he says, “I want to become a good human being first, an IAS officer next and a theatre artist and technician afterwards. I want to be an all-rounder.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-year-old-s-one-man-play-seeks-to-metamorph-society-s-views-on-kids-issues-1068426.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||SC stays contempt proceedings against Karnataka Chief Secretary, others||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the contempt proceedings initiated by the Karnataka High Court against Chief Secretary and other top officers in a case related to regularisation of employees at Zila Panchayats and other departments. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli suspended the proceedings wherein the top officers were asked to personally appear before the court for framing of charges. The court, however, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Karnataka government, to file an affidavit giving details of the steps taken for regularisation of daily wagers who rendered their services for 10 to 20 years. The court also asked the government as to why it had rejected representation of the daily wagers for regularisation. It issued notice in the petition. On Wednesday, the state government rushed to the top court against the summons issued by the High Court. It said as many as 15 senior officials including Chief Secretary have been called Thursday before the High Court for framing charges, for non-compliance with the Uma Devi judgement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-against-karnataka-chief-secretary-others-1068520.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Cong's Mekedatu padayatra: Karnataka Home Minister warns action in case of Covid rules violation||With Congress deciding to go ahead with its 'padayatra' (march), demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river, despite the government's Covid-19 restrictions, Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Thursday warned of action in case of violation of rules. An unfazed Congress' state president D K Shivakumar and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Siddaramaiah reiterated that they will go ahead with the padayatra and said they are ready to go to jail, in case the government arrests them. The Congress' march from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, covering a distance of over 100 kilometres, demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project, which is being opposed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu, is scheduled from January 9 to 19. "They (Congress) are not behaving like a responsible opposition, at the time when the state is amid a pandemic. How to behave is left to them, people are watching. Not doing anything (on Mekedatu) for six and half years while in power, they are now saying they will agitate for the sake of water. During normal situations they had every right to do it, but this is not the time," Jnanendra said. Speaking to reporters here, he pointed out that even PM Narendra Modi's programme in Lucknow has been cancelled, also the state BJP has cancelled its 'Chintana Shibira' scheduled to be held from January 7-9 in the wake of a spike in cases and Covid restrictions. "If they (Congress) go ahead with the padayatra and violate guidelines, necessary action will be taken, and people are watching everything," he said, adding that "our health is in our hands and I appeal that everyone should cooperate." The Congress on Wednesday had decided to go ahead with its padayatra, despite the government's Covid-19 restrictions, and had described Covid containment measures as a "conspiracy" to "scuttle" their march. Stating that Covid rules are not different for political parties and people, Jnanendra said rules are same for anyone and in case of any violation, strict action will be taken in accordance with law. People like Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar who have been in public life for long, have to think that the life of the people is more important than politics, he said, as he warned that in case they violate Covid rules, action will be taken against them also as per law. "We will observe them, if they violate, we will take action.....there is no question of any permission (for padayatra), we have cancelled our own meetings, all activities have been prohibited, when such is the case, how can special permission be given to them, it is not possible," he said. The Karnataka government on Tuesday had decided to impose curfew on weekends and restrict public gatherings to fight the third wave of Covid-19, till January 19. It has also decided to continue the night curfew for two more weeks, and has prohibited all rallies, dharnas, protests, among others Reacting to the Home Minister's statement, Shivakumar said his party will go ahead with the padayatra following Covid precautionary measures and was ready to go to jail if the government decides to arrest him. "....let them arrest me or Siddaramaiah or MLAs. We will respect law and Covid rules," he said. Pointing at a large gathering of political leaders including Chief Minister, Ministers, opposition leaders, legislators and their supporters at the swearing-in of newly elected MLCs at Vidhana Soudha today, the KPCC chief accused the government of double standards and asked Jnanendra as to how this event was allowed, and said that his party will not fear "futile threats". "There is Covid here as well, what are they (govt) doing? what is Home Minister doing? They should have done it (swearing-in) virtually or should have called only newly elected MLCs for swearing-in inside the Council chambers.....We will go ahead with our padayatra for the sake of the people and get them the water, no one can stop, let the government show its strength," he said. Siddaramaiah too asserted the Congress is going ahead with the padayatra with all precautionary measures like wearing face masks and gloves, maintaining distance and using sanitizers. To a question on no permission being accorded for taking out the march, he said, "We will not take permission and do padayatra... but we will not violate the law....let them (govt) take action." "If the government imposes prohibitory orders to stop people from joining the padayatra, two or three of us leaders will march," he added. The padayatra is for the implementation of the Mekedatu multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district of Karnataka. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 9,000 crore||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congs-mekedatu-padayatra-karnataka-home-minister-warns-action-in-case-of-covid-rules-violation-1068583.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Ministers ask Karnataka CM to relax Covid-19 curbs in certain parts||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday came under pressure from his own Cabinet colleagues to relax Covid-19 curbs in those parts of the state where the pandemic situation is not as bad as it is in Bengaluru. Some ministers told Bommai in the Cabinet meeting that the night curfew and weekend curfew should not be imposed in districts where the rate of infection is less. They even asked him to allow liquor shops to operate during the weekend curfew.  However, the government has decided not to revisit the Covid-19 protocols for now. The curbs will be in force till 5 am on January 19.  “Several civil society groups have placed their demands. In the Cabinet also, some things were discussed, such as allowing excise shops. But, we haven’t decided anything,” Bommai said. “Based on the severity of the infection in the coming days, we will take a call.”   Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said the government will review the applicability of the rules on January 14 or 15. “Some ministers raised the issue that the guidelines shouldn't apply everywhere. We’ve decided to wait for some days before thinking of relaxing curbs wherever possible,” he said.  Before the Cabinet meeting, RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa voiced his opposition. “A single rule for the entire state is wrong. Districts where the problem is less should have a separate rule,” he said. “In fact, there’s no curfew in Shivamogga (his constituency). The order hasn’t even reached us.”  Defending the imposition of the stay-at-home orders every night and during weekends across the state, Madhuswamy said the government wants to get a grip on the situation early and not after things go out of control. “We saw what happened last time. People went from Bengaluru to other places and the infection spread. We want to make things safe everywhere,” he said.  The third wave of Covid-19 will not be as bad as the second one, Madhuswamy said. “We believe that the rate of hospitalisation won’t be high. The third wave will be unlike the second one in terms of hospitalisation and requirement of oxygen,” he said, adding that controlling the rate of infection is key.  Meanwhile, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar also wrote to Bommai on relaxing curbs on hotels and restaurants. "Livelihoods of a lot of people will be at stake. There are workers who come to Bengaluru everyday for jobs..." he stated.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ministers-ask-karnataka-cm-to-relax-covid-19-curbs-in-certain-parts-1068623.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: SSLC exams to be held between March 28 and April 11||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has released the temporary schedule for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exams amid fears of Covid surge. The exams are scheduled between March 28 and April 11. The Board has asked the parents and candidates to submit objections between January 6 and 14. According to schedule, the examination for first language will be held on March 28; second language on March 30; Economics/core subject on April 1; Mathematics/Sociology on April 4; Social Science on Apr 6; Third language on April 8 and Science, Political Science, Karnatak/Hindustani music on April 11. The exams will be held between 10.30 am and 1.45 pm. Candidates will be given 15 minutes to study question papers. Last year amid the Covid challenge, former Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Sureshkumar was appreciated for his efforts to conduct SSLC exams between July 19 and July 22, 2021. The exams were conducted in the multi-choice objective type format. About 9 lakh students attended the exams. Karnataka was one among the few states in the country which had conducted board exams by cutting short exams to two days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-exams-to-be-held-between-march-28-and-april-11-1068642.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||ED arrests cooperative society chairman in Karnataka||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it has arrested the chairman of a Belagavi-based cooperative credit society in connection with a money laundering case linked to alleged duping of depositors of Rs 250 crore. Anand Balakrishna Appugol, the chairman of Krantiveer Sangolli Rayanna Urban Cooperative Credit Society in Karnataka, was arrested on Wednesday, the agency said in a statement. He was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Bengaluru on Thursday which sent him to seven days of ED custody, it said. Prima facie, the ED said, a probe found that the society had collected around Rs 250 crore deposits till March, 2017 from more than 26,000 people by promising them that their money will be returned along with high rate of interest. "However, the society failed to return the money to the public depositors in time and committed breach of trust and cheated the public at large," it alleged. Funds of the society were "siphoned off" in the form of immovable and movable properties resulting in depositors suffering huge losses, it said. The agency's case was filed after studying a Belagavi police FIR against Appugol and 15 others. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ed-arrests-cooperative-society-chairman-in-karnataka-1068648.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 5,000 new Covid cases in Karnataka, 4,324 from Bengaluru alone||With over 5,000 daily cases, Karnataka continued to witness a surge in numbers on Thursday, but reported only one death, taking the count to 30,22,603 and the fatalities toll to 38,358. The State has been witnessing a steady surge since last week and reported 5,031 fresh cases today, compared to 4,246 on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 4,324 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 172 being discharged and one death. The total number of active cases is now at 22,173. There were 271 discharges today, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,62,043, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.95 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.01 per cent. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the second highest of 106 new cases, Udupi 92, Mandya 66, Mysuru 65, Belagavi 64, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,76,374 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,80,510 and Tumakuru 1,21,441. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,41,046, followed by Mysuru 1,77,808 and Tumakuru 1,20,173. Cumulatively a total of 5,71,26,655 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,27,194 were tested on Thursday alone.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-5000-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-4324-from-bengaluru-alone-1068650.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid positive asymptomatic international travellers to be housed in CCCs||All international arrivals from at-risk countries and 2% of passengers from non-at-risk countries who test positive for Covid-19 at airports, but are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, will henceforth be housed in designated buildings attached to government health facilities that shall function as government Covid Care Centres (CCCs).  A circular to this effect was issued by health commissioner D Randeep here on Thursday. The stay will be free of cost for the passengers, he said. Identified budget hotels, three-star and five-star hotels attached to private health facilities shall function as private CCCs on a payment basis for passengers.  However, those who develop symptoms during their stay at CCCs shall be immediately shifted to the health facility for further treatment and management. The duration of stay in CCC/hospital (institutional isolation) shall be seven days. He/she can be discharged on the seventh day if, during the preceding three days, the person is free of fever, respiratory symptoms and oxygen saturation is 94% and above. In the case of asymptomatic, the duration of stay of seven days shall be counted from the day of testing. The above period of institutional isolation shall be followed by a further seven days of home quarantine with strict CAB.  Considering the current rise in Covid-19 cases, hospital beds have to be utilised for moderate and severe cases, instead of asymptomatics and those with mild symptoms, the commissioner said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-positive-asymptomatic-international-travellers-to-be-housed-in-cccs-1068675.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||School head faces charge of undressing girl, beating her||A government high school headmistress allegedly beat up a class 7 girl after undressing her at Ganangoor in the taluk. Villagers and SDMC members have submitted a memorandum to Education Minister BC Nagesh, through the tahsildar, demanding action against Snehalatha.  According to the villagers, she assaulted the girl on Dec 23. The victim’s parents had brought the matter to the BEO who visited the school and submitted a report to DDPI. But no action has been taken, GP member Brundamani was charged. The tahsildar said the DDPI would initiate action against the teacher.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/school-head-faces-charge-of-undressing-girl-beating-her-1068677.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Indigenous jet trainer completes six-turn spin||Hindustan Aeronautics Intermediate Jet Trainer (IJT), designed and developed by HAL for the stage-2 training of Indian Air Force pilots, has successfully demonstrated its ability to carry out six-turn spins to the right-hand and left-hand sides.  Arup Chatterjee, Director (Engineering and R&D), said that the demonstration of the turn spin on both sides shows that the IJT has achieved a major milestone. He attributed the success to the synergy between designers, flight operations and certifying agencies (RCMA and DGAQA). He expressed hope that with the completion of spin certification of the HTT-40 and the progress achieved in IJT, will soon see the IAF acquire the firm’s state-of-the-art trainers for stage I and II training of pilots. HAL Chairman and Managing Director R Madhavan said that given the right resources and backing, HAL is capable of designing products that can meet any requirement of the Indian Armed Forces. The IJT, which was conceived by HAL as a replacement to the ageing Kirans of the IAF fleet, had previously completed a demonstration of its capabilities in terms of altitude and speed envelope, load factor, satisfactory stall characteristics and limited armament capability as required by IAF. Spin testing had been pending following the temporary halting of flight tests in 2016. The capability to enter and recover from spin is a necessity for a trainer aircraft in order to familiarise the trainee pilot to recognise departure from controlled flight and the actions required to recover from such situations. Achieving satisfactory characteristics during spin and an assured recovery from spin form a part of very crucial flight tests due to its unpredictability. The aircraft was piloted by Group Captain H V Thakur (Retd) and Group Captain A Menon (Retd). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/indigenous-jet-trainer-completes-six-turn-spin-1068678.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical education department to buy equipment worth Rs 349 crore||Ahead of the peak of the third Covid wave, the medical education department has received quotations from at least 35 companies to supply equipment worth Rs 349 crore to the taluk, district hospitals and 17 medical colleges, along with state-run children’s hospital: Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. The equipment includes costly devices like an adult, paediatric ventilators and x-ray machines, to smaller items like ICU cots, infusion pumps, syringes and bedside lockers. In all, 41 types of medical equipment are being procured by the department. KKRB funds Out of this, Rs 50 crore is being used from the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRB) for the betterment of health infrastructure in its seven districts (Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Kalaburagi, Ballari and Vijayanagar) and Rs 299 crore is being used from the medical education department for tertiary care hospitals in the state. “It includes ICU cots, ventilators (including paediatric and neonatology), monitors, mattresses, IV stand, cardiac table, syringes, infusion pumps, defibrillators, ECG machines, portable x-ray and ultrasound machines. They’re being deployed at taluk hospitals, district hospitals and medical colleges. “Consumables suitable for paediatric and neonate use are also being procured. We have received 35-40 quotations for the tenders floated, for which the bidding closed on January 3. The proposal has gone to the finance department,” said Dr P G Girish, director, medical education. “We are procuring on behalf of KKRB as they have given us funds to procure for taluk and district hospitals in their seven districts. For the past two years, we have been floating tenders on their behalf. All requirements for the third Covid wave will be met with this equipment. The costliest high-end adult ventilators from a German company will cost Rs 13 lakh, excluding GST,” Girish said. “These have been working well for the past 20 months during the two Covid waves and we’ve had only one breakdown so far,” he said. He pointed out that since such costly equipment comes with a three-year warranty and six years of a continuous maintenance contract, it can be used over the next decade. “We’re not just procuring for Covid, but for the next 10 years. So, we are opting for the best quality equipment with service backup. We have to procure fast and install them, especially for paediatric use and neonatology, as the third Covid wave has already started. Medical colleges and super-speciality hospitals won’t require any more new equipment for the next 10 years. Some trauma centres may be converted to Covid hospitals if required,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-education-department-to-buy-equipment-worth-rs-349-crore-1068681.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||KEA document verification put off due to weekend curfew||The document verification process for UGNEET and PGCET for Horanaadu and Gadinaadu Kannada candidates held on Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) premises on Thursday was a mess. Hardly anyone followed Covid appropriate behaviour during the process and candidates and parents who have accompanied them were seen without following any social distancing. The KEA officials themselves were worried that the candidates have not submitted RTPCR negative reports though they had travelled from border districts of neighbouring states. The KEA has postponed the documents verification scheduled for January 8, following the weekend curfew announced by the government. But it will be held on Friday as per the schedule. "When the government suspended such gatherings in Bengaluru Urban districts considering the surge in Covid-19 cases, how can KEA conduct document verification where students from outside Karnataka take part," questioned a parent. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kea-document-verification-put-off-due-to-weekend-curfew-1068682.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rising jumbo population, degradation of corridor keep foresters on their toes||Over the last few weeks, forest officials and staffers on the ground in Anekal and Bannerghatta are spending almost every night monitoring the movement of the jumbos to ensure no man-animal conflict in the region. A day after residents of an apartment complex at Kambipura in Kengeri reported sighting of a lone elephant, forest staffers in the Anekal range had a tough time driving away from a herd of 32 elephants, including six calves, which were coming to a revenue enclave. An official said the sighting at Kengeri is not a rare incident. “It’s part of an old corridor and records show that elephants have travelled on this route for decades. The area is also close to BM Kaval forest. It took almost 30 hours of operation to drive the animal through BM Kaval to Bannerghatta through Kanakapura,” an official said. On Tuesday, officials drove the large herd of 32 elephants towards Tamil Nadu. “Elephants start arriving from September, the harvesting time for ragi, and rest in forest patches during the day after raiding the crops in the night. The number of sightings has increased because of two reasons. First, the expansion of crop cultivation in more and more revenue lands, and secondly, due to the increase in the population of the elephants. Driving the animals back to the forest has become a day-to-day issue now,” an officersaid. Foresters believe that the increased development activities in the region, home to the Bilikkal-Javalagiri elephant corridor, will only increase more elephant sightings and potential conflict situations. “The elephant corridor connects Bannerghatta National Park with Cauvery North Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu. Increased development activities and degradation of forest patches that form the corridor, will naturally bring these animals out of the corridor,” an official said. A staffer on night patrol said the pressure eases only after February. “Once the temperature starts rising, we see them moving back towards core forest areas and in search of water. Till then, we will have more sleepless nights,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rising-jumbo-population-degradation-of-corridor-keep-foresters-on-their-toes-1068684.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||HC upholds RGUHS ordinance for theory paper assessment for MBBS||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the ordinance issued by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) governing the Central Assessment Program (CAP) for theory paper assessment of MBBS course, applicable to the examinations conducted on or after February 1, 2021. Dismissing the petitions filed challenging the ordinance, Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum observed that the medical students, who are required to maintain high academic integrity, cannot insist upon lowering the education standards. Medical students are placed at a higher pedestal on account of their crucial role in the healthcare system of the society. Therefore, the students who are pursuing medicine have to maintain high academic integrity. Medical students have to work hard and earn their degrees in a fair and honest way by putting in the hours to study and complete assignments. Then only the students can gain the good worth of medical education and would contribute a lot to the health care system of the society. Maintaining academic integrity while earning a medical degree represents true academic accomplishments. It is this credibility and work ethic which would take a medical doctor a long way at his workplace and at the end of the day it is the patient who would benefit. Therefore, medical students cannot insist on lowering the education standards” the judge has noted in his order. The CAP was provided for “general valuation” by any two eligible internal examiners from affiliated institutes of RGUHS. In addition, a ‘Deviation Valuation’ was also provided where the difference in an award of total marks between two examiners in the general valuation is 15% or more of the maximum marks prescribed for the paper. In such circumstances, it would be referred to any other eligible three internal examiners for evaluation. Two first-year MBBS students had challenged the ordinance claiming that it has resulted in gross discrimination between the nature of evaluation, consideration of marks and also yardstick which is proposed to be adopted for ironing out the differences in evaluation. They claimed this was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. The court pointed out that the ordinance notification was placed in the meeting of the Committee of Academic Council, held on February 1, 2021, and the same was approved by the Committee. It was also ratified by the Syndicate on February 21, 2021. The new policy of assessment of the answer scripts of undergraduate students is as per the Medical Council of India advisory, the court noted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-upholds-rguhs-ordinance-for-theory-paper-assessment-for-mbbs-1068685.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||New portal to help GPs clear power bill dues||Rural development and panchayat raj minister K S Eshwarappa on Thursday said that the gram panchayats (GPs) owed Rs 4,229 crore to electricity supply companies. He was speaking at a function to launch the “e-Belaku” platform to help the panchayats easily repay dues online. The platform aims to streamline electricity consumption in rural areas. The online platform has been developed in coordination with Bescom. “The GPs have kept the dues pending in spite of the timely release of funds from the government. As of date, GPs owe Escoms Rs 4,229 crore. While the government has already directed the GPs to clear dues, several of them have failed to do so,” he said. “There are several lacunae on the part of the Escom's too. In several panchayats, electricity meters have not been installed and in some places, the meters do not function properly. Even in places with no meters, bills are being generated,” he said.In other instances, the bills were being generated for defunct drinking water units, Eshwarappa added. Taking all these issues into consideration, the RDPR department has launched “e-Belaku” through which the panchayats can pay their dues online. The platform will also help digitally document electricity meters and defunct water units or street lights. Panchayats will be able to log in to the portal and update details on these infrastructure issues. To begin with, this will be open for GPs under Bescom limits, according to a press release. The department also launched an updated 2.0 version of the ‘Gandhi Sakshi Kayaka’ portal, rectifying technical lacunae in the previous version. The website will help get real-time information about projects taken up by the department, which will help in ensuring that there is no duplication of projects. This will also be helpful to pay contractors their dues on time, added the release.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-portal-to-help-gps-clear-power-bill-dues-1068686.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Hosapete CMC: AAP member, 8 others join BJP||Nine newly elected members of the Hosapete City Municipal Council (CMC), including an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member and eight Independents, joined the BJP in the presence of Tourism Minister Anand Singh on Thursday. This took the BJP's tally to 19 in the 35-seat CMC. The party is now in a position to hold power. The BJP had bagged 10, while the Congress and Independents had won 12 seats each. The AAP had registered its first-ever victory in Karnataka by winning one seat.   Shaikh Shah Wali, the AAP nominee, had polled 703 votes from ward number 22, defeating his nearest Congress party rival by a margin of 71 votes.  "Wali has cheated us, by joining the BJP as he had won on the AAP ticket. The development was unexpected and we are hurt," V T Mallappa, the district convener of AAP, said. Wali was not available for comment. "The nine members have joined the party accepting the BJP's ideology. There was no horse-trading," Singh claimed.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hosapete-cmc-aap-member-8-others-join-bjp-1068688.html
06-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet approves Rs 3,885 crore for projects by ULBs||The Cabinet, on Thursday, granted administrative approval to urban local bodies (ULBs) to prepare action plans for projects worth Rs 3,885 crore. It also decided to raise loans worth Rs 1,167 crore from the World Bank to fund the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission to provide tap water connections to every rural household. Funds for ULBs are being granted under the chief minister’s Amrit Nagarotthana scheme and are allocated for a five-year period ending in 2024-25 fiscal. Under the scheme, city municipal councils in 23 district centres and first-grade town municipal councils will receive Rs 40 crore each, totalling Rs 920 crore. Further, 38 city municipal councils are allocated Rs 30 crore each (totalling Rs 1,140 crore), 124 town municipal corporations will receive Rs 10 crore each (Rs 1,240 crore in total) and 117 town panchayats will receive Rs 5 crore each, totalling Rs 585 crore. Briefing reporters, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said local authorities are directed to prepare an action plan at the earliest for the release of funds. The total expenditure for the three-phased implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission is Rs 9,152 crore. Madhuswamy said that while 45% of the expenditure is borne by the Centre, 45% of the expense was by the state government and the remaining 10% by the respective local bodies. While Rs 3,890 crore will be sanctioned by the Centre, the state has decided to raise Rs 1,167 crore as a loan from the World Bank. The rest Rs 1,372 crore will be raised by gram panchayats, he said. In other decisions, the Cabinet sanctioned Rs 406.44 crore to supply IT equipment to sub-registrar offices in the state.  It also decided to waive land transport cess, which was supposed to be collected in BBMP limits. Cess amounting to around Rs 238 crore for the years 2013-14 to 2020-21 is due, a point flagged by the CAG.  The Cabinet cleared Rs 93.5 crore to fill 22 lakes in Bengaluru and Doddakere at Hoskote by pumping water from KR Puram treatment plant, Rs 19.73 crore for works on Karkala court complex, revised estimate of Rs 16.8 crore for the Mulbagal court complex works and Rs 16.5 crore for completion of works on the Dr Ambedkar Bhavan in Mysuru.    Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-approves-rs-3885-crore-for-projects-by-ulbs-1068694.html
06-01-2022||West||Gujarat: 6 factory workers die, 23 hospitalised after inhaling toxic chemical fumes||Six factory workers suffocated to death and 23 others were undergoing treatment after they inhaled toxic gas which was said to have leaked from the tanker parked on the roadside in an industrial area in Surat. The incident occurred Thursday morning when the victims were asleep. Police said that the incident occurred at Sachin GIDC area at around 4 am, when the control room received a message. As the police team rushed to the spot, they found several men complaining of suffocation, while over a dozen were unconscious. Assistant Commissioner of Police, J K Pandya, who was one of the first to reach the spot with the patrolling team, sent 17 people in police vehicles to a local hospital. The others were taken to hospital in different ambulances. According to locals, the gas tanker was found parked near the GIDC area in the outskirts of Surat. They said that toxic fumes leaked from the drainage pipe of the tanker. An official with Gujarat Pollution Control Board, who reached the spot, said that samples have been collected to find out exact components of the chemical. Surat police commissioner, Ajay Tomar, told DH, "Police have registered a case under section 304 of Indian penal code and investigation has been handed over to the crime branch. We have rounded up several people for investigation." The FIR has been registered with GIDC police station.  Till Thursday evening, police and municipal authorities were trying to identify the victims. A senior doctor at civil hospital told reporters that six persons have died, seven were on ventilators, out of whom, four were critical. There are 16 others who are under treatment whose condition is said to be stable. The driver of the tanker is also said to have fallen sick. Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel expressed his condolences on Twitter, stating, "Many people have unfortunately passed away due to gas leak in Surat. May their souls rest in peace and their kin get strength. I also pray for the well-being of those who have fallen sick in this incident. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-6-factory-workers-die-23-hospitalised-after-inhaling-toxic-chemical-fumes-1068465.html
06-01-2022||West||Govt postpones Vibrant Gujarat summit in view of surging covid-19 cases||The Bhupendra Patel government on Thursday postponed the 10th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, 2022 owing to the surge in coronavirus cases. The mega business summit was to be held from January 10 to 12 in the state capital Gandhinagar and was to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The state government said that looking at the situation arising from the increasing Covid-19 cases, including the new Omicron variant, "in the larger interest of citizens, the 10th Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, to be held from January 10 to 12, has been postponed".  Postponing the summit is said to be a major setback for the government which has already invested hugely in the preparations. In the summit, 26 countries were "partner nations" while five state heads were participating for the first time. This include Mikhail Mishustin, the prime minister of Russia, Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, president of Mozambique, Pravind Jugnauth, prime minister of Mauritius, Sher Bahadur Deuba, prime minister of Nepal, and Janez Jansa, prime minister of Slovenia.  On Wednesday, the state had reported a record 3,350 cases, the highest single-day surge. Among the infected, there were at least five IAS officers including Manoj Agarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Minister of State Jitu Chaudhary and Navsari BJP MLA Piyush Desai. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 10,994,  of which 32 were those on ventilators.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/govt-postpones-vibrant-gujarat-summit-in-view-of-surging-covid-19-cases-1068525.html
06-01-2022||West||No plans to shut down Mumbai local trains: Rajesh Tope||Amid an unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases in India’s financial capital, the Maharashtra government ruled out shutting down local trains in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). “We do not have any plans to restrict the use of local trains in Mumbai,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope told reporters Thursday. He said CM Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar are reviewing the situation daily.  Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar ruled out a complete lockdown in the state but assured of “augmented restrictions”. Tope said any curfew or restriction will be announced by the chief minister.  The minister said that the state's health infrastructure is being beefed to fight the third wave sweeping the state. Tope stressed the need to continue the state's economic activities while urging people to avoid unnecessary gatherings. More than 80 lakh people are likely to get affected by the third wave, double the number of people affected in the deadly second wave.  Meanwhile, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has asked private hospitals and nursing homes to restore their hospital bed capacity to what it was during the peak of the second wave. Chahal predicted a sharp increase in the requirement of hospital beds considering that 10-12 per cent of the patients are symptomatic every day. “Since more than 95 per cent cases are being detected from non-slum areas, there is tremendous demand for seeking beds in private hospitals only. Patients are reluctant to go to Covid jumbo hospitals and BMC hospitals,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-plans-to-shut-down-mumbai-local-trains-rajesh-tope-1068541.html
06-01-2022||West||India Inc better prepared to limit Omicron impact on economy to bare minimum: ASSOCHAM||Amid the sweeping third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, trade association and advocacy group ASSOCHAM said that India Inc, across different sectors, is far better prepared to remain functional. “Less severity of Omicron, seen as of today, has helped the governments and the industry to remain confident about India's ability to come out of the current phase of the pandemic with a minimum of impact on the economy," ASSOCHAM secretary general Deepak Sood said in a press statement. He said an impressive coverage of the country's vaccination programme has added to the industry's confidence to deal with the evolving situation. Including teens of 15-18 years of age along with a booster for the senior citizens in the vaccination programme would give further comfort to the consumers and the industry. “While several sectors of the economy like exports have bounced back, there is a need for staying cautious and optimistic in the wake of Omicron spreading fast all around the world.  The impact on the economy should be to a minimum while hazarding a guess for the medium term would not be advisable at this point of time," he said. Though in operation, the contact services such as hotels may have to keep innovating to live up to the challenge in the wake of off and on restrictions on travel, business timings, etc. "ASSOCHAM would urge the government and the RBI to continue with some of the forbearances for these sectors, including the MSMEs, to face the new headwinds," Sood said. He said the industry is expecting critical measures in the ensuing Budget for boosting consumption and relief to the sectors continuing to get affected by the pandemic. ''We expect a big focus on public health infrastructure and on reviving rural demand along with a large spend on infrastructure,” he said. While the RBI has navigated the interest regime with a remarkable pragmatism keeping it low, rising inflationary pressures would require out-of-the-box solutions. “We are sure, the RBI has several innovative tools to continue with the accommodative stance on interest rates,” Sood added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-inc-better-prepared-to-limit-omicron-impact-on-economy-to-bare-minimum-assocham-1068545.html
06-01-2022||West||Tweet against Uddhav Thackeray’s wife sparks furore||A tweet against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi Thackeray as “Marathi Rabri Devi” has sparked a political controversy with the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi targeting the saffron BJP opposition.  The tweet was sent out by Jiten Gajaria, who is part of BJP’s social media cell.  Gajaria has been called to the Cyber Cell of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police.  In the tweet, Gajaria has put a photo of Rashmi Thackeray and likened her to Rabri Devi, the former chief minister of Bihar, who had taken over the reins of the state when Lalu Prasad had to resign in the wake of fodder scam. There was another tweet against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.  Advocate Vivekananda Gupta said that Gajaria has been called to the Cyber Cell at Bandra Kurla Complex for recording of the statement. “No FIR has been registered yet,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tweet-against-uddhav-thackeray-s-wife-sparks-furore-1068599.html
06-01-2022||West||CBI files FIR against Gujarat firm for Rs 632 crore `bank fraud'||The CBI has registered a case against city-based Electrotherm (India) Ltd for allegedly cheating the Bank of India of around Rs 632 crore, officials said on Thursday. The agency also carried out searches at six locations here. The firm and its directors are accused of diverting the funds obtained through the credit facilities given by the public sector bank. Following a complaint filed by the bank, the case was registered against Electrotherm (India) Ltd, its director Mukesh Bhanwarlal Bhandari, managing directors Shailesh Bhandari and Avinash Bhandari, and whole-time director Narendra Dalal besides unknown persons, a CBI release said. The company and people associated with it are accused of causing a loss of Rs 631.97 crore to the bank after availing of various credit facilities between 2012 to 2016, the release added. "The forensic audit of the company, conducted by the bank, revealed that the company was allegedly involved in diversion and siphoning off of funds through its subsidiary as well as associate companies which were having common directors," the CBI said. The company was also allegedly involved in transactions with suspicious dealers accused of issuing false bills without actual delivery of goods, it added. When the company failed to repay the dues, they were classified as Non Performing Assets. CBI conducted searches at six locations in Ahmedabad on the properties of the accused persons and recovered some incriminating documents, said the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-files-fir-against-gujarat-firm-for-rs-632-crore-bank-fraud-1068610.html
06-01-2022||West||Mumbai Metropolitan Region a Covid hotspot again after active cases cross 1 lakh mark||The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has once again emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with close to one lakh active cases. MMR was previously a hotspot in both the first and second waves in 2020 and 2021, respectively, reporting the highest cases across the country. As the country enters the third wave of the pandemic, it remains the largest hotspot. On Thursday, the state recorded 36,235 cases and 13 deaths taking the progressive total to 67,93,297 and 1,41,594, respectively. The active cases in the state crossed the one lakh mark and now stands at 1,14,847. During the day, Mumbai recorded 20,181 cases while MMR saw 30,312 cases as the Omicron surge hit India's business hub. Mumbai has the highest umber of active cases in the MMR with 79,260, followed by Thane, 15,743; Palghar, 2,458; and Raigad, 2,561. In Mumbai-MMR, the hospital bed occupancy is around 15 per cent and the government has asked people not to panic. “There is no reason to panic but to be safe,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) secretary general Dr IS Gilada, however, said that the emerging scenario of Mumbai is concerning. “Mumbai 20,181 Covid-19 cases, breaks its own record, 33% jump over yesterday. TPR-30%. Threshold for lockdown crossed. Bed occupancy rising. Don't know where we are heading? Work from home for many, roads with minimal traffic, people stay home in self restraint. Challenging time,” he posted on Twitter. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-metropolitan-region-a-covid-hotspot-again-after-active-cases-cross-1-lakh-mark-1068649.html
06-01-2022||West||Goa Governor offers financial assistance to Missionaries of Charity centres||In the midst of the ongoing stand-off between the Union Home Ministry and the Mother Teresa-founded order, Missionaries of Charity, over non-renewal of the latter's Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act licence, Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai on Thursday visited two centres run by the Catholic order in Goa, while also offering financial assistance to both the centres. Pillai, who took over as Governor of the state in July last year, was accompanied by Union Minister of State for Tourism Shripad Naik, according to an official statement issued by the Goa government's Directorate of Information and Publicity. "Governor of Goa, Shri P S Sreedharan Pillai disbursed financial assistance to the charity homes and to the dialysis patients during his visit to the Missionaries of Charity institution at Carambolim today," the statement said. "Governor lauded the efforts and selfless service of the sisters at Missionaries of Charity Home towards the welfare of orphans, elderlies, destitute and people with mental ailment," it also said. The statement further said that both Pillai and Naik interacted with the destitute people and sisters at charity homes, even as the Sisters running the charity home, apprised the Governor about various activities carried out by them for the betterment of old-age and destitute people. The non-registration of a host of organisations including the Missionaries of Charity by the Union Home Ministry had stoked nationwide controversy, with the matter related to the denial of the FCRA licence -- which is critical to receiving foreign donations -- being taken to the apex court. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-governor-offers-financial-assistance-to-missionaries-of-charity-centres-1068653.html
06-01-2022||West||Goa government confers lifelong cabinet status to veteran Congress MLA||In a first, veteran Congress lawmaker and former Chief Minister Pratapsingh Rane was on Thursday conferred with “life-long cabinet status” by the BJP-led coalition government in Goa. “Our government has decided to grant lifelong Cabinet status to the senior-most legislator, Shri Pratapsingh Rane ji, for his great service to the State of Goa. He has held the topmost positions in the state as the Chief Minister and Speaker of Goa Legislative Assembly,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in a tweet. “He will always be an inspiration to the people of Goa across strata. I look forward to his continued guidance as we work towards the welfare of the people and the development of the State. I congratulate him and wish him all the very best in all his future endeavours,” the Chief Minister further said. The announcement comes ahead of the upcoming state assembly polls. Interestingly, Rane’s son, Vishwajit, is a Health Minister serving in Sawant’s cabinet. Pratapsingh Rane was synonymous with Goa politics through the 1980s and was the face of the Congress party during the period. He has served an undefeated spell as a legislator from the Poriem assembly constituency for more than 50 years. He was initially a legislator with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, before switching over to the Congress in the 1970s. Soon after the announcement, Rane thanked the CM. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-confers-lifelong-cabinet-status-to-veteran-congress-mla-1068659.html
