07-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Samithi demands fair compensation for the land acquired for NH 169||Bhoomalikara Horata Samithi has demanded fair compensation for those who will lose land for the extension of the National Highway 169 from Mangaluru to Karkala via Moodbidri. Samithi President Mariamma Thomas told media persons that the authorities have passed a notification to acquire 13,74,559.82 square metre land in Sanoor, Beluvai, Padumarnad, Tenka Mijar, Badaga Edapadavu, Badaga Ulipady, Mooduperar, Kandavara, Muloor, Tiruvail and Kudupu villages. As the authorities have fixed low value for the agricultural land which will be acquired for the purpose, over 230 landowners have brought stay against the acquisition process from the High Court. However, the officials from the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) are yet to file objections for the stay order in the court, she said. She alleged that officials had failed to fix market value for the land to be acquired for the four-lane project. The alignment for the road work was changed for the benefit of influential persons. Stating that the landowners are not against the road work, she said “we go through the traffic congestion on the said road daily and we want the road stretch to be developed. But we need fair compensation for the land we lose. If we are paid meager compensation, where should we go?” she asked. Further, she alleged that based on the Google map, the alignment for the road work was prepared. The officials are still clueless about the land that will be acquired for the purpose. “Owing to the faulty understanding of the special land acquisition officer, 12 per cent GST is collected from the landowners while paying the compensation. There is no scope for collecting GST under the law while paying the compensation for the loss of land,” she said. Though the value of one square metre land in Padavu is Rs 23,000, the officials have fixed Rs 1,850 per square metre, she claimed. According to Samithi member Brijesh Shetty, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel’s claim that over 65 per cent of the land has been acquired for the project is far from the truth as more than 230 landowners have brought stay from the court for the acquisition. Only 15 per cent of the converted land has been acquired so far. The authorities are considering converted land as a type of land, which is against the rules. In Tenka Mijar, compensation for agricultural land per cent was Rs 26,500 and Rs 2.60 lakh per cent for converted land. In Tiruvail, it was Rs 1 lakh for one cent agricultural land and Rs 6.98 lakh per cent for converted land. The Samithi alleged that Kateel had remained silent on the injustice meted out to them. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/samithi-demands-fair-compensation-for-the-land-acquired-for-nh-169-1068838.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Weekend restrictions on visits at Hampi||The government has imposed weekend restrictions at the UNESCO World Heritage Site, Hampi, considering a spike in Covid-19 cases. "Temples and monuments under the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. Tourists' visits have been banned. The public should cooperate," said Anirudh Desai, Assistant Conservator, ASI, Hampi Circle. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/weekend-restrictions-on-visits-at-hampi-1068961.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||22 students, teacher of Tumakuru school test Covid positive||As many as 22 girls and a teacher of the government girls' high school here have tested positive for Covid-19. A student underwent tests following complaints of cold and headache on January 5. She tested positive the next day. The remaining 21 students who were with her were also tested on Friday and the results were positive. The girl was shifted to the district hospital, while the remaining 21 students were quarantined at home.  "The primary contacts of these students will be tested on Saturday," a doctor said. "The school has been closed till January 13 as a precautionary measure," said the headmaster. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/22-students-teacher-of-tumakuru-school-test-covid-positive-1068965.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Narrow escape for forest staff as wild jumbo attacks vehicle||Four Forest department personnel had a narrow escape when a wild jumbo attacked their vehicle at Onkar Range in Bandipur forest of Gundlupet taluk on Friday. The personnel were travelling by the jeep during an operation to chase the wild jumbos that had strayed into the villages, when an irked wild jumbo attacked the vehicle. The front portion of the vehicle has been damaged. Deputy Range Forest Officer K P Amar, employees Madappa, Shivu and Rajanna were in the vehicle. They have sustained minor injuries. According to sources, a herd of elephants was camping near a water body at Onkar Range and were straying into the villages every day. Based on the complaints by the villagers, the department took out an operation to drive the jumbos into the forest. It was at this time a tusker barged towards the vehicle and stamped the front portion and rammed it with its tusks and toppled the vehicle. The employees fled the spot to save their lives. Assistant Conservator of Forest K Paramesh said, "The department received complaints about jumbo menace from the villagers. The personnel were there to drive them away, when the incident occurred. However, the employees are safe." The Begur police have registered a case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/narrow-escape-for-forest-staff-as-wild-jumbo-attacks-vehicle-1068972.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Time not 'auspicious', new MLC Suraj Revanna skips oath||Twenty newly elected MLCs took oath in a ceremony at the Vidhana Soudha on Thursday, but Suraj Revanna was not one of them. The Gowda family's newest entrant to politics skipped the event, not because of the raging Omicron but as the time was not 'auspicious' for his swearing-in. The first family of the JD(S) is known to be devout and great believers of astrology and Thursday at 11 am, according to sources in the party, was not auspicious enough for the Gowdas. "This is not new. The family always goes by astrology for all important occasions. Suraj is likely to take oath after January 15," a party leader said. January 15 happens to be Sankranti, the harvest festival. Suraj was elected last month from the Hassan Local Authorities' seat. Of the 25 newly elected MLCs, five skipped the ceremony for various reasons. Other than Suraj, MLCs Bhimrao Patil, Sunil Gouda Patil, PH Pujar and Anil Kumar were missing. Meanwhile, the oath-taking ceremony itself came under criticism for violating the government’s Covid-19 protocols as there were hundreds of people in the banquet hall of the Vidhana Soudha.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who is fuming at the possibility of his party's Mekedatu march being scuttled by the Covid-19 curbs, questioned how permission was given for the ceremony. While the ruling BJP is picking and choosing functions for which permissions are being issued, it is trying to intimidate Congress to stop the Mekedatu padayatra, he alleged. “What are the home minister and the health minister doing? They should have held this ceremony inside the Council,” an irate Shivakumar said, reiterating that his party would go ahead with the padayatra starting January 9. In response, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said it was not right to compare Mekedatu padayatra to the oath-taking ceremony. “It’s an irrelevant comparison. All party leaders took part in the oath ceremony, including Congress leaders,” he said, adding that the government would initiate action against Congress leaders for violating Covid-19 norms if they to go ahead with the Mekedatu march. Both Shivakumar and Jnanendra attended the crowded ceremony. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/time-not-auspicious-new-mlc-suraj-revanna-skips-oath-1068736.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP petitions Guv to dissolve Punjab government||A delegation of BJP leaders, led by their state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, petitioned Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Friday seeking the dismissal of the Punjab government for failing to provide adequate security to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to that state. The petition, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, alleged that Punjab's Congress government had put the prime minister's life in danger due to its "criminal relationship with Khalistani and other anti-national forces". "There is a ploy to target Modi and other nationalist leaders of the country," the petition read, adding that the development is dangerous and concerning. Ministers CN Ashwath Narayan, ST Somashekar and Byrati Basavaraju were part of the delegation. In a media briefing, BJP SC Morcha state president Chalawadi Narayanaswamy accused the Congress of making senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge lie about the developments in Punjab. Kharge has said that the incident in Punjab was orchestrated to target the Punjab government, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who is a Dalit. Kharge's remarks are condemnable, he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-petitions-guv-to-dissolve-punjab-government-1068960.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||HC dismisses election petition against Cong MLA Eshwar Khandre||The High Court has dismissed the election petition challenging the election of Congress MLA from Bhalki constituency Eshwar Khandre. Petitioner D K Sidram, who had contested as a candidate from BJP, had alleged corrupt practices that included the distribution of wall clocks and monies by and at the instance of Eshwara Khandre. The petitioner alleged other corrupt practices, including the filing of false affidavits, improper acceptance of nomination papers. In addition to seeking invalidation of the election, he had sought an order that he be declared as having been duly elected. The petition had alleged that as the minister, Khandre had distributed a huge number of Hakku Patras (3000) under various schemes after the commencement of the election process. However, counsel representing Khandre argued that as of March 28, 2018, when the Hakku Patras is said to have been distributed, Khandre was not a candidate. Justice Krishna S Dixit noted that no material particulars of the persons, to whom money and goodies were distributed, are placed in the petition even by way of samples. One of the contentions of the petitioner was that in the last one hour of polling, 30,000 electors have voted and this raises suspicion about the bogus voting. The advocate appearing for the petitioner argued that ‘abnormally high polling’ during the last one hour and enormous delay in transporting the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) raise a strong suspicion as to bogus voting and tampering of the EVMs to favour Khandre. The court cited the Supreme Court order in Subranian Swamy v/s Election Commission of India (ECI) and said that allegations of tampering of EVMs cannot be lavishly made.  In terms of this decision, the ECI has adopted VVPAT to the EVMs and thereby rendered them nearly untameable, the court observed. “In fact, an amendment has been effected to the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 w.e.f. 14.8.2013 enabling the Commission to accomplish the direction in the case and accordingly, all necessary precautions have been taken,” the court said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hc-dismisses-election-petition-against-cong-mla-eshwar-khandre-1068962.html
07-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) plans 'Janata Jaladhare' to corner BJP, Congress||The H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S) on Friday unveiled its Janata Jaladhare campaign that is aimed at highlighting the ‘injustice’ meted out to Karnataka by the Centre in implementing various irrigation projects. The campaign is aimed at the 2023 Assembly polls and promises the effective use of water sources in the state if the JD(S) is voted to power. Announcing the programme at a news conference, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy attacked national parties for lacking the dedication to upholding the interests of the state. The Mekedatu padayatra planned by Congress would hurt Karnataka’s position when a petition on the project is heard in the Supreme Court, he said. A Jaladhare Ratha will travel to 51 river water sources in the state under the campaign. Though the programme will tentatively be launched on January 26, the party is willing to defer the campaign by a month considering the prevailing Covid situation in the state, Kumaraswamy said. “The programme will cover 180 constituencies of the state. Water will be collected from all river sources in a vessel and Ganga puja will be offered to it every day,” Kumaraswamy said. The party will visit every village and share information with every house about injustice to Karnataka. A total of 15 teams, consisting of MLAs and senior party leaders, will be formed for the campaign. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda will also participate in the campaign. Kumaraswamy blamed the BJP and the Congress for faring poorly when it came to the implementation of irrigation projects in the state. “Both the parties lack the commitment to work in Karnataka’s interest,” he said. Training his guns on the Congress padayatra, Kumaraswamy said that JD(S) is willing to support it if the event helped in the implementation of the project. “Padayatra will hurt our stand in the Supreme Court when the case (on Mekedatu) is heard. Who advised you to do padayatra? Let them show that it will yield any benefits. Using this, you are poisoning our people,” he said. To a question on whether an all-party delegation to the Centre will help Karnataka’s cause, he said that there was no need for it. “The state government should be committed. They should have the skills to convince the Centre. Taking a delegation will not be of any benefit,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-plans-janata-jaladhare-to-corner-bjp-congress-1068988.html
07-01-2022||Mysuru||MUDA evicts 50 shops at Devanur||The authorities of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has demolished more than 50 unauthorised stalls at Devanur third stage in the city on Friday. Several people had established stalls near RTO illegally at Devanur. Despite several warnings, the stall keepers had failed to vacate the place.  Thus, MUDA had launched a drive to evict the shops, including photocopy shops, driving school office among others. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/muda-evicts-50-shops-at-devanur-1068855.html
07-01-2022||National||India, China yet to finalise date for next round of talks||India and China are yet to finalise a date for the next round of the Corps Commander-level talks on the eastern Ladakh border row with the Chinese military yet to positively respond to the Indian proposals for the dialogue, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. The Indian side sent at least two proposals to the Chinese People's Liberation Army for the 14th round of the military talks, but the latter is yet to respond to the communications, they said. The Indian proposals include a possible broad framework and agenda items for the talks, the people said. The 13th round of the Corps Commander-level military talks in October ended in a stalemate with the Indian Army saying its "constructive suggestions" were not agreeable to the Chinese side. In their virtual diplomatic talks on November 18, India and China agreed to hold the 14th round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. However, there has been no response from the Chinese side on the holding of the 14th round of the Corps Commander-level talks, though it was agreed in the diplomatic dialogue in November to have it at an early date, the people cited above said. The Chinese side has been adopting delaying tactics in resolving the standoff, said one of the people, adding that India has been firmly pushing for a complete disengagement at all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5, 2020, following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year on the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-yet-to-finalise-date-for-next-round-of-talks-1068730.html
07-01-2022||National||There was no plan to stop PM's visit or obstruct his programme: SKM||More than 24 hours after the security breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy near Ferozepur in Punjab on account of farmers protest, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Thursday claimed that "there was no programme to stop the Prime Minister's visit or obstruct his programme" and that the "farmers had no prior information" about the PMs convoy. On Wednesday, The Prime Minister's rally in Ferozepur had to be cancelled due to a security lapse after some protesters blocked a route and forced his convoy to spend about 20 minutes on a flyover. The Prime Minister was enroute to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala when the incident happened. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday claimed in a statement that they had planned protests on receiving the news of the Prime Minister's proposed visit to Punjab on January 5. "A total of 10 farmers' organisations affiliated to SKM had announced a symbolic protest demanding the arrest of (Union Minister of State for Home) Ajay Mishra Teni and other outstanding demands. "For this purpose, programmes of protests and effigy burning were announced at the village level across Punjab on January 2 and at the district and tehsil headquarters on January 5. There was no programme to stop the Prime Minister's visit or obstruct his programme," claimed the SKM statement. Even after the three contentious farm laws were repealed by the Parliament after more than a year-long protest by the SKM, the farmers are still protesting, especially in Punjab, for their unmet demands, which include the removal of Ajay Mishra (in connection with last year's Lakhimpur Kheri violence), compensation to the families of those martyred during the farmers' agitation, and most importantly, Minimum Support Price for all agricultural produce, for which the government has promised a committee with farmers' representatives on board. The farmers' consortium further said that as per the pre-determined schedule, peaceful protests were held at every district and tehsil headquarters in Punjab on January 5. "When some farmers were stopped by the police administration from going to the district headquarters of Ferozepur, they protested by sitting on the road at many places. Of these places, one was the flyover of Pyarayana where the Prime Minister's convoy came, stopped and went back," the statement said. "The farmers protesting there had no concrete information that the Prime Minister's convoy was going to pass through. They got this information from the media after the Prime Minister's return," the SKM claimed. Stating that it is clear from the video of the occasion that the protesting farmers did not even make an effort to go towards the Prime Minister's convoy, the SKM said, "Only a group with BJP flag and raising slogans such as 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' had reached near the convoy. Therefore, the threat to the life of the Prime Minister seems completely concocted." The farmers further alleged that "to cover up the failure of his rally, the Prime Minister tried to malign both the state of Punjab and the farmers' movement by using the pretext of 'somehow his life was saved." "The whole country knows that if there is a threat to life, then it is for the farmers, from criminals like Ajay Mishra becoming a minister and roaming freely. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha expects the Prime Minister of the country to not make such irresponsible statements keeping in mind the dignity of his post," the SKM said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-was-no-plan-to-stop-pms-visit-or-obstruct-his-programme-skm-1068731.html
07-01-2022||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India cross 148.58 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 148.58 crore on Thursday, with 1,64,98,400 beneficiaries in the age group of 15-18 years being given the first dose, according to the Union health ministry data. More than 87 lakh (87,66,164) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm on Thursday.It includes 35,98,243 doses administered to beneficiaries in the 15-18 years age group. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1 last. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-cross-14858-crore-health-ministry-1068732.html
07-01-2022||National||These 6 Covid worst-hit states major concern for India||In the last week, six states - Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka - have reported a massive spike in the active Covid cases along with the daily Covid caseload. These states are reporting over 10,000 active cases and have become a major concern. As per the Health Ministry data, Maharashtra had 15,179 active cases seven days earlier which have risen to 70,005 as of January 5. The number of active cases has risen to 25,475 from 7,457 in just seven days in West Bengal. Kerala has 20,877 active cases presently. The national capital Delhi has reported over manifold growth in active cases at 14,889 from 1,612 in last week. Karnataka's active cases tally has reached 13,561 from 7,485, while Tamil Nadu's number has nearly doubled to 12,412 from 6,537. Besides the six states are reporting over 10,000 active cases, two states have between 5,00-10,000 active cases and 28 states have below 5,000 active cases as of January 5, as per the Health Ministry report. "Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Gujarat are the states of concern where there has been a rise in the Covid cases. Total 28 districts in the country are reporting more than 10 per cent weekly positivity," said Joint Secretary, Health, Lav Agarwal, at a press briefing on Wednesday. Out of the 28 districts reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, Mizoram has eight and West Bengal has six. Among others, Maharashtra has four and Andhra Pradesh, Goa, and Haryana two districts each. Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab have one district each which has over a 10 per cent weekly positivity rate. Total 43 districts are reporting a weekly positivity rate between five to ten per cent, as per the Health Ministry data. In total, India has reported more than 6.3 times to increase in daily Covid cases in the last eight days. A sharp surge in the positivity rate has also been observed from 0.79 per cent on December 29 to 5.03 per cent on January 5, as per the ministry. India on Thursday saw a massive spike in daily Covid infection as it registered a total of 90,928 new cases in 24 hours. With the 325 new deaths, the total death toll has climbed to 4,82,876. The active caseload has jumped to 2,85,401 which constitutes 0.81 per cent of the country's total positive cases. India's Omicron infection tally has also climbed to 2,630. However, out of the total, 995 have been discharged from hospitals. So far total 26 states have reported Omicron infections. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-6-covid-worst-hit-states-major-concern-for-india-1068734.html
07-01-2022||National||Karnataka virologist team develop India's first Omicron testing kit||State genomic surveillance committee chairman and virologist Dr V Ravi and a team of 12 R&D personnel from Tata MD developed OmiSure, India's first indigenously developed Omicron testing kit. The former head of Neurovirology in NIMHANS, Ravi who now heads the research and development at Tata MD, said the testing kit, developed over a month, is compatible with all RT-PCR testing machines. The USP of this testing kit is that it is the first test kit globally to employ a combination of two S gene viral targets -- one based on S gene dropout or S gene target failure (SGTF) and the other based on S gene mutation amplification (SGMA). Test kits like TaqPath from American company Thermo Fisher currently in use in the state use only the S gene drop out method. It has two checks in place for Omicron detection without compromising on the ability to detect other SARS-CoV-2 strains. "While an S-gene dropout can only be used as a proxy marker, this can be used as a confirmatory test for Omicron and does not require genomic sequencing confirmation," he said. While TaqPath works out to Rs 300 per sample, OmiSure's price has been fixed at Rs 250 per sample, Dr Ravi added. With the state's Omicron tally rising, it is important to get faster results on the variant in a Covid sample to track its transmission. He has apprised the CM about the test in the three-hour meeting held with the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Tuesday, he said. While ICMR approved the test on December 30, the Drugs Controller General of India's (DCGI) approval came on Wednesday. An application for a patent was also filed on December 23, he said. “The good news is that the Omicron detecting RT-PCR kit has been developed in partnership with TataMD and ICMR, and has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India. This new kit will test for Omicron in four hours, and will augment genome sequencing efforts of the country,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "The kit has not gone into production yet as we got the DCGI approval only on Wednesday. The spike protein is where maximum mutations of Omicron are seen. We have exploited a region where conventional spike protein primers don't pick up Omicron because it is mutated. This is called S-gene target failure. "We have also identified a unique region in Omicron where there are mutations not found in all other variants and developed a probe for it. So, it combines S-gene dropout and Omicron-specific detection, along with RDRP, which is the polymerase gene to detect all other variants," Dr Ravi said. It takes about two-and-a-half hours to test the samples with this kit like with any other RT-PCR test. Dr Vishal Rao, another member of the state genomic surveillance committee said this kit reduces the dependence on genomic surveillance for Omicron detection. However, this will continue to miss 'stealth' Omicron (BA.2), a newer variant. He also said published scientific, peer-reviewed literature in the public domain was required to validate that this is a confirmatory test and not a screening/proxy marker. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-virologist-team-develop-indias-first-omicron-testing-kit-1068735.html
07-01-2022||National||Candidates can now pump in more money in poll campaign||The candidates can now officially pump in more money in campaigns as the Union Ministry of Law and Justice has raised the limits of expenses in the assembly and parliamentary polls. With the Election Commission preparing to declare the schedule of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, Union Ministry of Law and Justice on Thursday has issued a notification, enhanced the limits of expenditures for the candidates, not only in the five states but also in other states across the country. A candidate contesting in any assembly constituency in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will now be able to pump in Rs 40 lakh for campaigning – Rs 12 lakh more than what she or he could have officially spent had the expenditure limits not been revised. The spending limit for each candidate contesting in any assembly constituency in Goa and Manipur has also been raised from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 28 lakh. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice accordingly notified the revised expenditure limits after the Election Commission accepted the recommendation of a committee it had constituted in October 2020 to study the issue. The expenditure limit for a candidate contesting assembly elections has been raised from Rs 28 lakh to Rs 40 lakh for Karnataka and most of the other States. It has been raised from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 28 lakh for Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Goa and Puducherry. The spending limit for a candidate contesting for a Lok Sabha seat in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and most of the other states has been raised from Rs 70 lakh to Rs 95 lakh. It has been raised from Rs 54 lakh to Rs 75 lakh for Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Goa and Puducherry, according to the notification issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice. The new spending limits for the candidates will come into force immediately and allow the ones contesting the forthcoming assembly elections in the five states to pump in more money. The last major revision in the election expenditure limit for candidates was carried out in 2014. It was further increased by 10% in 2020. The EC had in October 2020 set up a committee comprising Harish Kumar, a retired officer of the Indian Revenue Service, Umesh Sinha, Secretary General of the commission, and Chandra Bhushan Kumar, Senior Deputy Election Commissioner, to study the cost factors and other related issues, and make suitable recommendations. The committee invited suggestions from the political parties, Chief Electoral Officers and Election Observers. It took note of the 12.23% increase in the number of electors from 834 million to 936 million between 2014 and 2021. It also took into account the 32.08% increase in the Cost Inflation Index from 240 to 317 between 2014-15 and 2021-22. It also factored into the changing modes of campaigning, particularly its gradual shift to virtual mode. The EC accepted the recommendations of the committee and decided to enhance the existing election expenditure limit for candidates.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/candidates-can-now-pump-in-more-money-in-poll-campaign-1068743.html
07-01-2022||National||Centre flags low Covid-19 testing in 9 states||Low Covid-19 tests in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab have emerged as a matter of concern to the Union Health Ministry, which on Thursday wrote to these states along with six others asking them to augment their daily testing level. “In the absence of sufficient testing, it is rather impossible to determine the true level of infection spread in the community,” Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Union Health Ministry wrote to the states. In her letter to Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar, she flagged a “considerable decline” in the Covid-19 test level amid steeply rising cases and positivity rate across the nation and noted it was a "cause of concern". The health ministry letter dated January 5 coincided with India registering more than 90,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, less than 10 days after the third wave began with 9,000 odd cases on December 28. The number of daily tests crossed 14 lakh for the first time on Wednesday. "With the increased detection of the Omicron variant and a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in cases despite high levels of vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil and efforts to prevent any deterioration of the Covid-19 scenario,” Ahuja wrote. "Keeping in mind the unpredictable and highly transmissible behaviour of Omicron and the larger preponderance of asymptomatic cases, ramping up testing in the initial days itself will help to ensure that the infected individual does not spread the virus to others," she said. In a separate letter, Ahuja on Thursday also prodded the states to open control rooms at district and sub-district levels (for bigger districts) to ensure better access to services like ambulance transportation and booking of hospital beds. The control rooms should be linked to the hospitals or designated Covid facilities so that patients can be appropriately channelised to the right places depending on their physical conditions. Also, each control room should have a dedicated fleet of ambulances. The control rooms should also have adequate numbers of doctors, counsellors and volunteers besides having enough phone lines, computers and broadband connectivity so that they can have access to real-time data on testing centres and ambulances for guiding the callers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-flags-low-covid-19-testing-in-9-states-1068753.html
07-01-2022||National||BJP plans nationwide campaign against Cong over 'lapse' in PM's security||Aiming to corner the Congress over the recent "lapse" in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Punjab, the BJP is all set to launch a nationwide campaign. On Friday, the BJP MPs will stage a silent protest near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Parliament House complex against the incident. Along with this, the party has also made a strategy to go to Raj Bhavans across the country and submit a memorandum. Similarly, it has decided to hold a series of protests to "expose" Congress nationwide. Further, the BJP has also devised a strategy to respond to Congress' "political card" of harassment of a Dalit Chief Minister (Charanjit Singh Channi) by it. For this, the party's Scheduled Caste Morcha and Dalit leaders will stage protests before the Ambedkar statue. Meanwhile, it has decided to write a letter to Sonia Gandhi regarding the "lapse by the Punjab government" in the Prime Minister's security and the "attitude" of the Congress' high command over it. The BJP MPs will stage the silent dharna at the Parliament House complex at 11 am on Friday. Furthermore, the party's veteran national and state-level leaders will go to the Raj Bhavan of their respective states and union territories and will submit a memorandum to the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor highlighting the incident. On Thursday, many BJP Chief Ministers, veteran leaders, national and state unit office bearers, MPs and MLAs chanted 'Mahamrityunjaya mantra' for the wellbeing of the Prime Minister by visiting other Jyotirlingas and other prominent 'Shivalayas' across the country including Kashi Vishwanath, Mahakaleshwar, Omkareshwar. The party's youth cell also protested against the Congress by taking out torch rallies in all the districts of the country on Thursday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-plans-nationwide-campaign-against-cong-over-lapse-in-pms-security-1068767.html
07-01-2022||National||India logs over 1.17L new Covid cases; Omicron tally tops 3,000||The single day rise in coronavirus infections was recorded above one lakh after 214 days, taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,52,26,386 which includes 3,007 cases of Omicron reported across 27 states and UTs, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. Out of the total Omicron cases reported so far, 1,199 people have recovered or migrated. Maharashtra recorded  the maximum number of 876 cases followed by Delhi  at 465, Karnataka 333, Rajasthan 291, Kerala 284 and Gujarat 204. The country saw a single day rise of  1,17,100 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases increased to 3,71,363, the highest in around 120 days, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The death toll climbed to 4,83,178 with 302 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The country last reported over one lakh cases on June 7 last year when 1,00,636 infections were recorded.   The  active cases comprise 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 97.57  per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 85,962 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-over-117l-new-covid-cases-omicron-tally-tops-3000-1068772.html
07-01-2022||National||As cases rise, India fears another Covid-19 catastrophe||Haunted by the spectre of last year's crisis, India is bracing for a deluge of Covid-19 cases, with authorities of various megacities bringing in restrictions in a bid to keep infections in check. Case numbers have yet to match the enormous figures seen last spring, when thousands died each day and the Hindu holy city of Varanasi maintained round-the-clock funeral pyres for the mass cremation of virus victims. But daily infections nearly tripled over two days this week to more than 90,000, a surge driven by the highly contagious Omicron variant that some experts worry could again see the country's hospitals overwhelmed. An overnight curfew has been imposed in the Delhi area that includes the capital, where weekend movement restrictions will begin on Friday evening, with all non-essential workers asked to stay home. Tech hub Bangalore has also declared a weekend curfew, while sprawling financial centre Mumbai introduced a night curfew. "Even a small percentage of a large number of cases translates to a large number in absolute terms," Gautam Menon, a professor at India's Ashoka University who has worked on Covid infection modelling, told AFP. "This could potentially stress out health care systems to levels comparable to or worse than the second wave." Doctors and nurses who spoke to AFP have so far been optimistic, with fewer severe cases among those patients admitted to hospital -- and with the benefit of experience. "Last year, we didn't know what exactly we were dealing with. I think now, mentally, it's a little better," one frontline worker at a Delhi hospital said. Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital in the capital, where cases have quadrupled from a handful at the start of the week to 20, said the rise was "not a cause for panic". Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration has so far shied away from the drastic nationwide lockdown introduced during last year's catastrophic outbreak. But local officials have watched the sharply rising case numbers with alarm and some of India's biggest urban centres have moved to impose restrictions again. Earlier virus lockdowns were a hammer blow to the Indian economy and many are worried about the financial impact of new restrictions. "I will be working only for 15 days this month," said Delhi resident Tumul Srivastava, whose office is subject to the 50 percent occupancy limits imposed by the city. "My salary may be deducted. All this is adding to my anxiety." India appears better placed to weather Omicron than it was ahead of the calamitous Delta wave it suffered last spring, when more than 200,000 people died in a matter of weeks. Back then, hospitals ran out of oxygen and patients desperately scrambled to source medicine after a run on pharmacies. In the time since, Indian health workers have injected nearly 1.5 billion vaccine doses, with government data showing nearly two-thirds of the country fully vaccinated. That campaign, combined with last year's Delta sweep of towns and villages around the country, may help lessen the impact of the latest spread. "Though we do not have data, this may give strong hybrid immunity against severe outcomes," University of Michigan epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee told AFP. Preliminary studies have so far suggested the Omicron variant has led to less severe health consequences among those infected, despite its rapid spread. Mukherjee warned however that an uncontrolled spread of new infections could still pose serious problems for India, even if the direct virus toll is a fraction of that seen last year. "As you are witnessing in the US and UK, a major chunk of the working population being sick is affecting the societal infrastructure and leading to chaos," she said. "I am afraid there may be a period in India when we see the same thing -- just the sheer volume may make the system crumble." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-cases-rise-india-fears-another-covid-19-catastrophe-1068784.html
07-01-2022||National||NEET-PG admissions: Supreme Court upholds 27% OBC, 10% EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with NEET PG counselling with 27 per cent OBC and 10 per cent EWS quota in all India seats. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna upheld the validity of 27 per cent OBC quota but said the income criterion of Rs 8 lakh per annum fixed for EWS candidates would be subject to final outcome of pending petitions. In an interim order, the court said it had accepted the recommendation of the Ajay Bhushan Pandey committee to continue with the income criterion for Economically Weaker Sections for this year. The court explained that it was passing the order to ensure that admission process will not be dislocated.  The Centre had earlier agreed to have a fresh look at the income criterion for EWS candidates.  A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. As much as 50 per cent seats in PG courses are filled through all India quota. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-admissions-supreme-court-upholds-27-obc-10-ews-quota-1068790.html
07-01-2022||National||NCW asks UP police to probe video that reportedly shows Jawed Habib spitting on woman's head||The National Commission for Women has asked the Uttar Pradesh police to probe the veracity of a purported video which shows popular hair stylist Jawed Habib spitting on a woman's head while styling her hair. The incident took place at a workshop being conducted by Habib in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. "The commission has taken this incident very seriously and not only condemns this in strongest possible words, but also seeks your urgent intervention in the matter to investigate the veracity of this viral video for immediate action as per law/procedure. “This incident also attracts violation of guidelines issued by the Union home ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, whereby spitting in public is a punishable offence in the wake of the Covid pandemic," the NCW said in a letter to the state police. "You are, therefore, required to immediately investigate the matter for appropriate action. The action taken/status report must be apprised to the commission at the earliest," it said. Officials said the National Commission for Women (NCW) will also sent a notice to the hairstylist for a hearing. A noted hairstylist, Habib operates more than 850 salons and around 65 hair academies across 115 cities across India. In the video, Habib is seen spitting on the woman's hair while she sits with her back to him and is heard saying "if there is scarcity of water, then use saliva". The audience can be heard laughing and applauding in the background in the video which has now gone viral with Habib being criticised by netizens for his action. The stylist, however, later apologised for the act. "Some words spoken by me have hurt people. I want so say one thing that these are professional workshops and are long shows and when they are long, we have to make them humorous. What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from my heart. Please forgive me. Sorry," he said in a video message. Many people on social media hit out at Habib over the incident. "When hair stylist Jawed Habib spat on a woman's hair, the audience cheered Habib's action. Not a single person objected to the shameful act by Habib. The woman has been identified as Pooja Gupta and she didn't expect such a humiliating experience," Anshul Saxena said on Twitter. Another video of the woman recounting the experience has also been posted on social media. "Yesterday, I attended a workshop of Jawed Habib. He invited me on the stage to give me a haircut. He said if there is no water, you can use saliva. From now onwards, I will go to my streetside barber for a haircut, but will not go to Habib," said Gupta, who owns a beauty parlour. Later speaking to news channels, Gupta said she attended the workshop to learn from Habib and was delighted when she was called on stage by him. "He was not answering my questions. Then he pushed my head, I objected and said I have cervical issues. Then he spat twice on my hair and said that if you do not have water in your parlour, then you can spit. My husband was making the video. After I came down from the stage, Habib's assistant told me he was joking,” she added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-asks-up-police-to-probe-video-that-reportedly-shows-jawed-habib-spitting-on-womans-head-1068791.html
07-01-2022||National||PM Modi's security breach: Supreme Court directs Punjab HC Registrar General to preserve travel records||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to secure and preserve all records related to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's travel to the State which was marred by a security breach. The top court also directed the two separate committees formed by the Centre and Punjab to hold its hands off on their inquiry till it hears a plea for probe on Monday. Hearing a petition filed by NGO 'Lawyers Voice' against the security breach, a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli told the Director General of UT of Chandigarh and other top officers from various agencies, including the NIA and SPG, to render their help in collecting the records.  During the hearing, the Centre led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta supported the petitioner for probe into the matter saying this was the rarest of rare issue which had potential to cause embarrassment to the country within the international community. This also had potential to cause cross-border terrorism. He also pointed out that a video had emerged from the banned terrorist organisation 'Sikh for Justice' giving a call for similar action seen on Wednesday. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the petitioner, raised a question mark over the committee formed by the Punjab government to look into the matter.  Advocate General of Punjab D S Patwalia said the State was not joining the issue. "Any person can be appointed to investigate the matter, if there is lapse, the matter needs to be probed," he said. On Wednesday, Modi's convoy remained stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur. The incident forced the PM to cancel his rally and other events planned in poll-bound Punjab. The plea alleged that the lapse in the security of the Prime Minister was occasioned clearly in connivance with the Punjab Police. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-security-breach-supreme-court-directs-punjab-hc-registrar-general-to-preserve-travel-records-1068803.html
07-01-2022||National||India took just 8 days to see Covid-19 surge from 10,000 to over 1 lakh||In the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has taken just eight days for India's daily cases to cross 1 lakh from 10,000. If you compare it with the second wave last year, it took Covid cases 47 days to reach the 1 lakh level from a tally of 10,000. In the first Covid wave in 2020, it took SARS-CoV-2 virus 103 days to reach the near 1 lakh level from the 10,000 Covid cases (the peak registered was 98,795). The second wave had peaked around 4 lakh cases last year. The current tally shows how fast the Omicron-led wave is spreading in the community and is likely to break all previous records within no time. The only respite so far is that the country has not witnessed a surge in oxygen demand or hospitalisation but the way the Omicron-led Covid 3.0 wave is fast spreading, it can put a lot of pressure on the healthcare system in days to come, in a country with nearly 1.4 billion people. On Friday, India registered a single-day rise of 1,17,100 new Covid cases, a significant rise from the previous day's 90,928 cases, in a span of 24 hours. Meanwhile, the Omicron infection tally reached 3,007 across the nation, said the Health Ministry. While Omicron does appear to be less severe compared to Delta, especially in those vaccinated, it does not mean it should be categorised as 'mild' as just like previous variants, Omicron is hospitalising people and it is killing people, according to WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Microsoft co-founder and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates has warned that humanity "could be entering the worst part of the pandemic" as the Omicron variant spreads fast across the globe, stressing that it will "hit home for all of us". The Omicron variant multiplies about 70 times faster inside human respiratory tract tissue than the Delta variant, according to scientists at the University of Hong Kong. Omicron also reaches higher levels in the tissue, compared with Delta, 48 hours after infection. However, it is less severe than the previous variants because it does not cause as much damage in the lungs, a spate of studies have suggested. A study by a consortium of US and Japanese scientists on hamsters and mice, has found those infected with Omicron had less lung damage, lost less weight and were less likely to die than those who had other variants. The Omicron variant, harbouring up to 36 mutations in spike protein, is known to evade vaccine efficacy. Data suggests Omicron may be able to infect people at a lower dose than Delta or the original variant. Inside the lung tissue, Omicron has been reported to be less efficient at infecting cells than Delta or the original version of the virus. "The infection is more focused on the bronchia than the lungs and very fast," Marc Veldhoen, an immunologist at the University of Lisbon, posted on Twitter. Scientists now need to measure the viral loads inside people's respiratory tracts. With Delta, people have, on average, 1,000 times more virus particles in their respiratory tracts than with the original variants. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-took-just-8-days-to-see-covid-19-surge-from-10000-to-over-1-lakh-1068805.html
07-01-2022||National||Muzaffarnagar: Hairstylist Jawed Habib booked for spitting on woman's hair||The police here have lodged an FIR against famous hairstylist Jawed Habib for spitting on a woman's hair while styling it, officials said on Friday. A video of the incident, which took place at a workshop held here on January 3, went viral on social media on Thursday. In the video, Habib is heard telling the audience, "If there is a shortage of water, use saliva". The FIR was lodged at Mansurpur police station here on a complaint filed by Pooja Gupta, a resident of Baraut town, on whose hair Habib spat during the workshop, the police said. Habib has been booked under Section 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person, otherwise than on grave provocation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, they said. Meanwhile, Hindu activists held a protest against Habib. They demanded action against the hairstylist.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muzaffarnagar-hairstylist-jawed-habib-booked-for-spitting-on-womans-hair-1068810.html
07-01-2022||National||HC grants bail to journalist in money laundering case||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering probe linked to alleged leakage and supply of sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers. Justice Mukta Gupta, while pronouncing the order on the city-based journalist’s bail plea, said, “The petitioner has been granted bail”. The detailed order will be made available later. Sharma’s counsel had earlier submitted that the alleged money laundering case arises out of a police case under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), in which he was released on default bail in 2020. The bail plea was opposed by ED which had said the offence committed by him has cross border implications and if released, he would not be available for further ongoing investigation. The agency had submitted that since Sharma allegedly supplied confidential information to Chinese intelligence officials during foreign trips, part of the offence took place in foreign locations. Since Sharma has enjoyed the proceeds of crime in various foreign countries through his foreign trips and expenses therein, the offence in the present case is an offence of cross border implications as well, it had argued. It had also alleged that Sharma did not cooperate with the investigation and had miserably failed to establish even prima facie innocence at this stage under the money laundering law. Sharma had approached the high court after a sessions court denied him bail in July last year. The ED had arrested him under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on July 1, 2021. The ED case is based on a Delhi Police FIR filed under the Official Secrets Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Sharma in 2020. The journalist was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police on September 14, 2020 and charged with passing on information about the Indian Army's deployment and the country's border strategy to Chinese intelligence officers. He was granted bail by the Delhi High Court in the case in December 2020. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-bail-to-journalist-in-money-laundering-case-1068815.html
07-01-2022||National||PM Security breach: Punjab chief secretary submits report to Centre||Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari has submitted a report to the Centre regarding the security breach that stalled Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Punjab visit informing that an FIR has been lodged in the incident and the state government has formed a two-member panel to investigate lapses. Tewari is learnt to have shared details pertaining to the sequence of events that unfolded during the prime minister's visit on Wednesday, official sources said on Friday. On Thursday, the Punjab government had announced a two-member panel to investigate the lapses. The panel has been asked to submit its report in three days. In a major security lapse, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. The Union Home Ministry had directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment, while Home Minister Amit Shah had said that such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit was totally unacceptable and accountability would be fixed. The incident triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue. The Centre also set up a three-member panel on Thursday to investigate the security breach. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-security-breach-punjab-chief-secretary-submits-report-to-centre-1068818.html
07-01-2022||National||NCSC panel summons Mumbai police Commissioner in Wankhede case||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has asked Mumbai Commissioner of Police Hemant Nagrale to appear in-person before Chairman Vijay Sampla on January 31 regarding the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede harassment case. It also asked the petitioner to remain present in the commission on the day of the hearing. While issuing written summons to the police Commissioner, NCSC Director Kaushal Kumar on Thursday said: "Chairman Vijay Sampla has fixed a meeting with you, in person, on January 31 at 11 am in his chamber at Loknayak Bhawan, New Delhi. "Accordingly, you are to appear in person, along with an updated action taken report and all relevant documents, including the relevant files, case diaries, to facilitate the hearing." The NCSC further recommended the state government not to take final decision in the matter till the investigation is pending with it. "No final decision in the matter is to be taken by the state government till the pendency of the investigation of the case in the commission. This is as per commission's Rules of Procedure clause 7.2," the NCSC director said in an official letter. Wankhede, NCB's Mumbai Zonal Director, has been in the limelight in connection with the Aryan Khan case and was recently accused by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik of faking his caste certificate. The NCSC is, however, examining the complaint of Wankhede that he was being implicated in a false case. Wankhede had written to the commission alleging harassment following "disclosures" made by NCP minister Malik. The minister had alleged that Wankhede was a Muslim and had secured a job claiming to be from the Scheduled Caste. Malik had alleged that Wankhede's father's name was Dawood and not Dyandev. Wankhede has denied all allegations. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncsc-panel-summons-mumbai-police-commissioner-in-wankhede-case-1068819.html
07-01-2022||National||Modi vows high-quality medical services for poor, says will have more docs in 10 years than last 70||Underlining his government's commitment to reaching the benefits of high-quality healthcare services to the poor and the middle class, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) here on Friday. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who also attended the event that was held online, caused a flutter with her remark that she had already inaugurated the complex during the second COVID-19 wave, when the state desperately needed more and more centres to cater to the surge of patients. A strident critic of Modi, Banerjee said she was attending the event after being invited twice by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandavia, and underscored her government has been following all guidelines issued by the Centre despite differences and "questions raised by the governor" over its decisions. Dedicating to the nation the 400-bed tertiary cancer care centre built at a cost of Rs 534 crore, Modi told the gathering that India has reached the "historic milestone" of administering 150 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine during the day. "Today, over 90 per cent of India's adult population has already got the first dose of Covid vaccine. This reflects the country's sense of self-confidence, self-dependence and self-pride for an achievement that is difficult for even the developed and rich nations," he asserted. Extolling the Ayushman Bharat scheme, the prime minister said it has become a global benchmark for public healthcare systems with Over 2.60 crore people, including 17 lakh cancer patients, having benefited from it so far. "This is yet another step towards our national resolve to reach high-quality healthcare services to all our citizens, especially the poor and the middle class," he said talking about the new CNCI campus, which will cater to West Bengal, its eastern neighbours and the remote states of the Northeast. "There was a time when a poor person either did not think of getting treated for cancer or sold his house and land for meeting the expenses. The poor and the middle class got anxious and lost heart at the sheer thought of having got cancer. We took determined steps to pull cancer patients out of their worries," he said. Modi said the 50,000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras were dispensing medicines, including 50 cancer drugs, across the country at subsidised prices. Amrit Pharmacies are also selling costly cancer medicines at affordable prices, he said. The prime minister said by regulating the prices of 500 drugs the government ensured the patients, particularly the poor, saved Rs 3,000 crore. Regulating the prices of key medicines and implants helped common people save huge money, he said, adding reducing the price of coronory stents alone resulted in a saving of Rs 4,500 crore for heart patients. Under the Prime Minister National Dialysis Programme, 12 lakh people got free of cost treatment and saved over Rs 520 crore, he said. "If we consider the benefits patients reaped from these and other programmes under Ayushman Bharat, ordinary people saved anywhere between Rs 50,000 crore and Rs 60,000 crore," he said. Responding to Mamata Banerjee's suggestion for increasing seats in medical colleges, Modi said the country had 90,000 undergraduate and postgraduate seats before he took over as the prime minister in 2014. He said 60,000 seats were added in medical colleges in the last seven years. "We had just six AIIMS in 2014 and today we have a strong network of 22 AIIMS across the country," he asserted. Efforts are on to set up a medical college in each district, 19 State Cancer Institutes and 20 Tertiary Cancer Centres, he said. "We are going to produce more doctors over the next 10 years than we did in the last 70 years," he asserted. Health and Wellness Centres are being set up in villages while promoting preventive healthcare through Yoga, Ayurved, Universal Sanitation, and the tap water scheme that will reach every household, the prime minister said. "Har Ghar Jal Yojana will eliminate the hazards like arsenic poisoning which could lead to cancer," he said. Mamata Banerjee, in her speech, said the state government spent 25 per cent of the cost incurred on setting up the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, and will also bear the recurring expenditure of Rs 71 crore. The West Bengal government, she said, had provided 11 acres of land for the institute. "Cancer has no answer but we should not stop trying," she said, and added her government has launched the 'Swasthya Saathi Scheme' covering all citizens of West Bengal under which people can avail medical treatment upto Rs 5 lakh. She deplored that only 40 per cent of the state's population has received the second dose of Covid vaccine. West Bengal has an estimated population of little over 10 crore. In his speech, the prime minister said the Centre had made available 11 crore vaccines to West Bengal free of cost, besides 1,500 ventilators and 9,000 oxygen cylinders. Modi made no mention of Banerjee's claim that she had already inaugurated the new CNCI campus in his speech.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-vows-high-quality-medical-services-for-poor-says-will-have-more-docs-in-10-years-than-last-70-1068823.html
07-01-2022||National||Election Commission informed on Covid situation in country: Union Health Ministry||The government on Friday termed as misleading media reports stating that the Union Health Health Ministry has suggested to the Election Commission that there is no cause of "alarm or concern in view of very few cases of Omicron in poll-bound states". "These reports have a very high tendency to start a misinformation campaign in the midst of a pandemic," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. "Some media reports are suggesting that Union Ministry of Health has in a meeting with the Election Commission of India (ECI) yesterday suggested that the 'Covid situation in the country is nothing to be worried about' and 'there is no cause of alarm or concern in the view of very few cases of Omicron in the poll-bound states'. Such reports are highly ill-informed, misleading and far from the truth," the ministry said. The Union Health Secretary, in his meeting with the ECI on Thursday, presented the overall global and domestic status of spread of Covid, as well as Omicron, in the country.  Details were also presented on status of preparedness of the public health response within the states for control and management of the increasing numbers of Covid cases, the statement said. The focus of the presentation was on poll bound states and their neighbouring states, it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-informed-on-covid-situation-in-country-union-health-ministry-1068824.html
07-01-2022||National||Doctors advise teens against taking paracetamol after Covid-19 jab||Children undergoing Covid-19 vaccination must not take paracetamol, a common pain reliever, without first consulting, doctors have advised. The advice was issued in response to growing concerns that some immunisation centres are advising children to take three paracetamol 500 mg tablets after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. Taking paracetamol tablets without consulting a doctor can harm children, health experts warned. "Paracetamol is not recommended as prophylaxis, before and after any Covid vaccination as we don't know how it alters the immune response of the vaccine," said Dr. Akshay Budhraja, Sr. Consultant, Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Aakash Healthcare. "Giving paracetamol to children (15-18 years old) who are receiving Covid vaccines is not recommended. It is because it has the potential to cause hepatotoxicity (liver damage caused by drug exposure) in them," added Dr. Col.Vijay Dutta, Senior Consultant - Internal Medicine, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre. A low-grade fever, muscle ache, lethargy, headache, soreness at the injection site is common in the first two days after vaccination, which usually subsides on its own, without any medication. "However, if the fever persists or the intensity increases then paracetamol or other painkiller is advised after consultation with a physician. So paracetamol is to be taken only after consultation and not as prophylaxis for fever, which happens because of the immune response of the body to the vaccine components," Budhraja added. If children develop a fever after receiving the Covid vaccine, "they should be given Mefenamic acid or Meftal syrup", while paracetamol is safe for adults over the age of 18 with fever, Dutta said. Previously, Bharat Biotech also issued a statement that no painkillers or paracetamol are recommended following the inoculation. To combat the increasing cases of Covid-19 driven by the highly-transmissible Omicron variant, the government has begun administering the vaccines to teenagers aged 15 to 18. Only Covaxin has been recommended for vaccinating teenagers. According to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, India has achieved a one-crore vaccination milestone for people between the 15 and 18 age group against Covid-19 till Wednesday, after the beginning of the drive on January 3. India's adult vaccinations have also reached 149.66 crore as of Friday morning. Meanwhile, India on Friday registered a single-day rise of 1,17,100 new Covid-19 cases, a significant rise from the previous day's 90,928 cases, in a span of 24 hours. The country's Omicron infection tally has reached 3,007. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-advise-teens-against-taking-paracetamol-after-covid-19-jab-1068849.html
07-01-2022||National||MEA inks pact with TCS for second phase of passport seva programme||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday signed an agreement with Tata Consultancy Services Ltd for the second phase of the Passport Seva Programme (PSP-V2.0) that envisages increasing data security and roll out of the next level of customer experience. The MEA said it is working towards the opening of one passport services centre in every Lok Sabha constituency where there is no Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) or Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSK). It said the government plans to embark on technology upgrades with the use of biometrics, artificial intelligence, advanced data analytics and auto-response under the Passport Seva Programme (PSP). Tata Consultancy Services Ltd has been involved as a service provider in the Passport Seva Project for over 10 years. The PSP-V2.0 is a continuation and enhancement of PSP-V1.0, an e-governance instrument that the MEA said introduced "unprecedented" transformation in the delivery of passport related services to citizens. It said the project design ensured that support functions like citizen interface, technology backbone, call centres, training and change management were provided by the service provider, and the government continued to exercise all sovereign and security-related functions in the passport issuance process. "The key elements of PSP-V 2.0 are setting up of a state-of-art digital ecosystem, process overhauling and integration among various stakeholders and database, improving citizen interface, upgrading technology, adopting best practices and strengthening data security," the MEA said in a statement. At present, 93 PSKs, 428 POPSKs and 36 passport offices are operational across the country. The programme has recently been connected to more than 176 Indian missions/ posts through the Global Passport Seva Programme (GPSP). The MEA said security aspects, including strategic assets such as data centres, database and the application software will be owned by the government, adding there would be strict access controls across the system, incorporating biometrics. It said to improve the quality of Government to Citizen (G2C) services, the "Passport Seva Programme would be embarking on technology upgrade with the use of biometrics, artificial intelligence, advance data analytics, chat-bot, auto-response, natural language processing, cloud enablement." "The issuance of e-Passports for enhanced customer satisfaction, increased security and next level of citizen experience will also be unveiled in the upgraded PSP-V 2.0," it said. The MEA said the attributes of being responsive, caring, considerate, and transparent would continue to be the guiding principle of the passport seva programme.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mea-inks-pact-with-tcs-for-second-phase-of-passport-seva-programme-1068859.html
07-01-2022||National||Third Covid-19 wave in India: A look at worst-hit states||Fresh Covid-19 cases in India breached the 1-lakh mark on Friday for the first time since June with over 1.17 lakh new infections, in a worrisome surge led by the more transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The Union Health Ministry is coordinating with health authorities to control the spike of Omicron cases which crossed 3,000 across India on Friday and pulled up nine states for low testing. As per the health ministry, the Omicron infection has spread to 27 states and UTs. Maharashtra and Delhi appear to be the worst-impacted states in this new wave as all-too-familiar curbs like weekend lockdowns and night curfews came back into force in states. Here is a look at the numbers from the worst-affected states. Maharashtra In a massive spike, Maharashtra logged 36,265 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, 36 per cent more than the previous day with Mumbai alone registering 20,181 infections, a fresh record for the city, while 13 more patients succumbed to the disease. The state has the most number of Omicron infections at 867 on Friday. To fight off this surge, the state has put restrictions on public gatherings, with Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till January 15. Delhi The national capital reported 15,097 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 8, and six deaths, while the positivity rate mounted to 15.34 per cent. This rise is the highest since May 8, 2021, when 17,364 cases were reported with a positivity rate of 23.34 per cent. As many as 332 deaths were also recorded on that day. On Wednesday and Tuesday, 10,665 and 5,481 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 11.88 per cent and 8.37 per cent, respectively, according to official figures. The national capital has 465 Omicron cases of which 57 have recovered. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi is expected to add 17,000 cases to its coronavirus infection tally with a positivity rate of around 17 per cent on Friday. The minister added that no lockdown is necessary for the capital yet, even as weekend lockdowns and night curfews during weekdays have been imposed.  West Bengal In West Bengal, 15,421 people tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 16,93,744. This was a spike of 1,399 over the previous day. The state's coronavirus death toll rose to 19,846 as 19 more patients succumbed to the infection. The state had recorded 20 Omicron cases on Thursday. Kolkata registered the highest number of new cases at 6,569, followed by 2,560 in neighbouring North 24 Parganas district and 1,248 in Howrah. Seven fatalities were recorded in North 24 Parganas and three in Kolkata, it said. The Mamata Banerjee government put in strict curbs for the state earlier this week, with schools and colleges shut and public places like cinemas and hotels operating at 50 per cent capacity. Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu saw a new peak in Covid-19 cases on Thursday as 6,983 people tested positive, pushing the total caseload to 27,67,432 with 11 more fatalities taking the toll to 36,825. Eight districts, including the state capital, accounted for the majority of new infections which have been on an upward trend over the last few days.  The sharpest increase in fresh infections was reported in Chennai with 3,759 cases. Chennai had reported 2,481 new cases on Wednesday.  The state has recorded 121 Omicron cases so far. Chief Minister M K Stalin Thursday imposed a night curfew in the state and announced a complete lockdown on Sunday to stop the surge.   Karnataka With 5,031 daily cases, Karnataka continued to witness a surge in numbers on Thursday, but it reported only one death, taking the count to 30,22,603 and the fatalities toll to 38,358. The state logged 4,246 on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 4,324 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 172 being discharged. The total number of active cases is now 22,173.  Karnataka on Friday reported 107 new cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus taking the total count to 333 in the state, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said. The state had imposed a night curfew on December 28 to control Omicron surge during the New Year celebrations but extended it for two weeks in January in the wake of new rise Covid-19 cases. There is also a weekend lockdown in the state from January 7.  Kerala Kerala logged 4,649 fresh cases and 221 deaths on Thursday which raised the caseload to 52,58,939 and the fatalities to 49,116. Of the deaths, 17 were recorded over the last few days and 204 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. Kerala recorded 50 new Omicron cases taking the total to 284 on Friday.  Gujarat Gujarat recorded 4,213 new cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking its tally to 8,44,856, while one patient succumbed to the infection in the state. The Covid toll rose to 10,127 with one more death reported during the day (in Tapi district). As many as 1,835 new infections emerged in Ahmedabad city alone, followed by 1,105 in Surat city, 183 in Rajkot city and 112 in Anand district. The state, which is also under a night curfew, has 204 Omicron cases so far. Jharkhand Jharkhand added 3,704 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, up from 3,553 infections reported the previous day pushing the caseload in the disease to 3,65,222. Five districts of the state accounted for a majority of the new cases. Ranchi reported 1,309 fresh infections as against 1,316 on Wednesday. The cumulative toll stood at 5,153 with four deaths reported during the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported on Wednesday. Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh recorded 3,121 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Thursday. The new fatality, reported from Meerut, raised the death toll from the pandemic to 22,917 in the state. Among new cases, a maximum of 600 were reported from Gautam Buddha Nagar, 408 from Lucknow, 401 from Meerut and 382 from Ghaziabad, a health department release said. Omicron tally in Uttar Pradesh is 31. The rising cases prompted the state to shut all schools up to Class 10. The Yogi Adityanath government also extended the night curfew by two hours on Tuesday and is now imposed from 10 pm to 6 am. (With agency inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-19-wave-in-india-a-look-at-worst-hit-states-1068863.html
07-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' app case: Neeraj Bishnoi remained glued to his laptop all the time, says father||Neeraj Bishnoi, the B Tech student, who was arrested by Delhi Police from his residence in Assam in the 'Bulli Bai' app case, remained glued to his laptop, which was provided by Assam government after he did well in his Class 10 examinations, his father Dashrath Bishnoi told reporters in Assam.  "Since he got admission in the Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal, he was doing classes online due to the Covid-19 restrictions. He was busy in studies all the time. I don't know what is happening but my heart says he has not done what he is being accused of," Dashrath, who is a shopkeeper in eastern Assam's Jorhat town, said soon after Neeraj was picked up by a team of cops on Thursday. "He got 82 per cent marks in Class 10 [exams] and so he got the laptop under a scheme of the state government. The police team seized the laptop and a mobile phone," he further said. Bishnoi originally hails from Rajasthan but shifted to Assam years ago. The family now lives in Digambar Chowk area in Jorhat. He is the youngest of three siblings.  Neeraj, who is a second-year student of computer science in VIT, Bhopal, was suspended by the institute hours after his arrest in the case.  Delhi Police on Thursday claimed Neeraj was the "main conspirator and creator” of the derogatory ‘Bulli Bai’ app on GitHub platform and the owner of the app that posted pictures of over 100 Muslim women and conducted online auctions. He is also the creater of the main Twitter account of the app, police said. Jorhat SP Ankur Jain said Delhi Police had shared an IP (Internet Protocol) address of the device used by Neeraj and sought their help for his arrest. He was accordingly traced and arrested on Wednesday night.  The 'Bulli Bai' app, which surfaced six months after a similar 'Sulli Deals' app surfaced, came to light on January 1 when some of the women whose pictures were used and auctioned online spotted these on Twitter. An outrage followed and Union Information and Technology Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw assured action. Delhi Police had registered a case on the basis of a complaint by Ismat Ara, a journalist with news portal The Wire. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-app-case-neeraj-bishnoi-remained-glued-to-his-laptop-all-the-time-says-father-1068866.html
07-01-2022||National||Covid vaccine doses administered in India surpass 150 crore mark||India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 150 crore mark on Friday. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya termed it an "historic achievement" made possible because of the relentless hard work of healthcare workers under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When everyone makes efforts together then any goal can be achieved, Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi. The Covid vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on October 21, leading to celebratory events in various parts of the country. According to health ministry officials, over 91 per cent of the adult population has received at least one dose while over 66 per cent have been fully vaccinated. Over 22 per cent of eligible adolescents have been vaccinated with the first dose since the vaccination for this age group began on January 3. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-surpass-150-crore-mark-1068873.html
07-01-2022||National||Sole testimony of rape survivor enough for conviction: Allahabad HC||In a significant verdict, the Allahabad High Court ruled that the sole testimony of a rape survivor was enough to "sustain" the conviction of the accused. A single bench of Justice Rajendra Kumar IV of the court gave the ruling on Thursday while dismissing a criminal appeal preferred by one Mustakeem against the order of the trial court in Shahjahanpur district sentencing him to undergo four years rigorous imprisonment and with a fine. According to the prosecution, the accused caught hold of the victim, then only nine years old, when she was out looking for her brother and tried to rape her after taking her to a secluded place in August 1987. ''At the outset, it is required to be noted that in the present case, the prosecutrix has fully supported the case of the prosecution. She has been consistent right from the very beginning. Nothing has been specifically pointed out why the sole testimony of the prosecutrix should not be believed,'' the court observed. ''Even after thorough cross-examination, she has stood by what she has stated and has fully supported the case of the prosecution. I see no reason to doubt the credibility and/or trustworthiness of the prosecutrix. The submission on behalf of the accused that no other independent witnesses have been examined and/or supported the case of the prosecution and the conviction on the basis of the sole testimony of the prosecutrix cannot be sustained,'' it added. ''In the case of Ganesan V State, the court has observed and held that there can be a conviction on the sole testimony of the victim/prosecutrix when the deposition of the prosecutrix is found to be trustworthy, unblemished, credible and her evidence is of sterling quality,'' it further stated. The court cited another ruling and said that there was no legal compulsion to look for any other evidence to corroborate the evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order of conviction. ''Evidence has to be weighed and not counted. A conviction can be recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if her evidence inspires confidence and there is absence of circumstances which militate against her veracity,'' it said. ''It is now a well-settled principle of law that conviction can be sustained on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if it inspires confidence,'' the court added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sole-testimony-of-rape-survivor-enough-for-conviction-allahabad-hc-1068875.html
07-01-2022||National||Centre mandates 7-day home quarantine for all international arrivals||All international passengers arriving in India will have to undergo a mandatory seven-day quarantine at home and RT-PCR test on the eighth day, the Union Health Ministry said in a revised travel guideline on Friday amidst a Omicron-powered third wave of Covid-19 cases. The new guideline will come into effect from January 11, superseding the existing one. “All travelers (including those 2% who were selected for random testing on arrival and were found negative) will undergo home quarantine for 7 days and shall undertake RT-PCR test on the 8th day of arrival in India,” says the new guideline. Travelers are required to upload the RT-PCR results on the Air Suvidha portal. If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for next 7 days. If they are tested positive, their samples would be further sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network while they would be undergoing treatment. Almost similar protocols are in place for people coming from “At Risk” countries with an additional condition of mandatory testing of every passenger on arrival. They will have to wait at the designated areas in the airport till the result comes. If negative, they can leave the airport or board a connecting flight but would have to undergo RT-PCR test on the 8th day and upload the result on the portal. If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for another seven days. Currently, every European nation and 18 others are in the category of “At Risk” countries. They are South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zambia. The modification in the travel guideline comes at a time when a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, driven by the Omicron variant, has begun to rise at an unprecedented rate infecting more than 100,000 persons in 10 days. The World Health Organisation on Thursday said while Omicron appeared to be less severe compared to Delta, especially in those vaccinated, it did not mean the variant should be categorised as ‘mild’. “Just like previous variants; Omicron is hospitalising people and killing people. The tsunami of cases is so huge and quick, it is overwhelming health systems around the world,” said WHO director general Tedros Ghebreyesus. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mandates-7-day-home-quarantine-for-all-international-arrivals-1068878.html
07-01-2022||National||FIR lodged against Jawed Habib||An FIR has been registered against hairstylist Jawed Habib after a video went viral showing him spitting on a woman's head while giving her a haircut. Following this, another video of the woman, Pooja Gupta, narrating the incident also went viral. The woman explained her displeasure over the incident and said she would never get a haircut from Habib again. The video was of a seminar conducted by the hairstylist on January 3. In the video, Habib is heard telling the audience: "If there is a shortage of water, use saliva." The FIR was lodged at Mansurpur police station in Muzaffarnagar on a complaint filed by Gupta. Habib has been booked under Section 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person, otherwise than on grave provocation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the police said. The hairstylist has apologised for the incident in a video on his Instagram account. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-lodged-against-jawed-habib-1068881.html
07-01-2022||National||TMC MP Derek O’Brien seeks Parliamentary panel probe into 'Tek Fog' app||With a media report claiming that the BJP IT Cell using an App to manipulate trends and sending messages through inactive WhatsApp accounts, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien has demanded that a Parliamentary panel look into the use of ‘Tek Fog’ as it is a “severe danger” to national and citizens’ security. O’Brien wrote to Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Chairman Anand Sharma asking him to take up the issue in the next meeting of the multi-party panel, as it is “imperative” that the panel takes cognizance of the issue as it concerns national security. “The existence and usage of manipulative technologies like Tek Fog is a severe danger to national and citizens’ security, a violation of our Fundamental Rights to Privacy and Free Speech, an exploitation of public discourse, and a defilement of the country's democracy and security,” he wrote in the letter. His letter came as news portal The Wire reported that the BJP IT Cell was purportedly using the controversial App and allegedly hijacking trending topics on social media platforms like Twitter and taking control of inactive WhatsApp accounts and sending messages to frequently contacted numbers of the account among other things. O’Brien said the use of the App, which is a “social media manipulator and hijacker software”, has “serious ramifications and could jeopardise national security”. He said App is capable of “penetrating encrypted messaging platforms and secure social media conversations, in order to heavily manipulate and exploit narratives on said platforms”. According to the report, Tek Fog can generate artificial retweeting and sharing through its auto-retweet or auto-share feature that could result in doctoring trending topics. Those using the App can bypass programming as well as the verification process to activate dormant WhatsApp accounts. The App also allows any evidence of the activities it undertook. “It is imperative that this matter be taken cognizance of, by the members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs which deals with matters of national security,” O’Brien said, seeking to discuss the matter in the “forthcoming meeting” of the committee. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mp-derek-o-brien-seeks-parliamentary-panel-probe-into-tek-fog-app-1068883.html
07-01-2022||National||Goa opposition MLA hints at four-party coalition against BJP for upcoming polls||With the Election Commission of India (ECI) likely to announce the schedule for the upcoming Assembly elections in five states, opposition parties appear to be angling for a broader coalition against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Two days after former Deputy Chief Minister Sudin Dhavalikar, whose Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, has already announced pre-poll alliance with the Trinamool Congress, said that a third party was likely to join the two-party combine soon, Vijai Sardesai, a sitting MLA and president of the Goa Forward party which is allied with the Congress, has called for a greater coalition in the battle against the ruling party. "BEAT THEIR GAME PLAN! @BJP4Goa will use #COVIDThirdWave restrictions to manipulate the electoral process to grab power. We must, along with @INCGoa, @AITC4Goa and #MGP must see this danger, rise above our egos, and thwart this plan to divide and rule. This is what #Goa wants," Sardesai tweeted on Friday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-opposition-mla-hints-at-four-party-coalition-against-bjp-for-upcoming-polls-1068886.html
07-01-2022||National||UGC asks varsities to accept degree, marksheets available in DigiLocker accounts as valid documents||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed all varsities and colleges to accept degrees, marksheets and other documents available in DigiLocker accounts as valid documents. "As you are aware, the National Academic Depository (NAD) is an online storehouse of academic awards (degrees and mark-sheets) lodged by the academic institutions in a digital format. It facilitates students to get authentic documents and certificates in digital format directly from their original issuers anytime and anywhere without any physical interference,” the UGC said in a letter to varsities. The Ministry of Education (MoE) has designated the UGC as an authorised body to implement NAD as a permanent scheme without levy of any user charges in co-operation with the Digilocker as a single depository of NAD. Academic institutions can register themselves and upload academic awards of their institution on NAD through Digilocker NAD portal. The Digilocker platform of the Ministry of Electronics and Information technology (MeitY) has the facility to pull students’ degree marksheets and other documents into the issued documents section in an electronic form once uploaded through the DigiLocker NAD platform by the original issuer. These electronic records available on DigiLocker platform are valid documents as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000. "To enhance the reach of the NAD programmes, all academic institutions are requested to accept degree, marksheets and other documents available in issued documents in DigiLocker account as valid documents,” it added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-asks-varsities-to-accept-degree-marksheets-available-in-digilocker-accounts-as-valid-documents-1068893.html
07-01-2022||National||'My name is Kovid and I am not a virus'||As Covid-19 continues to ravage the world, a person named Kovid Kapoor has become some comedic relief on social media in an otherwise harrowing situation. Kapoor's name is notably similar to the disease that Coronavirus causes.  Kapoor, the co-founder of a travel website called Holidify, has also found humour in the whole situation. "My name is Kovid and I'm not a virus," he wrote as his Twitter bio, a reference to a popular dialogue in Shah Rukh Khan-starrer 'My Name is Khan' He often shares on social media about how people are amused to know his name after the Covid-19 pandemic. "Future foreign trips are going to be fun!" he wrote in a tweet that has now gone viral.  Went outside India for the first time since COVID and got a bunch of people amused by my name. 😂 Future foreign trips are going to be fun! Explaining the origin of his name, Kapoor said, "It comes from Hanuman Chaleesa - kavi kovid kahi sake kaha te - and means vidvaan/scholar/learned," he said, according to Hindustan Times "The D is pronounced with a soft 'd', like 'darwaaza' in Hindi or Urdu," he added. For those on this thread, wondering what my name actually means - it means scholar / learned.Comes in the Hanumaan Chaleesa. Also, it's pronounced as कोविद not कोविड 😅 Kapoor's Twitter profile is now filled with various instances where people have either mistook his name to mean Covid-19 or just poked fun at the situation. In one instance, following a Twitter user's comment saying "Hope people didn't see you with a Corona beer", Kapoor tweeted a picture of himself posing with a Corona beer bottle.  About the attention he is getting from the internet, Kapoor told the publication: "I'm loving it! Gotten so much attention since yesterday, it's unbelievable! I feel like a mini-celeb - giving radio interviews, for example. Although it will probably wear out in a few days, I'm having a great time so far." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-name-is-kovid-and-i-am-not-a-virus-1068894.html
07-01-2022||National||India's GDP to grow 9.2% in FY22||India's economy is likely to return to the growth path in the current financial year ending March 31, 2022, after a steep contraction of 7.3 per cent in the previous year due to the deadly Covid-19 waves that almost brought the economy to a standstill. The first advance estimates released by the government pegged the gross domestic product (GDP) growth in fiscal 2021-22 at 9.2 per cent. This is below 9.5 per cent projection by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The Gross Value added, which strips out indirect taxes and subsidies, is expected to grow at 8.6 per cent as against a contraction of 6.2 per cent last year. The nominal GDP, on the base of which the government assumes next financial year's (2022-23) growth rate and calculates taxes and deficits, grew at 17.6 per cent. Real GDP or GDP at Constant Prices (2011-12) is estimated at Rs 147.54 lakh crore in 2021-22, as against the provisional estimate of Rs135.13 lakh crore, released on May 31, 2021. Farm sector growth is estimated at 3.9 per cent, mining sector growth 14.3 per cent, manufacturing sector growth 12.5 per cent, and construction sector is estimated to grow at 10.7 per cent rate in the current year. "Compared to the pre-Covid performance of FY2020, the advance estimates project a rise of 1.3 per cent and 1.9 per cent, respectively, for GDP and GVA in FY2022. Most conspicuous amongst the disaggregated data is the weak performance of private final consumption expenditure and trade, hotel, transport, communication, etc. which are pegged to trail their FY2020 levels by 2.9 per cent and a considerable 8.5 per cent, respectively, underscoring the lingering impact of Covid-19 on the Indian economy. "The widening restrictions triggered by Omicron will thwart the nascent recovery in the contact-intensive services, notwithstanding the widening vaccine coverage. Amidst the ongoing uncertainty, we currently peg the impact of Omicron on GDP growth in Q4 FY2022 at around 40 bps, posing a mild downside to our FY2022 GDP growth forecast of 9.0 per cent," said Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist of ICRA. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-gdp-to-grow-92-in-fy22-1068896.html
07-01-2022||National||Former IAS officer to write Ratan Tata's authorised biography||A former IAS officer, who wrote a series of books on the birds, official visits and other nudgets of Rashtrapati Bhavan, will now turn his attention to tell the life story one of the most successful businessmen in the country Ratan Tata with inputs from people ranging from Henry Kissinger to Karuna, a janitor in a hospital Karuna. Dr Thomas Mathew, a 1983-batch officer who was Additional Secretary to Pranab Mukherjee when he was President, will pen the authorised biography of the Tata Son's Chairman Emeritus and is likely to hit the stands in November this year. Harper Collins on Friday announced that it has bagged the global rights for 'Ratan N Tata: An Authorised Biography'. It will tell the story of Tata, who overcame "extraordinary travails and whose compassion took priority over business compulsions, uniquely achieving both goals" as well as "encapsulates the narrative of India’s growing ambitions on the world stage and rising clout in the last few decades", the publisher said. Mathew will be drawing stories about Tata from the likes of former US Secretary of State Kissinger to Karuna, the janitor at GT Hospital in Mumbai. "What emerges is the story of a private individual, a great industrialist and a remarkable leader who steadfastly believes, above all, in the values that he inherited, and who spent his life in the service of his fellow humans and a fledgling nation," the publisher said. The book promises to provide a comprehensive account of Tata’s life, which includes "unknown details and fascinating stories" from his formative years, the time he spent in America as a student, his return to India and his early tenure with the Tata Group as well as his "inspiring and engaging" business strategies, leadership vision and personal integrity that have shaped the Group. Mathew said he had the opportunity to closely observe and interact with the Indian corporate ecosystem over the last four decades and in the later years with Tata and the Tata Group, in particular.  "So, when I got the opportunity to write the story of the man whose name instantly evokes intense admiration, bordering on adulation, among people across the world, I had no doubt that it would be far and away an exciting yet daunting task. As part of the research, I benefited from unprecedented access to the records of the conglomerate, the trusts that control it as well as Tata’s personal documents, letters and journals," he said. "I also enjoyed virtually unfettered access to Tata himself, who narrated his life story in a tell-all fashion. The research also took me across continents following Tata’s journey, interviewing those who were involved in it, those who influenced him and those whose lives he had touched," he said. HarperCollins India CEO Ananth Padmanabhan said they cannot wait to publish the book in multiple formats and languages, across geographies and that its publication would be a "global publishing event of significance".  HarperCollins India Executive Publisher Udayan Mitra said the biography explores the professional and private life of Tata, a man everyone respects but would not fully know if it were not for this book.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ias-officer-to-write-ratan-tatas-authorised-biography-1068918.html
07-01-2022||National||India to become hub for Covid-19 antiviral generic drugs: Fitch||India will become the largest global hub for Covid-19 antiviral general drug production after the drug controller granted emergency-use authorisation to several pharmaceutical companies in the country to manufacture and market generic versions of molnupiravir, Fitch Solutions said Friday. Increased access to molnupiravir will keep hospitalisations and deaths in India to a manageable level as Omicron infections rise, Fitch Solutions said in a report. Those granted authorisation by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) include Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Torrent Pharmaceuticals, Cipla, Sun Pharma, Natco Pharma, Viatris, Hetero Drugs and Mankind Pharma. Lagevrio (Molnupiravir) was developed by Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, and it is the first ever oral antiviral drug for the treatment of high-risk adults with mild to moderate Covid-19. Following the authorisation, Cipla, Sun Pharma, and Dr Reddy's Laboratories are set to release molnupiravir capsules in the coming weeks, and the rest of the companies will follow. "This will make India the largest global hub for Covid-19 antiviral generic drug productions," it said. "The efficacy of molnupiravir during its MOVe-OUT phase III trial has been largely promising, with a 50 reduction in hospitalisation and death in early-stage infections." However, safety concerns remain on its risk of inducing harmful mutagenesis if the drug is prescribed globally, creating the potential for new Covid-19 strains. The Covid-19 second wave in India peaked during April and May 2021 when daily averages cases topped 4 lakh. Caseloads have dropped significantly since then, with the national tally remaining one under 10,000 cases per day for the rest of the year. However, in recent days, there has been a surge in daily Covid-19 cases driven by the Omicron variant which is set to overtake Delta as the dominant variant. On January 6, 2022, Covid-19 cases increased to 1,17,100 with 3,007 of these cases confirmed as the Omicron variant, according to the Union Ministry of Health. "Moreover, India continues to lag behind in its Covid-19 Vaccine rollout target as 44.5 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated," Fitch Solutions said quoting Our World In Data. "Therefore, given the slow vaccination and recent sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, generic versions of molnupiravir could significantly reduce risk of hospitalization admission or deaths." Generic molnupiravir will increase access in India and other low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), while simplifying current supply chain obstacles, it said. A full five-day treatment course with molnupiravir in the US costs around $712 (Rs 52,909). Generic versions of the drug will cost between $18.79 (about Rs 1,400) to $21.48 (about Rs 1,600) for a five-day course, which is significantly lower, according to Fitch Solutions. For instance, Dr. Reddy has set the price of its molnupiravir generic version, molflu, at $0.4693 (Rs 35) per capsule and $18.79 (Rs 1,400) for a five-day course of 40 capsules. "With this relatively low cost, we expect molnupiravir generic versions to significantly increase access in India and other LMICs after regulatory approvals," it said. Moreover, these oral antiviral drugs will lead to lower costs of transport and distribution compared with Covid-19 intravenous antivirals such as Ronapreve (casirivimab/imdevimab) or Veklury (remdesivir). Having a solid, compact form, oral drugs does not need containment requirement of glass vials and the tablets can be tightly packed without risk of breakage. Similarly, a larger quantity of the drug can be contained within a set space, increasing the rate at which the drug can be distributed, it added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-become-hub-for-covid-19-antiviral-generic-drugs-fitch-1068921.html
07-01-2022||National||UK drilling down on charity licences in India, House of Lords told||The UK government has asked for specific numbers over a period to drill-down on the use of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) by the Indian government around funding licences of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the House of Lords was informed during a debate. Peers in the Upper House of the UK Parliament debated the issue on Thursday following a question raised by crossbench peer Lord Harries of Pentregarth, asking what representations the British government had made to its Indian counterparts about the “blocking of overseas funds for the Missionaries of Charity and other non-governmental organisations”. The charity founded by Mother Teresa in Kolkata was recently denied an FCRA renewal along with other NGOs, a move the Indian government has said is a matter of “routine processing” by the Ministry of Home Affairs under “well-established procedure and long-standing administrative practice”. “We are aware of some non-governmental organisations that face difficulties in India due to the use of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act by the Indian government, and that some have recently had applications to renew their foreign funding licences rejected,” said Lord Tariq Ahmad, responding to questions on behalf of the UK government as Minister of State in the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). “On the issue of the licence in India, I have looked into this specifically, and we do not know why its applications were rejected. I have asked and pressed to see the kinds of numbers that currently exist,” he said, in reference to the Missionaries of Charity. Lord Harries pressed the minister on the matter and questioned whether the action against the charity was to prevent people coming “into contact with Christianity and eventually convert to it”. “Among the 12,580 organisations whose licences have ceased to exist, some ceased to exist because they did not submit their applications in time, and others were rejected for other reasons. There are Christian NGOs, but there are also 250 Hindu NGOs and more than 250 Muslim NGOs, so whether this is specifically against Christian organisations is not shown by the data, but I am requesting further information in this respect,” Ahmad said in response. Lord Alton of Liverpool asked if the government had studied the list of organisations which have lost their licences, which number “as high as 3,000”. Ahmad, who holds the brief of Minister for South Asia, replied: “Because of the constructive nature of our engagement, we are able to raise this not just with the Indian High Commission here in London but in a constructive manner with the Indian government directly. “The noble Lord points to specific numbers. As I alluded to earlier, I have asked specifically for a drill-down on the numbers over a period, so that I can analyse directly which organisations are impacted and the reasons why these licences have been revoked, to allow us to make much more qualified representation,” Ahmad said. The debate, which involved a section of cross-party peers, covered concerns around international civil society organisations being hampered in their work to fight poverty in India and also raised the issue of organisations such as Amnesty International and Oxfam being “starved of funds” in India. Ahmad said the UK government had taken up the issue of Amnesty International directly but that it continues to “provide challenge”. “However, because of our lobbying and representations, we welcomed the recent High Court decision in Karnataka which allowed Amnesty to access some of its funds,” the minister said. The Indian High Commission in London said it would not like to comment on a discussion between members of Parliament of the UK. “However, on the subject: it appears to need reiteration that this is a matter of routine processing by India’s Ministry of Home Affairs – of renewal applications for FCRA approval – submitted by thousands of India-based entities including the Missionaries of Charity,” a High Commission statement said. “An examination of facts would make it clear that no single community, religion or source of funding has been particularly ‘targeted’ or any accounts frozen by the government of India. It would be seen that all these applications for renewal of FCRA licences have been processed as per well-established procedure and long-standing administrative practice – which, in most countries, are recognised as a part of good governance,” the statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-drilling-down-on-charity-licences-in-india-house-of-lords-told-1068924.html
07-01-2022||National||Centre asks states to facilitate easy movement of telecom staff for uninterrupted connectivity||With many states announcing weekend lockdowns due to rising Covid-19 cases, the Department of Telecom (DoT) has urged chief secretaries of states to facilitate easy movement of staff and field engineers of telecom companies to ensure uninterrupted connectivity and services. Telecom Secretary K Rajaraman, in his letter to Chief Secretaries of states, said that staff, personnel and field engineers of communications and infrastructure providers should be exempt from the e-pass process, and that their movement should be allowed on the basis of valid company ID under the 'essential service category'. People engaged in providing and maintaining such services are accorded permissions, including for travel by local trains, public and their personal transport, he said in the letter. Drawing attention to the "urgent" need of facilitating operations of telecom services to ensure connectivity without interruption, the telecom secretary mentioned that the DoT has received submissions from industry bodies requesting to allow telecom companies' field staff easy movement during Covid-19 curbs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-facilitate-easy-movement-of-telecom-staff-for-uninterrupted-connectivity-1068933.html
07-01-2022||National||SC grants last opportunity to Centre to file reply on PIL for identifying minorities at state level||The Supreme Court Friday granted the "last opportunity" to the Centre to file its reply on a PIL seeking directions for framing of guidelines identifying minorities at the state level as Hindus are in a minority in 10 states and are not able to avail the benefits of schemes meant for minorities. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh asked the Centre to file its response within four weeks after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought more time. Senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for the petitioner, sought transfer to the Supreme Court of the petitions on similar issue which are pending in various high courts. The apex court also allowed the plea seeking transfer of cases from several high courts to it against the Centre's notification to declare five communities -- Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis -- as minorities and tagged the matter with the main petition. Petitioner-advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay sought a fixed date of hearing from the bench but the top court posted the matter after seven weeks. "Look at the environment. Let it stabilise. Next week we are taking only urgent matters. We do not know how things will work out in the next two-three weeks. Let things stabilise," the bench said. Upadhyay in his plea has also challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004 for giving unbridled power to the Centre and being manifestly arbitrary, irrational and offending. The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, said the denial of benefits to the "real" minorities and arbitrary and unreasonable disbursements under schemes meant for them to the absolute majority infringe upon the fundamental right under the Constitution. "Direct and declare that followers of Judaism, Bahaism & Hinduism, who are minorities in Laddakh, Mizoram, Lakshdweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, can establish & administer educational institutions of their choice in spirit of the TMA Pai Ruling," the plea said. The apex court in the TMA Pai Foundation case held that the state is well within its rights to introduce a regulatory regime in the national interest to provide minority educational institutions with well-qualified teachers in order for them to achieve excellence in education. Quoting Article 30 of the Constitution, the plea said that minorities whether based on religion or language shall have the right to establish-administer educational institutions of their choice. "Rational basis of declaring certain religions as minority by central government as they have less population in the states is contravened when benefits of schemes for minority are acquired by those religious minorities in states where they are in majority and those religious communities who are actually minorities are not been given equal status," the plea said. The petition said that denial of minority rights to actual religious and linguistic minorities is a violation of right of minority enshrined under Articles 14 (equality before the law) and 21 (no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law) of the Constitution.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-last-opportunity-to-centre-to-file-reply-on-pil-for-identifying-minorities-at-state-level-1068935.html
07-01-2022||National||PLA to give out stones taken from Galwan Valley on Chinese social media||China is pulling a new stunt as the Western Theater Command of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) debuted on Chinese social media on Friday. PLA will give lucky winners a special gift sent by the command - a stone taken from the Galwan Valley, Global Times reported. The PLA theater command opened its official account on Twitter-like Sina Weibo on Friday and released a notice that on February 1 it will randomly choose 10 lucky netizens from those who reposted the notice and send them a stone from the Galwan Valley as a present. "A picture with Chinese soldiers patrolling the Galwan Valley, with a rockface seen in the post reading in Chinese characters "Splendid landscape, no inch to give up" was posted together with the notice," Global Times reported. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pla-to-give-out-stones-taken-from-galwan-valley-on-chinese-social-media-1068948.html
07-01-2022||National||Pakistan blames India for hampering SAARC process||Pakistan on Friday blamed India for obstructing the SAARC process and alleged that New Delhi's “myopic attitude” was rendering a valuable platform for regional cooperation increasingly dysfunctional. SAARC - a regional grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka - has not been very effective since 2016 and its biennial summits have not taken place since the last one in Kathmandu in 2014. Pakistan Foreign Office Spokesperson Asim Iftikhar said India’s "obstruction of the SAARC process was an established fact." Pakistan’s response came a day after India said there was no "material change" in the situation that would allow holding of the stalled SAARC Summit. “You are aware of the background as to why the SAARC summit has not been held since 2014. There has been no material change in the situation since then. Therefore, there is still no consensus that would permit holding of the summit," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing in New Delhi. Iftikhar rejected Bagchi’s statement as “false." “Motivated by its partisan reasons, and acting in violation of Charter provisions requiring exclusion of bilateral issues, India was responsible for stymieing the 19th SAARC Summit scheduled to take place in Pakistan in 2016,” the spokesperson said in a statement. The 2016 SAARC Summit was originally planned to be held in Islamabad on November 15-19, 2016. But after a terror attack on an Indian Army camp in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir on September 18 that year, India expressed its inability to participate in the summit due to "prevailing circumstances". The summit was called off after Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan also declined to participate in the Islamabad meet. Iftikhar said India’s “myopic attitude” was rendering a valuable platform for regional cooperation increasingly dysfunctional. “Pakistan hoped that India would review its self-serving approach and enable the SAARC process to move forward for the progress and prosperity of the peoples of South Asia. For its part, Pakistan remained ready to host the next SAARC Summit as soon as the artificial obstacles created in its way were removed,” he said. The bilateral relations deteriorated after India withdrew the special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into two union territories in August, 2019. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. The Pakistan Foreign Office Spokesperson’s remarks come days after the country’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said his country was ready to host the 19th SAARC Summit and India can join it virtually if the leadership in New Delhi is not willing to visit Islamabad. "I reiterate the invitation for the 19th SAARC summit. If India is not ready to come to Islamabad, it can join virtually… but it should not stop others from attending the moot,” he said on Monday. Last month. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed hope that Islamabad would host the much-delayed meeting when the "artificial obstacle" created in its way is removed. Khan made the remarks during his meeting with Secretary-General of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, who paid a courtesy call on the prime minister here.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-blames-india-for-hampering-saarc-process-1068980.html
07-01-2022||National||Border dispute: India, China 14th round military talks likely next week||India and China military delegates are likely to hold talks on January 12 to deliberate over ways to de-escalate the border dispute between the two nations. It would be the 14th round of India and China Corps Commander level military talks focusing on disengagement in the remaining friction areas like Depsang, Hot Springs and others. The talks are happening when China has implemented new border laws from January 1 and has also started construction of a bridge on Pangong Lake in Eastern Ladakh to which India has objected. On Thursday, India had strongly objected to China's illegal construction of a bridge on a part of the Pangong Lake and had stated that the government is monitoring the situation. Talking about reports about a bridge being made by the Chinese side on Pangong lake, the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said, "Government has been monitoring this activity closely. This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware India has never accepted such illegal occupation." The official pointed out that separately, the government has been taking all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected. As part of these efforts the government has also, in the last seven years, increased significantly the budget for the development of border infrastructure and completed more roads and bridges than ever before. "These have provided much needed connectivity to local population as well as logistical support to armed forces. government remains committed to this objective," the official had said. China has been carrying out construction of a bridge connecting the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake for at least two months and is taking place at India's claim of the Line of Actual Control. The bridge to connect the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake will allow the Chinese People's Liberation Army quick access to both sides. India had occupied key heights on the Kailash range on the southern bank in August 2020 giving its troops a strategic advantage as they overlooked the Chinese Moldo garrison. However, with the disengagement in Pangong in February last year India pulled back from the heights as part of a mutual pullback plan to ease tensions. In addition to this, China has implemented its new border law on January 1 that calls for strengthening its border defence, development of villages and infrastructure near the borders. Just ahead of the implementation of the law, China renamed 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh on its map. India and China have been engaged in a border dispute for around two years and are now in talks to resolve the issues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-dispute-india-china-14th-round-military-talks-likely-next-week-1068981.html
07-01-2022||National||Filmmaker Priyadarshan tests Covid-19 positive; hospitalised: Reports||Noted filmmaker, Priyadarshan reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 and was hospitalised on Friday. He has reportedly been admitted in Chennai's Apollo Hospital. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filmmaker-priyadarshan-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-reports-1068990.html
07-01-2022||National||PM Modi could have been killed with drone or telescopic gun: Giriraj Singh on security breach||Union minister Giriraj Singh on Friday described the breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security in Punjab as a conspiracy to trap him in a "well of death" and alleged that he could have been assassinated with a drone or a telescopic gun. An appropriate high-level inquiry into this will reveal that the conspiracy behind the incident is not merely linked to the Punjab chief minister's office but beyond it, Singh said in a tweet. "Trapping the prime minister in the well of death was no coincidence but a conspiracy. He survived due to the blessings of Lord Shiva... It appears that he could have been killed with a drone or telescopic gun," Singh said. Singh also posted pictures and video of Modi's carcade being stranded. There should be a proper probe and no conspirator should be spared, he said. In a major security lapse, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally. The incident triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue. The Centre also set up a three-member panel on Thursday to investigate the security breach. Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari has submitted a report to the Centre regarding the security breach, informing it that an FIR has been lodged in the incident and the state government has formed a two-member panel to investigate lapses Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-could-have-been-killed-with-drone-or-telescopic-gun-giriraj-singh-on-security-breach-1069003.html
07-01-2022||National||India may see 10 lakh Covid cases a day by Jan-end: IISc-ISI model||As the Omicron-triggered third Covid wave enters a key phase, a new projection by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science and Indian Statistical Institute (IISc-ISI) claims that the country is likely to witness over 10 lakh Covid cases a day at January-end/beginning of February when the third wave meets its peak. The Omicron 'Projections January-March 2022 IISc-ISI Model' by Professor Siva Athreya, Professor Rajesh Sundaresan and the team from the Centre for Networked Intelligence at IISc-ISI in Bengaluru predicts that the third Covid wave may peak in January-end and early-February, with daily cases touching 10 lakh. The peak of the third wave will vary for different states and the Covid-19 curve for India could start flattening by March-beginning. "Past infection, vaccination affected by immunity waning makes a certain fraction of the population susceptible to the new variant," said the IISc-ISI model. The model offers data on three levels of susceptibility -- 30 per cent, 60 per cent and 100 per cent. Under the 30 per cent susceptibility criteria, India could see 3 lakh cases per day, 6 lakh cases per day under 60 per cent susceptibility, and 10 lakh cases at 100 per cent susceptibility. Maharashtra could be the worst hit, likely to experience over 175,000 daily cases at its peak (at 100 per cent susceptibility). Maharashtra's single-day Covid-19 caseload shot above the 40,000-mark on Friday. For the 11th consecutive day, the state reported a massive spike in Covid-19 infections and suspect cases whose samples have been sent for genome sequencing. According to the model, Kerala and Tamil Nadu may witness one lakh and over 80,000 daily cases respectively, around the beginning of February. Delhi is likely to see almost 70,000 daily cases by the end of January, according to the IISc-ISI model. Last month, researchers from IIT Kanpur (IIT-K) also predicted that a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic may peak in India by February 3. A report, published in the online preprint health server MedRxiv, said, "Following the trends around the world, this project report forecasts India's third wave may start around mid-December and peak at the beginning of February." The research report used the data of the first and second waves in India, and the current rise in cases triggered by Omicron in various countries, to predict a possible third wave in the country. India's daily number of cases crossed the one-lakh mark as the country registered 1,17,100 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-see-10-lakh-covid-cases-a-day-by-jan-end-iisc-isi-model-1069026.html
07-01-2022||National||Contradictory advices can create confusion on use of anti-Covid medicine Molnupiravir: Health experts||Contradictory advice from two wings of the Union Health Ministry could create confusion on the use of anti-Covid medicine Molnupiravir, health experts warned on Friday, even as its manufacturers asserted that the medicine had demonstrated a significant reduction in hospitalisation and deaths with no observed safety concerns. The Central Drug Standards Control Organisation on December 28 approved the drug for manufacturing by 13 Indian companies on the basis of a recommendation by an expert panel, which cleared it for treating Covid-19 in adults who have a high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death subject to certain conditions. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya too welcomed the approval. But earlier this week ICMR director general Balram Bhargava aired a stern warning on the medicine when asked why Molnupiravir was not a part of the national treatment protocol. “Molnupiravir has major safety concerns including mutagenicity, muscle and bone damage. If this drug is given, contraception has to be done for three months as the child may have problems. So it is not included in the national task force’s treatment (protocol),” he said. Doctors admit that Molnupiravir is a medicine that needs to be administered with caution but it is useful in reducing the risk of hospitalisation or death in a section of patients. “As per law of the land, CDSCO is the drug regulator and enjoys full powers to approve new drugs. If it has any concern on any aspect of drug approval it should take up the issue with CDSCO rather than rushing to the mass media,” Chandra M Gulhati, a former WHO consultant and editor, Monthly Index of Medical Specialities told DH. The US FDA recognised the risks that Bhargava mentioned but still went ahead to clear the medicine observing that its benefits outweighed the risks. The medicine also received regulatory approval in the UK, Australia and New Zealand. "There is some truth in what Bhargava said. But such a statement should come from the Drugs Controller General of India and not from DG, ICMR. Let's not confuse the medical community,” said Abdul Ghafur, an infectious disease specialist and a consultant to Apollo Hospital, Chennai. The US Food and Drug Administration documents show a relative risk reduction of 30% in people who took Molnupiravir as against the placebo. Interim analysis of phase-3 of the clinical trial data, on the other hand, showed a 50% reduction in death and hospitalisation. “We are confident in the clinical profile of Molnupiravir, which demonstrated a significant reduction in the risk of hospitalization or death in our Phase 3 clinical trial with no observed safety concerns when compared to the placebo group,” MSD, the manufacturer of the drug, said in a statement reacting to the ICMR chief’s comment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contradictory-advices-can-create-confusion-on-use-of-anti-covid-medicine-molnupiravir-health-experts-1069040.html
07-01-2022||National||India again sends medicines to Afghanistan, Taliban says thanks||As New Delhi has sent another consignment of life saving medicines to Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital in Kabul, the Taliban’s government in Afghanistan has thanked India for sending humanitarian aid for the people of the conflict-ravaged country. The third batch of medical assistance from India to Afghanistan consisted of two tons of essential life saving medicines. The consignment was handed over to the Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital in the capital of Afghanistan. “India stands committed to continue our special relationship with the people of Afghanistan and provide them humanitarian assistance,” the Ministry of External Affairs of the Government of India stated in New Delhi after the consignment reached Kabul. "In coming weeks, we would be supplying more batches of humanitarian assistance consisting of medicines and foodgrains to Afghanistan,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. New Delhi has not yet recognized the interim government set up by the Taliban in Kabul, but it of late started sending humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. India had earlier supplied 500,000 doses of anti-Covid-19 vaccines and 1.6 tons of medical assistance to Afghanistan through the World Health Organization (WHO). New Delhi also committed to supplying 50,000 tons of wheat as well as more lifesaving medicines as humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. “We are in discussions with Pakistani authorities on the exact modalities of shipment of wheat,” said Bagchi. “The Islamic Emirate (of Afghanistan) is grateful to India for its humanitarian assistance and cooperation,” Zabihullah, the spokesperson of the Taliban’s government in Kabul, tweeted, along with pictures of the consignment of the medicines received from New Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-again-sends-medicines-to-afghanistan-taliban-says-thanks-1069042.html
07-01-2022||National||India sends navy ship to Comoros for technical assistance||Even as Wang met Comorian President Azali Assoumani and assured China’s assistance to the tiny archipelago to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, economic recovery and development of infrastructure, the INS Kesari of the Indian Navy reached the Port of Moroni. New Delhi stated that the Indian Navy ship reached Comoros to help the Coast Guard of the East African nation in repairing a grounded patrol vessel P002-M'kombozi. Commander Moudjib Rahmane Adane, the Chief of Comorian Coast Guard, had made a request to the Indian Navy for assistance in repairing the patrol vessel when he had visited India in November 2021 to participate in the Goa Maritime Conclave. “India extending helping hand to Comoros Coast Guard India Africa Defence Ministers' Conclave at @defexpo2022 to promote similar cooperation,” Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar posted on Twitter after the Embassy of India in Antananarivo (the capital of Madagascar) posted pictures of the INS Kesari at the Port of Moroni in Comoros. India’s embassy in Antananarivo also manages its relations with Comoros. With New Delhi keen to step up its defence relations with the countries in Africa, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will host his counterpart from the continent in a conclave on the sideline of the Def Expo 2022 in Gandhinagar on March 10-13 Comoros is strategically located in the Indian Ocean, straddling the northern mouth of the Mozambique Channel between Mozambique and Madagascar. India has of late been trying to step up its ties with Comoros in order to thwart China’s bid to woo the East African nation into its own orbit of geopolitical influence. Wang also visited Kenya and Eritrea before flying to the Maldives on Friday. He will also visit Sri Lanka, another nation in India’s neighbourhood where China is trying to expand its footprints. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-navy-ship-to-comoros-for-technical-assistance-1069049.html
07-01-2022||National Politics||BJP targeting Channi because he is a Dalit CM: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot claimed on Thursday Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is being targeted for the Prime Minister Narendra Modis security breach because Channi is a Dalit Chief Minister. On Wednesday, the Prime Minister's rally in Ferozepur had to be cancelled due to a security lapse after some protesters blocked a route and forced his convoy to spend about 20 minutes on a flyover. The Prime Minister was enroute to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala when the incident happened. "For the first time in the history of Punjab in Independent India, a Dalit candidate has been appointed as the Chief Minister and he has been welcomed by the entire nation. However, the Prime Minister is giving the message that he managed to exit safely from that state. The PM should not make such a comment," Gehlot said while addressing a press conference at Congress headquarters here. Some people are defaming Congress for political gains by levelling charges of breach of PM's security, he said. "Congress leaders and Prime Ministers have sacrificed their lives for this nation. The party follows non-violence as its ideology, while BJP and RSS have violence in their minds. How can they teach us non-violence," Gehlot asked. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-targeting-channi-because-he-is-a-dalit-cm-gehlot-1068742.html
07-01-2022||National Politics||J&K suffering under bureaucratic rule: NC||The National Conference on Thursday expressed concern over the under-utilisation of development funds for this financial year due to administrative inertia and said that Jammu and Kashmir are facing a crisis-like situation under bureaucratic rule. "There is no accountability in the administration as a result of which the people are suffering on all fronts," the party's provincial president for Jammu Rattan Lal Gupta said in a statement issued here. Gupta said the bureaucracies connect with the people is all-time low which has impacted governance a lot. "The administrative and developmental inertia has led to a chaotic situation. In the current spell of the LG's rule, the people have no access to the top echelons of the administration, especially at a time when the entire Jammu region is reeling under acute power crisis and drinking water supply apart from unprecedented inflation," he said. The NC leader said that all sectors of public service like health, sanitation, power, public health engineering are in shambles and the people have been left in a lurch. Nobody is bothered to take cognisance and note of the problems faced by the citizens, he added. Gupta asked the administration to wake up from its deep slumber and attend to the problems of the people as the entire union territory is reeling under harsh winter, especially in snow-bound areas. The NC leader also exhorted the party's cadre to intensify public outreach, identify people's grievances and submit those to the provincial headquarters so that they can be raised in Parliament as there is no mechanism for their redressal here. He expressed anguish that the J&K bureaucracy is showing "scant regard" to the issues being raised by elected representatives.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jk-suffering-under-bureaucratic-rule-nc-1068758.html
07-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | New slogan for PM after security breach?||Barely 700 people turned up for the BJP rally and that forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "retrace his steps" and later the blame was pinned on the state government citing security threats, said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-new-slogan-for-pm-after-security-breach-1068765.html
07-01-2022||National Politics||Congress a divided house on PM security breach, Manish Tewari calls for single probe||Even as the Congress seems to be a divided house on the issue of Prime Minister's security breach, party MP from Punjab Manish Tewari on Friday termed the two different probes by the Centre and state as a case of polarising. He demanded that there should be one probe committee. "Speaks of Polarising times we live in-Even on a sensitive issue concerning security of @PMOIndia, @PunjabGovtIndia &amp; GOIA have ordered 02 separate probes.Both probes should be merged by SC today &amp; 01 Inquiry by sitting HC/SC judge should be conducted," Tewari tweeted. Tewari on Thursday had demanded a probe by a sitting HC Judge. The Centre has constituted a committee to probe the serious lapse in the security arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Ferozepur, Punjab on Wednesday. In a social media post, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Home Affairs said, "The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has constituted a committee to enquire into the serious lapses in the security arrangements during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Ferozepur, Punjab, on January 5, which led to the exposure of the VVIP to grave security risk." The Punjab government on Thursday announced to constitute a high-level committee for a thorough probe into the lapses. An official spokesperson said the committee would comprise Justice (retd) Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary (Home Affairs) Anurag Verma. The committee will submit its report within three days. "We were told that the Prime Minister would fly by helicopter from Bathinda to Ferozepur. But all of a sudden, he decided to move by road. If there were any security lapses during PM Modi's visit, we are ready to probe the matter," Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had earlier told the media . Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-a-divided-house-on-pm-security-breach-manish-tewari-calls-for-single-probe-1068799.html
07-01-2022||National Politics||We follow Centre's guidelines despite political differences: Mamata to Modi||Despite differences in political outlook, the (Trinamool-led) state government abides and executes Centre’s guidelines, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee told PM Modi, as the two leaders jointly attended a programme after a long time, though virtually. She added that while the PM is formally inaugurating the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, it has already been ‘inaugurated’ by the state. “I am here because of the Prime Minister. As Pradhan Mantriji is virtually inaugurating this project,” she said, adding that the health minister had called her twice and as PM Modi has taken interest in a ‘Calcutta programme’, she was participating. “I would like to say we have already inaugurated this. How have we done it? When covid emeged, we needed a centre. Then, one day I went there. I assessed Rajarhat (based) second Chittaranjan campus, which is attached with the state government,” Mamata said. Subsequently, it was utilised and it was of immense help, she said. Mamata mentioned that 25 per cent of the funding was offered by the state. The state has offered land for the campus and is also taking care of the recurring expenses. Besides stating the importance of Centre-state cooperation for public works, she highlighted the steps her government has taken to strengthen the health infrastructure in the state. PM Modi, speaking later, similarly mentioned steps taken by the Centre over the last few years.  The Bengal chief minister told the PM that scarcity of doctors occurs and quota (of seats) should be increased in medical colleges. "More medical seats should be added, given the fact that there is a big population and covid has emerged, so more doctors are needed," she said. Mamata further said that while PM’s suggestions to add people from ‘outside’ to strengthen the health infrastructure are being followed, such moves are being questioned by the state governor.  “Whatever guidelines Centre gives, no matter whatever is our political outlook, but we do it, 99 per cent,” she said, adding that more vaccination doses are needed by the state and around 40 per cent of vaccines for second-dose have still not been received by the state. PM Modi, who remotely inaugurated the campus, said that the facility will be of immense use for the poor and the middle class, where someone is in need of cancer treatment. He mentioned that the state has been provided 11 crore vaccine doses for free by the Centre, besides ventilators and oxygen cylinders.  Mamata’s mention of having used the campus during an earlier covid surge, and stating that the centre has already been inaugurated, has not gone well with BJP leaders. Amit Malviya, BJP’s co-incharge for West Bengal, tweeted, “Mamata Banerjee is incorrigible. Notwithstanding the fact that she is on path of constant, needless confrontation, she must realise that inaugurating a building as Covid facility is not the same as inaugurating a Cancer facility in a hospital.” Suvendu Adhikari, BJP leader, and the leader of the Opposition in West Bengal Legislative Assembly, tweeted: “Guilefully articulating the emergency usage of an under construction facility as Safe Home during the 2nd wave of Covid, to discredit the formal inauguration of the most advanced fully equipped Cancer facility of Eastern India is a deliberate attempt to mislead the people of WB.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-follow-centres-guidelines-despite-political-differences-mamata-to-modi-1068949.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||3 Jaish militants killed in Kashmir’s Budgam||Three militants affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in Chadoora area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Friday. “All the 03 killed #terrorists affiliated with terror outfit JeM . So far one identified as Waseem of #Srinagar City. 3 AK 56 rifles recovered. After killing of Waseem only 1 terrorist is Srinagar resident (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. In an earlier tweet police said: “#BudgamEncounterUpdate: 03 #terrorists killed in #encounter. Identification & affliation being ascertained. #Incriminating materials including #arms & ammunition recovered.” The gun fight erupted after a joint team of J&K police, army and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in Zolwa-Kralpora area of Chadoora, following inputs about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. As the joint search party approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them who retaliated, triggering off an encounter in which three ultras were killed, he said. The 2022 has started with encounters in Kashmir as the first seven days of 2022 have recorded six gunfights resulting in the killing of 11 militants, including top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander. Out of six gun-battles, Srinagar district witnessed two encounters in a span of just one hour while north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, south Kashmir’s Kulgam and Pulwama district and Budgam district saw one encounter each. Pertinently, 171 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2021 and according to police figures, 156 ultras, including 73 foreigners, were active in Kashmir as on December 31. This is for the first time that the number of active militants in the Valley has come down to less than 200 since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990. In 2021, out of 128 locals who joined militancy, 79 were killed and 17 arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-jaish-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-budgam-1068781.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi weekend curfew: What's allowed and what's not||As the weekend curfew in Delhi will kick in tonight from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. Monday to curb further spread of Covid-19, let us have a look at what will remain shut and what will function as usual, to prepare well: People can step out only in cases of an emergency as shops, malls and markets will be closed and only shops selling essential goods will be allowed to open. While a majority of businesses and shops will remain closed, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has also said that several people will be exempted like:-- Healthcare workers -- Government officials involved in essential and emergency services, such as those working in the health department, police, fire department, public transport etc-- Judges and all Judicial officers I officials /staff members of all courts in Delhi as well as Advocates/Legal Counsels, connected with the case hearing on production of valid I card / Service ID Card / Photo Entry Passes / Permission Letters Issued by the court administration. Staff in offices of diplomats of various countries as well as persons holding any Constitutional post on production of valid I card-- Persons going out for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, on production of valid ID card. Besides, pregnant women and patients in need of medical services, along with an attendant, if they produce a doctor's prescription, people coming from/going to airports/railway stations/lSBTs allowed to travel on production of valid ticket. Electronic and print media on production of valid ID card.-- Students appearing in examinations on production of valid admit card.-- Food delivery services like Swiggy and Zomato-- Those attending weddings on production of soft or hard copy of wedding card. It should be noted that there is a cap of 20 people only at a marriage function. As per the DDMA order, during the weekdays, DTC buses and Delhi Metro will be allowed to function at their full seating capacity and there will be no restrictions on the movement of goods during the nighttime. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-weekend-curfew-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-1068802.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||VIT-Bhopal suspends 'Bulli Bai' accused for 'bringing disrepute to institution'||Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator and main conspirator of the derogatory 'Bulli Bai' app, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from Assam, has been suspended from his college here. Bishnoi, a second year B.Tech student at Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), was suspended by the college management hours after the news of his arrest broke out.' "Niraj Bishnoi, studying B.Tech since September 2022 via online, has been arrested by Delhi police in connection with his alleged involvement in 'Bulli Bai' app case. Accordingly, he (Bishnoi) is suspended with immediate effect from the University until further notice, in view of bringing disrepute to the University and defaming the name of the institute," a notice issued by the Vice Chancellor of VIT, said. Bishnoi was, allegedly, targeting Muslim women by uploading their doctored photographs, without their consent, and was arrested from Jorhat in Assam by Delhi Police on Thursday. The 20-year-old, who is now in police remand in Delhi, had also created the 'Bulli Bai' Twitter handle. As per Delhi Police, after creating the content, he forwarded the Twitter handle to others in his network to share it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vit-bhopal-suspends-bulli-bai-accused-for-bringing-disrepute-to-institution-1068809.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||'Bulli Bai' app creator Neeraj Bishnoi sent to 7-day police custody||A local court has sent engineering student and 'Bulli Bai' app creator Neeraj Bishnoi, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from Assam for creating a platform for defaming women of a particular community, to seven-day police custody. Bishnoi, who is said to be the main conspirator and creator of the 'Bulli Bai' on GitHub and the main Twitter account holder of the app has been arrested by IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit) of the Special Cell of Delhi Police. The Delhi police had demanded seven days' custody of Bishnoi, who was produced before the deputy magistrate's house on Thursday. Accordingly, the magistrate allowed the police for his custody for a week. The accused was held from Assam by a team of IFSO led by DCP KPS Malhotra. He is a resident of the Jorhat village of Assam and was studying second-year B.Tech, computer science from Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal. According to police, Bishnoi had, in October, had created a list of women whom he wanted to defame online on his digital devices, a laptop, and cell phones. He was tracing women activists all over social media and downloading their photos. On January 1, this app, which was performing on Github's space, posted photos of a number of women of a particular religion. These included journalists, social workers, students, and famous personalities. It happened six months after the controversy of Sulli Deals. Vishal Kumar Jha, the engineering student, was one of the followers of 'Bulli Bai', which led the police to him. Hosting platform Github provided space to 'Sulli Deals', and the 'Bulli Bai too was created on it. Later, after the controversy erupted, Github removed the user 'Bulli Bai' from its hosting platform. But by then it had sparked a nationwide controversy. The app was also being promoted by a Twitter handle with the name @bullibai, with the display picture of a Khalistani supporter. "The Twitter account was created on December 31. He further disclosed that he had also created one more Twitter account @Sage0x1 for tweeting about the app. He was continuously monitoring the news on social media. He had created yet another Twitter account with the name of @giyu44," said Malhotra. Bishnoi had also mocked the Mumbai Police, which had begun investigations and made a couple of arrests, to not "arrest innocent people", through these Twitter accounts. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulli-bai-app-creator-neeraj-bishnoi-sent-to-7-day-police-custody-1068826.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi likely to see 17K Covid cases with positivity rate of nearly 17%: Satyendar Jain||Delhi is expected to add 17,000 cases to its coronavirus infection tally with a positivity rate of around 17 per cent on Friday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. He said Delhi is the first to witness a surge in infections because most of the international flights come to the capital. "That is the reason we have implemented stricter measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 as compared to other states. Some people may say that this is not needed but it is better than repenting later," Jain told reporters. On the World Health Organisation terming the Omicron variant of coronavirus "mild", the minister said only experts will be able to tell if it is mild or not. "I can give you the data I have. Delhi has around 31,498 active cases and only 1,091 hospital beds are occupied. When we had an equal number of cases last time, around 7,000 beds were occupied," Jain said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-see-17k-covid-cases-with-positivity-rate-of-nearly-17-satyendar-jain-1068840.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||UP: BJP workers lathi-charged during protest over PM security breach, SHO sent to police lines||A group of BJP workers who held a protest in Tilhar here against the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Punjab visit were allegedly lathi-charged by police, following which the incharge of the local police station was sent to police lines. An investigation in the matter is underway, police officials said. BJP's Tilhar Nagar president Rajiv Rathore said dozens of party workers took out a torch procession on Thursday night to protest the lapse in the prime minister's security during his visit to Punjab. As the procession reached Martyrs Kutir, police personnel arrived there and started beating the BJP workers after enquiring about the sloganeering, he alleged. BJP workers were chased and thrashed by the police and it was only when all of them gathered and staged a sit-in outside the local police station that top officers reached the spot, Rathore claimed. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Sanjeev Bajpai said he reached the spot as soon as he received information about the incident. After listening to both sides, the incharge of Tilhar police station, Ravindra Singh, was removed. He has been sent to police lines and the matter is being investigated, he said. BJP MLA from Tilhar Roshan Lal Verma condemned the alleged police action. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-workers-lathi-charged-during-protest-over-pm-security-breach-sho-sent-to-police-lines-1068867.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Jaipur Literature Festival postponed to March amid surge in Covid cases||The 15th edition of the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF), scheduled to run between January 28-February 1, has now been postponed to March 5-14 in view of the rising number of Covid cases, the organisers said on Friday. About 250 authors, thinkers, politicians and popular culture icons across the world are expected to participate in the festival, which will be held in hybrid mode. It will be virtual from March 5-9, and in person from March 10-14. "Keeping in mind the advent of the new variant and the sharp rise in the number of cases across the country, we have thought it best to reschedule the Festival and hold it in March 2022. We remain committed to bring the Festival back to Jaipur as an on-ground, immersive experience, promoting dialogue, discussion and debate on books and ideas," festival producer Sanjoy K Roy said in a statement. India recorded 1,17,100 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday as the virus continues to spread at a blistering pace, largely driven by the virulent Omicron variant. The festival this year will also witness a shift from its traditional venue Diggi Palace to Hotel Clarks Amber, Jaipur with added facilities to accommodate footfalls and follow Covid-19 safety protocols according to government guidelines. Turkish bestselling novelist Elif Shafak, Hollywood actor-writer Rupert Everett, award-winning Srilankan writer Shehan Karunatilaka, eminent Jamaican poet Kei Miller, Booker Prize winner Damon Galgut, 2003 Booker Prize winner DBC Pierre British and historian-biographer Andrew Lownie are among those participating in the event. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-literature-festival-postponed-to-march-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-1068868.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||PM security breach: MHA panel at Ferozepur; Punjab submits report to Centre, says FIR filed||A Central team probing the "serious lapses" in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security during his Ferozepur visit reached the town Friday, while the Punjab government submitted a report to the Centre saying an FIR has been registered in the matter. The three-member committee, constituted by the Union Home Ministry on Thursday, is seeking full details about the sequence of events that unfolded during Modi's January 5 visit, sources said. Amid foggy weather conditions, the team visited the Pyarayana flyover near Ferozepur in the morning and interacted with senior Punjab Police and civil administration officials. The panel is led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, Secretary (Security), Cabinet Secretariat, and has Balbir Singh, Joint Director of the Intelligence Bureau; and S Suresh, IG, Special Protection Group as two other members. The Centre has advised the committee to submit its report at the earliest. The team has started its enquiry into the security breach and look into the lapses which caused the prime minister's cavalcade to remain stranded at the flyover for almost 15-20 minutes on Wednesday, the sources said. The Centre had on Thursday formed a three-member committee to enquire into "serious lapses" in security arrangements during Modi's visit to Punjab which led to the exposure of the VVIP to "grave risk". The team spent around 45 minutes at the flyover before heading to the BSF sector headquarters for further questioning and investigation into the matter. At the BSF sector headquarters in Ferozepur, which is around 10 km from where the incident took place on National Highway 5, the Central team remained closeted with the senior civil and police officers who were directly responsible to ensure the smooth passage of the prime minister’s convoy and its foolproof security. According to the sources, the Central team has summoned several senior police and civil officials including those who were deployed for the prime minister’s security during his visit to Ferozepur to appear in person before them on Friday. Meanwhile, Punjab government’s Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari's wrote to the Union Home Ministry regarding the security breach, informing that an FIR has been lodged in the incident. The state government has mentioned that it has formed its own two-member panel to investigate the alleged lapses. Tewari is learnt to have shared details pertaining to the sequence of events that unfolded on Wednesday, official sources in the state said. The Punjab government had on Thursday announced the two-member panel to investigate the lapses. The panel has been asked to submit its report in three days. The Punjab police has also registered an FIR against unidentified protesters who blocked Modi’s cavalcade on Wednesday. The prime minister's convoy was stranded on the flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from the poll-bound state without attending any event, including a rally. The Union Home Ministry had directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment, while Home Minister Amit Shah had said that such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit was totally unacceptable and accountability would be fixed. The incident triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-security-breach-mha-panel-at-ferozepur-punjab-submits-report-to-centre-says-fir-filed-1068872.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||In Chhattisgarh, video shows villagers taking oath to boycott Muslims; probe on||Authorities in Chhattisgarh have initiated a probe after a video purportedly showing residents of a village in Surguja district taking a pledge to neither do commercial transactions with members of the Muslim community nor sell their land to them went viral on social media, officials said on Friday. After the video, reportedly shot in Kundikala village located under Lundra police station limits of the district on January 5, came to light on Thursday, senior police and administration officials visited the village and initiated an inquiry. According to the officials, the video appears to be a fallout of a brawl between residents of two villages on January 1. People in the video can be heard saying, “From today, we Hindus pledge to not buy any item from a Muslim shopkeeper and not to sell them anything. We pledge to not sell or give our lands on lease to Muslims. We Hindus pledge to buy from vendors coming to our villages only after ascertaining their religion. We also pledge to not work as labourers for them.” Surguja Collector Sanjeev Jha told PTI on Friday that after the video surfaced, the district’s Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) and Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) visited the village on Thursday and gathered details about the incident. Further action is being taken into the matter, he added. On January 1, residents from Aara village, which falls in neighbouring Balrampur district, visited Kundikala to celebrate the New Year during which they entered into a brawl with some locals, Surguja ASP Vivek Shukla said. The next day, a resident of Kundikala, lodged a complaint alleging half-a-dozen villagers of Aara (belonging to a particular community) along with some others barged into his house and thrashed him and two family members, including his niece, he said. Based on the complaint, 6 persons were arrested, but all of them got bail from a local court the same day, Shukla said. Prima facie it seems, taking advantage of that incident, some people provoked residents of Kundikala to hold a gathering and take such a pledge against the minority community, he said. “We are trying to identify those who administered the oath to the gathering," Shukla added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-chhattisgarh-video-shows-villagers-taking-oath-to-boycott-muslims-probe-on-1068877.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||BHU professor booked for hate post||A professor of the Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS) at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has been booked for allegedly calling Lord Parshuram a 'murderer' and comparing him to Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse. Om Shankar, professor of the cardiology, had criticised Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav for offering prayers at a temple of Lord Parshuram in Lucknow in a bid to woo the Brahmin community ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. According to the FIR lodged at the Lanka police station in Varanasi, the professor, in a series of Facebook posts, allegedly referred to Lord Parshuram as 'pauranik hatyara' (mythical murderer) and compared him to an 'adhunik hatyara' (modern murderer) Godse, saying there was no difference between the two. "Those who advocate for Parshuram also advocate for Godse," the professor allegedly wrote, sarcastically asking the SP to also unveil an idol of Godse so that "new socialism" could be born. This would help the SP get all Brahmin votes, Shankar allegedly stated in his post. He has been booked under Indian Penal Code Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) and 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act on the complaint of a Varanasi-based lawyer Saurabh Tiwari. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhu-professor-booked-for-hate-post-1068879.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Covid surge: Centre tells Delhi, adjoining districts to ramp up health facilities||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the National Capital Region, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the administration in Delhi and its neighbouring districts to ramp up health infrastructure, maintain buffer stocks of essential drugs and ensure that oxygen supply equipment while stressing on the need for a unified strategy to tackle the pandemic. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla reviewed the situation in Delhi-NCR on Thursday and insisted on the need for ramping up of testing in all districts of Delhi-NCR where the number of tests is low. He told the meeting attended by top officials of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments and district administrations in Delhi-NCR that Omicron variant being highly transmissible and no stone should be left unturned to deal with any surge in cases.  Immediate steps should be taken to further strengthen the monitoring and containment mechanism. The state and the local administration should strictly enforce the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, Bhalla said. He also stressed that the health infrastructure in all the districts of Delhi-NCR should be immediately strengthened to deal with any enhanced requirement. It should be ensured that oxygen supply equipment is fully functional and buffer stocks of essential drugs are maintained, he said, keeping in mind the situation during the second wave of the pandemic last year. The meeting was attended by Niti Ayog Member (Health) V K Paul, senior officers of the central government and chief secretaries and additional chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi as well as officials from the district administrations of Delhi and neighbouring areas.  Keeping in view the close knit urban structure of the NCR, an official statement said, the Home Secretary emphasised that it is necessary for all concerned authorities in Delhi and the NCR to come together to tackle the virus. There is a need to have a unified strategy in the Delhi-NCR Region to tackle the pandemic, he said. "All measures and mechanisms to contain and curb the spread of the virus must be reinvigorated," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-surge-centre-tells-delhi-adjoining-districts-to-ramp-up-health-facilities-1068882.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Covid-19: Restricted registrations at AIIMS OPD, speciality clinics stopped||In view of rising cases of Covid-19, the AIIMS on Friday suspended routine inpatient non-emergency admissions and all routine procedures or non essential surgeries with immediate effect while initiating the process to convert the Trauma Centre into a dedicated Covid facility. The OPD services in AIIMS Hospital and all Centres will continue to function with restricted registrations limited to only prior appointment patients (new & follow up).  "All speciality clinics to be stopped for the time being and speciality clinic follow up. Patients will be registered within follow-up appointment slots only," AIIMS said in a circular. "All routine inpatient admissions and all routine procedures/non essential surgeries will be temporarily stopped till further orders," it stated. The institute came out with a contingency action plan for functioning of hospital services including rationalisation/augmentation of inpatient hospitalisation facility for Covid-19 patients requiring inpatient admission for requisite clinical management. A separate circular stated that the Trauma emergency department will start functioning from the ground floor of the old Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (RAK) building, main AIIMS from Friday while the OPD of JPNATC will shift to the fifth floor of the old RAK building from Saturday.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-restricted-registrations-at-aiims-opd-speciality-clinics-stopped-1068888.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Class 12 exams: Supreme Court strikes down condition in CBSE policy to consider marks scored in later test||The Supreme Court on Friday struck down a condition specified in a clause in the CBSE's evaluation policy of June last year which stated that marks obtained in the later examination will be considered as final for assessing class 12 students. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) shall provide an option to the candidate to accept the better of the two marks obtained in the subject for final declaration of his or her results for the last academic year. The apex court, which was hearing a plea filed by some students who had appeared in the CBSE exams last year for improving their marks in class 12, noted that a grievance has been made about the provision in clause 28 of the June 17, 2021 policy which stated that “….as per this policy, marks scored in later examination will be considered final”. “As a result, we have no hesitation in striking down the condition specified in clause 28 that as per the policy, marks scored in later examination will be considered final,” the bench said. The top court noted that the petitioners have the grievance that this condition has been inserted in departure of the earlier schemes where the better of the two marks obtained by a candidate in a subject was to be considered for final declaration of results. It observed that the CBSE has not given any justification for such a departure. Last year, the CBSE class 12 board examination was cancelled due to the pandemic. The bench, which disposed of the plea, said the policy was required to be adopted because of the challenging situation faced by the students and this itself justifies making a provision which is more favourable to the students. At the outset, the counsel appearing for the CBSE said these students have been assessed as per the improvement examination, and now they cannot take advantage of the policy. “How does it affect you? Give us the justification, why this is not possible,” the bench observed. While hearing the matter last month, the apex court had said the CBSE should consider the problem of those students who had appeared in the examinations last year for improving marks in class 12 but obtained less marks, as it will affect the admissions secured by them for higher studies. The students, who appeared in the improvement exams, have taken admissions based on their original results and that should not be disturbed, the apex court had observed. The top court was hearing a plea filed by 11 students who were declared passed in the original results by the CBSE on the basis of the evaluation policy of 30:30:40 and were subsequently allowed to appear in the improvement exams held in August-September last year. The plea, filed by advocate Ravi Prakash, had sought a direction to authorities concerned to maintain the original result of the petitioners instead of the improvement examination result. As per a press statement of CBSE, 34,317 regular students had appeared in the offline examinations for the purpose of improvement of their marks, it said. On June 17 last year, the top court had approved the assessment schemes of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) and the CBSE, which had adopted the 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for students of 12th standard based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. The CBSE had earlier said it would evaluate class 12 students for theory based on 30 per cent marks from class 10 board, 30 per cent from class 11, and 40 per cent from marks based on the performance in the unit, mid-term, and pre-board tests in class 12. It had said that marks obtained by class 12 students in practical and internal assessment on an actual basis as uploaded by schools on the CBSE portal would be also considered in deciding the final results.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/class-12-exams-supreme-court-strikes-down-condition-in-cbse-policy-to-consider-marks-scored-in-later-test-1068890.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Piyush Goyal gives five growth mantras for Bureau of Indian Standards||Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday gave the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) five growth mantras including being a facilitator and not an obstructor and ensuring that maintaining quality is not expensive and it is cost effective. Congratulating the BIS on its 75th anniversary, the Minister said the BIS has been contributing to the national economy through its core activities of "Standardization and Certification." "Both the Nation and BIS will be completing 100 years in 2047, so it's going to be a great opportunity for BIS to plan and chart out our 25-year agenda from now until 2047. How we will contribute to make India a world power and a superpower and a great nation," he said in a statement. BIS, which came into existence as Indian Standards Institution (ISI) in 1947, commemorated its 75th anniversary on January 6. Suggesting five mantras for BIS to grow in future, Goyal said first it should work as a facilitator not an obstructer. Secondly, BIS should develop as a global organization by learning from global experiences and integrating global standards. Thirdly, BIS should work on gap analysis to assess laboratory attesting needs of the country and set up high quality modern labs across India. Fourth, BIS should bring a quality or standard revolution through 'One Nation One Standard' which will become a game changer. And lastly, BIS should ensure maintaining quality is not expensive and it is cost effective. Stating that quality of product/services is the defining feature that distinguishes some countries from India, Goyal said the Centre is working towards 'One Nation One Standard' as it is important to set the benchmark by working skilfully so that India is globally aligned. He also said that standardization and conformity assessment will also provide consumers, safe, reliable and high quality products and "therefore, our job becomes important and relevant in the years to come." BIS will make consumers more aware about the quality, he said and added, "Every single action demands quality that should be our mantra." Consumer Affairs Secretary Rohit Kumar, Additional Secretary Nidhi Khare, and BIS Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari were present in the video conference. Tiwari said, "we commit to contribute further in future with more zeal and dedication in India's progress."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/piyush-goyal-gives-five-growth-mantras-for-bureau-of-indian-standards-1068900.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Rajasthan govt tightens rules, announces penalty to control Covid-19||The Rajasthan government on Friday said those organising events in violation of Covid-19 guidelines will be penalised.  The state's Home Department in an order stated that organisers of public or private events with more than 100 attendees need to inform the authorities concerned well in advance and take necessary permissions. These events include weddings, rallies and processions among others.  The event organisers are required to apply for permission specifying all details on the government portal http://Covidinfo.rajasthan.gov.in or on Helpline Number 181, failing which a fine of Rs 10,000 will be levied, as per the notification.  Those not following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and maintaining social distance will also be liable to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 in such gatherings, the government stated.  The Ashok Gehlot-led government had earlier specified that only those who are fully vaccinated will be allowed in most public places. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-tightens-rules-announces-penalty-to-control-covid-19-1068941.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||BJP leaders unveil Lord Parshuram statue to counter Akhilesh's Brahmin outreach bid in UP||Days after Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had offered puja at a Lord Parshuram temple here as part of his Brahmin outreach efforts, Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and other BJP leaders on Friday inaugurated a temple of the god in the state capital. BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi and her son Mayank Joshi, along with deputy CM Sharma and minister Brijesh Pathak, unveiled a statue of Lord Parshuram, venerated by many Brahmins, in Hasoveer temple in the state capital. The six-foot statue of Lord Parshuram has been brought from Rajasthan. The move is being seen as another attempt by the BJP to placate the electorally dominant Brahmin community which is believed to be unhappy with the state government. In political circles, the unveiling of Lord Parshuram statue in Lucknow during the day was seen as part of the BJP's efforts to counter Akhilesh Yadav's Brahmin outreach bid, but Dinesh Sharma differed. "It's not BJP but Akhilesh who is imitating us. BJP has installed idols of Parshuram in Kanpur and other places earlier too," Sharma told PTI. Several parks have also been named after Parshuram in different parts of Uttar Pradesh, he added. Not only Parshuram, the BJP has been honouring icons of all castes and community be it Ravi Das, Balmiki or Rana Pratap, he added. Making a concerted effort to throw the BJP out of power, Yadav had on January 2 offered puja at a temple having a 108-foot-tall statue of Parshuram in village Mahurakala on Purvanchal Express near Lucknow to attract Brahmins towards his party. Brahmins account for nearly 13 per cent of the state's population and they are being wooed by all the major parties to brighten their chance in the assembly elections only months away from now. BSP chief Mayawati has already deployed her party's Brahmin face S C Misra to mobilise their support to revive the 2007 social engineering formula of Dalits-Brahmins combination. The Brahmin leaders of the BJP have also been activated by the party to retain the support of the community. A large number of the BJP's Brahmin leaders had recently met at party president J P Nadda's residence in Delhi. Subsequently a committee was formed as part of the Brahmin outreach drive. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-unveil-lord-parshuram-statue-to-counter-akhileshs-brahmin-outreach-bid-in-up-1068942.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Avalanche alert issued in Kashmir, heavy snowfall predicted||Most places in Kashmir on Friday witnessed moderate to heavy snowfall as authorities issued an alert for avalanche-prone areas of it, officials said. An official of the MET department said moderate snowfall was reported from most areas in south and central Kashmir. "The intensity of the snowfall is going to be heavy tonight and tomorrow. The weather is likely to improve from Sunday," the official said. The snowfall, which began late in the afternoon, forced cancellation of several flights to Srinagar airport, they said. Of the 37 scheduled flights, 23 had operated till the snowfall began, they said. The authorities have issued an avalanche alert for snowbound hilly areas of Kashmir. People living in the mountain districts of the valley and in Chenab region have been advised not to venture out unnecessarily, the official added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avalanche-alert-issued-in-kashmir-heavy-snowfall-predicted-1068951.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab CM, his deputy and Navjot Sidhu acting like a 'confused lot': Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday lashed out at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Punjab Congress President Navjot Sidhu for their 'reckless' and 'irresponsible' response to the grave security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent Punjab visit. On Wednesday, the Prime Minister's rally in Ferozepur had to be cancelled due to a security lapse after some protesters blocked a route and forced his convoy to spend about 20 minutes on a flyover. The Prime Minister was enroute the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala when the incident happened. "Channi, Randhawa and Sidhu are acting like a confused lot, who have no idea about how to do their job and perform their duties", Amarinder Singh said in a statement, adding that instead of owning up the responsibility, they are running away from it and passing it on to their juniors, which is cowardice and not true leadership. Referring to Channi's 'confusing' and 'contradictory' statements on the security breach, Amarinder Singh said, "In the morning he says something and orders an inquiry, and by the evening he straightway denies that anything has happened." He also ridiculed the Chief Minister's statement that he will take bullets in his chest if there was any threat to the life of the Prime Minister. "You are not there to take bullets on your chest, better focus on your job as the Chief Minister," Amarinder Singh said. The former CM also took a dig at Deputy CM Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, for saying that Central security agencies should have ensured the safe passage for the Prime Minister. "The Deputy CM appears to be oblivious of the fact that the Prime Minister was very much in Punjab and it was the duty of the Punjab government to provide all sorts of security," he said, adding: "Recently, you were crying hoarse against extension of BSF's jurisdiction, saying law and order is a state subject, although it had nothing to do with law and order. Today you are saying that the same law and order is the responsibility of the Central agencies in order to escape responsibility." The former Chief Minister also had a word of advice for Sidhu, saying: "You better avoid talking on issues you have absolutely no idea about, like how the Prime Minister's security details are worked out." "With everyone, particularly his own party and the government having stopped taking him seriously, Sidhu is now trying to wade into the waters he doesn't know even ABC of," Amarinder Singh said. The former CM also told the Congress leaders to listen to the "wise counsel" of their own party president Sonia Gandhi, who has asked the Chief Minister to investigate the matter and fix responsibility. "Now, I assume, you will say that even Ms Gandhi is trying to side with Prime Minister Modi," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-his-deputy-and-navjot-sidhu-acting-like-a-confused-lot-amarinder-singh-1068954.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Security at RSS HQ beefed up||Security at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur was beefed up and use of drones and photography around it was prohibited because of threat perception.  The headquarters of the RSS - known as Dr Hedgewar Bhawan - is located on Sangh Building road in Mahal area of Nagpur.  "Militants affiliated with terror outfit Jaish-e- Mohammad (JeM) carried out a recce in Nagpur two to three months ago,” Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar was quoted saying. According to him, photography and the use of drones have been banned around the RSS headquarters in the city. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-at-rss-hq-beefed-up-1068979.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||MHA showcauses Bathinda SSP, 5 other officers over 'major lapses in security' during PM Modi's visit||The Union Home Ministry has issued showcause notices to six senior officers, including the Bathinda police chief, over the "major lapses in security" during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab, officials said here on Friday. Bathinda Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Maluja and the five other officers were responsible for the prime minister's security during his visit to the state on January 5 and they have been asked to reply to the notices, officials told PTI here. The home ministry is the cadre controlling authority for the Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Modi had to cut short his visit to Punjab on Wednesday after he was stuck on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a blockade by some protesters, an incident described by the home ministry as a "major lapse" in security. "Yes, we have served a showcause notice to the SSP of Bathinda and asked him to submit a reply on the serious security lapses during the PM's visit," a senior officer privy to the development said. Ajay Maluja is currently serving as SSP Bathinda. Another official said that showcause notices were served to at least five other senior officers of the Punjab Police who were on duty during the prime minister's visit. The identity of the other officers were not disclosed immediately, but sources said they are police officers on the rank of SSP, DIG and above. The home ministry, through its showcause notices, has asked the officers as to why action should not be initiated against them under the law including disciplinary proceedings as prescribed in the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal), Rules, 1969, for the acts of omission and commission. The punishment under the said rules include suspension, compulsory retirement, censure and withholding of promotions if found guilty. However, action against the "delinquent" officers will be taken only after a thorough inquiry. The Central government on Thursday constituted a three-member committee, led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, Secretary (Security), Cabinet Secretariat, and comprising of Balbir Singh, Joint Director of the Intelligence Bureau, and S Suresh, IG, Special Protection Group, to enquire into the "major lapses in security" during Modi's visit to Punjab. The committee is advised to submit the report at the earliest. After he was stranded on the flyover due to a blockade by protesters, the prime minister had to return from the poll-bound state without attending any event, including a rally. The home ministry had directed the state government to file an immediate report, asserting it did not ensure the required deployment, while Home Minister Amit Shah said that such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed. The incident triggered a major political row as the BJP alleged the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue. On the defensive, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi denied there was any security lapse or political motive behind it and said his government was ready for an inquiry. The Punjab government has also set up a committee on Wednesday to enquire into the incident. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mha-showcauses-bathinda-ssp-5-other-officers-over-major-lapses-in-security-during-pm-modis-visit-1068991.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||ECI revokes actor Sonu Sood’s appointment as Punjab’s ‘state icon’||The Election Commission of India has annulled the appointment of actor Sonu Sood as Punjab’s “state icon”. Sonu Sood had been made Punjab’s “icon” over a year ago by the Election Commission of India. The ECI revoked Sood’s appointment as a “state icon” of Punjab on January 4, Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said on Friday in an official statement. Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood had said last November that his sister Malvika is joining politics but he has no such plans for himself. Belonging to the Moga district in Punjab, Sood had catapulted to the national spotlight for helping migrant workers reach their homes during the Covid lockdown last year. Sood had arranged transport facilities for migrant workers stuck in various places while returning back their homes amid joblessness amid the Covid lockdown. His humanitarian work was highly appreciated by all sections of society.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eci-revokes-actor-sonu-sood-s-appointment-as-punjab-s-state-icon-1068992.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||173 more passengers from Italy test positive for Covid-19 on arrival in Amritsar||At least 173 passengers on a Rome-Amritsar charter flight were found to be Covid-positive after being tested on arrival on Friday, officials said. This is the second consecutive incident wherein a large number of passengers coming from Italy to Amritsar airport have tested positive for coronavirus on arrival. On Thursday, 125 passengers who were travelling from Milan in Italy on another charter flight were found positive after being tested on arrival at the Amritsar airport. Amritsar airport Director V K Seth told PTI on Friday, "Test results of 210 passengers have been shared with me. Out of them, a total of 173 passengers have tested positive." "This flight came from Rome. It landed at around 12.20 pm today at the airport," he added. The officials said there were total 285 passengers on the charter flight that landed on Friday. District health authority officials said all 173 passengers, who were found positive, were being sent for institutional quarantine at their respective home town districts. According to the rules of the Union Health Ministry, passengers coming from "at risk" countries to India have to compulsorily get tested for Covid-19 on arrival at the airport. All European countries, including Italy, have been deemed as "at risk" countries by the Union Health Ministry. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/173-more-passengers-from-italy-test-positive-for-covid-19-on-arrival-in-amritsar-1069004.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Murder charges against 6 Uttar Pradesh cops as CBI files charge sheet in Kanpur businessman death case||The CBI has filed a chargesheet against six Uttar Pradesh policemen over the death of Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta at a hotel in Gorakhpur, invoking criminal conspiracy and murder charges against them, officials said Friday. In its chargesheet filed before a special CBI court in Lucknow, the CBI has slapped Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) among others read with IPC sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) on the six policemen, they said. The policemen from Ramgarh Tal police station in Gorakhpur had allegedly barged into Gupta's hotel room at the midnight on September 27 last year and assaulted him, leading to his death, they said. The CBI has accused six police officers -- the then SHO Jagat Narayan Singh, the then sub-inspectors Akshay Kumar Mishra, Vijay Yadav, Rahul Dubey, then Head Constable Kamlesh Singh Yadav and Constable Prashant Kumar – in the case. According to CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi, it was alleged that on September 27 Gupta checked into the hotel room in Gorakhpur falling under the jurisdiction of Ramgarh Tal Police Station. "It was further alleged that in the intervening night of September 27 and 28, 2021 at about 12:00 A.M., the SHO alongwith two Sub-Inspectors and three other police personnel entered into the room of said hotel and started misbehaving with Manish Gupta," he said. He said it was also alleged that after Gupta protested, they started beating him, resulting into grievous injuries to him. Gupta died on the spot, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/murder-charges-against-6-uttar-pradesh-cops-as-cbi-files-charge-sheet-in-kanpur-businessman-death-case-1069013.html
07-01-2022||North and Central||Posters in Varanasi ask non-Hindus to stay away from ghats; cops launch probe||Posters asking non-Hindus to stay away from the ghats of the Ganga and the temples along the river came up in Varanasi, prompting the police to launch a probe. Police said the posters, allegedly put up by right-wing outfits, are being removed. "The ghats and temples along Maa Ganga in Kashi are symbols of the Sanatan Dharma, Indian culture, faith and belief. Those who have faith and belief in Sanatan Dharma are welcome. Otherwise, this is not a picnic spot," read one of the posters written in Hindi. The poster had "Entry Prohibited - Non-Hindus" written on top and concluded saying "this is not a request, but a warning". Pictures and videos of such posters, allegedly put up by the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and its youth wing, Bajrang Dal, also surfaced on social media platforms. The Varanasi police has taken note of the matter and launched a probe, officials said. "The matter is being probed by the local Bhelupur police station. The people who were seen in the videos and pictures are being identified," a police official told PTI. "So far, no written complaint has been made with the police. However, the police took note of the episode after some local groups highlighted it. The posters are being removed with their help," he added. The holy city in eastern Uttar Pradesh attracts tourists from across the world. Considered among the oldest cities in the world, Varanasi is also the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Non-Hindus violate the purity of the ghats. That is why this warning has been issued to them," Bajrang Dal's Kashi mahanagar coordinator Nikhil Tripathi "Rudra" told PTI. He said the warning to stay away from the ghats is for those who do not have faith in the Sanatan Dharma and alleged that such people consume liquor and non-vegetarian food at the ghats. "Recently, pictures of girls consuming beer at a ghat had surfaced. The ghats and the temples are symbols of the Sanatan Dharma. These are not picnic spots. If any such person is seen at the ghats, we will catch hold of them and hand them over to the police," Tripathi added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/posters-in-varanasi-ask-non-hindus-to-stay-away-from-ghats-cops-launch-probe-1069014.html
07-01-2022||Opinion||UP polls: Gaping holes in Yogi govt's publicity blitz||Was Uttar Pradesh born in 2017? It is an obvious question given the recent conduct of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the state government he leads. Most major thoroughfares and streets in all important cities of the state are replete with hoardings, while TV channels are inundated with resounding claims by the government that whatever existed before 2017 was chaos and non-governance. The government seems to be trying to build the impression that the saffron-clad Adityanath has ushered in 'Ram Rajya' in the country's most populous state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also stamped Adityanath's claim by echoing that sentiment quite passionately in all his speeches at rallies in the run-up to the forthcoming state Assembly elections in February-March 2022. It would perhaps lead people into believing the ironic narrative that actress Kangana Ranaut was desperately trying to build – that India got "real independence in 2014" when Modi emerged at the country's helm. The innumerable hoardings and television ads seek to convey that all is fine across the state ever since Adityanath rode on to become the state's chief minister in 2017. These proclaim the difference that Adityanath's "able" governance has made to crucial issues like "law and order", "corruption", and "development". According to one such hoarding, "2017 se pehle sarkari paise ki hoti thi bandarbaant" (before 2017, government funds were pilfered away), but "2017 ke baad , Pradesh mein vikas hota hai" (after 2017, the state has seen development). The hoardings display money bags shared between a man with a red cap (an apparent reference to the Samajwadi Party) and contractors, contrasting with the expressways being constructed now. The fact, however, is that the state's first and perhaps by far the best expressway (Lucknow-Agra) came up during the previous government. And what was most remarkable about it was that the 301 km expressway was completed in a record 23 months, while the present government was unable to complete its 358-km Purvanchal Expressway in 57 months. Also, the investigation by the Adityanath administration to dig out suspected irregularities in the Agra expressway construction did not reach anywhere. Another hoarding, showing a bearded man flinging an enflamed torch, reads, "2017 se pehle dangaiyon ka khauf" (rioters terrorised UP before 2017), "2017 ke baad maang rahe hain maafi" (after 2017, they are seeking public apology). Its tag line states, "farq saaf hai" (the difference is evident). To top it all comes yet another hoarding that seeks to claim how women's security had witnessed a sea change between 2017 and now. It states women were unsafe and unprotected before 2017, but after 2017, criminals are scared of the rule of law. The visual depicts a young woman being followed by two ruffians, who, after 2017, maintain a safe distance from the woman's path because of an alert and visibly helpful police. But the hoarding is in sharp contrast to the ground reality. The open patronage extended to former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Kuldeep Singh Sengar involved in the gang rape of a girl in Unnao, is a matter of recent public memory. He was put in the dock only after the intervention of the Allahabad High Court chief justice, who went to the extent of castigating the advocate-general for going out of the way to shield the ruling party MLA, who eventually got convicted and jailed for the crime. Another example of the ruling dispensation's blatant protection to criminals was the Hathras gang rape case in which not only the accused were allowed to go scot-free, but the victim's body was disposed of through a hastily carried out cremation in the dead of night. Worse, the local administration moved heaven and earth to intimidate the victim's family, who were not even allowed at the cremation site. Here too, it was the intervention of the high court that prompted the government to initiate action. The Gorakhpur incident in which a young trader was beaten to death by an alleged extortionist police inspector right under the nose of the chief minister's home and constituency also punches holes in the claims of transformed law and order. The broad-daylight killing of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur-Kheri, moved down by an SUV allegedly driven by the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Misra' Teni', was yet another case that contradicts the government's boast of establishing the rule of law in the state. But for the intervention of the Supreme Court, the minister's son would have continued to enjoy immunity. The list could be longer, but from the publicity blitz undertaken by Adityanath's propaganda machinery, it appears that the intent is towards overwhelming harsh truth with official lies. As for hoardings highlighting corruption and official pilferage during the Samajwadi Party rule, there have been similar allegations against some top ministers in the Adityanath cabinet, but there is no effort towards investigating these. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has put in the public domain documents that suggest large scale pilferage in the Jal Shakti mission. Likewise is the prima facie financial irregularities in the sale and purchase of land in and around Ayodhya. At the grassroots level, corruption continues to thrive as severely as during earlier regimes.  Still, the government does not tire of making claims that it has transformed governance in the state. No wonder people have taken to wonder whether the Adityanath government's claims through these hoardings were about some imaginary land, or is it that there was no Uttar Pradesh before 2017?  (Sharat Pradhan is a journalist and author based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-gaping-holes-in-yogi-govts-publicity-blitz-1068770.html
07-01-2022||Opinion||Holmes and Neumann: The unicorns who didn't pass muster||Earlier this week, the founder of the now-defunct unicorn, Theranos, was found guilty on four of the eleven charges levelled against her. While the sentencing is yet to be pronounced, which some speculate would mean 20+ years of prison time, this seemed like the logical end of Elizabeth Holmes' dream run. At its peak, she owned 50 per cent of her company Theranos, valued at $9bn, before her con was discovered. As we revel at the revelation, we must also remember the titans who backed her ascent. People like Bill Clinton, Rupert Murdoch, Larry Ellison, Henry Kissinger and George Schultz, who invested in Theranos and promoted her at every stage possible. White men, who had had their day and were possibly looking to patronise an upcoming young woman and forgot to look at the details of her supposed invention. Hindsight is perpetually 20/20, and today you wouldn't find any of these gentlemen questioning or endorsing her credentials. As David Bowie said, fame puts you where things are hollow. Elizabeth Holmes symbolises everything that's wrong with the startup world, with wild evaluations and investments that do not require any profits. Holmes promised a do-it-yourself kit, which would detect more than 1200 diseases in one drop of blood. This was revolutionary, and she had all the trappings of a successful Silicon Valley entrepreneur – she wore black, just like Steve Jobs, she spoke in a deep voice, she was a Stanford dropout, and had the backings of very influential men, from the worlds of business and government, who would vouch for her. Except, the invention wasn't there – she had set up a very elaborate ruse to attract investors and fool the inspectors from FDA. Holmes also had a battery of 800 employees and micromanaged every keystroke each of them typed. She was also in a relationship with her business partner, Ramesh "Sunny" Balwani, a red flag, especially when not disclosed to the investors. Silicon Valley thought she would be a symbol of women power amidst the technology world filled with men. Her web of deceit and lies spread wide, and towards the end, it became difficult to differentiate truth from the fake hood. That, perhaps, is the power of marketing. As I followed the news about Holmes and simultaneously read 'Billion Dollar Loser', a biography of Adam Neumann, the founder and former CEO of WeWork, it struck me how much of this blah is run by well-orchestrated marketing blitzkriegs. The signs that these prodigal founders are literally running on borrowed time and money are for all of us to see. I remember Neumann's foray into India, when he landed in Bengaluru with his team to explore opportunities, in sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Startup India initiative. He had decided to party late into the night at a top hotel where he was staying. He started drinking vodka with his team by the pool and then moved the party to his suite. The next morning, when he was scheduled to meet with the investors eager to meet the wonder kid, he wouldn't answer his phone. The hotel security who broke into his suite found him passed out. Both these stories sounded grand while they lasted. Fueled by unscrupulous investors, who sometimes don't know what to do with their money, the unicorns can fly for a while. But sooner than later, it will come crashing down. Right now, many parts of the world seem to be advocating for startups, which is a good sign for any economy. I am not one for regulatory bodies, but given the inflated valuations, and the money that seems to be going around, I do feel there needs to be a body of experts who can determine whether the claims are legitimate or not. The markets do not deserve any bubble, after which it will be impossible for small-town startups to blossom. If not to anyone else, we owe it to the dreamers, who can then compete with the best in the world. Holmes and Neumann remind us there is no limit to greed. Their short-lived successes also tell us there is a lot of money to go around – and that we must be careful about our egos. WeWork went from a $47 bn valuation to bankruptcy in a record six weeks. Theranos was wiped out in a few weeks when the story broke in Wall Street Journal. She was asked at her recent hearing if she had tried to stop the story from being published by invoking her connection with the Journal's owner, Rupert Murdoch, who was also an investor in her company. She had said, "Yes, I did." Murdoch, however, decided not to intervene and eventually lost his $150 million investment. In an interview, when asked why she routinely wore black, she showed the documentary maker her wardrobe, which consisted of women's black suits, in dozens. The interviewer asks her, "Just like Steve Jobs?" Holmes, perhaps trying to hide her embarrassment in being called out, said, "He wore jeans." She will have a lot of time on her hands to decide such mundane things over the next twenty years or more. (The author is the founder of ZEducatr and a former Chief of Communications with the United Nations in New York, where he worked for more than a decade.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/holmes-and-neumann-the-unicorns-who-didnt-pass-muster-1068806.html
07-01-2022||Opinion||Global brands in India have a mutiny at hand||By Andy Mukherjee From Unilever Plc to Colgate-Palmolive Co., consumer goods makers in India are facing distribution blues that have nothing to do with pandemic-induced shortages and bottlenecks. The trusted middlemen that brands have traditionally relied on to reach millions of small neighborhood stores in 8,000 towns and 660,000 villages are in revolt. It is a mutiny that the multinationals have invited upon themselves.  About 90 per cent of what gets consumed in the continent-sized economy flows through a pipe known as “general trade”: Brands appoint third-party distributors who stock bulk inventory, despatch goods in small quantities to shops in their area, collect cash and offer retailers unsecured credit at zero interest (without the cumbersome “know-your-customer,” or KYC, checks of the formal financial system). Distributors also take the onus of compliance with existing rules and regulations for the brands as they are the ones dealing directly with the last-mile outlet, known as “kirana.”  Each of these services is important in its own right. Together, they are worth at least 11.5 per cent of the final price of merchandise, estimates Sumit Aggarwal, a US-trained engineer who returned to run his family’s consumer goods distribution business in north India. Yet, the distributors’ share of the pie is barely 5 per cent-to-6 per cent. The rest of their value addition benefits other stakeholders, including consumers.  If the pipe is only now gurgling with discontent, it is because a new breed of rivals has arrived. Better-funded bulk suppliers such as Walmart Inc., billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s JioMart and Germany’s Metro AG as well as business-to-business e-commerce firms like Udaan and Big Basket are flexing their superior financial muscles to win over the small shopkeeper. The price at which distributors get merchandise from brands allows for only 10 per cent-12 per cent margins for retailers. Apps are offering as much as 20 per cent. Since none of the new-age intermediaries are operationally profitable, the deep discounts are very likely backed by investor capital, of which there is no shortage at present. Retailers are switching to more modern suppliers, and the traditional distribution chain is up in arms. The Economic Times last month chronicled the story of Vipresh Shah, a Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc distributor in a small town 200 miles south of Mumbai. When the newspaper caught up with him, Shah, who has been selling Dettol bars to shops in his area for 14 years, had not had a single order in eight days. Storeowners are buying the same soap 15 per cent cheaper on the JioMart Partner app and accusing Shah of ripping them off. Daring to take on the behemoths, the middlemen are sending an SOS: “Don’t turn us into a bunch of frustrated Willy Lomans from Death of a Salesman. We, too, can digitise and compete.” Distributors in Maharashtra stopped supplying Hindustan Unilever Ltd.’s Kissan range of ketchups and sauces from January 1 and threatened to expand the blockade to personal-care products and detergents. Colgate, which is facing a similar embargo on its Max Fresh line of toothpaste, has been warned by an association of traders that its products may vanish from retail outlets in Maharashtra by February. The ban might extend to other states as well.  It probably won’t come to that. Small and midsized intermediaries are scattered across the country. While they have temporarily come together in one state, they do not have the staying power for a prolonged, nationwide strike against the far more resourceful producers. (According to latest news reports, the All India Consumer Products Distributors Federation has suspended its boycott of Unilever, though the campaign against Colgate continues.) The mobile internet is transforming the retail landscape in India. Pure e-commerce, the kind offered by Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc.’s Flipkart, is still a minuscule part of overall consumer spending. But owners of mom-and-pop kirana shops are increasingly whipping out their smartphones to source goods as cheaply as they can. Credit, which was the No. 1 reason for them to rely on distributors, is now being offered by a whole range of new fintech players. The combination of digital and physical commerce is expected to account for most of the $700 billion expansion in Indian retail by 2030 and half of new jobs.  Technology-led disruptions will fundamentally enhance the productivity of commerce. But the conventional trade channel does not deserve to be left behind. “There’s room for everyone,” says Aggarwal. “If brands ignore general trade, and distributors’ sales, people lose their jobs, apps and other bulk suppliers will inevitably use their market power to raise prices. That won’t be good for anyone.” Instead of letting their long-term partners in the country fall by the wayside, brands must help the direct trade channel embrace technology to become more efficient and profitable. It won’t take much by way of handholding. With simple digital tools, distributors can have access to verified customer KYC, evaluate and underwrite credit risks and present a transparent account of their services in a language financiers can understand. The middlemen will become more bankable, their cost of capital will go down. Aggarwal is helping the Mumbai-based fintech ePayLater roll out some of these innovations.   Households in India withstood two debilitating waves of the pandemic without much fiscal support from the government beyond free food. Research has shown that it is not so much the formal financial system that helped them survive the lockdowns and the elevated medical expenses, but informal credit from shops. Where will a hole-in-the-wall kirana obtain the resources to be a lender of last resort for the bottom of the pyramid in remote towns and villages? The answer lies in the traditional distribution chain, nurtured by a previous generation of multinational managers. Their successors should not let a myopic vision of technological change destroy this important safety valve. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/global-brands-in-india-have-a-mutiny-at-hand-1068835.html
07-01-2022||Opinion||PM security lapse: A contested theatre in Punjab||Are we in the Indian version of the moment of the Reichstag fire? According to a report, Union minister Anurag Thakur on January 6 said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is gathering information on the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab, and "big and tough decisions" will be taken." President Ram Nath Kovind thought it so serious as to meet with the PM and express his concern about the alleged security lapse. The vice president, too, has expressed deep anguish. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) has taken a serious view of the incident and mulling action. The Hindustan Times tells us, "The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play." "Today's Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity," tweeted Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM's route was leaked.  In an unprecedented move, the Centre is contemplating summoning Punjab police officers and using the SPG Act to penalise them. The Union cabinet and BJP machinery have plunged into action, smelling some sinister plan and deep conspiracy and crying for blood. It is not surprising that the media has joined the chorus. What was the incident? Narendra Modi was slated to address a party rally but was held up for 15 minutes at a flyover. The Hindustan Times reports, "PM Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur on January 5 and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. But the event was cancelled because of the security breach. After landing at the Bathinda airport, the prime minister was heading to a memorial in Hussainiwala when a road he took was blocked by some protesters. This forced the PM's convoy to spend about 15 -20 minutes on a flyover." The Hindi media headlined the angry PM telling the Punjab police officers to thank their CM that he was returning alive. Obviously, without citing any source. The apologists of the PM who claim to be non-partisan are indignant: political differences apart, how can the security of the PM be compromised! There are explainers detailing the protocol to be followed when a PM is on the move. The PM is PM, after all! Was there any attack? Was there even an angry crowd close to the heavily protected convoy of the PM? NO. The farmers were protesting. They have a democratic right under the constitution to do so. Could the PM's life have been endangered due to the protest? The CM of Punjab has regretted the return of the PM but, in clear words, refuted the allegation of any security threat. He has claimed that efforts were on to clear the road, but the PM decided to return as he got information about the possibility of a low turnout at his rally. The Tribune has reported that barely 5,000 people came belying the BJP claim that five lakh would attend. Farmers were protesting. They feel aggrieved by the unresponsive attitude of the PM to their demands. Had his own party man, a governor, not told the nation that the PM had no word of regret for the death of 700 farmers who were part of the farmers' protest? Had he not, according to the governor, mockingly trivialised their death? Is it strange that this information did not trouble the conscience of those who want to portray his return due to the protest of the anguished farmers as a huge insult to the nation? Is the PM above democratic engagements? Can there be no protest when the PM is around? Is he above democratic engagements? After all, protests are part of this process. The near unanimity in the press and the commentariat that it was the duty of the state government to ensure that his route was sanitised of all protests is shocking and scary. Scary because in the name of protecting the supreme leader, all federal norms can be demolished, and extraordinary measures would be justified, making parliamentary politics dysfunctional. It reminded me of an incident from my student life. We had planned to show black flags to Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister who was to address a rally at Patna's Gandhi maidan. Security was strict, and one could not possibly enter the venue with black flags. So, we got some gas balloons, tied black cloth pieces at their ends, put them in pockets and entered the meeting venue with coloured balloons in an apparently festive mood. We scattered in the meet. Our women comrades pushed their way to the front, and then we started releasing our balloons. Slowly the two dozen balloons with black flags were seen floating above the audience's heads. Not a sizeable number, but the alert police did not miss it. Soon, we were caught by the police and, after getting some thrashing, were pushed out of the meeting arena. There was no hue and cry from the PM, who had taken a stone on her nose earlier and was herself steeled in protest politics. No communist conspiracy to kill the PM was discussed. We did not even face a criminal case. But we live in a different time when the PM is seen as above all democratic processes. Is it not pertinent to ask this simple question that the PM was going to a party rally? Was he going there as our PM or as a campaigner of his party? As a partisan man? Why were our resources being used for a partisan purpose? It should also lead us to look back at all his public engagements. He has used all of them to create and deepen the divide in society. He is always, even on Independence Day and other national days, a campaigner who misuses public money to defame the opposition and civil society. It is not only the opposition that he targets. He dog whistles violence against minorities. His recent speeches in Kashi, Meerut and Kutch are examples. With each of his speeches, the life of Muslims in this country becomes more uncertain. He mocks and dehumanises them but is never asked how he can do all this with their own money. After all, they also pay taxes to maintain him. But we never ask how he can use state-sponsored occasions for his ideological ends. Previous claims of threats to PM's life It is utter poverty of thought to treat the PM as beyond criticism, protest and reproach. A PM who always talks about a conspiracy to kill him should be heard with sceptical ears. In the name of saving the leader of the nation, he could himself curtail the liberty of his people. He creates an aura of the threats around him. A journalist friend recounted the previous scares: May 2018: Before the Karnataka polls, there was a claim of a sinister conspiracy hatched in Surat by Islamist radicals to target Modi. Apparently, it was based on a WhatsApp message and reportedly, Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad filed a chargesheet in Ankleshwar. August 2018: five activists, including Sudha Bharadwaj, were arrested for Bhima-Koregaon violence on the claim that there was an anti-fascist plot to overthrow the government. The Pune police claimed that a letter was found on the laptop of Rona Wilson, one of the activists, detailing an assassination attempt to target Modi during his roadshows. No evidence was given. February 2017: Just before the UP elections, Mau Superintendent of Police (SP) RK Singh claimed they had been informed about the PM's cavalcade under threat of attack with rocket launchers and explosives. June 2017: Kerala DGP TP Senkumar claimed PM Modi faced a terrorist threat during his visit to Kochi to flag off the city's new metro rail. The DGP claimed a terror module was operating during his visit, but he could not elaborate. November 2016: Soon after the demonetisation policy was announced, Delhi Police claimed to have received a call about an alleged plot to kill the PM. It ended up being a cat-and-mouse game to understand who used the SIM card in question. Its Special Cell is still investigating the case. May 2015: A year after coming to power, Modi was set to speak at a rally in Mathura, but a night before his speech, it was reported that UP Police got a WhatsApp message about a threat to kill the PM. October 2013: six persons were killed and 89 injured when a series of blasts rocked Gujarat CM Modi's Hunkaar Rally in Patna. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) claimed the banned SIMI was behind the attack in the supplementary chargesheet filed in April 2014. Why did Modi insist on carrying on with the rally, putting the audience's lives in danger? 2005: Gujarat Police claimed Sohrabuddin Sheikh and his wife Kauser Bi planned to kill Modi. They were shot dead along with associate Tulsiram at a farmhouse in Ahmedabad. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chargesheet said it was a staged encounter. Police officer DG Vanzara was involved.  2004: Ishrat Jahan, Javed Ghulam Sheikh, Amjad Ali Rana and Zeeshan Johar were shot dead by Gujarat Police Crime Branch as allegedly they were going to assassinate CM Modi for his involvement in the 2002 riots. In 2009, a magistrate called these extra-judicial killings. DG Vanzara was involved here, too. The current threat is different So, he comes across as the most threatened political figure. However, this time it is different. We need to see it in the context of the retreat of the PM, who was forced by the farmers to withdraw the new farm laws. As Pritam Singh warns us, the BJP would leave no stone unturned to somehow capture Punjab, which it cannot do through normal competitive politics. He writes, "The aim of the BJP's counteroffensive is to create a pro-BJP government in Punjab with the BJP as the dominant party, instead of being a minority partner as it was in the Akali/BJP coalition (2007-2017). Such a government – with a Sikh chief minister and a Sikh police chief on the pattern of the Beant Singh-KPS Gill model during the Congress regime (1992-97) – would be used to break up farmers' organisations in Punjab. Once Punjab's farmers' organisations are destroyed, the BJP is confident that the broader farmers' movement would be crippled." It is crucial to fulfilling its promise to the corporates who were offered India's agricultural sector on a platter through these laws: "From the perspective of defeating farmers' resistance to agro-business capitalism aligned with Hindutva, winning the 2022 election in Punjab is even more important than in UP. If the BJP loses UP but wins Punjab, it will have two more years to regain the upper hand in UP in the 2024 General Election. However, if it loses in Punjab – even if it wins in UP – its agenda to advance agro-business interests would be effectively defeated." We need to see the theatre of this threat to the PM's life in this context. The BJP has again painted it in Hindu colour by organising Mahamrityunjaya Japas across the country. It is a perilous moment and can be life-threatening for this sad, sinking country. (The writer teaches at Delhi University)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pm-security-lapse-a-contested-theatre-in-punjab-1068884.html
07-01-2022||South||Kerala CM going to US for medical purpose||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will be going to the US by January 15 for medical purposes. Vijayan had gone to the Mayo Clinic for treatment in 2018 also. Sources said that Vijayan will be accompanied by his wife and a personal staff member. He is scheduled to return by the end of the month. He did most of his office work online during the US travel in 2018. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-going-to-us-for-medical-purpose-1068755.html
07-01-2022||South||Two murder-accused gunned down in Tamil Nadu encounter||Two history-sheeters accused of a double murder on Thursday evening were gunned down by the Chengalpattu district police on Friday morning near Mamandur after the duo allegedly attacked the police team that was trying to nab them. Dinesh (23) and ‘Biscuit’ Moideen (20) are accused of killing Karthik and Mahesh in Chengalpattu on Thursday evening in full public view. The police launched investigations into the murder and found the involvement of Dinesh and Moideen.  As the police launched a search to nab the accused, they are understood to have hidden near the Palar river in Mamandur. When a police team surrounded the duo at around 8.30 am on Friday, they, according to police, used country bombs to attack the police team.  “In self-defence, the police had to use force. They opened fire resulting in the death of the two,” a police official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-murder-accused-gunned-down-in-tamil-nadu-encounter-1068811.html
07-01-2022||South||Madras HC frowns over lower court 'summoning' God||Wondering if God can be summoned by a court to be produced for inspection, the Madras High Court has pulled up a lower court for ordering the authorities of a temple in Tirupur district to produce the Moolavar (presiding deity) idol, which had been stolen, traced and installed at the shrine after following the rituals and Agama rules, for verification. Justice R Suresh Kumar said the lower court judge, instead, could have deputed an advocate-commissioner to inspect/verify the veracity of the idol and recorded his findings/report. The judge pulled up the lower court in Kumbakonam, which is dealing with idol theft cases, for ordering the authorities to produce the said idol belonging to the Paramasivan Swamy temple in Siviripalayam in Tirupur district. The judge was passing interim orders on a writ petition, challenging the move of the authorities concerned to lift the idol from the pedestal and produce it before the Kumbakonam court. According to the petitioner, the idol in the ancient temple was stolen, subsequently retrieved by the police and produced before the court concerned-- the Special Court Dealing with Idol Theft Cases in Kumbakonam. Then it was handed over to the temple authorities and re-installed in the shrine. Kumbabhishekam ritual was also performed later. The idol now was being worshipped by a large number of devotees including the villagers. While so, the Judicial Officer, who is dealing with the Idol theft cases at Kumbakonam issued a direction to produce the idol i.e., the Moolavar itself for inspection and to complete the enquiry before the court, on January 6. When an attempt was made by the temple executive officer to remove the idol for production before the Court at Kumbakonam, the devotees, including the petitioner, strongly objected to it. Hence, the present writ petition. Passing the orders on Thursday, the judge said the idol need not be removed and produced before the Court concerned, the reason being that, it, according to the belief of the devotees, is the God. The God cannot be summoned by the Court to be produced for mere inspection or verification purposes, as if it is a material object of a criminal case. The judicial officer could have deputed an advocate-commissioner to inspect the idol without affecting its divinity or wounding the feelings of a large number of devotees. "Therefore, the aforesaid measure shall be undertaken by the Magistrate and the idol i.e. the Moolavar need not be removed for the said purpose. This order shall be executed by all concerned including the Magistrate (in Kumbakonam), to whom a copy of this order shall be forwarded by the Registry," the judge said and posted the matter after four weeks for filing counter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-frowns-over-lower-court-summoning-god-1068827.html
07-01-2022||South||Kerala actress abduction case: Film director's statement to be recorded||Kerala Police, probing the actress abduction case, has asked film director Balachandra to record his statement. The police probe team served a notice to Kumar to appear before the magistrate, on January 12. Last week, Kumar revealed that soon after hugely popular actor Dileep was released on bail in the case, he saw the visuals of the assault on the actress in the car. Kumar also claimed that the visuals were handed over to the actor by an VIP and he was privy to all this. Till now, only the trial court has seen the said visuals. Soon after Kumar's disclosure became public, the Kerala government on Wednesday filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking six more months to complete the trial in the case. The apex court had in September granted time till February 16, 2022 to complete the trial, the third time the top court granted extension. The actress was abducted and assaulted in a moving car in Kochi on February 17, 2017, and Dileep was arrested in July 2017 in connection with the case. He spent several weeks in jail before securing bail. He has been named as a conspirator in the case, being charged with "revenge crime". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-actress-abduction-case-film-directors-statement-to-be-recorded-1068834.html
07-01-2022||South||Kerala imposes 1 week home quarantine for international arrivals||Kerala on Friday decided to impose a week's compulsory home quarantine on all those arriving from abroad in view of the surge in coronavirus and Omicron cases, Health Minister Veena George said. George said so far 280 Omicron cases have been registered in the state and the maximum number of cases was reported from those who arrived from low-risk countries. On Thursday, 4,649 new Covid cases were registered, which was a recent high figure. In tune with the national guidelines, George said from now on all passengers arriving from abroad have to undergo mandatory quarantine for a week at their homes. "On the 8th day, they will undergo a RT-PCR test and if negative, they will continue in isolation for a week. The positive samples will be sent for genome sequencing," said George. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-1-week-home-quarantine-for-international-arrivals-1068895.html
07-01-2022||South||Covid surge: PM Modi cancels Puducherry visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was to inaugurate the National youth festival at Puducherry on January 12, has cancelled his visit due to a surge in Covid cases in the Union Territory (UT) and Tamil Nadu. The information was shared by senior BJP leader and Home Minister of Union Territory of Puducherry on Friday.The National Youth Festival which was to be held from January 12-16 to mark the 75th anniversary of Indian independence and birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, will now be held in the virtual mode for three days only. Prime Minister Modi will now inaugurate the National Youth Festival in virtual mode on January 12, the scheduled date. Puducherry Chief Secretary Ashwini Kumar has communicated to all the Chief Secretaries not to send delegations from their respective states and to note the change of schedule to virtual mode. Around 7,000 youths from all states and Union Territories were expected to participate in the five-day event. Union Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs, Anurag Singh Thakur who was in Puducherry on Wednesday had overseen all the preparations for the event and had assigned a team of officers from the Ministry led by Under Secretary of the department of sports and youth affairs Pankaj Kumar Singh. However, with the programme being now converted to virtual mode, the Puducherry administration has heaved a sigh of relief. Former Chief Minister of Puducherry and senior Congress leader, V. Narayanasami had already called upon the Prime Minister not to attend the programme taking into consideration the high surge in fresh Covid -19 cases as also the presence of Omicron variant. The CPI state secretary A.M. Saleem has also requested the Prime Minister to cancel the programme considering the high number of fresh cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-surge-pm-modi-cancels-puducherry-visit-1068898.html
07-01-2022||South||Woman in Kerala kidnaps newborn to continue relationship with lover||A woman who kidnapped a newborn from a hospital in Kottayam district, Kerala, on Thursday told the police that she wanted to continue her relationship with her lover by making him believe that it was their child. Ernakulam resident Neethuraj, 33, kidnapped a newborn girl from the Kottayam medical college hospital on Thursday afternoon. The swift action of police helped in tracing the child while Neethuraj was planning to move to Kochi with the child. Kottayam district police chief Shilpa Dyavaiah said that Neethuraj wanted to save her relationship with the youth and hence she kidnapped the child to make him believe that it was their child as the youth was planning to marry another woman. Neethuraj, who is married and has a son, was in a relationship with the youth hailing from Kochi, identified as Ibrahim Badusha. They were learnt to have met through a social networking platform. While Neethuraj, who is said to be an MBA holder, made him believe that she was running an IT firm. Badusha, who is a lorry driver, told her that he was an IT professional. Neethuraj became pregnant and Badusha and his family were also aware of it. But later it got aborted. Neethuraj did not disclose to Badusha. Recently, she came to know that Badusha was planning to marry another woman. Hence, Neethuraj kidnapped the child with the intention of making Badusha believe that it was their child. Badusha also allegedly collected huge cash and gold from Neethuraj. Police said that Neethuraj was the lone accused in the case and no one else was involved in the crime. She was staying separated from her husband. Meanwhile, parents and relatives of the kidnapped child, who hail from the Idukki district, alleged serious lapses on the part of the hospital security authorities. The child's father was allowed to see the child only once after its birth citing restrictions on visitors. Even then Neethuraj managed to kidnap the child by wearing a medical gown. The relatives suspect the role of some security personnel in helping the woman kidnap the child. According to the police, the woman, dressed as a nurse, entered the gynaecology department of the medical hospital and walked away with the infant at around 3 pm and it took more than half an hour for the child's mother and relatives to realise the baby had been kidnapped. The Medical College Police was informed about the abduction at around 4 pm and it immediately swung into action and sent messages to all the police stations in the district and around the hospital. All vehicles arriving from the medical college area were stopped and inspected by police teams and even autorickshaw drivers, ambulance drivers, locals, and medical shop staff in the vicinity of the medical college were told to keep an eye out for the baby, police said. Subsequently, an autorickshaw driver informed the police that a woman with a baby was seen entering the Park Hotel which was just 100 metres from the hospital. Police reached the hotel, arrested the woman, and rushed the baby back to its mother at the hospital. Health Minister Veena George visited the hospital and assured a detailed investigation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-in-kerala-kidnaps-newborn-to-continue-relationship-with-lover-1068930.html
07-01-2022||South||Kerala makes one week home quarantine mandatory for international arrivals||Like many other states, Kerala is also witnessing a surge in Covid cases again with test positivity rate (TPR) crossing the 8 per cent mark after a gap of over one month on Friday. The state government has decided to make one week home quarantine mandatory for all international passengers as well as to increase random testing at airports as majority of the Omicron cases reported so far in the state were found to be in travellers from countries categorised as low-risk. Kerala, which was in the news for the prolonging second wave of Covid, was heaving a sigh of relief as the cases were coming down over the last couple of months and went below the 4 per cent mark by last week of December. However, over the last few days, the number of daily fresh Covid cases was steadily increasing and the TPR reached 8.2 percent on Friday with 5296 fresh cases. The total Covid active case in Kerala is now 27,859. Omicron cases in Kerala was also increasing. With 25 more cases being confirmed on Friday, the total Omicron cases reported in Kerala so far reached 305. Among them, 209 of the infected came down from countries in the low-risk category. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that since the number of Omicran cases in passengers from low-risk countries was high, the seven days home quarantine would be made mandatory for all international passengers. As per the centre's guidelines, random testing of 2 per cent of the international passengers from low-risk countries need to be conducted. But it will be enhanced to 20 per cent in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-makes-one-week-home-quarantine-mandatory-for-international-arrivals-1068998.html
07-01-2022||South||Vision ailment delays re-wilding of cub tigress in Kerala||Efforts of the forest officials in Kerala to re-wild a tigress cub is getting delayed owing to the vision ailments of the tigress. The forest authorities are now even considering importing medicine from the US for treating the tigress aged around 15 months. It was said to be for the first time in South India that an effort to re-wild a tiger was being made. Even as the tigress is already being imparted training in hunting small prey and was behaving almost normally, owing to the vision ailments expert team comprising senior veterinarians are not giving the nod to release it back to the forest. It was suffering from a cataract on both eyes. The expert team that reviewed its health status recently evaluated that there was considerable improvement in the vision, but needs further improvement for taking a call on whether to release it in the forest or not. The cub was found abandoned in the forest close to Mangala Devi Kannagi Temple in Kerala - Tamil Nadu border areas of Idukki in 2020 November. It was only around two months old then. As its mother did not turn up to collect it even after a couple of days, forest officials shifted it to a shelter and was named Mangala. It had problems with limb and vision Forest department sources told DH that its eyes were about 90 per cent opaque initially and as a result of the treatment given so far it is only around 70 per cent opaque now. But the cub's movements are quite normal, maybe because its other senses are sharp. It also started hunting small prey. The problem with its limb was cured through swimming training and physiotherapy. Senior veterinarian Dr Arun Zachariah, who has been reviewing the health condition of the tigress, said that except for the vision ailments the cub was healthy. But without curing the vision problem it could not be released to the forest. A forest department official said that re-wilding steps in full swing would be initiated only after the tigress was declared healthy. Otherwise, it would be difficult to handle the tigress if it could not be released into the forest after re-wilding. Moreover, full swing re-wilding also involved high costs. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vision-ailment-delays-re-wilding-of-cub-tigress-in-kerala-1069044.html
07-01-2022||South||Hosur being positioned as a hub for electronics manufacturing||The industrial town of Hosur, located just outside Bengaluru, is likely to grab a substantial share of fresh investments that are expected to come into Tamil Nadu with the state positioning the town as hubs for electronics manufacturing and the burgeoning electric mobility sector.  Hosur could well be the biggest beneficiary of the state government’s concerted efforts to decongest Chennai and its neighbouring districts by taking industries of every kind to tier-II and tier-III cities. The industrial town is now being suggested for several electronics manufacturers’ who evince interest in making Tamil Nadu their home, after having projected it as a hub for manufacturing of electric scooters and their accessories.  Along with Hosur, Coimbatore is also being promoted as an electronics hub given the city, which is known as the Manchester of South India, has several engineering institutes which have their own incubation centres and are involved in creating a talent pool in the sector.  Home-grown Tata Electronics and Taiwan’s Delta Electronics are building massive manufacturing units in and around Hosur and the presence of the two companies, the government feels, will encourage other major players in the sector to choose the industrial town.  Tata is investing Rs 7,000 crore in building a massive electronic ecosystem that will manufacture platforms for smartphones, including those of Apple Inc, among other components in Hosur under the Union Government’s Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS). “How much can Chennai handle? We now give options of Chennai, Hosur, and Coimbatore for electronics’ manufacturers. Since Hosur is already an industrial town, we feel it has immense potential to emerge as electronics’ hub as well apart from being the nerve centre for EV manufacturing,” a senior government official in the know of developments told DH. The official explained that it is with the motive to transform Hosur into an electronics hub that the government has already allotted land to suppliers of Delta Electronics.  “The suppliers will set their shops in two years’ time in the land allotted to them. Tata and Delta are the beginning of Hosur’s transformation as a centre for electronics manufacturing. When companies scout for places to set up their units, skilled workforce and the ecosystem top their agenda. Both are available in Hosur and in neighbouring Krishnagiri,” the official added.  The strong and vibrant presence of MSMEs in Hosur and the town’s proximity to Bengaluru, which has excellent air connectivity to various parts of the globe, also make it attractive for investors, another official said. “MSMEs who constitute the ecosystem for any sector is strong in Hosur. Entrepreneurs in TN learn things fast and execute them quickly. Very soon, Hosur will be a hub for more than one sector,” the official said.  K Velmurugan, President of Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association (HOSTIA) said industrialization in Hosur has taken place gradually and the town has “all kinds of ecosystem” with a strong supplier base owing to the presence of 3,000 MSMEs.  “We have huge land parcels in Hosur, Krishnagiri, and Dharmapuri which makes this region one of the most attractive. The mobility of goods and people here is very fast which is liked by investors besides the excellent skilled workforce. The climate also plays a factor apart from the town’s close proximity to Bengaluru,” Velmurugan told DH. He also demanded that the Tamil Nadu government should come out with a Master Plan for the development of Hosur and make it ready to house more industries and cater to the growing population.  Tamil Nadu, which is the second-largest manufacturing hub in the country accounting for 20 per cent of total electronics production in India, is pulling all stops to garner investments in the sector. The Tamil Nadu government has an exclusive Electronics Hardware Manufacturing Policy that offers a wide range of subsidies for companies investing in the state. The government’s recent move to study the feasibility of setting up an airport in Hosur should also be viewed from the larger plan of promoting the town as an electronic and electric mobility hub. People of Hosur have also been demanding that Bengaluru Metro be extended to the Tamil Nadu border for free movement between the two cities. In the EV sector, cab aggregator Ola, Ather, Sri Varu Motors, and Simple Energy are setting up their factories in and around Hosur, while TVS Motor Company has pledged Rs 1,200 crore for EV manufacturing unit in the industrial town.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hosur-being-positioned-as-a-hub-for-electronics-manufacturing-1069046.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||College shutdown hits students as campus hirers reject online semester scores||The government’s decision to shut college campuses and return to online classes in Bengaluru has affected the placement prospects of thousands of engineering students. Placements were at a peak with several companies visiting campuses when colleges were shut. What has left students worried is that companies have categorically told them and the placement officers not to submit the last two semesters’ scores as they were promoted without physical classes and exams due to the pandemic. And now, with the current semester too going online, students fear their final placements will be affected.  Due to the pandemic, the state government promoted students of the last two semesters without exams there were no physical classes for almost one-and-a-half years. “Some companies have made it clear that they will not consider the scorecards of previous two semesters while recruiting,” said a senior placement officer of a private engineering college in Bengaluru. “Companies are considering only placement test scores and performance in interviews,” said a placement officer at another engineering college. Some companies are checking class 10 and 12 scores.  Principals of some of the colleges said a few companies have shifted the recruitment process online but many students find it uncomfortable and inconvenient. Some firms have even put off the recruitment schedule. Prof Karisddappa, vice-chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University said, “Companies are not considering online performance in other states too.” He said VTU has requested the government to relax restrictions on professional courses. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/college-shutdown-hits-students-as-campus-hirers-reject-online-semester-scores-1068740.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 6,000 cr infrastructure push for Bengaluru; plan to ease traffic at Hebbal||With the Bengaluru civic polls looming, the Cabinet on Thursday approved a Rs 6,000-crore boost to the city’s infrastructure along with a grand plan to address mobility issues at the notorious Hebbal junction.  Briefing reporters, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said Bengaluru will get Rs 6,000 crore over three years under the Chief Minister’s Amrit Nagarotthana scheme. “The city will get Rs 2,000 crore every year,” he said.  The funds will be used for the development of basic infrastructure in the city. This will be in addition to the works already taken up by the BBMP, Madhuswamy said. Separately, Madhuswamy unveiled the government’s “vision” to ease traffic flowat the Hebbal junction, which connects the city to the airport. The plan also involves interventions aimed at KR Puram and Tumakuru Road where vehicular density is nightmarish.  Various civic agencies of the city have been directed to come up with a master plan. “The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL)  has already started a comprehensive study to ease the flow of traffic at Hebbal junction and to increase its capacity based on projected traffic density for the year 2051,” Madhuswamy said, adding that the BBMP, BDA, BMTC and other parastatal agencies will pitch in.  Preliminarily, the government has listed 12 projects that mainly involve increasing the number of traffic lanes at key points. “The total cost of all these projects is yet to be estimated. The required funds for the project will be sanctioned in the next budget,” Madhuswamy said. According to the proposal being explored, three flyovers are planned along Ballari Road to increase the number of lanes from Bengaluru city to the airport from three to five on either side. A three-lane underpass from Tumakuru Road to KR Puram, a two-lane flyover from KR Puram towards the city centre, a two-lane flyover from KR Puram towards the airport, widening the service road from the airport to KR Puram from two-lane to three, widening the KR Puram-Tumakuru Road section to four lanes, among others.  An elevated circular skywalk is also proposed near the busy Banashankari metro station intersection that has a bus stand, the Banashankari temple and the market. The skywalk will help pedestrians and ease the movement of BMTC buses at the busy junction, Madhuswamy said. In another decision, the Cabinet gave administrative approval to procure 300 electric buses for the city at a cost of Rs 100 crore. Asked if this marked the start of the BJP’s preparation for the BBMP polls, which is likely to be held this year, Madhuswamy said: “What do you mean to start? We are always prepared.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-6000-cr-infrastructure-push-for-bengaluru-plan-to-ease-traffic-at-hebbal-1068741.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Omicron tally at 333 with 107 fresh cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 107 new cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus taking the total count to 333 in the state, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said. "107 new Omicron cases have been confirmed in Karnataka on Jan 6th taking the overall tally to 333," Sudhakar tweeted. Health officials said the infected persons have been isolated. It is not known whether the infected persons were symptomatic or asymptomatic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-omicron-tally-at-333-with-107-fresh-cases-1068842.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister R Ashoka tests positive for Covid-19||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Friday that he has tested positive for Covid-19.  "I have tested positive for Covid and I'm healthy. Those who came in contact with me, please get tested for Covid," Ashoka, 64, said in a tweet.  According to sources, Ashoka got tested at Manipal Hospital. He is now in home isolation.  Earlier this week, Ashoka attended a high-level meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Health Minister K Sudhakar, IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and others to discuss Covid-19 curbs. All of them continue to chair official meetings without going into quarantine.  Besides Ashoka, Primary & Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh has tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-r-ashoka-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1068902.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid surging but only 4.75% of patients in hospital, says Sudhakar||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka may be doubling at an alarming rate, but only 831 (4.75%) of the total 17,414 active cases are in hospitals, according to data from the health and family welfare department. The statistic is a silver lining amid an explosive surge of Covid-19 cases that has prompted the Bommai government to impose weekend curfew and mull the introduction of a 'green pass' for citizens to access public spaces.  "Out of the 17,414 active cases (as of January 5), only 831 Covid patients are in hospitals across Karnataka (4.75%), said Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, after holding a meeting on the third wave with officials. "Out of these patients, as many as 700 are being treated in general beds and don't require oxygen. This means that 90% of the hospitalised patients don't need any oxygen support. Only those who did not undergo vaccination are being treated at ICUs." But Sudhakar also cautioned against taking Omicron lightly. "The World Health Organisation (WHO) has cautioned against describing the Omicron variant as 'mild' even though it is less virulent than the Delta variant," Sudhakar told reporters. "Luckily, there has been no serious infection and deaths among the fully vaccinated, suggesting that the first-generation vaccine currently in use is successful against the infection."  Green Pass/Universal Pass Sudhakar also said that the government is mulling a 'Green Pass' or 'Universal Pass' for citizens to enter public places such as markets, malls, metro, public transport and theatres. "Currently, it is being implemented in government offices. However, we are still in talks with the Technical Advisory Committee and IT solutions companies on how to take this forward," he said.  The meeting also discussed making negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for railway passengers coming to Karnataka. "We will brief the chief minister on this. The CM will apprise the Union railway minister and push for guidelines in that direction," Sudhakar said.   The health minister also spoke on vaccination and other Covid matters such as testing. On kids' vaccination, Sudhakar said that 42% of the 31.75 lakh kids in the 15-17 age group in Karnataka had received the first dose. All primary contacts to be tested The government has also decided to test all primary contacts of Covid patients irrespective of whether he/she is symptomatic. Misinformation on WhatsApp groups will also be monitored and curbed at the source, he said, adding that rumour-mongers will be punished under the Disaster Management Act. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-surging-but-only-475-of-patients-in-hospital-says-sudhakar-1068915.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Minor derailment delays trains on Mysuru-Bengaluru line||A minor derailment of a goods train led to delay in the running of several trains from Mysuru towards Bengaluru on Friday evening. There was no casualty. The incident happened at 3.10 pm when four wheels of a wagon of the train that had unloaded rail panels at Kengeri got derailed between Nayandahalli and KSR Bengaluru Railway stations. The train was stopped near KSR Bengaluru Station (home signal).  This led to temporary blockage of one of the two lines. The railways arranged movement of trains by 'temporary single line working on double line'.  "The trains running from Nayandahalli towards KSR Bengaluru will experience minor delay, as they will be operated through the 'Down Line'. Senior officers of the division, headed by the divisional railway manager (DRM) are monitoring the restoration," South Western Railway said.  SWR said there was no casualty or injury to any person, including railway staff. Restoration will be executed and train services on 'UP Line' from Nayandahalli towards KSR Bengaluru will be restored soon. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minor-derailment-delays-trains-on-mysuru-bengaluru-line-1068927.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress questions Karnataka govt's rationale behind curfew||The DK Shivakumar-led Congress on Friday said that the Covid-19 situation is not bad enough to warrant curfews, basing this on its own “reality check”, and accused the BJP government of clamping down curbs to scuttle the Mekedatu foot march.  The Congress is determined to go ahead with its 10-day padayatra starting January 9, pressing for the implementation of the project, despite the government prohibiting mass events in the wake of the third wave.  “The government had said that lockdown-like measures will be taken if the test positivity rate (TPR) crossed 5%. Last year, the test positivity rate (TPR) was 33% when BS Yediyurappa was chief minister. Now, the TPR stands at 3.95%. Still, the government has imposed curbs,” Shivakumar said, dubbing the curbs as “BJP curfew that has nothing to do with Covid-19”.  He said the government is hiking case numbers by considering even cases of cough as Covid-19 positive. “I got a reality check done across the state on how many Covid cases there are, hospital admissions, ICU occupancy and so on. I have first-hand information,” Shivakumar said. “When nobody is in ICU, why impose a curfew?”  Former health minister UT Khader said only a few patients are on oxygen or require hospitalisation. “95% of people are recovering at home. What is the point of the curfew,” he asked.  Ramalinga Reddy, Sowmya plan protest Senior Congress MLA and KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy on Friday said he and Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy, his daughter, would stage a protest in front of the BBMP on Monday if funds are not released to their constituencies. Reddy said the state government has released Rs 1,500 crore for development works in Assembly constituencies of Bengaluru. But, his constituency of BTM Layout and Sowmya's Jayanagar have not received a single rupee, he said. He said 15 segments, held by BJP MLAs, have received Rs 1,110.34 crore whereas those of Congress MLAs got Rs 248.29 crore. One segment represented by the JD(S) got Rs 125 crore, he pointed out.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-questions-karnataka-govts-rationale-behind-curfew-1068928.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Headmistress stripping girl for carrying mobile: Karnataka Education dept initiates action||Commissioner for Public Instruction R Vishal has issued orders suspending the headmistress of a government high school for allegedly undressing and thrashing a girl student for carrying a mobile phone to the school in Srirangapatna on Friday. The parents had lodged a complaint with the block education officer against the headmistress Snehalatha, alleging that she undressed the girl and thrashed her, and sought action. A few even staged a protest in front of the school, warning of closing the school. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Javaregowda said the parents and the villagers have been informed about the suspension of the headmistress. They have been told to send their wards to school without any anxiety. The students would also be given proper guidelines, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/headmistress-stripping-girl-for-carrying-mobile-karnataka-education-dept-initiates-action-1068940.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka clears 87 projects worth Rs 4,236 crore||Karnataka has approved 87 industrial projects worth Rs 4,236.26 crore promising 12,251 jobs, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said Friday.  These projects were approved late Thursday in the 128th meeting of the State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) that Nirani chairs.  In a statement, Nirani said the new clearances would give “a big push” to Karnataka’s industrial growth.  The new investments include Siemens Healthcare (Rs 313.20 crore, 270 jobs), Tecchren Batteries (Rs 480 crore, 200 jobs), Neotrex Steel (Rs 340 crore, 150 jobs), Supreme Sugars (Rs 306.82 crore, 315 jobs), Pawan Shakti Papers (Rs 276 crore, 1,000 jobs), Tantia Papers (Rs 276 crore, 1,000 jobs) and SATS Food Solutions India (Rs 210 crore, 310 jobs).  Of the projects approved, 13 are large and medium-sized with an investment of over Rs 50 crore, totalling Rs 2,986.80 crore promising 4,660 jobs. Another 74 projects have an investment between Rs 15 crore and Rs 50 crore. They are worth Rs 1,249.46 crore generating 7,591 jobs, Nirani said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-clears-87-projects-worth-rs-4236-crore-1068945.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||8,449 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths in Karnataka; 6,812 alone in Bengaluru||Continuing the increasing trend, Karnataka on Friday logged 8,449 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the cumulative infections and fatalities to 30,31,052 and 38,362, respectively. As many as 505 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,62,548. Active cases stood at 30,113. The spike in cases was driven by Bengaluru Urban, which contributed to 6,812 infections and three deaths. Other districts too had fresh cases including 219 in Mysuru, 211 in Dakshina Kannada, 148 in Udupi, 129 in Mandya and 114 in Belagavi. Dakshina Kannada recorded onedeath. There were zero fatalities in 29 districts, whereas Haveri reported zero infections and zero fatalities. The positivity and case-fatality rates for the day were 4.15% and 0.04%, respectively. A total of 2,03,260 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 5.73 crore. As many as 4,36,640 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Friday, taking the total vaccination doses to 8,93,40,235.  Check out DH's latest videos:  According to the department, 3,44,917 inoculations were done today, taking the total covid vaccinations to 8.92 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/8449-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-in-karnataka-6812-alone-in-bengaluru-1068955.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Engineers' body offers to help govt with Mekedatu project||Amid the political slugfest over the Mekedatu project, the 101-year-old Institution of Engineers (IoE) on Friday offered to help the Karnataka government by constituting an expert committee to look into various technicalities.  The body is willing to extend its expertise and services to the government free of cost, IoE Karnataka chairperson M Lakshmana said. The IoE had organised a discussion on the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project. Speaking at the event, Lakshmana said the Mekedatu project will bring the pressure down on upstream dams such as Kabini and KRS. This will be useful to Karnataka, especially in the peak season when there is water scarcity. That apart, it will also aid in tourism and fishing culture and will facilitate economic growth in the surrounding areas, he said. When it comes to a city like Bengaluru where the daily water consumption is only expected to grow in the coming years, the Mekedatu project will be a boon in addressing drinking water woes, he added. In order to help the government iron out the technical glitches in securing permissions, the IoE will constitute a five-member committee that will include experts who have worked in water resources earlier and are familiar with the processes. An exclusive office will be set up for the purpose. The committee will extend aid to the government, free of cost, he said. A memorandum will also be submitted to the state government urging it to expedite the process. Captain Raja Rao, a retired government official and former environment secretary, emphasised that Karnataka was not doing anything illegal in proposing the Mekedatu project. As long as the state government is using water within its boundaries and is not breaking its commitment to release the annually stipulated amount of water to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka is not flouting any rules, he said. The 1924 link Digging into history, Rao said an approval was given to the Mekedatu project way back in 1924. The then joint secretary of Madras Presidency in 1924, gave a press statement which says that the then governments (Madras Presidency and Mysore State) had agreed that: "Mysore shall utilise the water power available at Mekedatu for development of electric power..." He urged the state government to make use of it to present its case before the court. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/engineers-body-offers-to-help-govt-with-mekedatu-project-1068957.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Relief for Raghaveshwara Seer: High Court bins criminal revision petition||The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed the criminal revision petition challenging the discharge and acquittal of Raghaveshwara Bharathi seer of Sri Ramachandrapura Math of Hosanagar taluk in Shivamogga district in a case of the alleged rape. Both the state government, through the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), and the victim, a Ram Katha singer, had challenged the order of the trial court. Citing the judgment of the coordinate bench, Justice V Shrishananda said that the charge sheet filed by the head of the investigation team of CID is not a charge sheet in the eye of law as it is not filed by the officer in charge of a police station in terms of Section 173 of CrPC. Applying the principles in Dhakkal's case and Kerala Transport Company's case, the court has also noted that since the state government has already challenged the order of the trial court, a separate revision petition by the victim is not maintainable. In regard to the charge sheet filed by the CID, the court observed that, unlike CCB, the state government has not notified CID as a police station. "If the charge sheet is filed by a person who is not the authorised person to file a final report as is contemplated under Section 173 of CrPC, the entire proceedings would definitely stand vitiated. Consequently, the further proceedings in pursuance of the said charge sheet is to be declared as non est,” the court said. The CID had filed the charge sheet against the seer for the offences under Sections 376 (2) (f), 376 (2) (n) and Section 508 of IPC. The charge sheet stated that the FSL report confirmed that the DNA sample found on the material evidence matched with the DNA of the seer. The charges included IPC section 508 since the seer allegedly threatened the victim of incurring divine pleasure (if she did not comply). Before the stage of hearing before charge (HBC), the seer had filed a discharge application under Section 227 of CrPC. The CID and the victim objected stating that since the charges were serious, only a trial would unearth the facts. The special court on March 31, 2016 passed the order discharging the seer. The state government and the victim challenged this order before the high court by filing criminal revision petitions. In the revision petition, the state government contended that the trial court had failed to appreciate that the expert opinion in the form of DNA report has a presumptive value and prima-facie to be accepted to be true unless discredited or impeached in trial. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/relief-for-raghaveshwara-seer-high-court-bins-criminal-revision-petition-1068967.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||2 premier educational institutions grapple with surging Covid cases||Amid the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases, several institutions are battling outbreaks among their students. At the prestigious National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK) at Surathkal, administrators said 13 cases have been recorded to date, following the emergence of a first case on Monday or Sunday, according to Professor Narendranath S, Dean of Student Affairs. “The first cases were recorded three days ago and we have been finding cases steadily since then,” he said, adding that there is no explanation of how the infections happened as the 2,000-odd student body on campus were not allowed to go out.  All of the noted cases are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic with mild fever. Among the cases include at least two people with travel history, including a student who had travelled to Kerala for Christmas. One of the cases was a girl who had returned from West Asia. “Both cases had presented a negative RT-PCR result upon arrival at the railway station and at the airport, but were subsequently found to be positive,” Professor Narendranath said, adding that both the cases were not admitted on campus. District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Kishore Kumar said that district authorities had information about five cases (as of Wednesday) and testing had been conducted for 208 primary contacts. “The results were expected on Friday,” he said. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), seven cases have been recorded among post-graduate students. Dr Namratha C, former president of Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD), said that barring two cases, the others appear to be unrelated, and are spread out among four hospitals. “Some are from Ophthalmology and ENT. The cases have reported throat irritation and a running nose as symptoms,” she said. Dr Smitha Segu, Nodal Officer for Covid-19 at BMCRI said that four of the cases are in home isolation and the remaining have been isolated at a ward on-campus. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-premier-educational-institutions-grapple-with-surging-covid-cases-1068968.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Education dept to restart Vidyagama programme||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to restart the Vidyagama programme for continuous learning of children to prepare for further restrictions on the movement of the public to curb Covid. In a circular, the Department of Public Instruction said that it has decided to restart the Vidyagama programme if the Covid cases continue to rise, prompting the closure of schools for offline classes across the state. Currently, physical classes have been cancelled up to class 9 in Bengaluru Urban district following the surge in Covid cases. The state government has instructed schools and authorities concerned to provide online education. The department has also released the schedule to follow if the Vidyagama programme is implemented. According to the schedule, Vidyagama will be implemented in three modes: First, through physical classes for those who do not have the necessary devices or access to the network; secondly, online classes for those who have mobile and other facilities and the third mode involves the playing of recorded classes for those do not have internet access. The circular further said that teachers have to form neighbourhood groups of children and visit them every day or at least once a week and clear their doubts. The Vidyagama programme was withdrawn during the previous academic year following the reports of Covid cases among children and teachers. Therefore, the department has made it mandatory for those attending Vidyagama offline classes to submit consent from parents. Even the midday meal will be organised for those attending offline classes under Vidyagama. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-dept-to-restart-vidyagama-programme-1068971.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Tourists with prior bookings, safaris allowed during weekend curfew: Karnataka govt||Karnataka clarified on Friday that tourists who have already booked their stay at hotels, resorts and other facilities will be permitted to travel during the weekend curfew.  “Tourists booked for weekends with valid stay vouchers are permitted to travel in their cars/taxis and other means of transportation,” tourism secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey stated in a notification. “Guests can check-in to the hotels and check-out of hotels with proof of booking,” he added.  The government also specified that there are no restrictions on in-house guests staying in hotels or resorts.  “All facilities can be kept open ‘ONLY’ for the in-house guests,” Pandey stated.  Further, the government said that safari in forest areas and sanctuaries will be permitted with Covid-appropriate behaviour.  The clarification came even as Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar attacked the government for singling out the Ramanagara district. Shivakumar represents the Kanakapura constituency in the district.  “It is only the Ramanagara district administration that has closed tourist places,” Shivakumar said at a news conference earlier in the day. “The government says people can't go to Savandurga, Chunchi falls, Sangama and other tourist places,” he said. The Congress has booked many hotels in the Ramanagara district ahead of its 10-day foot march starting January 9 from Mekedatu. The padayatra is aimed at mounting pressure on the government to implement the Mekedatu project.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tourists-with-prior-bookings-safaris-allowed-during-weekend-curfew-karnataka-govt-1068993.html
07-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulling issuing green passes for Covid-19 vaccinated people||The Karnataka government is mulling issuing green passes to identify those fully vaccinated against coronavirus, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. "We are planning to issue green passes to those who are fully vaccinated," the minister told reporters after chairing a high level meeting with the officials of his department. He added that those who test positive will be placed under mandatory physical or tele-triaging to assess requirement of hospitalisation, the minister said. Sudhakar said 10,000 medical and nursing students would be roped in for triaging the infected people. He also said that the government will release a uniform treatment protocol, discharge policy and quarantine guidelines. "Government is ensuring preparedness in every aspect to mitigate third wave," Sudhakar said. According to him, responsibilities have been allocated to officials and instructions have been given to ensure coordination between other departments.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulling-issuing-green-passes-for-covid-19-vaccinated-people-1068996.html
07-01-2022||West||India's Omicron tally crosses 3,000, Maharashtra nearing 100-mark||India registered 377 new cases of highly transmissible Covid variant Omicron in the past 24 hours, pushing the national tally to 3007, Union health ministry said on Friday morning. Of the total, 1,199 people have recovered from the new strain nationwide so far, it added. As per the health ministry, the Omicron infection has spread to 27 states and UTs. However, Maharashtra and Delhi continue to be the worst-hit states. With 79 fresh cases being detected in last 24 hours, Maharashtra continued to be the worst hit at 876. Of them, 381 patients have been discharged as per the health ministry data. The national capital continued with 465 Omicron cases of which 57 have recovered. Delhi is followed by Karnataka with 99 cases in the past 24 hours, pushing the tally to 333. Rajasthan has, so far, detected 291 cases of this variant. Among other states, Kerala recorded 50 new Omicron cases taking the total to 284. Gujarat and Tamil Nadu logged 204 and 121 cases respectively. Haryana's Omicron tally has climbed to 114 with 43 new cases, while Telangana's tally has reached 107. Odisha and Uttar Pradesh continued with 60 and 31 cases respectively. Andhra Pradesh also continued with 28 cases while infections have risen to 27 in West Bengal. Goa has reported 14 new Omicron cases at 19 so far. Omicron case count continued in single digits in Madhya Pradesh(9) and Uttarakhand(8). However, Assam's Omicron cases have jumped to 9 from 2 cases reported on Thursday. Meghalaya has 4 Omicron cases so far. Chandigarh, J&K, and Andaman Nicobar islands have so far 3 cases each. Puducherry and Punjab continued with two Omicron cases each so far. Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh and Laddakh, Manipur continue with one case of this variant each so far. The new state in the list Chhattisgarh has also reported one case of Omicron. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indias-omicron-tally-crosses-3000-maharashtra-nearing-100-mark-1068836.html
07-01-2022||West||Bombay High Court extends Varavara Rao's surrender date amid Covid surge||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended till February 5, the date of surrender for poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad- Maoist links case who is currently on medical bail, before Taloja prison authorities in Maharashtra. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar dismissed the National Investigating Agency's (NIA) request for extending such date of surrender only by a week. The bench said in view of the rising cases of coronavirus across the state, it would not be wise to send the 83-year-old poet-activist back to prison. Rao, who was lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai as an undertrial, was granted temporary medical bail for six months in February 2021 by another bench of the HC that was led by Justice Shinde. He was admitted to the private Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai at the time for treatment of multiple ailments. His date of surrender was scheduled for September 5, 2021, but Rao filed a new application through advocate R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover seeking an extension of medical bail. The date of Rao's surrender has been extended since then by the HC on several accounts, including further time sought by the NIA, which is investigating the case, for filing replies to the new application and getting the octogenarian medically examined again, among others. The NIA, however, has been opposing extension of Rao's medical bail, saying his treatment at Nanavati Hospital is now complete and as per doctors there, he does not need continued medical care at the private hospital currently. On Friday, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil told the HC that Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had not been briefed in the matter and sought a week's time to complete the process. He urged the HC to grant the next date of hearing in a week's time. The bench, however, said there was no point posting the matter for hearing next week and extending Rao's date of surrender only till then, considering the coronavirus pandemic. "Mr Patil, there is no point in keeping (the plea for hearing) next week. Experts say third wave (of coronavirus) may last for 50 to 60 days. This time, the police, health workers are testing positive very rapidly. The situation wasn't as bad the last time. So in such a situation, is it proper to send him (Rao) back to jail?" the judges asked. "Of course, we are aware of the seriousness of allegations (against Rao), and the point of law involved. We will hear you (all parties) on the next date on merits," the bench said. Grover then told the HC that considering Rao's health condition, his old age and chronic ailments, the Telegu poet had also filed a fresh application before the HC seeking "permanent bail on health grounds." "We have also challenged some of the findings and medical report conclusions of Nanavati Hospital," Grover told the HC. He referred to some reports, including a conclusion submitted in the HC by Nanavati Hospital doctors last month stating that Rao's vital parameters were stable and he did not need further medical care. The NIA had cited this particular report to argue earlier that Rao be sent back to prison while the high court continued to hear on merits his applications for further medical bail. On Friday, the bench of Justices Shinde and Borkar said it will consider all contentions raised, including those in the new applications filed by Rao, on February 4, the next date of hearing. It, accordingly, extended the date of surrender for Rao till February 5. The bench also advised lawyers to stay safe and follow Covid-19 safety protocols. "This is high time to take full care. The spread is very rapid this time. We are seriously concerned about all stakeholders in the judicial system...advocates, staff, clerks, their families. Here (in HC) also some of our colleagues have tested positive," the bench said. "But fortunately, in Maharashtra and Mumbai, the central and the state governments, the BMC, local bodies are all doing a wonderful job. We have to respect their work," it said. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city''s outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case, in which more than a dozen activists and academicians have been named accused, was later transferred to the NIA. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-extends-varavara-raos-surrender-date-amid-covid-surge-1068844.html
07-01-2022||West||Maharashtra state bodies to identify solutions to address pollution around Koradi Khaparkheda power plants||Following rising complaints from local residents on rampant air and water pollution in the villages surrounding Koradi and Khaparkheda thermal power stations, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray asked state bodies to deliberate on and identify measures for pollution control. He has called for a list of critical interventions from Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (MAHAGENCO), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) as well as researchers from the Centre for Sustainable Development (CFSD), Nagpur, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra, Pune to ensure pollution abatement across the 2400 MW Koradi and 1340 MW Khaparkheda thermal power plants at the earliest. The decisions were taken during a virtual meeting held on Thursday evening. “After seeing the presentation by researchers and hearing them out, I have directed relevant state bodies to come up with concrete solutions to address the pollution problems around these power plants,” Thackeray said, adding that he would also be holding a detailed follow-up meeting with energy minister Nitin Raut, MAHAGENCO as well as MPCB to draw up a proposed plan of action. Thackeray had invited the two groups -- Manthan and CFSD -- to understand the impact of water pollution and fly ash dumping across water bodies around these two power plants. “We are here to identify the problem, bring everyone to the table, and have a dialogue about what’s going on. We hope to identify what the state government can do to help resolve the situation,” he said. On November 18, 2021, a report titled “Polluted Power: How Koradi And Khaperkheda Thermal Power Stations Are Impacting The Environment” was released by Manthan, CFSD and Asar that called for an immediate halt to the discharge of pollutants from the power plants and ash ponds. The research also strongly suggested that all prior pollution-related harm be cleaned up under the supervision of a commission comprising local community and civil society members as well as independent experts. Research groups also highlighted how fly ash was being dumped at Nandgaon village in Nagpur district without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from local residents. The research groups requested Thackeray to ensure no further addition to the pollution load and installation of new units at Koradi and the new ash pond at Nandgaon should be put on hold keeping in mind the deteriorating health of local residents affected by pollution. Shripad Dharmadhikary, Coordinator, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra, who presented the study findings during the virtual meeting, stated that water resources of the area have been severely polluted by the Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants, especially with the presence of toxic heavy metals. Nagpur-based Leena Buddhe, Founder and Director, CFSD, who highlighted the plight of the community at Nandgaon, said that the ash disposal on the new ash pond sprawling over 750 acres violates all norms and needs to be stopped immediately. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-state-bodies-to-identify-solutions-to-address-pollution-around-koradi-khaparkheda-power-plants-1068850.html
07-01-2022||West||Gerson da Cunha passes away||A multi-faced personality and who’s who of Mumbai, Gerson da Cunha, passed away on Friday. He was 95.  Mostly seen in his spotless white kurta-pajama, Gerson da Cunha was a journalist, writer, author, playwright, actor, and civic activist - and represented what Mumbai stood for.  A storyteller, Gerson da Cunha, has seen the transformation of Bombay to Mumbai.  A science graduate from St Xavier’s College of the University of Mumbai, he started off as a journalist with Press Trust of India and the All India Radio before spending a quarter of a century in the advertising industry - Lintas and Hindustan Lever.  He was associated with a slew of platforms engaged in civic activism, including Action for Good Governance and Networking in India (AGNI), a public-private partnership, and Mumbai First.  Thereafter, he moved on to work with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Latin America and New York City. Simultaneously, he worked on theatre and Bollywood films like “Electric Moon”, “Cotton Mary”, “Asoka”, “Water”, and other, and subsequently, post-retirement took to the social field. Gerson da Cunha helped the Mumbaikars affected by the 1992-1993 communal riots. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gerson-da-cunha-passes-away-1068956.html
07-01-2022||West||Jump in Dharavi Covid-19 cases rattles govt||In what comes as a matter of concern, the slum-cluster of Dharavi in Mumbai has logged 150 Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest so far since the outbreak of the pandemic.  On Thursday and Friday, Dharavi reported three-figure cases - 107 and 150, respectively.  The jump in cases in Dharavi - one of the most vulnerable areas of Mumbai - vis-a-vis the Omicron-triggered third wave has rattled the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  The progressive total of cases in Dharavi stands at 7,776. During the first wave, the highest was 94 cases reported on May 3, 2020. During the second wave, the digest was 99 cases reported on April 8, 2021. The situation in Dharavi is being monitored closely. For the Maharashtra government as well as the BMC, Dharavi, which comes under G/North Ward, is a matter of concern, but during both the waves, the slum cluster has come out successfully. Spread over 2.1 sq km, Dharavi – sandwiched between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai - is a sort of mini-India, with over 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working here. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns – because of the pandemic - waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. Throughout April-May, 2020, the cases zoomed but then it was brought down in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy - Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. The Dharavi-model of Covid combat strategy has been appreciated worldwide including by the WHO. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jump-in-dharavi-covid-19-cases-rattles-govt-1068970.html
07-01-2022||West||Gujarat records over 5,000 Covid cases; schools shut for classes 1 to 9||The novel coronavirus cases in Gujarat continue to increase rapidly with 5,396 cases reported in the past 24 hours. This is the highest single-day count this year in what is said to be the third wave of the global pandemic. The number of active cases in the state jumped from 3,927 on January 1 to a whopping 18,583 on Friday. The rising cases forced the state government to impose further restrictions. The state government announced the closure of schools from class 1 to 9 till January 31 with immediate effect. The higher education institutes will be functional by covid-19 protocols, the state government said. The government also increased the night curfew timing from 11 pm to 6 pm to 10 pm to 6 am in eight major cities, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhanagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar. Night curfew was also extended to two new cities — Anand and Nadiad city — on Friday. According to the data compiled by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the central government, between December 31 and January 6, the test positivity rate in Ahmedabad was 13.80%, one of the highest numbers in the country. The city reported 2,281 cases on Friday, another highest single-day figure this year. The other worst affected cities are Surat, which reported 1,350, Vadodara 239 and Rajkot, 203 cases. Meanwhile, the Gujarat high court discontinued physical hearings citing the rising cases. The high court also ordered the lower judiciary in the state "to function in virtual mode only through video conference till further orders to conduct all types of matters..." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-over-5000-covid-cases-schools-shut-for-classes-1-to-9-1068976.html
07-01-2022||West||Kalicharan granted bail in Pune inflammatory speech case||A court in Pune on Friday granted bail to Hindu religious leader Kalicharan in a case registered against him for allegedly making inflammatory statements during an event here. He had been remanded in judicial custody in the case on Thursday and was then sent to jail in Raipur in neighbouring Chhattisgarh where he has been charged under various IPC provisions for abusing Mahatma Gandhi during a religious event held there on December 26. The court on Friday granted bail to him in the case registered in Pune for allegedly making an inflammatory speech during an event and he has been released on a personal bond of Rs 25,000, his lawyer Amol Dange said. Kalicharan, Hindu Aghadi leader Milind Ekbote and Captain Digendra Kumar (retired) were booked by Khadak police station here for allegedly making inflammatory statements during a 'Shiv Pratap Din' event, organised on December 19 to commemorate the 1659 killing of Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan by warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Khadak police had registered an FIR under IPC sections 295 (A) (outraging religious feelings), 298 (deliberate intention of wounding religious feelings), and 505 (2) (false statement, rumour made in place of worship, etc, with intent to create enmity). Pune police had taken the custody of Kalicharan from Chhattisgarh police and had placed him under arrest in this case.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalicharan-granted-bail-in-pune-inflammatory-speech-case-1069031.html
07-01-2022||West||Goa CM backtracks on night curfew; says crowd restrictions more suitable||Days after stating that a night curfew would be imposed in Goa, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday backtracked on his assurance, saying imposing restrictions on crowds in outdoor and indoor areas were more critical to control the rising cases of Covid in the coastal state. Sawant also urged political parties to not hold large gatherings, while adding that casinos in the state would also continue to operate at 50% capacity. "Instead of a night curfew, we have decided to put restrictions on crowded places throughout the day and night... More than a night curfew it is more necessary to put restrictions on gatherings whether it is at markets, public meetings, political meetings. They need to be controlled,"  Sawant told reporters. "Public gatherings should be restricted to 50% of sitting capacity for indoor halls or auditoriums or maximum 100 at a time and second maximum 100 for open areas. This is valid till January 26, following which a review will be undertaken and future decision will be taken," he said, adding that the state health ministry had issued the fresh directive earlier on Friday. "We have observed that the spread has occurred in crowded places. This circular has been issued to keep a check on crowded places," he further said. On January 3, Sawant had said that his government was in the process of ordering a night curfew in the state amid rising new infection, adding that formal orders would be issued within 24 hours. The CM also said that the state administrative machinery, as well as the police department and local grassroots bodies like the panchayats, had been directed to ensure that crowds do not gather in public or private spaces, in violation of the Health Ministry directives. "Police department, collectors and panchayats have been told to monitor the situation and do not allow people to gather in one place in a large number, so that we are able to control the positivity rate," the CM said. On Friday, the coastal state reported 1,432 new Covid infections, even as the total active caseload in Goa reached 5,931 cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-backtracks-on-night-curfew-says-crowd-restrictions-more-suitable-1069048.html
