08-01-2022||Comment||Calls for genocide, ghar wapsi: ‘Double-engine’ hatred||December 2021 saw a clearer manifestation of the BJP’s relentless efforts at parivartan — of transforming our society, promised in their election manifesto. The Karnataka Assembly passed the anti-conversion bill, a ‘Dharma Sansad’ in Haridwar called for genocide of Muslims, and our own promising young MP from Bengaluru exhorted all of Pakistan, too, to be converted to Hinduism through ‘ghar wapsi’, in what can only be described as Munna Bajrangi style. There was one obvious underlying thread in all these acts or words – pure, unadulterated hatred and malice toward Muslims and Christians. There was also an unseen thread, an invisible hand, a ringmaster telling the BJP ministers and MPs when to introduce a legislation, to act or speak on a particular subject and then withdraw, apologise or repeal Acts or words upon his signal. They were certainly not acting at the behest of those who voted them to power but someone far more powerful — one who controlled and coordinated all the diverse acts in different BJP-ruled states. Is he an elected authority or an extra-constitutional one? Anti-conversion bill It’s almost a truism that whenever the BJP comes to power, ‘Hinduism is in danger’. Not because Hindus are dying of poverty, unemployment, destitution, or even Covid. It’s because 14 per cent Muslims and 2 per cent Christians in our land are aggressively converting Hindus to their religion. The foundational premise of the anti-conversion bill is that Hindu population, and thus Hindu religion, is in imminent danger of dying or disappearing from its homeland.   This bogey of the diminishing Hindu race has been around for more than a century. A 1909 pamphlet published by one U N Mukherji was titled ‘Hindus, a dying race’, in which he asserted, allegedly based on the Census, that within 420 years, all Hindus would have disappeared from the face of the earth. It is now over 111 years since that prognosis, and the Hindu population has trebled from 305 million in the 1950s to 966 million by the time of the 2011 Census. Besides, the share of population of Hindus, Muslims and Christians has remained fairly stable in the last 60 years. What’s more, the fertility gap between Muslim and Hindu women has shrunk from 1.1 to 0.5 children. Obviously, there is no prospect of the Hindu race dying, but the BJP has to keep the pot boiling. A majority of those who do convert are Dalits and tribal folk. They convert not because they are offered salvation in the next world but because of schools, colleges and hospitals provided here and now by the missionaries. What they seek by converting is social empowerment, equality with fellow human beings, and dignity that is so brazenly denied by the Hindu caste hierarchy of injustice and oppression. What have they got by remaining within the Hindu fold, but disowned by it? And, pray, who is the District Magistrate to judge my faith in any god or ‘son of god’ or prophet? My faith is my business, not the government’s, not the District Magistrate’s, and certainly not that of hate-spewing sadhus. Adharma Sansad Much has been written about the ‘Dharma Sansad’ in Haridwar and the venom spewed by so many sadhus and sants, whose links with the Sangh Parivar and BJP too were on display. Among the prominent attendees were the BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, a past offender on hate-speech, ‘Swami’ Prabhodanand Giri who called for ‘ethnic cleansing of Muslims’, ‘Yati’ Narsinghanand, who wants a ‘Hindu Prabhakaran’ to do the job, and Pooja Shakun Pandey, aka ‘Sadhvi’ Annapurna, who thinks Hindu victory lies in killing 20 lakh Muslims. Around the same time as the ‘Dharma Sansad’, a gathering of Hindu Yuva Vahini, founded by Yogi Adityanath, met in Delhi to take an oath. Raising their hands in a Nazi-style salute, hundreds of participants chanted “We resolve to make India a Hindu nation and keep it a Hindu-only nation. We will fight and die if required, we will kill as well.”    It must be noted that the hate-speeches of Haridwar were followed up by an action-oriented pledge in Delhi right under the nose of the central government. This is no hush-hush conspiracy. It is an open and manifest intent to commit genocide. The police force, refusing to act, can only be regarded as being complicit. There is, of course, a political sub-text to all this. Firstly, Yogi Adityanath is nervous about losing the coming UP elections. If the situation gets any worse, communal riots could erupt, as happened in Muzaffarnagar in 2013. Secondly, Yogi is positioning himself, or is being positioned, as the real protector and defender of Hindutva over Modi and is hoping to emerge as a powerful contender for the top job after the 2024 general elections. For that, he has to win the UP Assembly election decisively, and must be seen to have achieved it without help from Modi. Some analysts have speculated that Modi and Shah have set themselves a challenging task – to ensure BJP’s victory, but not a decisive win for Yogi. Either way, the ‘double-engine government’ seems well disposed to letting the sadhus and sants blow the winds for a communal blaze. The Delhi riots of February 2020 were preceded by a BJP minister’s call for ‘Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maro saalon ko’ against anti-CAA protesters. Imagine what the Haridwar and Delhi calls for genocide of Muslims could lead to.   The MP for ‘ghar wapsi’ As if on cue, the young MP from Bengaluru Tejasvi Surya, too, launched forth on this urgent ‘existential’ question of the Hindu race and its survival. His cheeks red with rage, he asked Hindu seers to fix targets to bring Hindus back into the fold through ‘ghar wapsi’ programmes. Carried away by his own eloquence, he exhorted them to convert even the Muslims of Pakistan to the Hindu fold. Probably, this was the portion he sought to withdraw the next day. Perhaps, the Gambinos in the Parivar got worried over what to do with the likes of Hafiz Sayed and Masood Azhar if they became Hindus!   In any case, dear MP sir, where would you put all those reconverted Muslims, Indian or Pakistani, in our ‘Chatur Varna’ system? Which caste would you fit them in? You may be in a hurry to please your master and become a minister in the Union Cabinet, hence all this venom and posturing. But rabble-rousers are dime a dozen in the party and Parivar now. You have to be and do worse to get what you want. You have a long way to go.       (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/calls-for-genocide-ghar-wapsi-double-engine-hatred-1069139.html
08-01-2022||Comment||‘Double-engine’ hatred||December 2021 saw a clearer manifestation of the BJP’s relentless efforts at parivartan — of transforming our society, promised in their election manifesto. The Karnataka Assembly passed the anti-conversion bill, a ‘Dharma Sansad’ in Haridwar called for genocide of Muslims, and our own promising young MP from Bengaluru exhorted all of Pakistan, too, to be converted to Hinduism through ‘ghar-vapsi’, in what can only be described as Munna Bajrangi style. There was one obvious underlying thread in all these acts or words – pure, unadulterated hatred and malice toward Muslims and Christians. There was also an unseen thread, an invisible hand, a ringmaster telling the BJP ministers and MPs when to introduce a legislation, to act or speak on a particular subject and then withdraw, apologise or repeal Acts or words upon his signal. They were certainly not acting at the behest of those who voted them to power but someone far more powerful — one who controlled and coordinated all the diverse acts in different BJP-ruled states. Is he an elected authority or an extra-constitutional one? Anti-conversion bill It’s almost a truism that whenever the BJP comes to power, ‘Hinduism is in danger’. Not because Hindus are dying of poverty, unemployment, destitution, or even Covid. It’s because 14% Muslims and 2% Christians in our land are aggressively converting Hindus to their religion. The foundational premise of the anti-conversion bill is that Hindu population, and thus Hindu religion, is in imminent danger of dying or disappearing from its homeland.   This bogey of the diminishing Hindu race has been around for more than a century. A 1909 pamphlet published by one U N Mukherji was titled ‘Hindus, a dying race’, in which he asserted, allegedly based on the Census, that within 420 years, all Hindus would have disappeared from the face of the earth. It is now over 111 years since that prognosis, and the Hindu population has trebled from 305 million in the 1950s to 966 million by the time of the 2011 Census. Besides, the share of population of Hindus, Muslims and Christians has remained fairly stable in the last 60 years. What’s more, the fertility gap between Muslim and Hindu women has shrunk from 1.1 to 0.5 children. Obviously, there is no prospect of the Hindu race dying, but the BJP has to keep the pot boiling. A majority of those who do convert are Dalits and tribal folk. They convert not because they are offered salvation in the next world but because of schools, colleges and hospitals provided here and now by the missionaries. What they seek by converting is social empowerment, equality with fellow human beings, and dignity that is so brazenly denied by the Hindu caste hierarchy of injustice and oppression. What have they got by remaining within the Hindu fold, but disowned by it? And, pray, who is the District Magistrate to judge my faith in any god or ‘son of god’ or prophet? My faith is my business, not the government’s, not the District Magistrate’s, and certainly not that of hate-spewing sadhus. Adharma Sansad Much has been written about the ‘Dharma Sansad’ in Haridwar and the venom spewed by so many sadhus and sants, whose links with the Sangh Parivar and BJP too were on display. Among the prominent attendees were the BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, a past offender on hate-speech, ‘Swami’ Prabhodanand Giri who called for ‘ethnic cleansing of Muslims’, ‘Yati’ Narsinghanand, who wants a ‘Hindu Prabhakaran’ to do the job, and Pooja Shakun Pandey, aka ‘Sadhvi’ Annapurna, who thinks Hindu victory lies in killing 20 lakh Muslims. Around the same time as the ‘Dharma Sansad’, a gathering of Hindu Yuva Vahini, founded by Yogi Adityanath, met in Delhi to take an oath. Raising their hands in a Nazi-style salute, hundreds of participants chanted “We resolve to make India a Hindu nation and keep it a Hindu-only nation. We will fight and die if required, we will kill as well.”    It must be noted that the hate-speeches of Haridwar were followed up by an action-oriented pledge in Delhi right under the nose of the central government. This is no hush-hush conspiracy. It is an open and manifest intent to commit genocide. The police force, refusing to act, can only be regarded as being complicit. There is, of course, a political sub-text to all this. Firstly, Yogi Adityanath is nervous about losing the coming UP elections. If the situation gets any worse, communal riots could erupt, as happened in Muzaffarnagar in 2013. Secondly, Yogi is positioning himself, or is being positioned, as the real protector and defender of Hindutva over Modi and is hoping to emerge as a powerful contender for the top job after the 2024 general elections. For that, he has to win the UP Assembly election decisively, and must be seen to have achieved it without help from Modi. Some analysts have speculated that Modi and Shah have set themselves a challenging task – to ensure BJP’s victory, but not a decisive win for Yogi. Either way, the ‘double-engine government’ seems well disposed to letting the sadhus and sants blow the winds for a communal blaze. The Delhi riots of February 2020 were preceded by a BJP minister’s call for ‘Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maro saalon ko’ against anti-CAA protesters. Imagine what the Haridwar and Delhi calls for genocide of Muslims could lead to.   The MP for ‘ghar-vapsi’ As if on cue, the young MP from Bengaluru Tejasvi Surya, too, launched forth on this urgent ‘existential’ question of the Hindu race and its survival. His cheeks red with rage, he asked Hindu seers to fix targets to bring Hindus back into the fold through ‘ghar-vapsi’ programmes. Carried away by his own eloquence, he exhorted them to convert even the Muslims of Pakistan to the Hindu fold. Probably, this was the portion he sought to withdraw the next day. Perhaps, the Gambinos in the Parivar got worried over what to do with the likes of Hafiz Sayed and Masood Azhar if they became Hindus!   In any case, dear MP sir, where would you put all those reconverted Muslims, Indian or Pakistani, in our ‘Chatur Varna’ system? Which caste would you fit them in? You may be in a hurry to please your master and become a minister in the Union Cabinet, hence all this venom and posturing. But rabble-rousers are dime a dozen in the party and Parivar now. You have to be and do worse to get what you want. You have a long way to go.       (The writer is a former CabinetSecretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/double-engine-hatred-1069167.html
08-01-2022||First Edit||‘No-vax’ Djokovic: Unforced error||Covid times have seen many stories of good sense, courage, distress and a range of other human responses in fighting the disease and dealing with its protocols. It is the most pervasive ailment to afflict human beings in the last many decades, and it has not spared any country or community in the past two years. There is not a single individual who has not been affected by it directly or indirectly. Its universality makes for a universe of diverse responses including acceptance, denial, fight or surrender. The drama being played out in Australia with tennis superstar Novak Djokovic as the protagonist or the villain is of an exceptional kind. It is scripted around the singular response of the demigod player to a code that seeks to protect him and others from the virus. The play is still on, or the last set is yet to be played. Djokovic is a known vaccine-sceptic. He had secured exemption from the vaccination requirement before seeking to defend his title at the Australian Open, aiming to claim the honour of winning the most Grand Slam men’s singles titles. But his visa was cancelled on landing at the Melbourne airport as questions arose about some issues in his application and his eligibility for exemption. The player has been quarantined but he has legally challenged the state’s action. The Djokovic case has become a political issue and a matter of public interest in a country that has one of the strictest regimes of Covid prevention and control. People would not like a superstar to get special treatment for no great reason other than his personal glory while they themselves have been asked to make sacrifices for the greater good of society.  The case has relevance outside Australia because it frames the question of individual rights against the community’s interests, which has been raised in different ways in Covid times. The question can be seen in the local dignitary’s failure to wear the mask and in many other similar, small and big, situations. It is basically about the exercise of privilege against the needs and demands of others. Djokovic is a great player and the public would admire him in normal times. But they would not like him to serve the ball to them and run away with it in a court set to Covid rules, and to make his selfish point to claim the match. Why should everyone’s welfare be weighed against one person’s fancy, wish, or conviction? It does not also help that Serbia, where Djokovic comes from, has among the highest rates of vaccine hesitancy and Covid deaths in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/no-vax-djokovic-unforced-error-1069165.html
08-01-2022||In Perspective||When the remedy mocks the disease||The removal of ceiling fans in the student hostels of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in order to prevent suicides on the campus reminded me of RK Narayan’s wry comment during an interview: “Funny chaps, these scientists.” He was speaking about the Nobel Laureate CV Raman, the first director of this institute. The eminent scientist had invited this equally eminent writer to discuss something important, but instead showed him a piece of broken glass held up to sunlight. “That’s a prism,” said the man of science who continued to show RKN similar wonders while walking in the sprawling gardens of the IISc, forgetting why he had invited him. RKN was speaking in a lighter vein about his interaction with scientists. This extraordinary move of removing ceiling fans to thwart suicides came after four students ended their lives by hanging in their rooms last year. Such occurrences have become common in professional college hostels where sadistic ragging has resulted in suicide. Engineering and medical college hostels in India have always had a notorious reputation in this regard, but not a reputed science university like the IISc, which has been classified as one of the world’s leading research institutes with its multidisciplinary courses and programmes. When Jamsetji Tata established his dream project more than a century ago, his aim was to promote the best in science and its allied subjects in an environment of peaceful study and scholarship. Several eminent scientists, including Nobel laureates, have left their footprints here. It has been home to the best in scientific research and teaching. Students from India and other countries have gained and given scholarly inputs to make it a world-class university. It is a tragedy and travesty of academic excellence that the brilliant minds of such an institution should feel driven to the depths of despair, resulting in acts of self-destruction.   The ceiling fans were said to have been removed on the advice of mental health ‘experts’. Who are these experts who thought fit to remove the fans rather than treat the cause that drove the students to suicide? It is well known that the underlying cause for suicide is extreme mental or emotional distress. Inability to cope with stress or failure drove these young people to take what they thought was the easy way out. According to a study by LANCET, suicide deaths in India are among the highest in the world. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) also shows that more than 10,000 young adults between the ages of 15 and 29 account for nearly 70% of such deaths every year. This is a growing concern that calls for a more rational approach and remedy than merely removing ceiling fans from hostel rooms. There are many risk factors for suicides in college hostels, such as depression, lack of confidence, low self-esteem and other such mental disturbances, that may go unnoticed. More than 90% of young victims who end their lives have these risk factors. They may occur in combination with external circumstances like disciplinary problems, sexual orientation problems, physical and sexual abuse by senior students, or just being harassed by aggressive bullying that seem to overwhelm them, and which authorities could easily identify. In the case of a high-profile university like the IISc, it may even be the fear of failure. Students may have opted to study here succumbing to parental pressure. They may have been brilliant in clearing all the entrance tests and examinations, but their aptitude and preference may have been in areas other than science. They may have preferred careers in the performing arts. They may have had great talent in other fields. They may have even wanted to take the road less travelled. They may have felt cheated out of their true vocation in life. In a country like India, where social and family pressures dictate personal and professional lives, the younger generation is not allowed to think or act in freedom. If the authorities at the IISc had perhaps cared to communicate better with their students, they would have noticed subtle changes in their behaviour that predicted signs of deep depression. The pandemic may have made matters worse for sensitive youngsters separated from their families for long stretches. Teachers and counsellors could have ferreted out more information about their frustrations by simply talking to them and being there for them. It is a tragedy that such interaction was missing. The very fact that mental health experts recommended the removal of ceiling fans rather than the demons that haunted these youngsters, shows utter disregard of student welfare in an institution that boasts of scientific excellence. Finally, the teachers who guide these students have to take responsibility for the spate of suicides on campus. Their duties did not end in the classroom or laboratory. They are the guardians of their students’ mental health and emotional security as well. That is the hallmark of a great university.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/when-the-remedy-mocks-the-disease-1069166.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Youth in trouble as devotees find mimicking of Koragajja in poor taste in Dakshina Kannada||A groom and his friends who arrived at the house of a bride mimicking the Koragajja ritual have landed themselves in trouble. Vittal police filed a complaint against the groom, Umarulla Bashith, from Uppala in Kerala, for reportedly projecting Koragajja in poor light and hurting the sentiments of Hindus in Salethur in Bantwal taluk. Chethan from Vitlapadnoor in his complaint alleged that Bashith had arrived at the bride’s house wearing the costume of Koragajja. ‘Indecent dance’ The indecent dance by his friends had hurt the sentiments of Hindus, he said. By uploading the video on social media, an attempt was made to disrupt peace in the society, he charged in his complaint. Chethan urged the police to take action against the families of the bride, groom and his friends. The police, based on the complaint, registered a case under section 153 A (offence of promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different) and 295 (intent to insult the religion) of IPC.  Vishwa Hindu Parishad demanded strict action for disrespecting Hindu god Koragajja. VHP district secretary Shivanand Mendon condemned the incident and urged police to initiate stringent action against all those who were part of the incident. Members of VHP and Bajrang Dal also had attempted to gherao the house of the bride in Salethur. As they shouted slogans near the house, Vittal police took them into custody.  Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik also condemned the incident and urged the police to take strict action against wrongdoers.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-in-trouble-as-devotees-find-mimicking-of-koragajja-in-poor-taste-in-dakshina-kannada-1069118.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Association urges Karnataka govt to include automobile trade as essential service||The Dakshina Kannada Automobile and Tyre Dealers Association has urged the Karnataka government to classify automobile trade as an essential service in the event of a general lockdown. In a memorandum addressed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Association submitted that automobiles are extensively used for the transport of essential goods, ambulance service, government vehicles and personal transport of other essential service providers like bank employees, doctors and frontline workers. These vehicles will be rendered useless in case of breakdown. Non-servicing of vehicles on time can also result in safety concerns, said Vilas Kumar, Secretary of Dakshina Kannada Automobile and Tyre Dealers Association. He said “as a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic seems to be inevitable, and if the government is forced to impose a total lockdown, then automobile and related trades should be classified under essential services and be allowed to function under strict guidelines and restricted working hours. This will ensure smooth flow of essential services and reduce the hardship to the public. This will also help the auto traders, who are financially devastated due to the previous two lockdowns, to meet their basic survival needs like payment of salaries, rent and tax commitments.” The memorandum further assured that this will not have any adverse effect on the pandemic as the automobile trade is geographically scattered, requiring minimum manpower or in-person contact. The memorandum was submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada under the aegis of Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said Vilas Kumar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/association-urges-karnataka-govt-to-include-automobile-trade-as-essential-service-1069211.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka MLA inaugurates cricket tournament during weekend curfew||MLA and Chief Minister's Political Secretary M P Renukacharya inaugurated district-level tennis ball cricket tournament at Ghantyapura village in the taluk, on Saturday, despite the enforcement of weekend curfew to contain spread of the pandemic.  Reacting to it, the MLA said he gathered information from deputy commissioner that 200 persons are permitted for an outdoor event and 100 persons for an indoor event during the curfew. So he decided to inaugurate the tournament. He has not violated any rule, he defended.   However, the organisers did not take any permission from the local authorities for the event.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-mla-inaugurates-cricket-tournament-during-weekend-curfew-1069293.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Districts||Ugandan held in Hubballi with Rs 1.5 cr worth drug||The Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) sleuths arrested an Uganda national here and recovered 995 grams of Methamphetamine worth Rs 1.5 crore from her. Methamphetamine is a very potent and dangerous stimulant substance commonly abused as a party drug. Naggai Agnes, on a student visa in India valid up to 2024, was intercepted at Hubballi Railway station on Friday while she was travelling by the Hazrat Nizamuddin-Bengaluru Express train. The suspect had cleverly packed and concealed the banned substance in two Cerelac baby food carton boxes to avoid detection. Each box contained around 500 grams of Methamphetamine, according to the sleuths of the Bengaluru zonal unit. Preliminary investigation revealed that the drug, sourced from Delhi, was meant for distribution in Karnataka. Agnes was booked under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act 1985. The sessions court in Dharwad remanded her in NCB custody for three days.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ugandan-held-in-hubballi-with-rs-15-cr-worth-drug-1069329.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Weekend curfew: Limited private, KSRTC buses operate in Dakshina Kannada||A limited number of private and KSRTC buses operated during weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday. The number of passengers traveling in the buses was also sparse. The schools and colleges had remained shut and a few colleges have started online classes for the students during the weekend curfew in the district. The police have taken steps to ensure that unnecessary movement of vehicles are checked on the roads in Mangaluru city. As many as 36 check posts have been set up in City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction for the strict implementation of weekend curfew. The shops selling essential commodities remained open in the city. A team of police personnel led by DCP Hariram Shankar were checking the vehicles at Clock Tower in Mangaluru. The entry of devotees to Kukke Subrahmanya, Dharmasthala temples were restricted. Sri Kshethra Dharmasthala has suspended all online bookings for seva, including 'tulabhara', as per the directions of the Karnataka government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/weekend-curfew-limited-private-ksrtc-buses-operate-in-dakshina-kannada-1069138.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Please don't die, K S Eshwarappa asks Congress leaders||Taunting Congress leaders pertaining to their padayatra for the implementation of Mekedatu project, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that "I appeal to Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC President D K Shivakumar to cancel their agitation during the pandemic for their safety. I ask them not to lose their lives. If they want to die, what can we do." Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, he said, "They have stated that only two of them will take out padayatra. But their workers will follow them without fail. So, I tell them not to become responsible for the death of their followers. Senior politicians including Deve Gowda, Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah are the assets of Karnataka. We don't want to lose them. So please postpone your agitation planned during the pandemic," he suggested.  He said Congress leaders had forgotten Krishha, Cauvery and Mekedatu and other projects when they were in power. Despite governing the country for many years, they did nothing in this regard. They come to know about these projects when BJP comes to power.  "You take out padayatra after the Covid cases come down. You must remain alive  because state needs opposition party. If not there would be no opposition party in Karnataka in 2023 assembly polls." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/please-dont-die-k-s-eshwarappa-asks-congress-leaders-1069241.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Will walk in small groups: Siddaramaiah on Congress Padayatra||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Congress workers will walk in groups of five to circumvent prohibitory orders for the party’s Mekedatu foot march that is scheduled to start on Sunday. Speaking to media persons here, Siddaramaiah said they would hold the padayatra while abiding by Covid-19 norms. Alleging that the ruling BJP is acting with the vested interest of sabotaging their march, Siddaramaiah questioned why the curfew was imposed only in Ramanagara. The Congress leader’s statement came in response to Home Minister Araga Jnanendra announcing that the government would take action against anyone flouting Covid-19 curbs under provisions of the Disaster Management Act. “Congress leaders must stop being adamant and co-operate with the government. They were once the ruling party. They should conduct themselves responsibly,” he said. Siddaramaiah has also bought four pairs of shoes for the padayatra over the next 10 days. Meanwhile, Ramanagara SP S Girish told media persons that the police have already given a notice to Congress leaders asking them to drop the foot march. Action will be taken as per the law if the leaders don’t abide by it, he said. KPCC president D K Shivakumar hosted a meeting of senior party leaders at his Kanakapura residence to plan the padayatra. “Even if they send us to jail,we will not stop our initiative,” he stressed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-walk-in-small-groups-siddaramaiah-on-congress-padayatra-1069312.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Cong hopes to make leap of faith with Mekedatu march||If the Covid-19 pandemic is disregarded, then over 4,000 people are expected to show up for the Congress’ 10-day foot march, or padayatra, that starts today from Mekedatu, a gorge some 100 km from Bengaluru, which has kicked up a political storm. The padayatra is to mount pressure on the government to implement the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project. The 100-km march will start from the Sangama and pass through Kanakapura, Ramanagara and Bidadi, before culminating at Basavanagudi in Bengaluru on January 19.   Much is at stake for Congress, especially its president D K Shivakumar. The padayatra is being seen as the party’s attempt to test the waters, with Karnataka having entered the election year. The controversial padayatra, coming as it does amidst a spike in Covid-19 cases, has got the ruling BJP’s goat. The BJP has criticised Congress for delaying the project in its own regime. The backlash has come from the JD(S), too, with the regional party terming the padayatra as a dummy political initiative, bound to fail. The project envisages the construction of a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu (Ramanagara district) at the confluence of Kaveri and Arkavathi rivers, to store drinking water for Bengaluru and surrounding areas. It also proposes a 400 MW hydroelectricity plant. Karnataka submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) to the Central Water Commission (CWC) in 2019, which was then referred to the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA). The DPR is stuck here as Tamil Nadu has opposed the project tooth and nail. Political analyst A Narayana says the padayatra perhaps heralds the Congress’ campaign for the 2023 Assembly polls. “Given that this is the election year, all parties are looking to strengthen themselves. The Old Mysore region, where JD(S) got most of the votes in the previous elections, is of crucial importance. If Congress doesn’t wake up, BJP will enter the space,” he says. The padayatra strikes at the core of JD-S’ electoral base in the Old Mysore region. JD(S) spokesperson T A Sharavana says Congress “hijacked” the party’s idea. “HD Kumaraswamy had announced three months ago that the party would focus on regional issues, including Mekedatu. The JD(S) will launch Janata Jaladhare on January 26, focusing on water resources, which will be more extensive,” he says. The Congress’ campaign puts the BJP in an awkward spot. The project remains stuck, even though the BJP is in power both at the state and the Centre. With its own leader K Annamalai protesting against the project in Tamil Nadu and with the BJP looking to make inroads in the state, the party is in a fix. There is no denying that this could also be Shivakumar’s effort to position himself as a chief ministerial candidate. It’s an opportunity to not just overcome his image as a leader confined to his Kanakapura fief, but also sway the Vokkaliga votes in the region. Shivakumar candidly told DH he does not want the foot march to become a one-man show. “Every leader needs to go through struggle and agitation. H D Deve Gowda and BS Yediyurappa are what they are because of their struggles,” he says on what this padayatra means to him. “It’s important to go out there and see what the pulse of the people is.” But, mobilising the party’s cadre for something like this is a challenge, he admits. Political parties resorting to padayatras is not new. Among the most successful in recent years are H D Deve Gowda’s march (from Channapatna to Bengaluru) against the S M Krishna government in 2003 and the Congress’s march from Bengaluru to Ballari against illegal mining in 2010. “Padayatra is still one of the most effective ways to reach out to the public and make the government hear public concerns,” former minister R V Deshpande, who was the KPCC president during the 320-km Ballari march that helped the party come to power, says. Will the Mekedatu march help Congress leap like the fabled goat? Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-hopes-to-make-leap-of-faith-with-mekedatu-march-1069313.html
08-01-2022||Karnataka Politics||Why is Congress silent on Mahadayi? ask farmer leaders||Why is Congress silent on the long-pending demand for implementation of the Mahadayi and Kalasa-Banduri project? Why are its leaders not showing the same interest in the Mahadayi project like they are doing for the Mekedatu project? These are the questions raised by farmers of north Karnataka. Amidst the Covid scare and weekend curfew, Congress leaders are adamant about taking out a padayatra on Sunday (January 9) from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, urging implementation of the Mekedatu project. However, they are not showing much interest in raising their voice in favour of north Karnataka’s irrigation projects including the Mahadayi project. The four-decade-old demand for implementation of the Mahadayi project has remained a distant dream.  For the past 2,365 days, the farmers under the banner of Raitha Sene have been staging a dharna in Nargund of Gadag district, urging implementation of the Mahadayi project. The farmers, under the banner of Raitha Sene, launched the Mahadayi agitation on July 16, 2015, in Nargund, - the epicentre of the struggle, and after 2,365 days of continuous dharna nothing has changed on the ground, thanks to political apathy.   When asked, Congress leader N H Konaraddi said, “After the Mekedatu agitation, we will also take up the issue of Mahadayi. We will plan and draw the attention of the state government towards the project.” Thousands of farmers from 11 taluks of the parched Gadag, Belagavi, Dharwad and Bagalkot districts will be benefited if the Mahadayi project is implemented.  Speaking to DH, Raitha Sene state president Veeresh Sobaradamath, who is spearheading the farmers’ agitation in Nargund, blamed lack of political will for the inordinate delay in implementing the project. “It looks like the ruling party is waiting for the next Assembly elections to gain political mileage from the issue,” he rued. He said: “We are exploring legal options to take the issue to the logical end. We will continue our agitation until the problem is resolved.” “It is unfortunate that caste politics is deep-rooted in north Karnataka. It has become an obstacle to development. Not just the Mahadayi issue, many development issues in this region are crying for attention, Sobaradamath added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-is-congress-silent-on-mahadayi-ask-farmer-leaders-1069314.html
08-01-2022||Mysuru||People adhere to weekend curfew in Mysuru||Due to weekend curfew imposed across Karnataka, regular activities in Mysuru city have come to a standstill. Movement of the people as well as the vehicles on the roads are lesser compared to normal days. Except for emergency and essential services, no others services are functioning in the city. The police have blocked the roads at vantage points and are also patrolling across the city. Despite the availability of the KSRTC bus services, hardly a few passengers are accessing public transport. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/people-adhere-to-weekend-curfew-in-mysuru-1069154.html
08-01-2022||National||LAC stand-off: India, China to hold next round of military talks on January 12||The military commanders of India and China are likely to meet on January 12 to restart negotiations to resolve the 21-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The two sides agreed to restart negotiations, even as China on Friday defended the construction of the bridge over Pangong Tso (lake) near its LAC with India as its sovereign rights. “I want to stress that China’s infrastructure construction on its territory entirely falls within its sovereignty and is aimed at safeguarding China’s territorial sovereignty and security as well as peace and stability in the China-India border area,” Wang Wenbin, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, told journalists in Beijing. He was reacting to India’s statement that China’s new bridge over Pangong Tso near the LAC between the two nations was being built on its territory illegally occupied by the neighbouring communist country. New Delhi had pointed out on Thursday that India had never accepted the illegal occupation of its territory by China. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is apparently building the bridge to link the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in order to quickly respond to any future move by the Indian Army to gain a strategic edge. Meanwhile, New Delhi and Beijing agreed that the military commanders of the two nations will hold the 14th round of negotiations to resolve the ongoing stand-off along the LAC on January 12. The 13th round of negotiation on October 10 last had ended in a stalemate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-india-china-to-hold-next-round-of-military-talks-on-january-12-1069083.html
08-01-2022||National||India reports 1.41 lakh new Covid-19 cases, active infections soar to 4.72 lakh||As the third Covid-19 wave sets in, the country on Saturday reported 1,41,986 new coronavirus infections and 285 more deaths, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.  Meanwhile, the Omicron case tally has climbed at 3,071, of which 1,203 have been discharged from hospitals. So far total 27 states have reported the new variant, according to the Ministry. The total number of active cases jumped to 4,72,169 and death toll to 4,83,178 on Saturday.  At least 40,895 persons recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the overall recoveries to 3,44,12,740. Also in the same period, a total of 15,29,948 tests were conducted across the country, bringing the total to 68.84 crore. Under the nationwide vaccination campaign, India has administered 150.06 crore doses so far. Due to the ongoing massive spike of cases, the weekly positivity rate has climbed to 5.66 per cent, while the daily positivity rate stood at 9.28 per cent. With the administration of over 90 lakhs vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid inoculation coverage reached 150.61 crore as of Saturday morning. More than 17.88 crore balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states and UTs, according to the Ministry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-141-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-active-infections-soar-to-472-lakh-1069093.html
08-01-2022||National||Landslides block Jammu-Srinagar national highway||Landslides triggered by incessant rain on Saturday blocked the Jammu-Srinagar highway, leaving 3,000 vehicles stranded, according to traffic department officials. Officials said that over 1,000 vehicles were cleared from Srinagar to Jammu on Friday, after which landslides and shooting stones at multiple places in Ramban district again blocked the highway. "It is heavily raining in Udhampur and Ramban districts along the Jammu-Srinagar highway. For the safety of the travellers, no traffic is being allowed this time," a traffic department official said. "All vehicles stranded on the highway are parked at safe places," the official said. Reports also said that snowfall is continuing in Patnitop and Banihal areas of the highway. The highway is strategically important because supplies of all essential commodities to the landlocked Kashmir Valley are routed through this key route. Closure of the highway often leads to hoarding and black marketing in the valley. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landslides-block-jammu-srinagar-national-highway-1069094.html
08-01-2022||National||Assembly Elections 2022: EC to announce poll dates for 5 states at 3.30 pm today||The Election Commission of India will announce the schedule for Assembly elections to Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh at 3.30 pm today.  The poll body has convened a press conference in which it will declare the schedule for the polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur. While the term of the current Uttar Pradesh assembly is ending in May, those of the other four assemblies are ending on different dates in March. Last week, the poll body held a meeting with the Health Ministry to discuss the current Covid situation in the five states. The Health Ministry had submitted a report on the resurgence and the status of vaccination coverage across the nation. Several political parties have already announced cancellation of political rallies and are focusing more on digital campaigns in the wake of the unabated surge. (With inputs from agencies) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-2022-ec-to-announce-poll-dates-for-5-states-at-330-pm-today-1069105.html
08-01-2022||National||Fresh registration not needed for precautionary Covid-19 vaccine dose: Centre||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has said that there is no need for new registration for beneficiaries of precautionary Covid-19 vaccine dose. "Those who have taken two doses of Covid-19 vaccine can directly take an appointment or walk-in to any vaccination centre", said the ministry. The scheduled for the precautionary dose from the ministry is expected on Saturday. The online appointment facility will also start by this evening. The vaccination with on site appointment will start from January 10, it said. Vaccination process of third precautionary dose for health workers, frontline workers and vulnerable senior citizens is scheduled to start nationwide from January 10. However, the precautionary or the third dose for the healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above 60 with comorbidities will be the same vaccines as was given to them previously. "Precautionary Covid vaccine dose will be the same vaccine as has been given to them previously as primary dose. Those who have received Covaxin will receive the same as precautionary doses and those who have received primary two doses of Covishield will receive Covishield", Dr V.K. Paul, Member-Health, NITI Aayog, had said during a press briefing on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced on December 25 that while the inoculation for the 15-18 age group will begin from January 3, the vaccination process of third precautionary dose for health workers, frontline workers and vulnerable senior citizens will commence from January 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-registration-not-needed-for-precautionary-covid-19-vaccine-dose-centre-1069109.html
08-01-2022||National||MHA restores FCRA licence of Missionaries of Charity, can receive foreign funding again||The licence to collect foreign donations was restored to the Mother Theresa-founded Missionaries of Charity (MoC) by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), 13 days after it revoked it following "some adverse inputs". The rejection of renewal of MoC's application on December 25 had triggered a controversy with critics sarcastically calling it a "Christmas gift" that could end up crippling the organisation's capacity to help the poor and the destitute. On Friday, the MHA restored the licence to the MoC, whose registration number is 147120001, enabling it to collect funds from abroad under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 and utilise the money lying in its around 250 accounts across the country. There was no official statement issued by the government but sources said the restoration of licence came after the MoC submitted "necessary" documents. The MHA had not clarified what were the "adverse inputs" it received against MoC. The MoC was among around 6,000 NGOs, including Oxfam India, whose licence expired on the midnight of December 31. Oxfam India has said that it has appealed to the MHA to restore its registration to collect foreign funds. "The FCRA registration for Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity is back. The ‘adverse inputs’ harassed so many and then disappeared in two weeks. The POWER OF LOVE is stronger than the power of 56 inch," Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien tweeted. Congress MP Karti Chidambaram tweeted, “FCRA nod for Missionaries of Charity restored… Guess public opinion & international reaction yielded this.” Following the controversy, the MHA had clarified that it has rejected its application but has not frozen its account. It also said that the State Bank of India (SBI) has informed that MoC itself sent a request to the bank to freeze its accounts while the MoC said it has its officials not to use the account. When the issue of rejection of application came out, there was criticism, including from West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik released over Rs 78 lakh to Missionary of Charity to run over a dozen institutes in the state after directing all District Collectors to ensure that no unit of the MoC, operating in the state, should face any financial crisis and if necessary use the chief minister's relief fund to help them. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-restores-fcra-licence-of-missionaries-of-charity-can-receive-foreign-funding-again-1069131.html
08-01-2022||National||Over 2 crore children in 15-18 age group vaccinated so far with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine: Mandaviya||Over 2 crore teenagers in the age group of 15-18 years have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in less than a week of the inoculation drive being launched for children, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. With the administration of more than 90 lakh (90,59,360) vaccine doses in the past 24 hours, the cumulative number in the country has exceeded 150.61 crore (150,61,92,903), according to provisional reports updated till 7 am. "Great Going, my Young Friends. Over 2 crore youngsters between the 15-18 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in less than a week of vaccination drive for children," Mandaviya tweeted. तेज गति से जारी बच्चों का टीकाकरण 💉 Great Going, my Young Friends 👦🏻 👧🏻 According to health ministry officials, over 91 per cent of the adult population of the country has received at least one dose of the vaccine while more than 66 per cent have been vaccinated with both the doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-crore-children-in-15-18-age-group-vaccinated-so-far-with-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-mandaviya-1069133.html
08-01-2022||National||IIT-Madras predicts Covid-19 cases to peak from February 1-15||India's R-naught value which indicates the spread of Covid-19 was recorded at 4 this week, suggesting a very high infection transmission rate, according to a preliminary analysis by IIT Madras, which predicted that the infections may peak between February 1 and 15. R-naught or R0 indicates the number of people an infected person can spread the disease to. A pandemic is considered to end if this value goes below 1. Based on preliminary analysis by computational modelling done by IIT Madras, which was shared with PTI, the R0 value was close to 2.9 nationally in the past week (December 25 to December 31), while the number was recorded at 4 for the subsequent week (January 1-6). Explaining further, Dr Jayant Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics, IIT Madras, said R0 depends on three things -- transmissibility probability, contact rate and the expected time interval in which infection can happen. "Now, with the increase in quarantine measures or restrictions, maybe the contact rate will go down and then in that case, R0 can decrease. So, based on our preliminary analysis, which is just based on the last two weeks, we can tell these numbers, but again, these numbers can change based on how much affirmative action is taken with respect to social gathering and all," he told PTI. The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said India is seeing an exponential rise in the number of coronavirus cases, which is believed to be driven by the Omicron variant. It also highlighted that the country's R-naught value is 2.69, higher than the 1.69 recorded during the peak of the pandemic's second wave. Jha said the ministry’s estimates are based on a different time interval than IIT Madras, which has done a preliminary analysis from the past two weeks. He said that as per their estimate, the peak in the current wave is expected between February 1 and 15, and it is expected to be sharper than earlier peaks. "What we expect from the exploratory data analysis is that the peak will happen somewhere between February 1 and 15 and our analysis also shows that as compared to previous waves, there will be a sharper increase to the peak," Jha said. He said this wave will be different from the previous waves because of vaccination and factors like decreased social distancing seen this time. Expanding on how there is less social distancing in this wave, he said that many restrictions were imposed during the first wave but currently, despite having a high number of cases, there are not many restrictions imposed yet. "But the advantage here is that almost 50 per cent of the population this time has got vaccinated," Jha said. The preliminary analysis has been done jointly by IIT Madras' Department of Mathematics and Centre of Excellence for Computational Mathematics and Data Science headed by Prof Neelesh S Upadhye and Prof S Sundar. India saw a single-day rise of 141,986 new coronavirus cases, raising the tally to 35,368,372, which included 3,071 cases of Omicron variant reported across 27 states and union territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-predicts-covid-19-cases-to-peak-from-february-1-15-1069136.html
08-01-2022||National||India's Omicron tally mounts to 3,071, Maharashtra continues to top with 876 cases||With 64 fresh Omicron infections being detected in last 24 hours, the national tally of this highly transmissible Covid-19 variant has mounted to 3,071, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday morning. Of the total, 1,203 people have recovered from the new strain nationwide so far, it added. As per the ministry, till now, the infection has spread to 27 states and UTs. However, Maharashtra and Delhi continue to be the worst-hit states. Maharashtra continues to be top worst hit with 876 cases among the states and UTs that have reported the infection so far. Of them, 381 patients have been discharged, as per the ministry data. Meanwhile, the national capital Delhi has reported 48 new cases in last 24 hrs, pushing the tally at 513. Of the total, 57 recoveries have registered. Delhi is followed by Karnataka which continues with 333 Omicron cases so far. Rajasthan has so far detected 291 cases of this variant. Among other states, Kerala and Gujarat continue with 284 and 204 cases respectively so far. However, Telangana has logged 16 cases, pushing the tally to 123. Tamil Nadu continues with 121 Omicron cases. Haryana has, so far, detected 114 Omicron cases. Odisha and Uttar Pradesh continue with 60 and 31 cases so far. Andhra Pradesh also continues with 28 cases with West Bengal at 27 so far. Nineteen cases have been detected in Goa. However, the Omicron case count continues in single digit for Madhya Pradesh and Assam at 9 each and Uttarakhand at 8 cases. Meghalaya has 4 Omicron cases so far. Chandigarh, Jammu Kashmir and and Andman Nicobar Islands have, so far, recorded three cases each. Puducherry and Punjab continue with 2 Omicron cases each so far. Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh and Laddakh, Manipur and Chhattisgarh continue with one case each. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-tally-mounts-to-3071-maharashtra-continues-to-top-with-876-cases-1069140.html
08-01-2022||National||Data shows Omicron variant driving third wave of Covid-19 pandemic across states||The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic across all states is being driven by the fast-spreading Omicron variant, official sources said on Saturday, citing the latest data. Till a few days ago it was only in the western region of the country that the surge in Covid cases was due to Omicron, while in the northeastern states, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha the Delta variant was predominant. A source said, however, the latest data suggests that all eastern states have also reported high numbers of Omicron cases. "So going by that it can be said that the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic across all states is being driven by the fast-spreading and highly transmissible Omicron variant," the source said. India saw a single-day rise of 1,41,986 new coronavirus infections taking the total case tally to 3,53,68,372, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The government has reiterated and urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid mass gatherings. The Centre has also asked states and union territories to review infrastructure preparedness, including re-establishment of field/makeshift hospital facilities to avoid any shortage in the eventuality of a potential surge in hospital admissions due to Covid-19. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-shows-omicron-variant-driving-third-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-across-states-1069146.html
08-01-2022||National||Centre blocks social media handles circulating fake, inciting content||The government has blocked several social media handles that were circulating "fake and inciting" content on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook, Minister of State for IT Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Saturday. Owners of these accounts are being identified for action under the law, he added. Amid the massive crackdown on hateful posts, sources said that the offensive content actioned pertained to fake video of a cabinet briefing, an animated fake video showing violence against the Prime Minister and derogatory posts targeting Hindu women uploaded on social media handles. "Taskforce on Safe & Trusted Internet at @GoI_MeitY at work. Handles that tried to push fake/inciting content on twitter, youtube, fb, insta have been blocked," Chandrasekhar tweeted on Saturday. The minister said owners of such accounts are being identified for action under the law, and asserted that platforms will be reviewed on their due diligence. On Friday evening, the minister had responded to a tweet that urged him to take action against the "creators of a very violent video that features the PM", which "has been in the public domain since December 2020". The minister had responded, saying, "On the job. @GoI_MeitY takes its responsibility to keep Internet Safe and Trusted and Intermediaries accountable for the content and due diligence very seriously". Sources said the government had identified 73 Twitter handles, 4 pieces of YouTube content, and 1 Instagram game. Accordingly, 73 Twitter handles have been suspended, 4 YouTube content and the particular Instagram game have been removed. The Delhi Police had registered a case after coming across a morphed video of a cabinet committee meeting wherein some persons tried to show that the meeting was against the Sikh community, officials had said on Friday. The Centre, last year, had introduced stringent rules for social media platforms to make them more accountable to end-users in one of the world's largest internet markets. The rules require social media companies to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-blocks-social-media-handles-circulating-fake-inciting-content-1069158.html
08-01-2022||National||TMC MP takes swipe at Modi over restoration of FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charities||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) restored the registration on January 7, just days after it issued a statement that the licence was not renewed as “some adverse inputs were noticed”. Tagging a screenshot of the list of FCRA-registered associations, O'Brien tweeted, "The FCRA registration for Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity is back. The 'adverse inputs' harassed so many and then disappeared in two weeks." "The POWER OF LOVE is stronger than the power of 56 inch," he added, taking a swipe at Prime Minister Modi. The Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration is mandatory to receive foreign donations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mp-takes-swipe-at-modi-over-restoration-of-fcra-registration-of-missionaries-of-charities-1069160.html
08-01-2022||National||After sending feelers to Congress and GFP, TMC says AAP also part of anti-BJP space in Goa||The Trinamool Congress Party's Goa desk in-charge Mahua Moitra on Saturday said that the party will do “whatever necessary” to ensure that BJP does not form the next government in the coastal state and added that even the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is part of the anti-BJP space, an assertion viewed as a strategy by the Mamata Banerjee-led party to project itself as the anti-BJP pivot. Elections are due in Goa next month. Addressing a press conference in Panaji, Moitra also said that "no ego is involved in doing anything" (to ensure BJP's defeat). "The TMC wants to defeat BJP and will do whatever necessary. We want to ensure that BJP does not win or form a government through the backdoor,” Moitra said when asked about a possible pre-poll alliance with the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress. The day before Moitra had tweeted that the TMC will do "everything possible to defeat BJP" and tagged GFP and Congress. Moitra, however, didn't include the name of the Aam Aadmi Party in that tweet. On Saturday, she said, “The AAP is also part of the anti-BJP space. I may not have added them in the tweet. We are also including them,” she said, adding that “nothing is impossible in politics.” Notably, the AAP leadership had asserted in the past that the Arvind Kejriwal-led party won't tie up with the TMC for Goa polls. Stating that no discussion is held yet on pre-poll alliances, Moitra said, “This is a general view that we (TMC) are putting forward the people of Goa.” Without naming Congress, Moitra said it was wrong to term TMC a "B team" of BJP which wants to divide votes in Goa and give extra mileage to BJP. “It is wrong to say that BJP will manage to win because of the TMC,” she said. The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) had announced it would contest the forthcoming Assembly elections in an alliance with the TMC, the new entrant in Goa politics. The Congress and the Goa Forward Party had also sealed a pre-poll alliance. After the Assembly polls in 2017, the GFP, which had won three seats, extended support for the formation of the BJP-led state government under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar. But after Parrikar''s death in 2019, the alliance turned sour and resulted in the Sardesai-led party withdrawing its support. In that election, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House, but could not come to power as the BJP, which bagged 13, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-sending-feelers-to-congress-and-gfp-tmc-says-aap-also-part-of-anti-bjp-space-in-goa-1069169.html
08-01-2022||National||Bank officers’ union seeks restricted banking hours, boosters for employees amid Covid surge||Citing surge in the third wave of Covid-19, a national trade union representing an estimated 3.5 lakh bank officers, is seeking restricted working hours at banks. Several requests made to the Centre also include the demand that bank staff and their family members be offered booster doses of Covid-19 vaccine on a priority basis. The All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC), an apex trade union on Friday wrote to Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, seeking proactive safety measures. “The infections among the bankers have been rising rapidly as per reports pouring in from across the country. The anxiety among the bankers runs high and the fear for safety of near and dear ones is once again haunting the fraternity as the trauma of the last two waves, especially the second wave still persists,” the confederation has stated. The bank officers union has claimed that “over 2,000 bankers have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty, having succumbed to the contagion”. It further mentions that “thousands of our family members have also died of Covid-19 virus” and those who have recovered suffer with health-related issues. The letter alleges that “the recognition of bank employees as Frontline Covid Warrior was delayed denying the opportunity of getting vaccinated along with other FLWs in the first instance, which could possibly have averted the loss of precious lives”. The confederation has put forth ten suggestions for the finance minister’s consideration. Officers want a 5-day week, with banks closed on weekends, and business hours restricted between 10 am and 2 pm. “The office hours should be strictly from 10 am to 5 pm to enable the bankers reach home safely in the backdrop of cancellation of local trains and withdrawal of public transport after dusk,” the letter states, adding that only half the staff at branches and offices be asked to stay physically present, the other half be permitted to work from home. The union also wants bankers to be administered booster doses, as soon as the scheme is rolled out for frontline workers. Further, visually challenged employees and employees with physical disabilities, pregnant women should be allowed to work from home, and only skeleton services at the branches should be offered for the time being. The confederation wants Covid test facility at major branches, and special status to bank employees that facilitates availing public transport under essential category. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-officers-union-seeks-restricted-banking-hours-boosters-for-employees-amid-covid-surge-1069170.html
08-01-2022||National||Manipur Assembly Election 2022: Full list of voting dates, phases, constituency-wise voting||The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the polling dates for the Manipur Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2022. The voting will take place in two phases to elect 60 members of the Manipur Legislative Assembly. The current tenure of Manipur Legislative Assembly is scheduled to end on March 19, 2022.  In 2017, the BJP, National People’s Party, Naga People’s Front and Lok Janshakti Party formed the state government, with CM N Biren Singh at the helm. Key political parties who will fight for power in the state include the Congress, BJP, Naga People’s Front, Trinamool Congress and National People’s Party. Here are the Phase-wise poll dates for 60 seats: Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-assembly-election-2022-full-list-of-voting-dates-phases-constituency-wise-voting-1069155.html
08-01-2022||National||Assembly Elections 2022: What is the Model Code of Conduct?||The ECI also said that with this announcement, the Model Code of Conduct has come into effect. It is necessary for all political parties to heed the MCC. Let us take a look at what it is and its constituents. The MCC is a set of rules put in force by the Election Commission of India to guarantee free and fair elections. It is a set of norms that have evolved with political parties consenting to abide by the principles embodied in the said code. It also binds them to respect and observe it in its letter and spirit. When and where is the MCC applicable? The MCC is valid from the date of announcement of an election, either to the Parliament, State Assembly or Districts, and continues through the election in question. In the case of Assembly elections, the MCC is valid throughout the poll-bound state. In the case of Parliamentary or General Elections, the MCC is valid throughout the country. In the case of by-elections to districts, the MCC is valid throughout the district where the election is to take place. Where does the Election Commission come into the equation? The Election Commission ensures the code's observance by political parties including ruling parties at the Centre and in the states. The EC ensures free, fair and peaceful elections to the Parliament and the State Legislatures. It also ensures that official machinery for electoral purposes is not misused. Further, it ensures that electoral offences, malpractices and corrupt practices such as impersonation, bribing and inducement of voters, threat and intimidation to the voters are prevented. What restrictions do the governments have during the enforcement of the MCC? 1. Ministers cannot combine their official visit with electioneering work. They can also not make use of official machinery or personnel during electioneering. 2. No transport including official aircraft, vehicles, etc. can be used for the furtherance of the interest of any party or a candidate. 3. A total ban on transfer and posting of all officers/officials directly or indirectly connected with the conduct of the election is put in effect. If any transfer or posting of an officer is considered necessary, prior approval of the Commission must be obtained. 4. No Minister, whether of Union or state, can summon any election-related officer of the constituency or the state for any official discussions anywhere. 5. If a Union Minister is travelling out of Delhi on purely official business, which cannot be avoided in the public interest, then a letter certifying to this effect must be sent from the concerned Secretary of the Ministry/Department to the Chief Secretary of the concerned state, along with a copy to the Election Commission. 6. Advertisements regarding the achievements of the party at the cost of public exchequer in print and electronic media and the misuse of official mass media are prohibited. 7. If an order has been issued by the state or the Union government with respect to any scheme but no work has begun till the MCC is in force, then no work shall be started in that respect. However, if work has actually started in the field, that can be continued. 8. No fresh release of funds under MPs/MLAs/MLCs Local Area Development Fund of any scheme can be made in any area where the election is in progress, till the completion of the election. 9. Financial institutions funded, partially or wholly by the Governments shall not take recourse to write off loans advanced to any individual, company, firm, etc. Also, the financial limits of such institutions, while granting or extending loans, should not be enhanced by issuing of loans indiscriminately to beneficiaries. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-2022-what-is-the-model-code-of-conduct-1069180.html
08-01-2022||National||Assembly Election 2022: 5 states to go to vote from February 10 to March 7; counting on March 10||The country was put on election mode on Saturday, one of the crucial sets before the next Lok Sabha polls, with the Election Commission on Saturday announcing the voting schedule for Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa between February 10 and March 7. Uttar Pradesh will have seven-phase polls – February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7, while Manipur will have two phases – February 27 and March 3. Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa will have a single-phase poll on February 14.  The counting of votes all the 690 Assembly seats in five states will be held on March 10, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra told a press conference. This is the third set of elections to be held during the Covid-19 pandemic for which the Election Commission has made restrictions, which includes limiting five persons for door-to-door campaigning. Physical rallies, padayatras and roadshows have been banned till January 15 while a campaign curfew will be in place between 8 pm and 8 am.  According to the EC, 18.34 crore voters are eligible to vote in the five states out of which 8.55 crore are women. There are 24.98 lakh first-time voters, including 11.4 lakh women “For strengthening democracy, 50-60% voting is not sufficient. The EC will have targeted intervention. Polling booths where voting is less compared to average identified and EC to take steps to find out the reasons and increase voting there,” Chandra said. The polls will have an impact on the destiny of the Opposition, especially the Congress, ahead of the 2024 elections while the BJP would be hoping to cement its confidence with an overwhelming victory in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur where it now rules and possibly help in overthrowing its principal national opponent in Punjab if not winning it.  The results could also have an impact on the Presidential and Vice Presidential elections in July-August this year as a decrease in numbers could make it difficult for the ruling BJP. It will also have an impact in Rajya Sabha as 15 MPs from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are retiring in July.  The BJP is hoping to retain the four states it is ruling – two of which were managed through engineering large-scale defections from Congress in Goa and Manipur despite it emerging as the single largest party in the 2017 edition of Assembly polls. For the BJP, a victory in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly will be crucial though surveys in the previous months had shown that the BJP was sliding from the 312 seats it won in the 2017 elections though it was ahead of the halfway mark. Samajwadi Party, which has stitched alliances with smaller parties, has emerged as the main challenger while Congress is banking on Priyanka Gandhi’s women-centric campaign to improve its tally.  Punjab is where the Congress is pinning its hope where it hopes to retain power after shunting out Amarinder Singh, who the party felt was growing unpopular, and replacing with Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi. AAP is emerging as a major challenger while Akali Dal is working hard to regain its lost glory even as BJP has joined hands with Amarinder to restrict Congress.  Uttarakhand too is on Congress radar with its veteran leader Harish Rawat, who was sulking over the leadership role, has taken charge of the campaign to oust the BJP, which had changed three Chief Ministers in five states. Congress expects Goa, where 15 of its 17 MLAs defected to BJP and other parties, would also land in its kitty with growing anti-incumbency against the Pramod Sawant-led BJP government but the entry of Trinamool Congress has queered the pitch for the Opposition.  The BJP is growing in confidence in Manipur where it rules after engineering defections in Congress after the 2017 polls. Congress is yet to gather its act together in the north-eastern state.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-election-2022-5-states-to-go-to-vote-from-february-10-to-march-7-counting-on-march-10-1069150.html
08-01-2022||National||India's Covid-19 toll may be six times higher: Report||A recent study published in the Science journal suggested that India’s Covid-19 toll maybe six times higher than the reported figure — at an estimated 32 lakh — in comparison to the 4,83,000-odd deaths recorded since the start of the pandemic. The researchers, citing that over 71 per cent of deaths took place during the second wave between April and June 2021, found that the infection is likely to have double the all-cause mortality rate. Researchers from India, Canada, and the US, took part in the study. The members included Dr Prabhat Jha, of the Centre for Global Health Research at the University of Toronto, and Dr Paul Novosad, of the department of economics at Dartmouth College. According to the report, the study employed a nationally representative telephonic survey of around 140,000 people, study of deaths reported across 200,000 public hospitals through the government’s Health Management Information System, and the deaths recorded in the Civil Registration System of 10 states. The data was then cross-referenced with the United Nations Population Division (UNPD) estimates of deaths due to various causes. “Excess deaths close to 3 million. 1. Far higher than official totals. 2. Implies global Covid death count off by >2 million (and more given undercounting elsewhere) Multiple data sources and different analytical approaches all agree: there were over 2 million Covid deaths in India thru summer 2021. India alone accounts for a huge share of global Covid deaths. WHO should be updating their global numbers taking this into account,” tweeted Dr Novosad. Multiple data sources and different analytical approaches all agree: there were more than 2 million COVID deaths in India thru summer 2021. India alone accounts for a huge share of global COVID deaths. WHO should be updating their global numbers taking this into account. 9/N “Before the pandemic reached India, I calculated the expected mortality based on the age-specific death rate from Europe; we have a younger population so I had adjusted for it. Based on my calculations, India was to report 2.2 million deaths as per the infection dynamics at the time. When the deaths were reported in just thousands, it was embarrassing,” Dr Jayprakash Muliyil, chairperson of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, was quoted as saying. “All I am saying is, a toll of 3 million is reasonable.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-toll-may-be-six-times-higher-report-1069184.html
08-01-2022||National||Assembly Elections 2022: Full list of Covid-19 protocols||The Election Commission on Saturday declared the schedule for the polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur. Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra said Election Commission seeks to conduct 'Covid-safe' elections. He said that the ECI held meetings with Union Health Secretary and Home Secretary, experts, and health secretaries of states. After taking into account their views and ground situation, the ECI decided to announce polls with safety norms in place, Chandra said.  "We aim to conduct Covid-safe elections in five states with maximum voter participation with extensive preparations," Chandra said. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the election body has laid down protocols to hold polls in these states. Let's take a look at the key measures that have been put in place: 1. All polling stations will be equipped with Covid-mitigation facilities including sanitisers and masks. 2. The number of booths has been increased. 3. There will be 2,15,368 polling stations this time, 30,330 or 16 per cent more polling stations compared to 2017 polls as the number of voters in a polling stations has been brought down to 1,250 from 1,500. 4. Candidates contesting polls will be given an option to file nomination online. 5. All polling officials will receive precautionary doses of Covid-19 vaccine. "All election officials will be treated as frontline workers," Chandra said. 6. All polling stations will be located in the ground floor. 7. The polling time has been increased by one hour. 8. No padyatras, rallies, roadshows, vehicle rallies of political parties will be allowed till January 15. The EC will take a call on holding physical rallies after January 15. 9. No victory procession will be allowed after the announcement of the results. 10. There will a campaign curfew between 8 pm to 8 am throughout the election process. Elections will be held for 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, 117 in Punjab, 70 in Uttarakhand 60 in Manipur and 40 in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-2022-full-list-of-covid-19-protocols-1069185.html
08-01-2022||National||19 phones recovered from Tihar inmates during surprise check||At least 19 mobile phones were recovered from the possession of inmates at the high-security Tihar Jail in the national capital during a surprise check, an official said on Saturday. The surprise check was conducted by the jail authorities on the intervening night of January 6-7, sources told IANS. "During the checking, 19 phones (six android + 13 small ones), Rs 1,500, chargers, wires and handmade sharp objects were confiscated," one of the sources said. The matter came to light just a day after a prisoner was hospitalised after he swallowed a mobile phone. Director General (Prison) Sandeep Goel told IANS that the incident took place on January 5. "Although his condition was fine so far, the mobile phone was still inside his body," Goel had said on Friday. The Tihar Jail has been strengthening its security arrangements following the major backlash it has received over its officials being caught providing facilities to the inmates, of which the main gadget was a mobile phone. Over 40 officials at the prison have been booked by various law enforcement agencies during the past six months for extending benefits to the prisoners. Goyal said they are installing three new towers inside the jail premises that would confine the mobile signals emanating from the prison. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-phones-recovered-from-tihar-inmates-during-surprise-check-1069195.html
08-01-2022||National||Fire not an 'act of God' if no external natural force involved: SC||A fire accident cannot be termed as an 'act of God' if it did not happen due to the operation of any external natural forces like storm, floods, lightning or earthquake, the Supreme Court has said. A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar made the observation while setting aside an Allahabad High Court order which had termed the fire in the warehouse of a company as an ‘act of God’ and exempted excise liability of the company engaged in the manufacture of liquor. “The present one had not been a case where anything related with the forces of nature like storm, floods, lightning or earthquake had been in operation or caused the fire. “When nothing of any external natural force had been in operation in violent or sudden manner, the event of the fire in question could be referable to anything but to an act of God in legal parlance,” the bench also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Krishna Murari said. The top court also said the fire in question had not taken place due to any mischief by any person. “Noticeably, the fire that started around 12:55 pm on April 10, 2003 could be brought under control by the firefighters only by 5 am the next day. “When all the relevant factors are cumulatively taken into account, we find it difficult to accept that the fire and the resultant loss had been beyond the control of human agency so as to be termed as inevitable accident,” the bench said. The top court said the fire had not generated on its own and with appropriately laid fire proof electrical installations as also firefighting measures, the incident was an avoidable one or at least the loss could have been minimised. It said the observations of the high court in this regard do not appear sound and are required to be disapproved. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Uttar Pradesh Excise Department challenging an order of the high court which quashed the demand raised against McDowell company towards loss of excise revenue because of destruction of liquor in fire. The high court had said the order passed by the excise commissioner seeking Rs 6.39 crore as excise revenue was based on conjectures and without any cogent evidence about negligence on the part of the company and that the “incident was nothing but an act of God”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-not-an-act-of-god-if-no-external-natural-force-involved-sc-1069197.html
08-01-2022||National||All you need to know about the precautionary dose of Covid-19 vaccine||The letter also states that privately run hospitals can provide their staff with the precautionary dose, from January 10 onwards, either for free or of cost. Here is some information on the precautionary dose:  - There is no need for new registration for those eligible for the precautionary or the third dose of Covid vaccine - Those who have taken both Covid jabs and are eligible can take appointments or walk-in to any Covid-19 Vaccination Centre to get the third dose  - Vaccination with onsite appointment starts on January 10 - The Health Ministry will release the schedules for vaccination on January 8 - Online appointment facility will start by January 8  India has to date administered over 148 crore vaccine doses. 91 per cent of all adults have received at least one dose while 66 per cent have been fully vaccinated.  The vaccination programme for children between the ages of 15 and 18, started earlier this month and more than 17 per cent have been administered the first dose. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-precautionary-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1069202.html
08-01-2022||National||Madras High Court pulls up Christian priest for remarks against Hindus||The Madras High Court has ruled that an evangelist who made offending remarks against Hindus cannot claim immunity after outraging religious beliefs of others and stated he cannot be equated as a neutral commentator or a stand-up comedian like Munawar Faruqui. Partly quashing an FIR filed against priest P George Ponniah who was booked under different sections of the IPC including outraging religious sentiments, Justice GR Swaminathan said such immunity would be available only to rationalists or satirists or even academics under the Constitution. The judge, while batting for an individual's decision to convert from one religion to another, however, said that "religious conversions cannot be a group agenda." The judge made the observations while hearing a petition of Ponniah against whom a case was filed by the police for saying Bhooma Devi and Bharat Mata were sources of infection and filth. He had also made critical remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a state minister during a meeting at Arumanai in Kanyakumari district in the state. The judge said the petitioner cannot insult or outrage others' religion or religious beliefs. "There was absolutely no need or necessity to mount a visceral attack on the religious beliefs of Hindus. It was unwarranted and utterly unrelated to the occasion. That is what makes it deliberate and malicious. The petitioner poked fun at those who walk barefoot out of reverence for Mother Earth (Bhooma Devi). He stated that Christians wear shoes so that they won't catch scabies. He painted Bhuma Devi and Bharat Mata as sources of infection and filth," the judge said. "A reading of the petitioner's speech as a whole does not leave anyone in doubt. His target is the Hindu community. He is putting them on one side and the Christians and Muslims on the other. He is clearly pitting one group against the other. The distinction is made solely on the ground of religion. The petitioner repeatedly demeans the Hindu community," the judge said. The court said India was partitioned on the ground of religion and millions died in the ensuing riots. "That is why our founding fathers consciously adopted secularism as the guiding principle of the new republic. There is something truly enchanting about the idea of India propounded by them. Equality, liberty, fraternity and egalitarianism were real promises meant to be fulfilled. Freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess and propagate one's religion was made a fundamental right." "But the tryst with destiny can be achieved only if the multicultural character of the Indian society continues to remain. In other words, the status quo in the matter of religious demography has to be maintained. Our Constitution guarantees freedom of conscience as a fundamental right. If an individual out of personal conviction wants to change his religion, his choice must be respected. The change of religion by such a person cannot be and ought not to be objected to. Dileep Kumar became A R Rahman (the Oscar-winning composer)," he said. The judge also referred to the instances of some other Tamil cinema celebrities embracing Islam and said, "These are perfectly understandable and no exception can be taken." "But religious conversions cannot be a group agenda. Our Constitution speaks of composite culture. This character has to be maintained. The clock of history can never be put back. But the status quo that obtains in the year 2022 as regards religious demographic profile may have to be maintained. When stand-up comedians Munawar Faruqui or Alexander Babu perform on stage, they are exercising their fundamental right to poke fun at others. Again, their religious identity is irrelevant. It is here, the “Who?” and “Where?” tests matter," the court noted. He said the persons concerned voice their opinions or give vent to their expressions in their capacity as satirists. On the other hand, an evangelist like the petitioner cannot claim a similar privilege. "He cannot insult or outrage others' religion or their religious beliefs and still claim immunity from the application of Section 295A/153A/505(2) of IPC. This is because he views the other religionists as a constituency to be poached," he said. Section 295 (a) deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs while 153 (a) is about promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony. "The offending speech of the petitioner prima facie attracts the offences under Sections 153A, 295A and 505(2) of IPC," the judge said, but quashed other sections including one on unlawful assembly. "The impugned FIR is quashed to this limited extent as far as the petitioner is concerned," the judge ruled. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-high-court-pulls-up-christian-priest-for-remarks-against-hindus-1069204.html
08-01-2022||National||Delhi High Court allows termination of 30-week pregnancy over rare chromosomal disorder||The Delhi High Court has allowed a woman to terminate her over 30-week pregnancy as the foetus had a rare chromosomal disorder and said had she given birth, the child would have such substantial abnormalities that normal life might have never been an option. If the woman is forced to continue with the pregnancy, she will be in constant fear about the high odds of a stillbirth. Even if the infant is born alive, the mother would be bearing the heavy pain of knowing the child can die within a few months, the High Court said. Justice Rekha Palli said there are certain risks to the petitioner in undergoing termination of her pregnancy at this stage. But when considered in light of the medical opinion, which clearly suggests that the foetus is suffering from a rare chromosomal disorder, the compelling reason for her to seek permission to end the pregnancy is not difficult to fathom, the High Court judge said. The court was informed by the woman, who was present at the hearing, that she has been explained the risks involved in the procedure. "I, thus, have no hesitation in holding that this is a fit case where the petitioner should be granted permission to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy at a medical facility of her choice. However, the same shall be done at her own risk and consequences," the judge said. The court, in its order, said, "Not to mention that the child will be born with such substantial abnormalities that living a normal life may never be an option, thus causing grave hardship to the child as well as putting the petitioner through extreme amounts of mental, emotional, and even financial distress. "It is thus a clear case where, leaving aside the lifelong anguish and trauma which may be caused to the petitioner, the foetus itself suffers from such abnormalities that it clearly falls under the ambit of section 3(2B) of the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act." The court disposed of the plea by the woman seeking permission to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy, which was 28-week at the time of filing of the petition, under the MTP Act. According to the petition, the foetus was suffering not only from Edward Syndrome (Trisomy 18) but also from non-ossified nasal bone and bilateral pyelectasis. According to medical opinion, if the pregnancy is taken to its logical conclusion, the child is not likely to survive beyond one year and that too with continued medical assistance will not only cause severe harm to her physical health but mental health as well. The counsel submitted that the MTP Act allows women to terminate their pregnancy even after the 24-week gestation period if it is found that the continuance of the same is likely to cause grave injury to her physical or mental health. At the instance of the court, a medical board was constituted to examine the woman and her foetus and according to literature attached with the report, 80 per cent of children die in the first year, 10 year survival is 10 per cent with the survivors having significant neurodevelopmental delay. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-allows-termination-of-30-week-pregnancy-over-rare-chromosomal-disorder-1069210.html
08-01-2022||National||Centre opposes plea for framing Uniform Civil Code||The Centre has opposed before the Delhi High Court a plea for framing Uniform Civil Code, saying the Law Commission was examining the matter and the government would look into the issue after receiving a report. It, however, maintained, "Citizens belonging to different religious denominations follow different property and matrimonial laws, which is an affront to the nation's unity."  In a reply to a PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the Ministry of Law and Justice said Parliament exercised sovereign power to enact laws and no outside power or authority can issue a direction to enact a particular piece of legislation.  "A writ of Mandamus cannot be issued to the legislature to enact a particular legislation. This is a matter of policy for the elected representatives of the people to decide and no direction can be issued in this regard by the court. It is for the legislature to enact or not to enact a particular piece of legislation," the reply said. In his plea, Upadhyay sought a direction from the High Court to the central government to constitute a judicial commission or a high level expert committee to draft a Uniform Civil Code within three months. He claimed that Article 44 of the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy called upon the government to draft a UCC. In its response, the government, however, said that the purpose behind Article 44 is to strengthen the object of "secular democratic republic" as enshrined in the preamble of the Constitution. "This provision is provided to effect integration of India by bringing communities on the common platform on matters which are at present governed by diverse personal laws. Article 44 divests religion from social relations and personal law," the affidavit said. It had, therefore, asked the Law Commission to undertake such a study and make recommendations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-opposes-plea-for-framing-uniform-civil-code-1069216.html
08-01-2022||National||CPCB asks startups to come up with technological solutions to curb air pollution||To mitigate air pollution in the country, the Central Pollution Control Board has invited startups to come up with proposals for technological solutions that will help strengthen the ambient air quality monitoring network. In a notification, the CPCB invited online expression of interest from startups or firms working in the area of air quality monitoring and data management. It has to be submitted by January 10. "The CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board) is seeking participation of startups/firms in the field of development of reliable technology for air quality monitoring and data management to strengthen the ambient air quality monitoring network in various parts of the country," it said. "These technologies can be used for identifying hotspots, air quality profile, understanding local sources by deploying them in a closer network and air quality awareness amongst the public," the pollution watchdog said. For discussing and analysing the use of various aspects of monitoring and data management, it has been decided to organise meetings with startups or firms working in the area of air quality monitoring and data management, it said. "Accordingly, the Central Pollution Control Board invites online expression of interest from startups/firms working in the area of air quality monitoring and data management. A performa for providing information of start-up/work details can be downloaded from the CPCB website…The short listed startups/firms will be invited for meeting/presentation," the CPCB said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpcb-asks-startups-to-come-up-with-technological-solutions-to-curb-air-pollution-1069224.html
08-01-2022||National||Pandemic worrying, but elections must be held, says P Chidambaram||All India Congress Committee senior observer in-charge of Goa Assembly polls P Chidambaram on Saturday said that while the pandemic situation was "worrying", elections are equally important and must be held. "We will abide by the law. The pandemic situation is a worrying situation. But we will observe the rules and conduct our election campaign in accordance with the rules. We appeal to the people to follow Covid restrictions," Chidambaram said, while "accepting" the poll schedule. "But elections are equally important. Elections must be held," he also said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-worrying-but-elections-must-be-held-says-p-chidambaram-1069228.html
08-01-2022||National||Rail to levy fee for boarding, alighting at redeveloped stations; suburban train passengers exempted||Long-distance train travel is likely to cost more for passengers boarding or alighting at redeveloped stations as the Railways is planning to levy a station development fee ranging from Rs 10 to Rs 50 depending on the class of travel. Officials said the fee is likely to be added to the train tickets during booking. The fee will be levied only after such stations become operational. The user fee would be in three categories. Rs 50 for all AC classes, Rs 25 for sleeper class and Rs 10 for the unreserved class. No station development fee will be charged for suburban train journeys, according to a circular issued by the Railway Board. It stated that platform tickets at these stations will also be costlier by Rs 10. "Station Development Fee (SDF) shall be collected from the passengers (boarding as well as alighting at such stations). "Class-wise SDF for developed/redeveloped stations shall be charged as under: For alighting passengers at such stations, the SDF shall be 50 per cent of the rates indicated above. If both boarding/alighting such stations, in that case, SDF shall be 1.5 times of the applicable rate, the circular stated. SDF shall be uniform across all such stations and shall be charged as a separate component plus applicable GST, for which instructions shall be issued separately, it added. Officials said that the levying of SDF will ensure a continuous revenue stream for the Railways and will make the model financially viable for the national transporter to lure private players Various stations are being redeveloped on Indian Railways to provide modern amenities. Rani Kamalapati station of West Central Railway and Gandhinagar Capital station of Western Railway have been developed and commissioned.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-to-levy-fee-for-boarding-alighting-at-redeveloped-stations-suburban-train-passengers-exempted-1069236.html
08-01-2022||National||EC bans political rallies, roadshows, processions till January 15||With the Covid-19 third wave at a critical juncture, the Election Commission on Saturday banned physical rallies, roadshows, padayatra, cycle-bike-vehicle rallies and processions by parties or probable candidates till January 15 as it announced the schedule for elections to five states. There will be a "campaign curfew" between 8 PM and 8 AM during which no rallies and public meetings will be allowed, while 'nukkad sabhas' (street meetings) will also not be allowed on public roads, roundabouts or public streets or corners. Only five people, including candidates but excluding security personnel, would be allowed for door-to-door campaigning.  However, physical rallies during the campaign period, as and when permitted after the decision of the Commission will be conducted subject to adherence to extant Covid-19 guidelines. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra told a press conference that the EC will review the "dynamic situation" related to the pandemic on January 15 on whether to continue with the restrictions or provide further relaxations. The Election Commission is also advising parties and candidates to conduct their campaign as much as possible through digital/mobile phone mode instead of physical mode ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19 safety norms. There is also a decrease in the number of star campaigners for parties -- for national and state parties, it has been fixed 30 in place of 40 while it is 15 in place of 20 for unrecognised parties. Rallies and meetings will be allowed only in earmarked places and with prior permissions of district administration. Each party/candidate should give an undertaking in that it shall abide by all the extant instructions/guidelines in this regard. If a candidate or political party violates any of the above guidelines, no further permission shall be given to the concerned candidate/party for rallies, meetings etc.  The convoy of vehicles shall be broken after every five vehicles and the interval between two sets of convoys of vehicles should be half an hour instead of a gap of 100 metres. During the permitted campaign period, convoy of vehicles will be allowed only for movement of vehicles from one point to another point for campaigning. No victory procession after the counting will be allowed and not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or her authorised representative to receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-bans-political-rallies-roadshows-processions-till-january-15-1069238.html
08-01-2022||National||People will again bless BJP in five state polls: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday expressed confidence that his party will emerge victorious in the assembly polls in five states with a big majority, soon after the Election Commission announced the poll schedule. People will again bless the BJP, which will return to power with big majority and take development works to new heights, he said. The BJP is in power in four of the five poll-bound states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur -- while it is fighting in an alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh and an Akali faction to take on its rivals, including the ruling Congress, in Punjab. Welcoming the announcement of the poll schedule by the Election Commission, Nadda urged BJP workers to participate in this grand festival of democracy with their full strength while adhering to Covid-related and other guidelines laid down by the election body. BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said the party will contest these polls in five states with all its might and energy, and form governments with a big majority. The elections will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7, and the counting will take place on March 10. "We call upon all BJP karyakartas to ensure the party's victory in all these states while following all Covid protocols," the BJP said in a tweet.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-will-again-bless-bjp-in-five-state-polls-nadda-1069249.html
08-01-2022||National||All Assembly election officials to get precautionary Covid doses||All election officials involved in the polls to five states will be given precautionary doses of Covid-19 vaccines even as the number of polling stations has been increased to reduce crowds, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said. He said it has been directed that all central/state government officials deployed for election duty shall be double vaccinated. On the recommendation of the Election Commission, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued orders on February 8, 2021, that all election officials and employees will be treated as frontline workers.  All Polling Personnel/Security Personnel/Counting Staff shall be doubly vaccinated before deploying/engaging in election-related activities. All eligible officials will be given a precautionary booster dose accordingly, Chandra said. Keeping Covid-19 in mind, the number of polling stations has been increased by 16 per cent. Chandra said there will be 2,15,368 polling stations this time, 30,330 or 16 per cent more compared to the 2017 polls, as the number of voters in polling stations has been brought down to 1,250 from 1,500, he said. Uttar Pradesh has the highest increase of 18.49 per cent -- 1,47,148 to 1,74,351. Goa has a 4.87 per cent rise in polling stations from 1,642 to 1,722 while in Manipur it is 5.91 per cent -- 2,794 to 2,959. In Punjab, the number of polling stations rose from 22,600 to 24,689, registering a 9.24 per cent increase while in Uttarakhand, the numbers rose from 10,854 to 11,647 or a 7.31 per cent rise. There will be mandatory sanitisation of polling stations preferably, a day before the poll, as well as thermal checking of voters at the entry point of polling station either by polling staff or para-medical staff or ASHA worker. "If the temperature is above the set norms of MoHF&W at first reading, then it will be checked twice and if it remains, then the elector shall be provided with a token and will be asked to come for voting at the last hour of polling,” the Election Commission said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-assembly-election-officials-to-get-precautionary-covid-doses-1069256.html
08-01-2022||National||PM security breach: Union minister Thakur rues statements by Congress leaders, questions Sonia Gandhi's 'silence'||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Saturday questioned remarks made by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other Congress leaders following the breach of Prime Minister's security. He also questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi's `silence' on the issue. In a major security lapse, prime minister Narendra Modi's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by farm protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday. “The states are responsible for the prime minister's security wherever he visits. The entire country expressed concern over what happened in Punjab," Thakur told reporters here. The Punjab government did not take the incident seriously, he alleged. The law will take its own course now as the matter was before the Supreme Court, Thakur said. “But the way Punjab chief minister, the state Congress president and other leaders made comments on this issue was sad. It shows what they think and how they speak about the prime minister," he said. "Moreover, it raises several questions and says a lot as the AICC president (Sonia Gandhi) and senior party leaders remained silent on this," the Union minister added. To a question, Thakur, who also handles the Youth Affairs and Sports portfolio, said the Mission Olympic Committee has already been constituted, and training is being imparted to sportspersons for the next Olympic games. As many as 1,000 centres would be set up in the country under the Khelo India initiative, and 250 of them have been already sanctioned, he added. The I&B ministry has taken action against Pakistan-based web portals which were spreading misinformation in the country, he said, adding that such action will continue in future too. Earlier, Thakur participated in convocation at the Border Security Force (BSF) Academy at Tekanpur near here. During the ceremony, 78 officials including three women were inducted into the force as assistant commandants. Thakur urged them to dedicate themselves to the nation while working to protect its borders and also facing challenges of internal security.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-security-breach-union-minister-thakur-rues-statements-by-congress-leaders-questions-sonia-gandhis-silence-1069258.html
08-01-2022||National||Will retain Punjab, capture Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur, play decisive role in UP: Congress||As the five states are all set for Assembly polls, Congress on Saturday expressed confidence that it will retain Punjab and capture power in BJP-ruled Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand while expecting to play a decisive role in government formation in Uttar Pradesh. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told a press conference that it was a "golden opportunity" to defeat the BJP, whose rule has led to joblessness, price rise and crime against women, Dalits and marginalised sections of the country. He said the Congress workers will fight the polls with full strength to ensure the defeat of the BJP. "In Punjab, we will once again win. We will form the government in Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand. In Uttar Pradesh, no party can make a government without us, thanks to the energetic campaign led by Priyanka Gandhi," Surjewala said. He said the "double engine government of the BJP" has been a "double failure". Asked about Trinamool Congress' overture for a united fight in Goa against the BJP, Surjewala said his party has alliance with Goa Forward Party only and "with nobody else". "Anybody who wants to support the Congress in the quest to defeat the BJP is welcome. Why should I deny it if somebody wants to support us and defeat the BJP which has looted the resources of Goa," he said. He also said that parties should think about whether their actions would lead to weakening the Congress and give cover fire to the BJP. He was responding to a question about Trinamool Goa co-in charge Mahua Moitra's tweet about fighting the elections together. Trinamool Congress' entry in Goa by poaching Congress leaders had not gone well with the Sonia Gandhi-led party. On questions related to Punjab and who would be the party's face, he said the Congress has a stated position where it fights the election in a particular way. "Charanjit Singh Channi is the Chief Minister and he is a face. Navjot Singh Sidhu is the party president there and he is a face. There are others also like Campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar and he is also a face," he said. Surjewala said one should remember that it is a "golden chance to defeat BJP and inflation". Farmers also have a chance to punish those who retained a Union minister despite his and his son's involvement in the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, he said adding the youth could also use the opportunity as unemployment has touched new heights. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-retain-punjab-capture-goa-uttarakhand-and-manipur-play-decisive-role-in-up-congress-1069263.html
08-01-2022||National||Budget Session will be 'out of focus', says TMC after EC announces schedule of polls in 5 states||The Budget Session will be "out of focus" and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "gameplan is to make Parliament irrelevant", alleged the Trinamool Congress on Saturday after the announcement of dates for the Assembly elections to five states. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10, the Election Commission announced on Saturday. Parliament's Budget Session usually begins in the last week of January every year. "The Winter Session of Parliament was washed out by the BJP. With elections in full swing, the Budget session will be out of focus. This is Modi's gameplan: Make Parliament irrelevant so he is accountable to no one," said TMC Rajya Sabha MP and its national spokesperson Derek O'Brien. The elections have huge political significance with BJP ruling four of these five states, while it is making a big push to capture Congress-ruled Punjab, where the Aam Aadmi Party is also emerging as an important player. The Trinamool Congress has ventured into Goa a few months back and is looking to stitch up pre-poll alliances against the BJP in the coastal state.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-will-be-out-of-focus-says-tmc-after-ec-announces-schedule-of-polls-in-5-states-1069264.html
08-01-2022||National||NCPCR pulls up states over poor performance in vaccinating children||The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights has written to four states for poor performance in providing vaccination to children, asking them to ramp up vaccination numbers. Priyank Kanungo, chairperson of the child rights body, in a letter to the chief secretaries of Punjab, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Manipur said that while several states have shown “excellent performance”, these states have been found to be lagging. NCPCR officials said that the coverage was only 1.3% in Punjab, 1.9% in Meghalaya, 0.9% in Nagaland and 2% in Manipur. “It has observed by the Commission that in comparison to other states and national data of vaccination of children, your state has not made enough efforts in providing vaccination to the most vulnerable population of our country which might be putting them on a huge risk of life,” Kanungo wrote, adding that the states should send followup information on the steps they have taken. Kanungo also said that after the Centre opened up vaccination for those between 15 to 18 years of age, India has managed to vaccinate 22.7% of that population in a week's time approx. These states account for over 19 lakh children eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. Punjab has 14,19,000 children in the age group of 15 to 18 years, while Meghalaya has 2,05,000 children. Manipur has 1,74,000 children in that age bracket and 1,43,000. In all, there are around 7.4 crore children eligible for the vaccination in India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncpcr-pulls-up-states-over-poor-performance-in-vaccinating-children-1069265.html
08-01-2022||National||EC would not like to interfere in Union Budget presentation: CEC Chandra||The EC would not like to interfere in the presentation of the Union Budget, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra said on Saturday, asserting the annual exercise would not disturb the level-playing field for parties during elections to five states. The Election Commission (EC) on Saturday announced the schedule for assembly elections to Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. Polls will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10. Responding to a question on whether the Union Budget on February 1 and the president's address to the two houses of Parliament before that would disturb the level-playing field, Chandra said the Union Budget is a yearly statement that has to be laid before Parliament. "The Election Commission would not like to interfere in the presentation of the Budget because that is for the whole country and not limited to these five states only," he said. Noting that budget was a statement of expenditure and revenue, the CEC said, "How will the level-playing field will be disturbed? The level-playing field will not be disturbed (by its presentation)." Parliament is likely to be in session during elections. The dates of the Budget session are yet to be announced.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-would-not-like-to-interfere-in-union-budget-presentation-cec-chandra-1069272.html
08-01-2022||National||Bharat Biotech says Covaxin safe for booster dose against Covid||Bharat Biotech on Saturday said trials have indicated that its vaccine Covaxin is safe for booster dosage against Covid-19. The analysis showed, six months after a two-dose Covaxin (BBV152) vaccination series cell-mediated immunity and neutralising antibodies to both homologous (D614G) and heterologous strains (Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Delta plus) persisted above baseline, although the magnitude of the responses had declined, the company said. Furthermore, neutralising antibodies against homologous and heterologous SARS-CoV-2 variants increased from 19 to 265 folds after a third vaccination, it added. Booster BBV152 vaccination is safe and may be necessary to ensure persistent immunity to prevent breakthrough infections, it added. "These trial results provide a strong foundation towards our goal to provide Covaxin as a booster dose. Our goal of developing a global vaccine against Covid-19 has been achieved with Covaxin indicated for adults, children, two dose primary and booster doses. This enables use of the vaccine as a universal vaccine," Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said. Further, reactogenicity after vaccine and placebo was minimal and comparable, and no serious adverse events were reported, the company said referring to the trial results. "Based on emerging data, Bharat Biotech believes that a third dose may be beneficial to maintain the highest levels of protection," it added. Bharat Biotech noted that Covaxin is formulated uniquely such that the same dosage can be administered to adults and children alike. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-says-covaxin-safe-for-booster-dose-against-covid-1069273.html
08-01-2022||National||Tough road ahead for BJP in poll-bound states as demands yet to be met: Farmer leaders||With the Election Commission announcing poll dates for five states, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, farmer leaders on Saturday said it is a tough road ahead for the BJP as the Centre is yet to meet their demands of crop MSP and expulsion of Ajay Mishra 'Teni' from the Union Cabinet. The farmer leaders said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 44 farm unions, will meet on January 15 to review the progress on pending demands and decide on the future course of action. Farmer leader and SKM member Abhimanyu Singh Kohar said the people lost their love for the BJP during the farmers' movement, and so it will be difficult for the party to do good in the elections in farmer-driven states such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Since the Election Commission has announced poll dates, no new work can be done and some of the key demands of farmers are still pending, he said. "Our main demands to give us a legal guarantee on MSP and expel Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni from the Cabinet are still not fulfilled. People are unhappy with the BJP and these issues will play a decisive role in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The SKM will meet on January 15 to discuss these issues and will chalk out a future course of action," Kohar said. He added that the Punjab government has already announced to take back cases against farmers registered during the agitation. In Haryana too, the state government released an order in this connection on December 23, 2021, Kohar said. The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced that the elections will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7 in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa. Voting for the high-stakes Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will be held in seven phases, starting from the western part of the politically crucial state on February 10 and moving eastwards. Punjab (117 seats), Uttarakhand (70 seats) and Goa (40 seats) will have single-day voting on February 14, coinciding with the second phase of the polls in Uttar Pradesh, according to the schedule announced by the Election Commission. For Manipur, the poll panel has decided to conduct voting in two phases - 38 seats on February 27 and 22 seats on March 3 - coinciding with fifth and sixth phases of the Uttar Pradesh polls. The final phase of voting will be on March 7, and votes for all phases would be counted on March 10. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is a part of the SKM, also felt that the farmers' agitation has made an impact, and their issues will remain decisive during the polls, especially in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The BKU, an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, said the issues of MSP and Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni', whose son is the key accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, will dent the BJP's prospects in the polls. BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay alleged the Centre has not worked the way it should, like it has been in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. "The Centre should have removed the Union minister. The bias is clear. MSP is another big issue which has an effect across states. It will certainly have an impact during the polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab," Upadhyay told PTI. He said that making a legal guarantee on MSP will benefit the government, if only it conceded to the farmers' demand. "Farmers who had been forgotten are currently the biggest issue for the Centre. This has happened only because of the farmers protest on Delhi borders," Upadhyay said. Thousands of farmers, primarily from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, had started protest against three farm laws on Delhi borders on November 26, 2020. The protest continued for over an year and the farmers went back home on December 11, 2021, after farm laws were repealed and the Centre assured them to consider their other demands as well which include a committee on MSP, and withdrawal of cases against farmers etc. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tough-road-ahead-for-bjp-in-poll-bound-states-as-demands-yet-to-be-met-farmer-leaders-1069276.html
08-01-2022||National||'Removal of Sikhs from Army': Origin of 'morphed' video traced to Pakistan||Delhi Police have traced the origin of a morphed video to Pakistan in which it was allegedly claimed that the Cabinet Committee meeting on security gave a call for the removal of all Sikh soldiers serving in the Indian Army. "The technical analysis has pointed out that the accounts that were used to propagate the malicious content were being used from Pakistan," a senior official of the Delhi Police told IANS. After the video surfaced on social media, it was fact-checked by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of Delhi Police, which found that the video was morphed and a voice-over was superimposed, in which the alleged persons tried to show that the meeting was against the Sikh community. DCP (Cyber Crime) K.P.S. Malhotra had earlier informed that in reality, the video was shot on the day when a high-level committee was briefing Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. General Rawat died when a military helicopter crashed in the Nilgiri hills in Tamil Nadu, costing 14 lives on December 8, 2021. Such act of promoting disharmony or enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony and can disturb public tranquillity. It is also an offence under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code. Time and again it has been noted that the origin of the anti-India content, spread through different social media platforms, comes from across the border in Pakistan. During the primarily technical investigation, it was noticed that there were various accounts, which had tweeted the same video with the same content and same hashtag. "All the accounts were created between October 2021 and December 2021. The technical analysis has revealed that these accounts were being operated from a single browser (developed by multilogin.com)," sources said. Multilogin provides Mimic browser and stealthfox browser, which have features of multi sessions and private sessions. Following the preliminary probe, around 46 accounts on Twitter that were being operated from Pakistan have been blocked. On December 21, the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had banned 20 YouTube channels and websites which, according to the orders issued then, were running a concerted campaign of propaganda and disinformation against India. The channels were launched by The Naya Pakistan Group (NPG), which has a network of YouTube channels with a combined subscriber base of at least 3.5 million. Their videos have had over 550 million views, the Ministry had said. The 20 channels banned by the Centre included The Punch Line, International Web News, Khalsa TV, The Naked Truth, News 24, 48 news, Fictional Historical Facts, Punjab Viral, Naya Pakistan Global and Cover Story, among others. Kashmir Global and Kashmir Watch were also among the proscribed websites. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/removal-of-sikhs-from-army-origin-of-morphed-video-traced-to-pakistan-1069278.html
08-01-2022||National||'Bulli Bai' accused tried to harm himself twice, threatened suicide, say police||Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged mastermind and creator of the 'Bulli Bai' application, has revealed that he had the habit of hacking into and defacing the websites of schools and universities of both India and Pakistan, police officials said on Saturday. They also said that Bishnoi has disclosed during interrogation that he was also in touch with the person behind the Twitter handle @sullideals, the alleged creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app that was hosted on GitHub in July last year. The Delhi police had arrested 21-year-old Bishnoi from Assam and claimed that it has solved the case which relates to hundreds of Muslim women being listed for "auction" on the "Bulli Bai" app on the Github platform. A resident of Jorhat who studies computer science engineering in Bhopal, Bishnoi is the fourth person to be arrested for their alleged involvement in the app. The other three, nabbed by Mumbai Police, include a 19-year-old woman from Uttarakhand, also alleged to be a prime accused in the case. The claim of Bishnoi being in touch with the creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app is being verified. Further technical analysis is being done and forensic examination of devices is underway, police said. "During interrogation, Bishnoi has revealed that he has the habit of hacking and defacing websites. He has been learning it since he was 15-year-old. He had hacked or defaced various websites of schools and universities of India as well as of Pakistan. His claims of hacking websites," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) K P S Malhotra said. Bishnoi has an inclination towards the Japanese animated gaming character 'GIYU'. He had created various Twitter handles using the word and used one such account to challenge the law enforcement agencies to nab him, police said. He had earlier created various Twitter handles-- @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @giyu44. The account @giyu44 was created by the accused on January 3 to discredit the arrests made by the Mumbai Police in the case and to throw an open challenge to law enforcement agencies to nab him. A day before his arrest, he had tweeted, "You have arrested the wrong person, slumbai police." "Lmao only one guy was ever involved and that's me. You pajeets arrested a follower of that acc with sikh dp, who had nothing to do with the app and didn't tweet anything wrong. Do you have even the slightest bit of shame slumbai pulis?" Bishnoi had said. You have arrested the wrong person, slumbai police Police said Bishnoi has further disclosed that he was in touch with the persons arrested by the Mumbai Police and used to chat through Twitter. He had never met those persons and even did not have their contact numbers. He also disclosed that he was using the Twitter account of Shweta, arrested by the Mumbai Police, they said. Bishnoi is trying to delay the investigation and not cooperating. He had also tried to harm himself twice and also threatened suicide, police claimed. Due care is being taken care of him in custody. His medical examination has been conducted and he is stable and unharmed. This may be due to his mental condition or maybe he wants to delay the investigation, police officials said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bulli-bai-accused-tried-to-harm-himself-twice-threatened-suicide-say-police-1069294.html
08-01-2022||National||Gogi gang member held in Delhi's Sultanpur||A 33-year-old member of the Gogi gang was arrested from south Delhi's Sultanpur area, police said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Karamvir, a resident of Jhajjar district in Haryana, they said. Karamvir was earlier associated with Kartar Mandothi gang and is currently with the Gogi gang. Police got information on Friday that Karamvir was staying in a farm house in Saltanpur, following which they conducted a raid and apprehended Karamvir while he was trying to flee in his car, Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Dheeraj Kumar said. During interrogation, Karamvir disclosed that he started working for Babloo and Dheeraj in 2016. He killed one Anil on instruction of Dheeraj and a case was registered at KN Katju Marg, police said. He was arrested in the case. He got parole in October 2020 for one month, but did not surrender after the period ended, police said. On September 23, 2021, he killed one Krishan at Bahadurgarh in Haryana as he suspected that Krishan was behind his arrest in the murder case in Delhi. On October 15, he was chased by Bahadurgarh police, but he opened fire at the team and managed to escape, they said. He came in contact with Deepak Boxer, a sharp shooter of the Gogi gang. He, along with Boxer, planned to get Rohit Moi (now head of Gogi gang after the death of Jitender Gogi) released from the police custody while he was being taken to a Haryana court for hearing, police said. They had also planned to kill Tillu Tajpuriya during his production in court in the same way as Tillu killed Gogi in the Rohini court, police said. Jitendra Gogi, the leader of the Gogi gang, was shot dead inside a Rohini courtroom on September 24 by two assailants at the behest of Tajpuriya. A foreign-made sophisticated Zigana pistol with 20 live cartridges, a car, three mobile phones and two dongles were recovered from Karamvir's possession, police added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gogi-gang-member-held-in-delhis-sultanpur-1069299.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||DH Toon | Niti Aayog health index: 'Thank god, there are enough voters in UP'||The NITI Aayog’s health index report for 2019-20, like its previous editions, ranks all states on a weighted composite score and gives a useful picture of the relative state of health and healthcare across the country. The score is based on 24 indicators and covers three broad domains —health outcomes, governance, and information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-niti-aayog-health-index-thank-god-there-are-enough-voters-in-up-1069082.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Tejashwi preparing for 'Berojgari Hatao Yatra' in Bihar||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav is busy preparing for the 'Berojgari Hatao Yatra (March to Remove Unemployment) in the state. Sources close to Tejashwi Yadav said that he is holding meetings daily with district-level officials of the RJD in Patna, making plans to woo the unemployed youth of Bihar. "He (Tejashwi) is taking feedback about the moods of the people, especially the youth, from district presidents of RJD and accordingly making plans to counter the Nitish Kumar government. The leaders and policymakers are discussing each and every point before making the strategy for a particular district or Assembly constituency," a source said requested anonymity. The source further said that Tejashwi Yadav is looking for an appropriate time to announce the date of the Berojgari Hatao Yatra. It has been delayed due to the third wave of Coronavirus. "Tejashwi Yadav is playing it smartly. He doesn't want the Yatra to become a super spreader event," the source said. Tejashwi Yadav had announced for the Yatra to counter Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's 'Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan'. However, Nitish Kumar had postponed the 'Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan' keeping in view the alarming Covid situation. The Chief Minister has postponed his 'Janta Darbar' as well. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-preparing-for-berojgari-hatao-yatra-in-bihar-1069084.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Channi claims Modi security incident a 'conspiracy' to impose President's rule in Punjab: Report||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has claimed a conspiracy to impose President’s Rule in the state, hitting back at the Centre over a security breach that left Prime Minister Narendra Modi stuck on a highway for 20 minutes during his visit on Wednesday. "They made such a huge allegation on Punjab and Punjabis and portrayed us as killers. We are nationalists. We have fought in several wars for the country and many of us have died in the line of duty. I have already said I would be the first to take a bullet for the Prime Minister. What else should I do? Slash my wrist and bleed out?" Channi was quoted as saying by the news outlet. Accusing the BJP of propagating a false story, the Punjab and the central governments have launched separate probes into the incident. PM Modi's route was blocked by protesters on his way to a rally in Punjab's Ferozabad by road, after bad weather made air travel unadvisable. After being stranded for around 20 minutes on the road, Modi made his way back to the airport and cancelled the event. "Where was the threat to his life? Nobody was within a kilometre of you. No stone was thrown, no bullet was fired, no slogans were raised. How can you say 'I made it alive'! Such a sensitive statement from such a big leader. People voted you as Prime Minister - you should make responsible statements. You are saying we want to kill our Prime Minister," Channi was quoted. Channi also took to Twitter to take a dig at the Prime Minister’s claims. Although he didn’t point the finger at Modi, he aimed a shot at the leader by putting up a photo of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel along with his quotation: “Someone who is concerned more about his life than his duty, should not take a big responsibility in a country like India.” जिसे कर्त्तव्य से ज़्यादा जान की फ़िक्र हो, उसे भारत जैसे देश में बड़ी जिम्मेदारी नहीं लेनी चाहिए ! Also, Channi claimed that the event was cancelled due to poor turnout and the issue was being staged to hide the fact. "Actually, the PM had intended to turn around after 10 kilometres because 70,000 chairs were put at the venue but not even 700 showed up. All chairs were empty. They felt it was better to make a U-turn. How petty they are! Just to ensure that empty chairs are not shown on TV they made up this new thing - 'the PM is in danger, he survived’... Why are you taking the country on the wrong path? We are nationalists. Every time elections come you suddenly remember nationalism and pretend to be nationalists," Channi was quoted as saying. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/channi-claims-modi-security-incident-a-conspiracy-to-impose-presidents-rule-in-punjab-report-1069099.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Election 2022: Full list of voting dates, phases, constituency-wise voting||The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the dates of the 2022 Assembly Elections in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, which is considered a major test for the political parties, especially for the next Lok Sabha elections. The polls to elect 403 members of the Legislative Assembly will begin on February 10 and will be held in seven phases, till March 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10. The term of the current government is set to expire in May. In the 2017 UP assembly elections, the BJP won 312 out of a total of 403 seats. The halfway mark is 202. The government was formed under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath. The key parties vying for power in the state are BJP, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Congress. Also in the fray are RLD, AIMIM, Apna Dal and SBSP, some of whom have formed alliances. Here are the Phase-wise poll dates for the 403 seats: Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-2022-full-list-of-voting-dates-phases-constituency-wise-voting-1069174.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||BJP has set up several factories of hate, Tek Fog app one of them: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused the BJP of having set up several "factories" of hate and said the ‘Tek Fog’ app is one of them. He said the entire country is wondering where so much hate is coming from, going by the age of the accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case that targeted women of a particular religion. "Looking at the young age of the accused in the BulliBaiApp case, the entire country is asking where does so much hatred come from. In fact, BJP has set up many factories of hate. Tek Fog is one of them," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. He tagged a report that said ‘Tek Fog’ is BJP’s helpful app that has given the power to the ‘cyber army’ to spread hatred and tinker with the trends on social media. The Congress has already demanded answers from the government over the app and asked the Supreme Court to intervene. In the ‘Bulli Bai’ case, doctored photographs of hundreds of Muslim women were uploaded for ‘auction’ on an app called ‘Bulli Bai’, hosted on open-source software platform GitHub. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-has-set-up-several-factories-of-hate-tek-fog-app-one-of-them-rahul-gandhi-1069196.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||BJP to get 'overwhelming majority' in Uttar Pradesh, says Yogi after EC announces poll dates||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday welcomed the announcement of poll dates in the state and said the BJP will return to power with an "overwhelming majority". "We welcome the festival of democracy. "With the blessings of the people and on the basis of the double engine government's achievements, the BJP will form its government with an overwhelming majority," Adityanath tweeted in Hindi. लोकतंत्र के महापर्व में प्रदेश के चुनाव की तिथियों की घोषणा का स्वागत। भारतीय जनता पार्टी डबल इंजन की सरकार की उपलब्धियों के आधार पर जनता जनार्दन के आशीर्वाद से प्रचंड बहुमत की सरकार बनाने में सफल होगी। The state will go to polls on February 10, February 14, February 20, February 23, February 27, March 3 and March 7. Counting of votes in Uttar Pradesh, along with Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, will take place on March 10. The BJP has already announced Adityanath as its chief ministerial face in the politically crucial state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-get-overwhelming-majority-in-uttar-pradesh-says-yogi-after-ec-announces-poll-dates-1069227.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||UP Polls to decide stature of Yogi, future of Akhilesh, Mayawati, Priyanka||The forthcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will decide the political stature of the incumbent Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath within his party besides deciding the future of Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP supremo Mayawati. The polls are crucial for Adityanath, especially as he virtually "forced" the BJP high command to continue with him as CM despite there being strong voices of dissent within the saffron party's state unit against his style of functioning and the demand to replace him ahead of the polls. Adityanath not only prevailed in the "internal tussle" within his party but had also been able to thwart the central leadership's plan to "foist" an ex-bureaucrat, who was considered to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a deputy chief minister in the state. A strong votary of 'hardcore Hindutva', saffron-clad Adityanath, despite all the claims of development of the state during his tenure, had to face flak for alleged mismanagement during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, rising incidents of attacks on Dalits and his handling of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which four farmers were killed after being run over by a vehicle allegedly driven by union minister Ajay Mishra's son. The BJP leaders said that the forthcoming polls would "test" Adityanath, who, in some quarters, was tipped to be the successor of Modi, and decide his stature within the BJP. "A good showing in the polls will definitely strengthen his position and he may emerge as a challenger to Modi," said a state BJP leader while speaking to DH. The polls will also be an acid test of SP president Akhilesh Yadav and will decide if he inherits the legacy of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav in the true sense. "In 2012, Akhilesh was given the post of CM on a platter by his father... his party witnessed its worst performance in 2017... This year will decide if he will be able to revive SP's electoral fortunes... another bad performance may prove politically disastrous for him," remarked an SP leader in Lucknow. The polls would also be crucial for Mayawati, whose party witnessed large scale desertions and expulsions in the past few years. Of the 19 MLAs' who had won in the 2017 Assembly elections, as many as 16, including several senior leaders, either left her or were expelled and joined rival parties. Mayawati has also confined herself to releasing statements on social media and has not ventured out of her home since October last year. Political experts say that the polls will decide if her hold on her core vote, comprising the 'Jatavs', remains intact. "Another poor showing in the polls may well push her party on the fringe," said a Lucknow based political analyst. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is another leader, whose political future would be decided in the upcoming state polls. She has been active in the state for the past several months and also addressed public meetings in BJP bastions of Varanasi and Gorakhpur besides hitting the streets on issues of public interest. Even her detractors admit that Priyanka has been able to enthuse Congress workers to some extent. However, a near absence of party organisation at the grass-root level may hinder her efforts to revive the electoral fortunes of the grand old party. State Congress leaders say that even an average showing in the polls will firmly establish Priyanka in the party. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-polls-to-decide-stature-of-yogi-future-of-akhilesh-mayawati-priyanka-1069244.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Ensure social distancing, limit number of people in rallies: Healthcare experts to poll-bound states||Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases. The counting of votes will be held on March 10. With the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic unfolding, the commission has set new protocols to ensure "Covid safe" elections to 690 assembly seats across the five states, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra told reporters here. Healthcare experts cautioned that any violations of rules at this critical time can have severe repercussions in view of the current Covid-19 situation in the country. Dr Shuchin Bajaj, Founder Director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, said there shouldn't be any physical campaigning by any political parties and they should only hold online rallies. "We need to ensure that there is no violation of Covid protocols. When wedding attendance has been limited to 20 people then the political rally attendance should also be capped by the Election Commission," Bajaj said. Sugandh Ahluwalia, Chief of Strategy, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said the most important thing now is to ensure that all Covid protocols are strictly followed by all voters. "No one should be allowed to vote if they have not been fully vaccinated. The EC should ensure social distancing at all polling booths. No voter should be allowed to vote without a mask. Temperature of the voters should be checked via infrared thermometers. While large-scale voting is important for democracy, it is also critical to ensure the safety of all voters," Ahluwalia said. Dr Sajid Khan, a Noida-based endocrinologist, said those suffering from co-morbidities should specially take extra care. "This is a very critical time and the next couple of weeks are very crucial for the Covid situation in the country, hence it is advisable that extra caution is exercised by people, especially those suffering from co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension," he said. The Health Ministry on Wednesday said that India is seeing an exponential rise in the number of coronavirus cases, which is believed to be driven by its Omicron variant. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in his meeting with the poll panel on Thursday, also presented the overall global and domestic status of the spread of Covid, as well as Omicron, in the country. Details were also presented on the status of preparedness of the public health response within the states for control and management of the increasing numbers of Covid cases, the Health Ministry had said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ensure-social-distancing-limit-number-of-people-in-rallies-healthcare-experts-to-poll-bound-states-1069246.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||How technology is facilitating upcoming Assembly elections||From an App to file complaints on election law violations to filling in nominations and depositing security money, the Election Commission will be using Information Technology in the upcoming elections to five states. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra told a press conference that they were enhancing the usage of IT tools to usher in greater citizen participation and transparency. He said the cVIGIL app could be used for filing election violations. The app provides time-stamped evidentiary proof of violation by empowering every citizen to click a photo or video using his or her smartphone.  The application is based on GIS technology and the unique feature of auto-location provides fairly correct information which can be relied upon by flying squads to navigate to the right spot of incidence and take prompt action. "This app prioritizes the speedy and effective action by authorities and promises a status report within 100 minutes," Chandra said. To facilitate filling of nominations, an online portal Suvidha has been started. Using this, a candidate can fill nomination form, deposit the security amount, check availability of time slots and appropriately plan the visit to the Returning Officer. "Once the application is filled through the online portal, the candidate only needs to take a printout, get it notarized and submit the application along with relevant documents to the Returning Officer in person. The Online Nomination Facility is an optional facility to facilitate ease of filing and correct filing," Chandra said. Parties and candidates can also use the Suvidha app to apply online for the permission for meetings, rallies, loudspeakers, temporary offices, and others. Candidates can also track their application status through the same portal. An App for people with disability has also been developed through which they can make a request for wheelchair facility or transportation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-technology-is-facilitating-upcoming-assembly-elections-1069257.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||EC mandates parties to publish why candidates with criminal record selected for polls||Political parties fielding candidates with criminal cases will have to mandatorily upload on their website details of such persons as also reasons for selecting them to contest the polls, the Election Commission said on Saturday. The poll panel on Saturday announced assembly election schedule for Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The polls will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases, with counting of votes on March 10. The political party concerned will then submit a compliance report with the poll panel within 72 hours of the selection of the candidate. If a political party fails to submit such compliance report with the Election Commission (EC), the poll panel will bring "such non-compliance by the political party concerned to the notice of the Supreme Court as being in contempt of its directions". Following the directions of the Supreme Court in March, 2020, in successive polls, the Commission had been asking parties to furnish such information. It is mandatory for political parties (at the central and state election level) to upload on their website detailed information regarding individuals with pending criminal cases, including the nature of the offences and details such as whether charges have been framed who have been selected as candidates. The parties will also have to provide the reasons for such selection, "as also as to why other individuals without criminal antecedents could not be selected as candidates," the Commission's statement on the five assembly elections said. "The reasons as to selection shall be with reference to the qualifications, achievements and merit of the candidate concerned, and not mere 'winnability' at the polls," the EC said. The information will also be published in one local vernacular newspaper and one national newspaper, and has to be uploaded on the official social media platforms of the political party, including Facebook and Twitter. These details will have to be published within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate and not prior to two weeks before the first date of filing of nominations. Candidates with criminal antecedents are also required to publish information in this regard in newspapers and through television channels on three occasions during the campaign period so that electors have sufficient time to know about the background of such candidates. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-mandates-parties-to-publish-why-candidates-with-criminal-record-selected-for-polls-1069275.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Parties say ready for polls, urge Election Commission to ensure level playing field||The announcement of assembly polls in five states was welcomed by major parties, with the BJP expressing confidence of emerging victorious while its rivals like the Congress claimed the people were waiting to bid farewell to the saffron party and urged the Election Commission to ensure a level playing field in view of the Covid-19 curbs on campaigning. The BJP is in power in four of the five poll-bound states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur -- while in Punjab it is fighting in an alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh and an Akali faction to take on the ruling Congress, AAP and SAD-BSP. Election fever has already gripped these states, with parties holding election rallies and other events to woo voters over the last few months. However, the Election Commission on Saturday banned all public meetings till January 15 due to the Covid-19 surge and urged political parties to shift to the digital mode of campaigning. People will again bless the BJP, which will return to power with big majority and take development works to new heights, BJP president J P Nadda said and urged party workers to adhere to Covid-related and other guidelines laid down by the election body. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party will fight strongly and will again win in Punjab and oust the BJP from power in the remaining four states. "We urge the EC to ensure a level-playing field in these elections," he said. Surjewala said these elections offer a golden opportunity for defeating the rising unemployment, crimes against women and atrocities against Dalits and those who have an anti-farmer mindset. "This is a chance to defeat the BJP," he said, claiming "the double-engine governments in UP, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand have proved a double failure." On the EC disallowing the holding of poll rallies, he said the poll body should allow 'nukkad' meetings. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the people of Uttar Pradesh are waiting to bid goodbye to the BJP government on March 10 when votes will be counted. Yadav said that his party would abide by all the conditions laid down by the Election Commission. He, however, appealed to the EC to ensure that regional parties also get proper space on digital platforms on which he claimed the BJP was dominating. He urged the poll panel to assist resource-scared smaller parties infrastructurally to hold virtual rallies during the seven-phase of polling in the state. "We welcome the announcement of dates for the UP polls. People of the state have been waiting for March 10 to say goodbye to the BJP," Akhilesh said after the declaration of seven-phase polls starting from February 10 and ending on March 7 in UP. BSP chief Mayawati urged the Election Commission to check the "tendency" in the ruling BJP of "violating" the model code of conduct. In a series of tweets in Hindi, she welcomed the announcement and expressed faith that the poll panel will ensure smooth, free and fair elections. "The tendency of the ruling party to violate the model code of conduct by adopting new tactics in every election is becoming fatally common, which needs to be given due attention and prompt action is taken in this election. It is the special appeal to the Election Commission," she said. Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal said his party is ready to contest the assembly polls. “The dates for the elections have been announced. The Aam Aadmi Party is ready,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The AAP has decided to contest in all the states barring Manipur. The Trinamool Congress, however, felt that the assembly polls will adversely impact the Budget Session of Parliament. Parliament's Budget Session usually begins in the last week of January every year. "The Winter Session of Parliament was washed out by the BJP. With elections in full swing, the Budget session will be out of focus. This is Modi's gameplan: Make Parliament irrelevant so he is accountable to no one," said TMC Rajya Sabha MP and its national spokesperson Derek O' Brien. The Trinamool Congress has ventured into Goa a few months back. "We welcome the announcement of Vidhan Sabha polls in Punjab on Feb 14. This signals end of anarchy, chaos, confusion & misgovernance in the state. Punjab is are eagerly looking forward to a strong, stable & 'development-oriented' SAD-BSP govt, committed to peace & communal harmony," Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said. The assembly elections in these five states will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases, as announced by Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra at a press conference.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parties-say-ready-for-polls-urge-election-commission-to-ensure-level-playing-field-1069292.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Don't indulge in hate speeches: EC to political parties||The Election Commission on Saturday cautioned political parties over hate speeches and said it is closely monitoring social media posts to ensure clean assembly polls in five states. Political parties and their candidates must ensure that their supporters do not indulge in hate speeches and fake news, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said during a press conference to announce the election schedule for Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur. "Strict watch on social media posts is being kept to ensure that election atmosphere is not vitiated," he said. His remarks come against the backdrop of a raging controversy over hate speeches at a religious conclave in Haridwar where calls were given for violence against a particular community. Chandra said all election management related news on all major national and regional news channels during the polls will be monitored vigorously. "If any untoward incident or violation of any law/rule is noticed, action would be taken immediately. Reports of monitoring would also be forwarded to the CEOs (chief electoral officers) concerned. Office of CEO will ascertain status on each and every item and file ATR (action taken report)/status report," he said. The commission, in a press note, said keeping in view increasing incidents of misuse of social media and menace of paid news, and as a result of the EC's vigorous persuasion, major social media platforms have agreed to observe voluntary code of ethics formulated by them in March 2019. "These will be applicable in these elections as well as in other elections," the poll authority said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-indulge-in-hate-speeches-ec-to-political-parties-1069300.html
08-01-2022||National Politics||Incumbent BJP to face challenge from newcomers TMC, AAP as Goa goes to polls next month||The countdown began for Assembly elections on Saturday in Goa where new entrant TMC and AAP among others will be taking on the ruling BJP. The Election Commission of India (ECI) earlier in the day announced that election to all 40 Assembly constituencies in the coastal state would be held on February 14. With the announcement, the model code of conduct came into force. The state has 11 lakh-odd eligible voters. The BJP, Congress, Goa Forward Party (GFP), Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), AAP, Trinamool Congress Party (TMC), and NCP are the main political parties in the fray. Local outfit Revolutionary Goans is also expected to make an impact with its sizable following. But it is the entry of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC which has roiled politics in the BJP-ruled state for the past year. Another challenger to the BJP is the Aam Aadmi Party. Political strategist Prashant Kishor pushed the TMC to focus on Goa after its resounding victory in West Bengal last year. The party has announced a pre-poll alliance with the MGP, one of the oldest surviving political parties of Goa. The GFP and Congress have also announced a pre-poll alliance, while Nationalist Congress Party is still searching for allies. The BJP, notably, will face the polls without any pre-poll alliance. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday told reporters that the saffron party was confident of winning the election based on its performance and popularity. The saffron party would, however, miss Manohar Parrikar, who died in March 2019. Parrikar had played a crucial role in consolidating BJP's power in Goa. During the 2017 election, Congress had emerged as the single largest party winning 17 seats, but the BJP trumped it by cobbling together a coalition with smaller parties. By the end of 2021, Congress was left with only two MLAs after it faced a barrage of resignations besides en-masse defection of ten MLAs to the BJP. Two of its MLAs joined the TMC. BJP which had won 13 seats in 2017 polls currently has 27 MLAs. Goa Forward Party which had won three seats is left with two MLAs while MGP, which too had won three seats has only one legislator left.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/incumbent-bjp-to-face-challenge-from-newcomers-tmc-aap-as-goa-goes-to-polls-next-month-1069341.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Uttarakhand bans political rallies till January 16 amid Covid-19 surge||Political rallies, dharnas and demonstrations have been banned in poll-bound Uttarakhand till January 16 in view of the rising coronavirus cases, according to an official order. In fresh guidelines issued late Friday night that come into effect from Sunday, Chief Secretary SS Sandhu said all political rallies, dharnas, demonstrations and public events like cultural gatherings etc will remain suspended in the state till January 16. The Uttarakhand High Court had recently asked the Election Commission to see if poll rallies could be held virtually and if online voting was possible. Assembly polls in the state are due in a few weeks and the Election Commission may announce the dates this month. Covid cases have been constantly on the rise in Uttarakhand with single-day cases crossing 800 mark on Friday after several months. Anaganwadi centres and schools upto class XII besides swimming pools and water parks will also remain closed during the period, the order said. However, gyms, shopping malls, cinema halls, spas, saloons, entertainment parks, theatres and auditoriums will remain open during the period with 50 per cent capacity. Night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am will continue during which essential and emergency services can operate with strict adherence to Covid protocol, said the order. Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand sanitisation in public places is compulsory. For people coming to Uttarakhand from outside who are not vaccinated with two doses it will be mandatory to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours, the order said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bans-political-rallies-till-january-16-amid-covid-19-surge-1069103.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Before UP polls, 6 gangsters shifted out of Muzaffarnagar jail||The district jail administration has shifted several dreaded criminals to different facilities across the state in view of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state, an official said on Friday. Notorious gangster Sushil Mooch and life convict Meenu Tyagi, wife of slain gangster Vicky Tyagi, were shifted to Ambedkar Nagar jail, Muzaffarnagar jail superintendent Sitaram Sharma said. While Mooch has at least 10 cases of murder in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts alone against him, Meenu is serving life sentence in the Satish Tyagi murder case and is also the main accused in a case of mass murder. Sharp shooter Sarvendra, Meenu's gang member, was moved to Kasganj jail, betting kingpin Sunny Chidha to Unnao, life convict Anuj to Chitrakoot and another criminal Ravindra to Lucknow jail, Sharma said. They were shifted following a directive from the state government, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/before-up-polls-6-gangsters-shifted-out-of-muzaffarnagar-jail-1069117.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||DCW chief Swati Maliwal contracts Covid, says 'feeling terribly ill'||Delhi Commission for Women Chief Swati Maliwal Saturday said she has tested positive for coronavirus and is feeling "terribly ill". "Tested positive for COVID. Feeling terribly ill with high fever. Have isolated myself. Request people who came in contact with me to get their RTPCR done," she said in a tweet. Tested positive for COVID. Feeling terribly ill with high fever. Have isolated myself. Request people who came in contact with me to get their RTPCR done. Despite so much work on ground, was able to evade COVID till now! Omicron is damn infectious. Everyone pl take precaution! The 37-year-old asked people to stay cautious. "Despite so much work on ground, was able to evade COVID till now! Omicron is damn infectious. Everyone pl take precaution! (sic)" she added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-chief-swati-maliwal-contracts-covid-says-feeling-terribly-ill-1069130.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Eight shops gutted in fire near Bamleshwari temple in Dongargarh||At least eight shops were gutted in a fire outside the famous Bamleshwari temple at Dongargarh town in Chhattisgarh's Rajnandgaon district early Saturday, police said, adding that no casualty was reported. The fire broke out around 1.30 am and soon engulfed eight small shops alongside the steps of the hilltop temple, located around 110 kilometres away from Raipur, Rajnandagon Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh told PTI. No one sustained burns or injury in the incident, though puja material and plastic items were gutted. The fire was soon brought under control and doused, Singh said. "Prima facie it seems an electric short circuit could have triggered fire", he said, adding that further investigation is under way. Maa Bamleshwari temple at Dongargarh is a popular pilgrimage spot. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-shops-gutted-in-fire-near-bamleshwari-temple-in-dongargarh-1069132.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Heavy snowfall disrupts road, air travel in Jammu and Kashmir||Kashmir continues to remain cut off from the rest of the country with snowfall blocking Srinagar-Jammu highway and air traffic remaining suspended on Saturday. A traffic department official said that the 264-km Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, the only road link between Kashmir and rest of the country, remained closed for vehicular traffic for the second consecutive day on Saturday after fresh landslides in the Ramban sector. Similarly, due to heavy snowfall and poor visibility, flight operations at the Srinagar international airport continued to remain disrupted on Saturday. “All the flights were cancelled on Saturday, till afternoon,” an official said. On Friday, 31 flights operated to and from Srinagar international airport before a sudden change in weather led to the cancellation of six flights. On Thursday, 35 flights operated while six others were cancelled; 42 flights were cancelled on Tuesday while as many as 37 could not operate on Wednesday. Normal life has been affected across the Valley due to snowfall, with authorities snapping electricity to parts of Kashmir as a precautionary measure and traffic movement also getting affected. The Meteorological Department has issued an advisory, of a 'Red' alert till January 8 evening, saying that Kashmir would receive heavy to very heavy snowfall following which there is a possibility of gradual improvement in the weather conditions from January 9 morning. The advisory also stated that the surface and air traffic may get affected due to the prevalent weather conditions, adding that the landslides and avalanches may occur at vulnerable spots. It appealed to people not to venture into avalanche-prone areas and follow the traffic advisory. It also appealed to people to maintain proper ventilation in rooms. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day winter period between December 21 and January 30, considered the harshest of the winter when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-snowfall-disrupts-road-air-travel-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1069142.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Man carrying knife climbs stage at Harish Rawat's rally in Uttarakhand||A man with a knife in hand climbed the stage minutes after Congress leader Harish Rawat had finished his speech at a rally in Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district recently and began shouting "Jai Shree Ram". However, Youth Congress workers soon overpowered him and handed him over to the police. The man was mentally unstable, Kashipur Additional Superintendent of Police Chandra Mohan Singh said. He had climbed onto a tower in the town a few days earlier insisting on talking to the prime minister, Singh said. The incident occurred on Thursday evening soon after Rawat had got down from the stage after finishing his speech. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the man who is in his 40s, the police officer said. When contacted, Rawat said he had also heard the noise on stage after he had finished his speech at the Kashipur rally but ignored it as he had other events to attend. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-carrying-knife-climbs-stage-at-harish-rawats-rally-in-uttarakhand-1069147.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||12-year-old girl killed by tiger in UP's Bahraich||A 12-year-old girl was killed in a tiger attack in Abdullah Ganj forest area on Nepal border, a senior forest department official said here on Saturday. Seema Yadav, daughter of Parshuram Yadav, resident of Chenaini village had taken out their goats for grazing in the dense Charda forest on Friday when the tiger dragged her away, forest officer Ahmed Kamaal Siddiqui said. The forest falls in Abdullah Ganj Range under Bahraich Forest Division. The villagers and forest workers, who searched for the girl on the basis of blood and footprints, found her in a badly injured state and with head injuries. She died before reaching the hospital, Siddiqui said. He said the forest department has provided assistance to the girl's family members and compensation as per the norms will be given after receiving her autopsy report.   Siddiqui said the forest workers are constantly cautioning the villagers in order to prevent encounters with wild animals. Children are being advised to stay away from the forest and villagers have been asked to go out in groups, he pointed out. In another incident in Katarniaghat Wildlife Division on Thursday, a leopard allegedly dragged a 10-year-old into a forest and left him seriously injured. Divisional Forest Officer Akashdeep Badhawan identified the child as Santosh Yadav. He said the leopard left Yadav in a badly injured state and strayed away into deep forest after villagers raised alarms.  Yadav was sent to Medical College in Bahraich and later referred to Trauma Centre, Lucknow, the DFO said on Saturday.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-girl-killed-by-tiger-in-ups-bahraich-1069148.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi likely to record 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases with positivity rate of 19%: Satyendar Jain||Delhi is likely to record around 20,000 Covid-19 cases on Saturday with a positivity rate of around 19 per cent, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. He said till now there has been no Omicron variant-related death in the national capital. Jain said most of the patients who succumbed to coronavirus infection on Thursday had comorbidities. "The hospital admissions are lower this time and the severity of infection is lower as well. Delhi will see around 20,000 cases with a positivity rate of 19 per cent today," he told reporters. Maintaining that the city government is well prepared, he said infrastructure has been augmented keeping in mind the high number of Covid cases. "Currently hospital admissions are less. Earlier, when Delhi had 17,000 cases, the deaths were more than 200 on a daily basis but the deaths are lower this time. People are coming to hospitals for treatment of other disease and are being found positive (for Covid)," he said. Jain reiterated that the high number of coronavirus infections is due to the increasing number of tests being conducted in the national capital. "Nearly a lakh tests are being conducted on a daily basis. So the number of cases is proportional to the tests being conducted," he added. He urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and wear face masks while stepping out, adding they are more effective than implementing a lockdown. Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 8, and nine deaths, while the positivity rate mounted to 17.73 per cent, according to data shared by the city’s health department.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-record-20000-fresh-covid-19-cases-with-positivity-rate-of-19-satyendar-jain-1069156.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||BJP's Sarabjit Kaur wins Chandigarh Mayor polls by just 1 vote, AAP cries foul||BJP municipal councillor Sarabjit Kaur Saturday became the new Chandigarh Municipal Corporation mayor, defeating Aam Aadmi Party's Anju Katyal by just one vote in a direct contest. Out of the total 36 votes, 28 were polled while seven Congress councillors and the lone Shiromani Akali Dal councillor abstained. Kaur bagged 14 votes while Katyal got 13, and one was declared invalid, officials said. After the result was declared, AAP councillors created a ruckus in the House. Police were called in to remove them. The results of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls which were declared on December 27, threw up a hung House, with the AAP winning 14 of the 35 wards and the BJP 12. The Congress had bagged eight seats while the Shiromani Akali Dal got one. However, municipal councillor from the Congress Harpreet Kaur Babla had joined the BJP, days after the polls results were declared. Besides 35 councillors, the Chandigarh MP, who is an ex-officio member in the municipal corporation, also has a voting right. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-sarabjit-kaur-wins-chandigarh-mayor-polls-by-just-1-vote-aap-cries-foul-1069161.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Centre grants VIP security cover to Punjab MLA who recently joined BJP||The Union government has provided the Y+ category VIP security cover to Punjab MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa who recently joined the BJP, according to official sources. The 63-year-old is a legislator from the Qadian assembly seat of the state and switched over the BJP from the Congress on December 28, 2021. He is the younger sibling of Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa. Sources in the security establishment told PTI that Bajwa has been provided Y+ security cover for his movement in poll-bound Punjab. The Union Home Ministry sanctioned the deployment on the basis of a recommendation sent by central intelligence agencies that underlined potential security threats to him, they said. The task has been given to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and as part of this security categorisation, Bajwa will have a team of 3-4 armed commandos when he travels in the state. Recently, the Union government had granted a higher Z-category VIP security cover to Punjab politician Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who had joined the BJP in December. Watch the latest DH Videos here: The security cover of Manjinder Singh Sirsa, former Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief, was also upgraded by the Centre from the lower category of Y to Z. He also joined the BJP last month last December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-grants-vip-security-cover-to-punjab-mla-who-recently-joined-bjp-1069162.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Punjab Assembly Election 2022: Full list of voting dates, phases, constituency-wise voting||The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the polling dates for the Punjab Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2022. The current tenure of Punjab Legislative Assembly is scheduled to end on March 27, 2022. This will be the 16th Assembly of the Punjab legislature. The voting to elect 117 members of the Punjab Legislative Assembly will be conducted on February 14, 2022, in a single phase. The counting of votes will take place on March 10. The date of issue of notification in Punjab is January 21, 2022, and the last date of nominations is January 28, 2022. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on January 29, 2022 and the last date of withdrawal of candidature is January 31, 2022. In 2017, the Congress formed the state government, with Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister. On 18 December, 2021, he resigned owing to differences with other members of the Congress and was succeeded by Charanjit Singh Channi. On 27 October 2021, Singh announced that he will be forming a new political party to contest the elections called the Punjab Lok Congress. The two-decade-long alliance between BJP and the SAD was dissolved due the controversial farm laws passed by the BJP-controlled Parliament in 2020. On 13 June 2021, SAD and BSP announced an alliance for the Assembly election with 97-20 seat sharing. Key political parties who will fight for power in the state include the Congress, BJP, Aam Aadmi Party, Punjab Lok Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party. All the five states — Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand — will vote in 7 phases from February 10 to March 7. The counting will take place on March 10. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-assembly-election-2022-full-list-of-voting-dates-phases-constituency-wise-voting-1069164.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||3 members of Punjab CM's family test positive for Covid-19||Three family members of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi have tested positive for Covid-19, a senior health official said on Saturday. However, the chief minister has tested negative for the infection. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said Channi's wife Kamaljit Kaur, his son Navjit Singh and daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur have tested positive for coronavirus. They all have mild symptoms and are in home-isolation, she further said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-members-of-punjab-cms-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-1069172.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to get 150 CAPF companies in first phase for polls||In view of the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, a total of 150 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel are being provided to the state by the Centre in the first phase, officials said. These include 50 companies of the Central Reserved Police Force (CRPF), 30 companies each of the Border Security Force (BSF), the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and 20 companies each of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border (ITBP). One company of CAPF generally has around a hundred personnel. A senior Uttar Pradesh police officer said the 150 companies are being provided by the Centre in the first phase from January 10 with the objective of conducting elections in a fair and efficient manner as also to reduce the sensitivity and vulnerability around polls. “These CAPF companies are being allotted to all 78 districts and commissionerates in UP as per their sensitivity and requirement. Instructions have been given by the police headquarters, Lucknow to the districts to organise a flag march for area domination, keeping in view the assembly elections by engaging the local police force along with these central police forces,” the officer said. Among all UP districts, Prayagraj has got the maximum four companies of the CRPF in the first phase, according to officials. The state has four districts where the commissionerate system of policing has been implemented. Of the commissionerates, Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi have got three companies each of the paramilitary personnel, while Gautam Buddh Nagar got two companies, the officials said. There are 25 districts which have got just one company of the paramilitary personnel, while 35 districts got two, 17 got three and one got four companies, they added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-get-150-capf-companies-in-first-phase-for-polls-1069173.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Four, including two girls, shot at over personal rivalry in UP's Muzaffarnagar||At least four people, including two girls, sustained bullet injuries in a clash between two groups in an area under the Bhopa police station, police said Saturday. They said the two groups in Behra Thru village have been at loggerheads for several years. On Friday, they got in a fight over dumping of garbage in a land that is contested by both parties. In a fit of anger, one group allegedly opened fire, during which Lado (40), Sonam (16), Ekta (5) and Ankit sustained grievous injuries, police said. The other group members pelted stones in retaliation, they said. Police rushed to the spot and deployed security. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-including-two-girls-shot-at-over-personal-rivalry-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-1069177.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 25 BSF personnel among 618 Covid-19 cases found in Indore district in one day||At least 25 personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) were among the 618 new coronavirus cases reported in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours, an official said on Saturday. "During the last 24 hours, 618 new patients of Covid-19 including 25 BSF personnel were found in Indore. They are asymptomatic,” said Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr BS Saitya. The CMHO said that the infected BSF personnel have been isolated in a Covid-19 care centre and their health is fine. Saitya further said that this care centre can accommodate 1,200 Covid-19 patients while hospitals in the city have a capacity of 10,000 beds. He added that most of the patients are recovering without hospitalisation. According to the health department, 1,56,151 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the worst-hit Indore district since March 24, 2020. Of them, 1,397 have died during treatment. Covid-19 cases are rising steadily in Madhya Pradesh. On Friday, the state recorded 1,319 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 7,97,715, as per health officials.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-25-bsf-personnel-among-618-covid-19-cases-found-in-indore-district-in-one-day-1069178.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Court employees demanding money from accused 'unacceptable': SC||The Supreme Court has said that demanding money as illegal gratification while working in courts is "unacceptable" and very high standards apply to not only judges but also those employed there. The apex court observed this while modifying the punishment given to a man, who was posted in a district court in Bihar and was dismissed from service on the charge of having demanded Rs 50,000 for acquittal of the accused in a case, to removal so that he may explore the possibility of another employment. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar was told by the counsel appearing for the appellant that for the last 24 years, the man had an unblemished service and this was the first allegation against him. "You (appellant) were working in court and demanding money...,” the bench observed, adding that the appellant had admitted his guilt. The top court was hearing a plea filed by the man against the January 2020 order of a division bench of the Patna High Court which had dismissed his plea against the single judge bench verdict. The single judge had in January 2018 refused to interfere with the punishment imposed upon the man, who was earlier posted in the office of a presiding officer of a court in Aurangabad. During the arguments before the top court, the counsel appearing for the appellant said that the man was dismissed from service in 2014 and the punishment imposed upon him was extremely harsh. “Why do you say harsh? It is after inquiry, is it not?” the bench observed. The counsel said the appellant was exonerated by the enquiry officer in the first inquiry. He said later, a fresh departmental proceeding was directed to be initiated and the charges were held to be proved against him. "The appellant has admitted his guilt. That is the finding,” the bench observed, adding, “If you admit your guilt, what else can be done, tell us.” When the appellant's counsel argued that if possible, the service be restored, the bench observed there is no question of reinstatement. “Working in court and demanding money, that is unacceptable,” the bench orally said. The bench noted that the appellant has been dismissed from service by way of penalty, having admitted his guilt to the charges levelled against him. “After hearing counsel for the parties and keeping in mind the past service record of the appellant, to which our attention was invited to, in our opinion, interest of justice would be subserved by modifying the punishment from dismissal to removal so that the appellant may be able to explore possibility of another employment elsewhere,” the court said. In its order, the division bench of the high court had noted that the man was proceeded against on the charge of having demanded Rs 50,000 for acquittal of the accused persons in a case. It had noted that a preliminary enquiry was made and a report was submitted before the standing committee, which directed the District and Sessions Judge, Aurangabad, to initiate disciplinary proceedings against him. The high court had also noted that after holding the enquiry, the District and Sessions Judge had submitted his report to the standing committee, which was considered and turned down by it with a direction to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the delinquent afresh in the high court. In the second enquiry report, the charges were held to be established and proved against the man and accordingly, he was given the punishment of dismissal from service with immediate effect.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-employees-demanding-money-from-accused-unacceptable-sc-1069189.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||J&K police book 10 PDP leaders for violating Covid restrictions||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday booked 10 activists and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for organising a public rally on the death anniversary of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed in south Kashmir Bijbehara town, in violation of Covid-19 norms. An FIR was registered at the Bijbehara police station under IPC sections of 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life). The case has been registered on the directions of the executive magistrate (Tehsildar) to the station house officer of the police station concerned. PDP leaders, including former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, attended a public rally in Bijbehara town on Friday on the 6th death anniversary of Mufti Muhammad Sayeed, PDP chief and former chief minister. Reacting to the police action, Mehbooba Mufti said on her Twitter page: "Covid-19 restrictions apply only to PDP. Not to BJP's protest in Kashmir yesterday, PMs rally in Punjab or the mass poojas attended by hundreds of people to pray for his safety. Talks volumes about J&K admin's brazen bias against my party". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-book-10-pdp-leaders-for-violating-covid-restrictions-1069191.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||1987-batch IPS officer V K Bhawra made Punjab's new police chief||Senior IPS officer Viresh Kumar Bhawra has been appointed as the new director-general of Punjab police, an official order said on Saturday. The order came just hours before the announcement of the dates for the assembly elections in five states including Punjab. Bhawra, who was the DGP of Punjab Home Guards, replaced officiating DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya. Chattopadhyaya along with 13 other police and civil officers appeared on Friday at Ferozepur before a three-member panel formed by the Union Home Ministry to inquire into the "serious lapses" in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security during his Ferozepur tour. The Charanjit Singh Channi government selected the 1987 batch officer Bhawra out of a panel of three officers shortlisted by the Union Public Service Commission. The other two officers in the panel were senior IPS officers Dinkar Gupta and Prabodh Kumar. “On the consideration of the panel received from the UPSC, the Punjab governor is pleased to appoint Viresh Kumar Bhawra, IPS as director general of police, Punjab (Head of Police Force),” the order said. Bhawra term shall be for a minimum period of two years from the date of assumption of office, it added. Punjab got its third DGP in a span of three months. A few days back, the UPSC had sent a panel of three IPS officers -- Dinkar Gupta, V K Bhawra and Prabodh Kumar for the appointment of a regular director general of police of Punjab. According to the Supreme Court guidelines, out of the three shortlisted IPS officers by the UPSC, the state government is to finalise the name of one officer for the appointment of a regular DGP. The Punjab government had sent a list of 10 IPS officers including Siddharth Chattopadhyaya for shortlisting the panel of three officers. According to the SC guidelines, only an officer who has been left at least six months of service can be considered for the post of DGP. The UPSC had taken October 5, 2021 as the cut-off date for the selection of the DGP and since Chattopadhyaya was due to retire on March 31, 2022, his name did not find a place in the panel. After Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the new chief minister last September, the 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was appointed as the officiating DGP replacing Dinkar Gupta who was the state police chief when Amarinder Singh was the chief minister. But Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was against the appointment of Sahota. Later after facing pressure from the former cricketer, the state government had appointed 1986-batch IPS officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya as officiating DGP until a regular DGP is appointed out of a panel of three IPS officers shortlisted by the UPSC.      Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1987-batch-ips-officer-v-k-bhawra-made-punjabs-new-police-chief-1069198.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi woman moves court alleging rape by cop, says used as 'honey trap'||A Delhi court has sought an action taken report (ATR) from police on a complaint filed by a 22-year-old woman who alleged that a head constable had raped her and used her in a “honey trap” to arrest a wanted criminal. On her complaint, Metropolitan Magistrate Vaibhav Chaurasia has directed the station house officer (SHO) of Budh Vihar Police Station to file a report and listed the matter for February 19, 2022. The woman has urged the court to summon the cop, try him for rape, causing miscarriage without her consent and attempt to murder and punish him in the interest of justice. In a complaint filed through advocate Amit Sahni, the woman alleged that she came in contact with the head constable in November 2020 when she made a complaint at the police control room against a harasser. She stated that the complaint was marked to the head constable, who was then posted at Shahbad Dairy police station. He started spending time with her and then proposed marriage. She alleged in the complaint that the accused forcibly established sexual relations with her at his residence at Poot Khurd in November 2020. He maintained physical relations with her in 2021 as well. The woman narrated in the court complaint that the accused misused her photographs by preparing a social media account to contact a wanted criminal Pankaj Sura and let her talk to the criminal over the voice and video calls in 2021. She stated that in view of the honey trap, the wanted criminal was arrested in June 2021. She, however, got badly injured in an accident caused by police officers when she was on the bike of the criminal but the police personnel present did not pay any attention to her during the incident. The woman claimed that she has invited enmity from the associates of the criminal for assisting the police in such a manner and was attacked on July 25, 2021 but no action was taken by the police. The girl claimed she got pregnant due to unprotected sexual intercourse by the accused and on July 10, 2021, the accused took her to some private hospital. The girl alleged that many police personnel are aware of her plight as she was taken to various hospitals for treatment by different police personnel and the payment was also made by them. The girl claimed she had made complaints to the SHO of Budh Vihar and senior police officers in December but no action was taken upon them, following which she moved the court. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-woman-moves-court-alleging-rape-by-cop-says-used-as-honey-trap-1069201.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||J&K: Executive magistrate orders FIR against 10 PDP leaders for violating Covid norms||An executive magistrate in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district has directed police to register an FIR against 10 PDP leaders for allegedly violating Covid protocols at an event to mark party founder Mufti Mohammad Sayeed's death anniversary, officials said on Saturday. Reacting to the development, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said it appears that Covid norms apply only to her party and not to the BJP, which held a protest in Kashmir on Friday. Executive Magistrate of Bijbehara tehsil issued directions to the station house officer of the concerned police station to register an FIR against 10 PDP leaders for violating Covid-appropriate behaviour during a rally at Sayeed's graveyard on Friday, the officials said. These leaders include Sartaj Madni, Sayeed's brother-in-law who is a former deputy speaker of the legislative assembly, and former minister Abdul Rehman Veeri, they said. Hitting out at the administration over the order, Mehbooba tweeted, "Covid 19 restrictions apply only to PDP. Not to BJP's protest in Kashmir yesterday, PMs rally in Punjab or the mass poojas attended by hundreds of people to pray for his safety. Talks volumes about J&K admin's brazen bias against my party." Mehbooba was also part of Friday's gathering but was not named in the order of the executive magistrate.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-executive-magistrate-orders-fir-against-10-pdp-leaders-for-violating-covid-norms-1069206.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Delhi Police enhances patrol, puts barricades as weekend curfew unrolls||The Delhi Police intensified patrolling, raised barricades and warned people of legal action as authorities kept up the vigil to check violations of weekend curfew that kicked in Friday night to curb the spread of coronavirus in the city. The curfew started at 10 pm Friday and will remain in force till Monday 5 am. Police erected barricades at several places to check vehicles and ensure that no person was moving around unauthorisedly during the curfew period. "Patrolling has been intensified in view of the weekend curfew," a senior Delhi Police officer said. Legal action will be taken if anyone violates the Covid-19 curfew orders, he said. Officials in several districts said that teams will be in the field through the 55-hour curfew period to ensure that the order was not violated and people did not venture out unnecessarily. "We are prepared to enforce curfew conditions and other coronavirus-related guidelines. People are likely to keep indoors as it has been raining. It will make our task a bit easy," a district official said in the morning. In view of the surge in coronavirus cases due to the Omicron variant, the Delhi government announced the weekend curfew on Tuesday. "A weekend curfew has been imposed to minimise the spread of the coronavirus in Delhi. Visit the hospital only if you have severe symptoms. Treatment is possible under home isolation. Wear a mask and follow all the Covid-related protocols," Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tweeted Saturday morning. During the weekend curfew, only those involved in essential services and those facing an emergency situation are allowed to step out of their homes. Those venturing out will have to produce e-passes issued by the government or valid identity cards. Officials involved in essential and emergency services are included in exempted category and can move out by showing their identity cards. People coming from or going to airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminuses will be allowed on the production of valid tickets. Pregnant women and patients going to get medical and health services, along with attendants, are exempted on the production of valid identity cards and a doctor's prescription. During the weekend curfew, only shops dealing in essential items such as groceries, medical equipment, medicines will be allowed to open. “If anyone has any kind of emergency like going to a hospital etc. will be allowed to move. We request the citizens not to come out of their homes without any reason during the curfew and to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Delhi Police public relations officer Chnmoy Biswal had said on Friday. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-enhances-patrol-puts-barricades-as-weekend-curfew-unrolls-1069225.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||PM security breach: Ferozepur SSP among 7 IPS officers transferred in Punjab||The Punjab government on Saturday transferred seven IPS officers including Senior Superintendent of Police, Ferozepur. IPS officer Harmandeep Singh Hans, SSP Ferozepur, has been posted as Commandant 3rd IRB, Ludhiana. Narinder Bhargav will be the new SSP Ferozepur. Hans was Ferozepur SSP during the Wednesday “security lapse” in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy was stranded on a flyover. The convoy on its way to Hussainiwala was stuck due to a blockade by protesters, forcing Modi to return from the poll-bound state without attending any event or a rally. Hans along with several senior police and civil officials had appeared on Friday in Ferozepur before a three-member panel formed by the Union Home Ministry to inquire into the "serious lapses" in Modi's security. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) chief Surjeet Singh Phul, whose union had blocked the road in Ferozepur, said it was the SSP Ferozepur who had informed them Narendra Modi was coming by road but “we thought it was a bluff to get the road vacated.” Meanwhile, other police officers who have been transferred are Naunihal Singh who has been appointed as Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar. AK Mittal has been posted as Inspector General of Police, Roopnagar, while Sukhchain Singh has been posted as Amritsar Commissioner. Nanak Singh has been appointed as SSP Gurdaspur and Alka Meena will be SSP Barnala. Two PPS officers Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and Kuljit Singh have been given new additional and new posting orders.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-security-breach-ferozepur-ssp-among-7-ips-officers-transferred-in-punjab-1069231.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Yogi likens rivals to 'demons', to build memorials of those who died in Ram Temple movement||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday likened his rivals to "Kalnemi" (a demon, who tried to fool Lord Hanuman by pretending to be a disciple of Lord Rama but was finally killed by Hanuman) even as he said that his government would build a memorial after the people, who lost their lives during the Ram Temple movement in the country. Speaking at an event here, Adityanath also claimed that BJP would return to power with a "massive" majority in the forthcoming assembly polls. ''The people of the state know very well who the Kalnemis are.....these pseudo Ram Bhakts can not fool the people....they will get a befitting reply in the forthcoming elections,'' he added. Adityanath said that those, who tried to destroy India's culture, were wiped out and one could not find their sign anywhere in the country now. The chief minister also said that his government would build memorials after the people who lost their lives during the Ram Temple movement. ''Let a grand Ram Temple be built at Ayodhya....we will make a grand memorial after them,'' he added. Adityanath also listed the achievements of his government during its tenure in the state and claimed that the state had made tremendous progress under the double engine government. ''The previous governments were busy accumulating money for some families...the BJP government works for all sections of the society,'' he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-likens-rivals-to-demons-to-build-memorials-of-those-who-died-in-ram-temple-movement-1069254.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||People waiting to uproot BJP govt in UP, says Akhilesh Yadav||People of Uttar Pradesh are waiting to bid goodbye to the BJP government on March 10 when votes will be counted, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Saturday welcoming the announcement of the assembly poll schedule for UP and four other states. He also sought to assure that his party would abide by all the conditions laid down by the Election Commission to ensure Covid-safe polls in the state. Yadav, however, appealed to the EC to ensure that regional parties also get proper space on digital platforms on which he alleged the BJP was dominating due to its governments in the Centre and UP and its vast financial resources. He made a plea to the poll panel to assist resource-scared smaller parties infrastructurally to hold virtual rallies during the seven-phase of polling in the state. "We welcome the announcement of dates for the UP polls. People of the state have been waiting for March 10 to say goodbye to the BJP," Akhilesh said after the declaration of poll dates starting from February 10 and ending on March 7 in UP. "March das, aa raha hai Akhilesh," the SP claimed in a tweet. On being pointed out that the EC has banned the holding of physical rallies or other modes of the physical campaign till January 15 at least, he said the party would abide by the EC decisions effective till January 15 and also the ones that would be taken after it. He, however, urged the EC to ensure a level-playing field for the regional parties on digital platforms on which he alleged "BJP hawi hai" (BJP is dominating) because of having the government at the Centre as well as the state and also due to their financial heft. "The EC should ensure that regional parties also get space on national TV channels, regional channels and social media platforms during the election," the SP chief said. Asked if the SP was fearing that it would not be able to compete with the BJP on the digital platforms, Akhilesh asserted "SP is not weak." It was the SP government which had distributed laptops to youths during its government in the state between 2012 and 2017. Hitting out at the BJP, he said the "double engine" government merely spread "lies" all these five years in UP. "They did nothing for farmers despite promising to double their income. The BJP will be wiped out in the state on March 10," he said. Going a step further, the SP claimed on Twitter that "after March 10 people will not have to pay for 300 units of electricity consumed and the bill will be zero up to this limit." The SP which lost to the BJP badly in 2017, has allied with the RLD and some caste-centric regional parties to defeat the saffron party in the 2022 polls.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-waiting-to-uproot-bjp-govt-in-up-says-akhilesh-yadav-1069267.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Gurugram taxi driver turns saviour, saves newborns from being trafficked||The Gurugram Police have arrested two women and a man with the help of a taxi driver, who were involved in stealing and trafficking newborn children. Two newborn girls were also recovered from their possession, who were stolen from Delhi and were about to be sold for Rs 3 lakh in Alwar, Rajasthan. The arrested persons have been identified as Surinder Kaur (45) from Alwar, Neha, a resident of Rohini, Delhi, and Harjinder Singh (32) from Alwar. During interrogation, the trio disclosed that they, along with their companions, used to steal newborn babies from different places and sell them to earn quick money. They were involved in this illegal trade since 2014. According to the police, under a special campaign run by the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, Ola, Uber and other local taxi drivers were alerted to keep an eye on their passengers and inform the police about anything suspicious. On Saturday, Umesh Lohia, a taxi driver from Nathupur village in Gurugram, told the police that he was returning from Dhaula Kuan to his village, when two women signalled him to stop the car. "I noticed that the women were carrying two infants about 20 to 25 days old in their lap, and a man was also with them. They asked me to drop them at IFFCO Chowk, but after travelling for some distance, the occupants asked me if I could drop them in Alwar," Lohia told the police. The driver said that the trip will cost Rs 3,000, to which they said that they will give him Rs 4,000, after which a deal was fixed. "After travelling for a while, one woman got a call and said that they want Rs 3 lakh. Later, the other women said that they should not go to Alwar. On their behest, we returned to Gurugram. It was then that I suspected that they had stolen the babies," Lohia told the police. Thereafter, they asked Lohia to take them to the DLF PH-3 Molesari Metro Station, where they had to buy some goods after which I was supposed to drop them to Delhi. "After that, I took the vehicle along with the trio to the DLF PH-3 police station, where the cops overpowered them," he said. "We are trying to ascertain who is the mastermind behind the gang. The network could be spread in other states as well. Efforts are being made to obtain more information about the remaining accused persons," Preet Pal Sangwan, ACP (Crime), said. "The taxi driver will be honoured with a cash reward of Rs 25,000 and a letter of appreciation for encouragement," said Subhash Boken, spokesperson of the Gurugram police. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurugram-taxi-driver-turns-saviour-saves-newborns-from-being-trafficked-1069297.html
08-01-2022||North and Central||Jawed Habib spitting issue: Karni Sena protests in Indore||Activists of Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena on Saturday protested in Indore in front of outlets bearing the name of celebrity hairstylist Jawed Habib, who is in the midst of a controversy for spitting on the hair of a woman while conducting a grooming workshop in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The protesters, who also took out a motorcycle rally and gathered at outlets in Vijay Nagar and Tukoganj, threatened to ransack them. Their district president Rishiraj Singh Sisodia told reporters that Habib had insulted women by his act and promised to not let salons linked to him operate in Indore, which would ensure such people are hit financially. “The signboards bearing the name of Habib will be pulled down and destroyed and the administration can take “whatever action it wants against us”, Sisodia said. Tukoganj police station in-charge Kamlesh Sharma said no salon was vandalised during these protests. Meanwhile, Amit Dantre, who runs a Jawed Habib branded salon under Tukoganj police station limits, said he was hurt by what the hairstylist had done and had decided to voluntarily give up branding rights to restart his establishment under a new name. Rameshwar Sharma, the BJP MLA from Bhopal’s Huzur Assembly seat, during the day, addressed a gathering in Bairagarh and asked people to boycott the salons run in the name of Habib. “How are people behaving? They spit in food and even on women’s hairs. Hindus should spit on those who believe in the culture of spitting. No one should go to outlets of those who spit. Instead, you should spit there,” Sharma said in his address. A video had gone viral on social media of Habib spitting on the hair of a woman during a workshop in Muzzafarnagar in UP on January 3. It was his way of demonstrating to participants that saliva was a substitute in case the water was scarce during a grooming session. Habib, after the woman filed a complaint, was booked under Section 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person) of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawed-habib-spitting-issue-karni-sena-protests-in-indore-1069317.html
08-01-2022||Opinion||UP Polls: Minority votes for a majority||In the run-up to the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, Mulayam Singh Yadav's close confidante Amar Singh was denied entry at the gates of Dar-ul-Uloom, Deoband. The clerics at one of the oldest and biggest Islamic seminaries in Asia were upset with the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and his man-Friday for having tied up with Kalyan Singh, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister under whose tenure the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya was demolished in 1992. A rattled Mulayam Singh dashed off to Deoband the very next day. With some help from a local SP leader who had good contacts with the establishment at Dar-ul-Uloom, Mulayam Singh got an audience with the rector - the 102-year-old Maulana Marghubur Rehman. Pictures of Mulayam Singh being "blessed" by the Deoband clergy were flashed across newspapers, especially in the Urdu press. Three months later, when it came to casting their votes, minorities in pockets moved away from the SP in large numbers to hand the Congress its best-ever performance in UP in two decades. Singed by the turn of events, Dar-ul-Uloom initiated a course correction in earnest. To underscore its 'apolitical' character, the Deoband seminary has since pointedly refused an audience with its top administrative leadership in the run-up to any elections. Of late, requests have been fewer and far between. All India Majlis-e-Musalmeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi had sought an appointment with the rector during his visit to Saharanpur in October last year but to no avail.  Others in the 'secular block' have also treaded with extreme caution. Akhilesh Yadav has thus far done two big rallies in western UP. One in Budhana in Muzaffarnagar district focused entirely on backward mobilisation and was touted as an OBC (Other Backward Castes) conference to mobilise fisherfolk and boatmen communities. The second was a joint rally organised with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) at Meerut, seeking to rally Jats behind the opposition grand alliance. The known rabble-rousers in SP are also lying low. Rampur MP Azam Khan is behind bars, and his party has not made extended incarceration of its most prominent Muslim face an election issue. Sambhal MP Shafiq-ur-Rehman Barq, too, has maintained a low profile. So has Mehboob Ali of Amroha. And there are no takers for dons-turned-politicians, the likes of Mukhtar Ansari and Ateeq Ahmed, this election. Now, this is a far cry from the competitive minority politics in UP which had its genesis in the rise of former Congress chief minister Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna in the 1970s. Bahuguna, an upper-caste Brahmin from the hills of the undivided UP, made Allahabad his 'karmabhoomi' and sought to emerge as the messiah of the minorities. He was the progenitor of iftar-politics and said to be very close to Ali Mian, the vice-chancellor of Nadwatul Ulama, the famous Islamic Seminary at Lucknow.  When Bahuguna quit the Congress, he competed with his parent party for Muslim votes. Mulayam Singh and Kanshi Ram's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) later picked up this thread to challenge Congress' near-total command over minority voters. In the past, a Mayawati could mop up 206 seats in the assembly of 403 in 2007, garnering a fraction more than 30 per cent votes in a multi-cornered contest. In the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress, which had been marginalised to the fringes, romped home in 22 Lok Sabha seats in UP with 18 per cent votes. In 2012, Samajwadi Party logged its best-ever performance with 224 seats with less than 30 per cent votes. Post-1989 Mandal-Kamandal rupture turned a full circle in 2012 when the UP Assembly registered the highest Muslim representation since Independence. The 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots polarised the polity. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has consistently polled more than 40 per cent or more popular votes in the last three elections (two Lok Sabha and one Assembly). The winning threshold is raised to the extent that minorities plus Yadavs or minorities plus Dalits does not make for a winning combination anymore. The 2019 Lok Sabha polls demonstrated that even a consolidated Muslim vote for the formidable SP-BSP-RLD alliance could not surpass the BJP's counter mobilisation. So, within days of the election results, Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav parted ways in search of alternative social combinations. As campaigning gains pace for the 2022 polls, parties are experimenting at the hustings. Campaigning by key political players in the first week of this year is in itself quite telling. On New Year's Day, Owaisi was in Behat, addressing a rally just 50-odd kilometres from Deoband, taking potshots at Akhilesh Yadav, seeking to know from minorities the benefits of having backed the 'secular block' for seven decades and more.  A couple of days later, Akhilesh Yadav held the year's first significant event in Lucknow, paying obeisance at the Lord Parashuram temple in an apparent bid to woo Brahmins. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath travelled to Deoband on Wednesday to lay the foundation stone of an anti-terror-squad commando training centre to crush any "conspiracy against the nation". As in life, in politics too, necessity is the mother of all inventions. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-minority-votes-for-a-majority-1069145.html
08-01-2022||Right in the Middle||A child builds a community||When a big plot was bought by a businessman in our neighbourhood, we knew that he was going to build an imposing structure that would dwarf our lower-middle-class accommodations. He did build a three-storey house, apportioning the ground floor exclusively for car parking. The patriarch’s three sons occupied each of those apartments along with their families. We thought the big house and its occupants would have no truck with us as they are preoccupied with their business concerns and are less likely to seek fellowship with us. The reason for such a belief was that they never invited us to the housewarming ceremony which was quite elaborate and lavish, glaringly confined to their clan. They had further opportunities to be courteous and hospitable to us since we were subjected to high decibels of marble-cutting for one whole year. They had not made use of any of them. Even as we were entertaining the thought that this rich people’s family is cut off from the rest of us, a baby was born in one of the apartments. That gradually connected an umbilical cord in the neighbourhood with the big house. We didn’t know anything about the arrival of Sanvik, sometime back. But when his father started bringing him down from the third floor, every morning, to show him the activities around beginning with the first rays of the sun, we realised that he is already eighteen months old. His father would ask him to say ‘hello’ to the milkman and the paperboy. Then would come Leo, the little puppy, along with Vishnu and Pranavi, the three-year-old twins, who were Leo’s constant companions. Sanvik is getting used to tiny Leo and the big Bebo, another dog of a different breed. A cow comes with her calf every morning with the expectation of leftover vegetables and peels of banana and beetroot. This duo is never sent empty-handed. Sanvik is made totalk to them just as he gestures at the early morning walkers, who are, luckily, quite responsive to his body language. Sanvik has successfully dispelled our apprehension that the big house is condemned to stand in eternal isolation in our neighbourhood of predominantly modest dwellings. He has further established the fact that vertical living is not for human beings whose inter-connected lives are meant for harmonious and horizontal existence. Thank you Sanvik. May your tribe increase!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-child-builds-a-community-1069168.html
08-01-2022||Second Edit||Sivakasi must step up on safety practices||Two back-to-back accidents in firecracker units in Tamil Nadu which led to the death of seven people have again showed how unsafe these units are. Accidents have become serial occurrences despite claims that the best safety measures are implemented in the units. The latest mishaps happened in Virudhunagar district, home of the firecracker industry in Tamil Nadu. In the New Year accident near Sivakasi, five people died, and in Wednesday’s mishap, four persons, including the owner of the unit, lost their lives. Two people had died in November and seven others in October in accidents involving firecrackers in the state. Twenty people had died in a unit in February last year. After every accident, probes are conducted, compensations are announced, and legal processes set in motion. But accidents keep occurring, raising questions about the efficacy of safety regulations and their implementation. The firecracker industry has received a lot of adverse attention in the past for frequent accidents, bad labour practices like child labour and for violation of rules and regulations. But actions from the law enforcement authorities, interventions by courts and campaigns by activists and the media have helped to improve the conditions in recent years. Child labour is not rampant as it was once, though more steps are needed to fully eradicate it. Accidents happen during manufacturing, transportation and storage. There are separate safety protocols to be followed at each stage. But failure to follow them is not uncommon and that is the reason for the recurrent mishaps. Most of the accidents are caused by carelessness or conscious violation or side-stepping of rules and regulations. The failure of the authorities to enforce rules is also a factor. Many studies of the industry and investigations have pointed out the problems connected with safety and made suggestions to improve the situation. A committee appointed after last February’s accident had suggested even the use of drones for surveillance of units. It has been noted that persons without the requisite knowledge and skills are employed in many units. There are also units that function without a licence. Lakhs of people are dependent on the industry and so it has economic value. But it is facing competition from China and has come under pressure because of the potential for pollution that it poses. While there may be uncertainty over the long-term prospects of the industry in such circumstances, it must be ensured that it becomes a safe industry that does not pose a threat to human lives and limbs. Internalising and implementing the best safety practices is key to this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sivakasi-must-step-up-on-safety-practices-1069163.html
08-01-2022||South||Union Minister V Muraleedharan tests Covid positive||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has tested positive for Coronavirus, according to party sources. The senior Kerala BJP leader, who was seen at a few functions in the state on Friday, learnt about the virus after he went for Covid testing as a mandatory requirement to travel to Bengaluru. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode where his condition is stated to be normal. In 2020, when the pandemic broke out in the country, Muraleedharan had to quarantine himself after he attended a meeting in the state capital at a premier health institute, where a few medical professionals turned Covid positive. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-v-muraleedharan-tests-covid-positive-1069106.html
08-01-2022||South||Tamil Nadu top cop tells police to be 'polite' during curfew checks||Tamil Nadu Director General of Police (DGP) C Sylendra Babu has asked police personnel to be polite with the public during night curfew and the lockdown on Sunday. In a statement on Friday, the DGP said that the police personnel must wear gloves and sanitise their hands regularly during checking and behave courteously with the public. In a set of guidelines for police personnel across the state, Sylendra Babu said that the night checks must be conducted at places that are properly lit. He also directed the force to erect night barricades and to wear reflector jackets. Candidates appearing for competitive examinations are allowed to travel by showing their admission cards. Food delivery is allowed from 7 am to 10 pm on lockdown day also, but the identity of the delivery persons should be checked. Suppliers of milk, gas and other essential items should be allowed to travel after checking identity. Movement of government employees, bank staffers, public transport, and local bodies should be allowed, he said. People on way to airports, railway stations, and bus stations in their vehicles or taxis will be allowed to travel on showing the tickets, the police chief said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-top-cop-tells-police-to-be-polite-during-curfew-checks-1069120.html
08-01-2022||South||CPI(M)-Congress making open battle calls in Kerala over K-rail project||The ruling CPI(M) and the opposition Congress in Kerala seem to be making open calls for battle over the proposed semi-high-speed rail project amidst concerns that the state was heading for a Nandigram-type stir. While the Congress, which already launched protests against the rail project, announced that the survey stones being laid for the project would be uprooted, a senior CPI(M) leader cautioned that those who turn up to uproot the stones should mind their teeth. The Left Front government is also sending signals of its tough stand against the protests against the rail project by registering a case against a Youth Congress activist who shared pictures of a survey stone of the project found uprooted in Kannur district the other day. The case was registered on charges of making call for riots. Youth Congress staged a protest against it on Saturday. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran recently stated that the survey stones being laid as part of the project would be uprooted. Congress-led United Democratic Front's convenor M M Hassan also clarified that the stones would be literally pulled out by those opposing the project. Incidentally, the very next morning, one stone was found uprooted at Madayipara in Kannur district. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reacted that such protests would not derail the government's efforts to bring in the development initiative, CPI(M) senior leader M V Jayarajan cautioned that those turning up to uproot the survey stones should be careful about their teeth. It is widely considered as an open warning that the CPI(M) would even deal with the violent stirs against the rail project using muscle power. The CPI(M) leader's statement is assuming significance as Kerala had witnessed the CPI(M) suppressing stirs against the Left Front government using muscle power. The latest instance was a popular stir against acquiring paddy field at Keezhattur village in Kannur district. Even as a section in the CPI(M) was initially backed the stir by farmers, later the local party workers were allegedly involved in setting fire to the shed of the agitators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-congress-making-open-battle-calls-in-kerala-over-k-rail-project-1069213.html
08-01-2022||South||Only vaccinated passengers allowed on suburban trains in Chennai region, says Southern Railway||From Monday, only passengers who are double vaccinated and produce the certificate will be able to board the suburban trains run by the Southern Railway in the Chennai region. The new restriction is to supplement the efforts taken by the Tamil Nadu government in controlling the spread of Covid-19.  The Southern Railway also said it will operate trains with 50 per cent of the seating capacity from January 10 to January 31 in the Chennai region, including the extended areas of the city’s suburbs.    “Only passengers in possession of Certificate for Covid Vaccination (both doses ) will be permitted to travel in suburban trains. The passengers will need to produce the second dose vaccination certificate/final certificate for Covid-19 Vaccination for the issue of journey/season tickets at the counters along with their valid ID proofs,” the Southern Railway said.  It also said those passengers who already possess season tickets should produce the vaccination certificate on demand by the ticket checking staff while announcing that UTS on Mobile application service will not be available. The Southern Railway also asked passengers to adhere to all Covid appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, wearing of masks while in the station and onboard the train. “Railway administration shall impose a penalty of Rs.500 wherever passengers are found not to be wearing the mask,” it added. As per the new restrictions, the 12-digit number of Covid vaccination certificates will be fed in the Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) before the issue of season tickets. The last 4 digits of the covid vaccination certificate number will be printed on the season tickets. “During the subsequent renewals of season tickets, the last 4 digits of the vaccination certificate will be printed automatically upon feeding the UTS no. of the previous season ticket, akin to all other pre-fed details like Aadhar, season ID card, etc,” the Southern Railway said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/only-vaccinated-passengers-allowed-on-suburban-trains-in-chennai-region-says-southern-railway-1069221.html
08-01-2022||South||In this Kerala school, students call teachers 'teacher', not 'sir' or 'madam'||A school in Kerala has taken a big leap towards ensuring gender neutrality in educational spaces, the administration has mandated that students address their teacher as simply "teacher" and not gender-defining terms of "sir" or "madam." In India, students have for years referred to their male teachers as "sir" and their female educators as "madam" or some other version of it, like "ma'am." Along the same lines, several schools in the state have also adopted gender-neutral uniforms for students.   In Palakkad, the school headmaster Venugopalan H told the publication about the events surrounding the landmark rule.  “One of our staff members, Sajeev Kumar V, broached the idea of abandoning the practice of male teachers being addressed as sir. He was inspired by the campaign launched by Palakkad-based social activist Boban Mattumantha to do away with the practice of addressing government officials as ‘sir’,” he said.  Mattumantha has approached the government to abolish the practice of addressing government officials as "sir" or "madam." However, another influence for the school is a panchayat 14 kilometres away. Mathoor panchayat in July last year did away with the norm of calling officials by their gendered association and instead opted for addressing them by their designation.  “We thought why can’t we introduce the same change at our school to bring gender neutrality in addressing teachers. The move was welcomed by the parents as well,” the headmaster reportedly said.  According to Venugopal, after initial inhibition, students at the school slowly began addressing their teachers as "teachers."  "Now, nobody calls a male teacher ‘sir’,” he said. Mattumantha, the activist, feels this will create awareness about gender justice among students. He says the address of "sir" is a relic of the colonial era and it should be done away with.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-this-kerala-school-students-call-teachers-teacher-not-sir-or-madam-1069233.html
08-01-2022||South||PMK asks to scrap interviews in Tamil Nadu govt recruitment to stop corruption||PMK Founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday urged the Tamil Nadu government to cancel interviews for all job recruitments to root out corruption. He also welcomed the government's decision to recruit staff for its undertakings, corporations and others through Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC). Ramadoss said from 2008 onwards recruitments for all state government enterprises were through a written test and interview which instead of bringing in transparency has ushered in corruption. He also said cases have been registered against former and present Ministers for job racket corruption. Unless the TNPSC functioning is reformed, corruption in recruitment cannot be abolished, Ramadoss said. He also urged the government to fill the Member vacancies in TNPSC. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pmk-asks-to-scrap-interviews-in-tamil-nadu-govt-recruitment-to-stop-corruption-1069242.html
08-01-2022||South||Files go missing as Congress alleges massive corruption in Kerala health department||The Congress party in Kerala on Saturday alleged that the disappearance of numerous files from the Health department clearly signals that there has been a massive corruption that took place during the purchases made for tackling Covid-19. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan told the media that purchases to the tune of Rs 1,600 crore made during the Covid pandemic time was done in violation of all normal purchase procedures. "A PPE kit costing Rs 550 was purchased for Rs 1,600, besides there was corruption in purchase of one crore gloves. The news now is that to ensure that nothing comes out of these purchases, around 3,000 e-files and 500 paper files have been reportedly destroyed. And what we hear is that one person has been suspended and that person is now being made the scapegoat as a cover up operation to save the real culprits," said Satheesan. He further pointed out that the entire purchase to the tune of Rs 1,600 crore has been made from the laptop of just one person. "What has now come out is purchases have been made from companies which cannot be found out. Surprisingly companies who were in the list of vendors have been eliminated, 100 per cent advance money for purchases was given out. The situation is such that the ongoing Police probe also has reached a dead end as they are not been given details of what they have asked. It appears that there is serious attempt being made to save the 'political' leadership from this massive corruption and officials are being made scapegoats. It is now surfaced that a Minister is trying to defend someone and if it continues then we will be forced to say this is being done to save 'some'," added Satheesan. Trying to put up a brave face in her defence, State Health Minister Veena George told the media that it's correct that some 500 files are missing from the Health department. "It has been found out that a safe where files were kept in the Health department was found to be open and around 500 files have been reported to be missing. But all those files which have gone missing are very old files and not new or recent ones. The probe is going on," said George. With the assembly session expected to be convened shortly, the Congress led Opposition is doing its best to get maximum details of the alleged corruption that has taken place after the pandemic struck in 2020 at a time when K.K. Shailaja was the Health Minister and eyebrows were raised when Vijayan decided not to include her in the ministry after he retained power in the April 2021 assembly polls. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/files-go-missing-as-congress-alleges-massive-corruption-in-kerala-health-department-1069250.html
08-01-2022||South||TN political parties barring BJP to put up unified struggle to abolish NEET||Political parties in Tamil Nadu, except the BJP, on Saturday resolved to wage a unified legal battle to completely abolish National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges in the state. A decision to this effect was taken at an all political party leaders meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat here. The resolution passed by 12 political parties amid a walkout by the BJP states that NEET examination and the subsequent National Medical Commission Act have greatly affected the Tamil Nadu students by imposing NEET for admissions to medical colleges. "The Centre has deprived the State government of the right to decide on the manner of admitting its students to the State-run medical colleges. This is against State autonomy," the resolution said. "NEET is the problem of Tamil Nadu - the problem of our students. .. In a country like India where the poor live, where there is inequality in the name of caste, the biggest and most difficult thing is to access education," Stalin said at the meeting attended by even the opposition AIADMK. Abolishing entrance examinations makes higher education accessible to the poor and those with rural background, he argued. NEET deprived those sections of the right to education and the State is opposed to NEET as it is an impediment to the educational development of Tamil Nadu students. "How can we accept the two-hour exam called NEET after plus two? Isn’t this social injustice? How many can afford to spend a huge sum for NEET coaching?" the Chief Minister asked. He explained the circumstances prompting him to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt TN from NEET, and recalled that the Assembly resolution seeking exemption from the test was passed unanimously on September 13, 2021. "We forwarded the bill to the Governor to be sent to the President for his assent. But the Governor had not sent the bill to the President,” he said and added that he had to meet the Governor in person and insist the bill be sent. "This is a situation where the State’s rights and the legislative power is under question that we have urgently convened this all-party meeting," Stalin informed. NEET favoured those students who have access to coaching and it created the impression that the 12 years of schooling is of no use for admission to medical courses besides it renders the education system meaningless. "It not only shatters the dreams of the students but also destroys the principle of federalism," the resolution further said. "Not sending this bill to the President is considered unbefitting to the sovereignty of the legislature," the resolution said and mentioned about the efforts of the Chief Minister calling on the Governor to urge him to send the bill for Presidential assent. The Union Home Minister’s refusal to meet the all-party delegation is against democratic norms, the resolution said and added that the delegation would meet the Union Home Minister if an audience is given. Senior legal experts will be consulted for necessary legal measures to completely abolish the NEET system which is shattering the higher education dreams of poor and rural students and disrupting the principle of State autonomy. Hence, it was resolved that all political parties would work in unison and make all necessary efforts to ensure a consensus so that other States in the country can realise the disadvantages of NEET, the resolution said. "Nearly 12 out of 13 political party leaders who participated in the meeting resolved to meet the Union Home Minister on demanding exemption from NEET and also to consult legal experts on how to proceed with the legal battle," Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian said emerging from the meeting. The all-party delegation has planned to meet the Governor again to seek the nod for the Tamil Nadu Assembly Bill, he told reporters. Demanding a white paper on the status of admission of poor students to medical colleges and fee structure in and capitation demanded by the medical colleges before NEET came into existence, BJP Mahila Morcha national president and Coimbatore South legislator Vanathi Srinivasan said the DMK and other parties gave a picture that the BJP government at the Centre had introduced NEET. "It was introduced by the Congress-led UPA government in which the DMK was a constituent. The BJP does not agree with the NEET exemption resolution," she said after staging a walkout from the meeting. She claimed that 69 per cent reservation being followed in Tamil Nadu ensured social justice and the allegation that NEET was discriminatory does not hold water. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-political-parties-barring-bjp-to-put-up-unified-struggle-to-abolish-neet-1069255.html
08-01-2022||South||Covid-19 deaths near 50,000-mark in Kerala||Covid-19 deaths in Kerala are nearing the 50,000-mark with around 19,000 deaths being added to the state's tally over the last three months. The state that once boasted of low Covid-19 death toll is now only second to Maharashtra, which has recorded 1.41 lakh deaths, in the country. As of Saturday, the total number of deaths in the state was 49,547. Further increase in the death tally is expected as over 10,000 appeals for considering non-Covid deaths as Covid fatalities are still pending. The death rate of Kerala has also increased to 0.93 per cent, while the national average is 1.37 percent. However, around 25 states have a higher death rate than Kerala. Clearing the backlog of the Covid-19 deaths and the changes in the norms for considering Covid-19 deaths are the reasons for the steep hike in the fatalities in Kerala. Of the 35,164 appeals received for considering non-Covid deaths as Covid deaths, only 25,022 were processed so far. Hence the number could go up further. Kerala health minister Veena George had stated that around 7,000 Covid deaths went unreported in the state, thus substantiating the claims of health experts and opposition parties that there were flaws in Kerala's death-reporting system. Sources in the Kerala health department said that compared to other states, Kerala was maintaining a much transparent online system for considering the appeals. Hence the state's Covid death figures were going up. Meanwhile, the test positivity rate of the state went up on Saturday too. A total of 5,944 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported during the day with a test positivity rate of 9.8 per cent. The total active cases also reached 31,098. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-deaths-near-50000-mark-in-kerala-1069262.html
08-01-2022||South||Government employees in Andhra Pradesh to now retire at 62 years; new aspirants fume||In less than eight years, the retirement age of Andhra Pradesh government employees is raised by four years, from 58 to now 62. While the previous Chandrababu Naidu government had in June 2014 enhanced the superannuation age to 60 from 58 years, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has now added two more years to their service. With the latest hike, Andhra Pradesh employees would be among the last to retire in the country from government service. While Telangana government had earlier this year shifted the limit from 58 to 61 years, Madhya Pradesh reportedly has its state service employees retiring at 62. The retirement age of central government employees is 60, while the job exit age is 58 to 60 years in many of the state governments. In Karnataka, it is at 60. “Chief Minister Reddy considers employees' experience as an asset to the state, so the decision was taken to raise the retirement age from 60 years to 62 years to make better, continued use of their services,” AP CMO officials said. The change in superannuation age would come into effect from this January. The decision has surprised many including the employees as it was not a major demand put forward. The various employee unions were in fact seeking a fitment of over 50 per cent in their pay revisions. But citing revenue crunch, the Reddy government has finally agreed to 23 per cent. Analysts say that the retirement age hike decision appears to have been taken because of “the dire position of state's revenues". “Retirement benefits outflow is a substantial amount for the exchequer. Employees get paid about Rs 25 to 30 lakh on average, including their provident funds, gratuity etc. The decision gives the AP government a breather of two years, which is till the next election time. If Reddy retains power, he has to find a way to settle the piled up accounts or else it will be his successor's problem to deal with,” L V Subrahmanyam, former chief secretary, Andhra Pradesh told DH. While employees' leaders are expressing content, government job aspirants are the agitated lot. “I have been hopeful of a state government job. But the YSRCP government decision kills the expectations of thousands like me, as there would be no vacancies to fill,” Syam Kumar, from Kurnool, preparing for a government job since 2017, said. In a meeting with various employees unions on Friday, CM Reddy stated that the 23 per cent pay revision is “almost nine per cent more than the 14.29 per cent proposed by a Chief Secretary headed committee.” “Monetary benefits would apply from April 2020 and the enhanced pay scale along with pending DAs will be effective from January 2022,” Reddy said while mentioning that the pay revision puts an additional burden of Rs 10,247 crore on the treasury. All pending arrears like PF, GLI, leave encashments would be cleared by April. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/government-employees-in-andhra-pradesh-to-now-retire-at-62-years-new-aspirants-fume-1069269.html
08-01-2022||South||Letter backs allegation that Kerala University rejected proposal for D.Litt to President||The allegations that Kerala University rejected a proposal of the Governor, who is also the chancellor of the university, to award honorary D.Litt to President Ram Nath Kovind became stronger on Saturday with a letter said to be written by the university vice-chancellor to the governor surfacing. It allegedly confirmed that Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had recommended conferring an honorary D.Litt degree on President Ram Nath Kovind.  The letter also revealed that the VC, instead of convening a Syndicate meeting to decide on the matter, had merely "discussed" it with some Syndicate members and informed the Governor that the University Syndicate had turned down the proposal. "... After returning, I have discussed with several members of Syndicate about the matter of conferring D.Litt Degree to his excellency the President of India. The members of the Syndicate turn (sic) it down," the handwritten letter dated December 7, 2021, read, according to news agency PTI.  The fresh allegation had surfaced as part of the ongoing row between Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala over alleged political pressure on the Governor for postings. Congress senior leader and former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had alleged that the Governor's recommendation to award honorary D.Litt to the President was rejected by the university. The government and the university authorities have been maintaining a silence over the issue. The Governor also did not make any direct comments in this regard but had stated that the issues between him and the government even involved matters affecting the nation's integrity and nation's prestige. The Government and university authorities are silent on the matter. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/letter-backs-allegation-that-kerala-university-rejected-proposal-for-dlitt-to-president-1069291.html
08-01-2022||State||Marginal increase in Covid tally, Bengaluru emerges as epicentre||Karnataka on Saturday reported a marginal increase in fresh Covid cases compared to Friday. The state recorded 8,906 new Covidcases and four deaths, taking the cumulative infections and fatalities to 30,39,958 and 38,366 respectively. The active cases in the state stood at 38,507. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted, “Test positivity rate crosses 10% in Bengaluru with the city recording 7,113 cases today. Bengaluru continues to be the epicentre of Covid in Karnataka with 79% of cases.” The spike in cases was driven by Bengaluru Urban which contributed to 7,113 infections and three deaths. Other districts too had fresh cases, including 295 in Dakshina Kannada, 203 in Mysuru, 186 in Udupi, 183 in Mandya and 139 in Hassan and 111 in Bengaluru Rural. Kalaburagi recorded one death. There were zero fatalities in 29 districts whereas Haveri and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero fatalities. The positivity rate for the day was 5.42% and the case fatality rate was 0.04%. A total of 508 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,63,056. A total of 1,64,261 samples were tested in the state on Saturday, taking the cumulative number of samples tested so far to 5.75 crore. As many as 2,03,786 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Saturday taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 8,95,86,809. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/marginal-increase-in-covid-tally-bengaluru-emerges-as-epicentre-1069325.html
08-01-2022||State||12 Kittur Sainik School students contract Covid||A total of 12 students of Kittur Rani Channamma Residential Sainik School for Girls have tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The school, which offers admissions for classes 6 and 9, has a student strength of 760. As many as 104 students were subjected to rapid antigen tests (RAT) after they showed symptoms. The results of 12 students have returned positive. Samples of all 104 students have been sent for RT-PCR tests. Infected girls and those showing symptoms, but tested negative in RAT, have been placed under isolation. After complaints of fever and other Covid-19 like symptoms by students, District Health Officer Dr S V Munyal, Taluk Health Officer Dr S S Siddannavar and Tahsildar Somlingappa Halagi visited the school. Tahsildar Somlingappa Halagi told DH that doctors and nurses have been deputed to the school and the school also has its own health facility.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/12-kittur-sainik-school-students-contract-covid-1069328.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||LPG cylinders explode during illegal refilling in Bengaluru, 3 injured||Three persons suffered serious burn injuries after two LPG cylinders, which were allegedly being refilled illegally, exploded here on Saturday. According to the police, the incident took place inside the Bharath Bhavani Gas agency's premises located in Panchasheela Nagar near Moodalapalya locality. The injured are currently been treated at a hospital. The preliminary investigation has suggested that the incident took place while transferring gas from big cylinders to normal ones. A fire broke out in the godown after two cylinders exploded. Luckily, the rest of the cylinders did not explode and the fire brigade personnel who rushed to the spot, managed to extinguish the fire. Govindarajanagar police found LPG cylinders stacked illegally. They lodged a case against the owner, Bettaiah. The incident caused panic as the agency is located in a residential area. Another major fire incident was reported in an under construction apartment in Bengaluru's Konanakunte locality. As of now, no death has been reported. The exact cause of the incident and damage is yet to be ascertained. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lpg-cylinders-explode-during-illegal-refilling-in-bengaluru-3-injured-1069188.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to stop Congress workers from taking part in Mekedatu padayatra||The Karnataka government is planning to stop Congress workers from participating in the Mekedatu padayatra at Kanakapura border before reaching Mekedatu. The police department has erected barricades all over the Ramnagar district and deputed 2,000 police personnel to manage the situation as the face-off continues between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress on the issue. Ramnagar district authorities have clamped prohibitory orders in the entire district. As per Congress leaders, thousands of workers are expected to participate in the padayatra from surrounding districts. The police department sources said that reserved forces and extra staff have been kept ready. They are also ready to initiate action against participants of padayatra and are waiting for the government's instruction in this regard. On the other hand, Congress sources said that if government resorts to punitive action, it will be good for the Opposition as it will dent the image of the ruling BJP in the state. Police officers who are in a fix over the issue have decided to take action as per the situation until direct orders come from the government. The Congress has started preparing for Mekedatu padayatra and made arrangements for cooking and shelter for the workers at choultries and school grounds along the route. Padaytra on Mekedatu will begin on January 9 and conclude on January 19. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-stop-congress-workers-from-taking-part-in-mekedatu-padayatra-1069208.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Adani foundation grants Rs 78.18 lakh to Udupi district||The Adani foundation has granted Rs 78.18 lakh from its CSR fund to the Udupi district administration to establish paediatric ICU ventilator beds and allied medical equipment at the government hospital at Karkala in the district. In view of the emergence of new Covid variant Omicron, Adani-owned Udupi power corporation ltd, which is operating a thermal power plant in the district, has granted the funds in association with Adani foundation, the CSR wing of Adani group, a release here said. The grant is to equip Udupi district to treat affected children during third wave of the pandemic. In August last year, the foundation had granted Rs 40 lakh to the district administration to combat Covid, which was utilised at the Udupi district hospital. Kishore Alva, president and executive director of Adani group, Karnataka, handed over the demand draft of Rs 78,18,500 to Udupi deputy commissioner M Kurma Rao, the release said. The district administration and the health department will establish 10 paediatric ICU ventilator beds and allied medical equipment at the Karkala government hospital using the fund.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/adani-foundation-grants-rs-7818-lakh-to-udupi-district-1069223.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Unvaccinated cases 30 times more likely to land in ICU than vaccinated: Karnataka war room chief||The Karnataka Covid-19 war room analysis into the infections in the past seven days from January 1 to 7 has revealed that unvaccinated people are 30 times more likely to land in the Intensive Care Unit than the vaccinated, an official said on Saturday. Karnataka Covid-19 War Room chief Munish Moudgil said unvaccinated people are 10-times more likely to have manifested Covid infection than vaccinated. "The unvaccinated people are 30 times more likely to land in ICU or High Dependency Unit (HDU) as compared to the vaccinated," he said in his analysis. He explained the methodology to arrive at the conclusion. According to him, with 97 per cent citizens vaccinated and three per cent unvaccinated, ideally if both were equally vulnerable to Covid, then for every 100 Covid cases or hospitalised cases, 97 people should have been vaccinated and three should have been unvaccinated. "But, proportionately unvaccinated constitute 10 times Covid patients and 30 times more in ICU than expected," Moudgil explained. "Vaccination surely helps a lot to avoid Covid complications and everyone eligible must take it," the IAS officer concluded. Regarding the possibility of overwhelming majority of patients who are vaccinated fully, Moudgil said many in hospital general beds could be out of their own precaution. The actual number of people in the ICU will give the real comparison, he opined. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unvaccinated-cases-30-times-more-likely-to-land-in-icu-than-vaccinated-karnataka-war-room-chief-1069266.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||2 held for giving fake RT-PCR reports without taking swabs in Karnataka||Central Crime Branch sleuths on Friday swooped down on a duo who issued fake Covid-negative certificates on the sly without conducting tests. The duo belongs to the Skyline Diagnostic Centre in Nagamma Layout in RT Nagar’s Kaval Byrasandra, which has no tie-ups with the government to conduct Covid tests. Police said they utilised the government guidelines on the Covid surge, contacted friends and others in need of Covid-negative certificates and issued them by collecting cash or payments via UPI transfers. CCB officials have seized 50 fake Covid-negative certificates and two mobile phones from them. Officials are also looking into the number of people who took the illegal certificates from them, the purpose of getting the certificate and how much they paid them. They have registered a case against the duo in the DJ Halli police station and further investigations are on. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-held-for-giving-fake-rt-pcr-reports-without-taking-swabs-in-karnataka-1069290.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Padayatra as scheduled; won't be cowed down by BJP's conspiracy, says DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar has said the party will not be “cowed down by conspiracy “of the BJP and it will go ahead with Mekedatu Padayatra. The foot march will start from Sangama (in Kanakapura taluk) after puja on Sunday.  Addressing a joint press meet at his residence in Kanakapura on Saturday, Shivakumar said that people from various districts in the state had lent support to the padayatra irrespective of political affiliation. “The BJP hatched a conspiracy against padayatra and declared weekend curfew in Ramanagara district though Covid numbers are not alarming here. But, we will take out our padayatra complying with Covid protocols. More than one lakh masks have been arranged and we will maintain social distance also,” Shivakumarsaid. Shivakumar held a meeting with Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, Rajya Sabha Member Mallikarjun Kharge and other leaders of the party at his residence on Saturday evening. Siddaramaiah said that the padayatra was apolitical. “We are taking to streets demanding a dam at Mekedatu. This is a historic padayatra. This is not for politics, but for water,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/padayatra-as-scheduled-wont-be-cowed-down-by-bjps-conspiracy-says-dks-1069309.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Increase production of millet, supply it to other states: Sudhanshu Pandey to Karnataka govt||Union Food and Public Distribution Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said Karnataka should increase its production of millets and tie-up with the Indian Institute of Millets in Hyderabad to boost marketing of the produce through startups.  Pandey held talks with Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar. With 2023 being declared as the 'International Year of Millets' and Karnataka being a large producer of Ragi, it must boost its produce, Pandey said. This way, the millet requirement of other states too could be met by Karnataka, he added, assuring that the Centre would take care of the handling and transportation costs. Also, the Centre has approved procurement of local varieties of paddy in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada for self-consumption by the state, he said.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai thanked the secretary for the approval of the procurement of local varieties of paddy in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada. In a tweet, he said this was a huge step towards being vocal for locals and ensuring that the poor have a meal of their choice.  In addition, as the state is among the largest producers of sugar, Pandey also urged the government to encourage ethanol production and blending. Karnataka is among the eight states where the Centre plans to introduce ethanol bunks.   Further, he also asked the government to ensure that the children under the Centre's Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) are showing improvement in health. The Centre is distributing fortified rice under the scheme for children. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/increase-production-of-millet-supply-it-to-other-states-sudhanshu-pandey-to-karnataka-govt-1069311.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid Covid surge, testing in Karnataka hit by delays||On Friday, the state conducted 2.03 lakh tests in a 24-hour period, the highest-ever since the pandemic broke out. As per official information, the state can conduct 2,19,980 RT-PCR tests per day as of now (1,18,500 by 97 government labs and 1,01,480 by 168 private labs). The 2,03,260 tests done on Jan 5 pushed the state’s test positivity rate (TPR) from an average of 2.02% in the seven days prior to 4.16% on Friday. While the testing achievement is comforting, as it provides a good measure of the spread of the infection, there is also a troubling aspect to it, one that could impede efforts to bring the TPR under control. Testing labs at some districts are taking over 48 hours to provide results,  according to war room data, which at the current moment of the pandemic is asking for trouble. Even in Bengaluru Urban, only about 56% of test results come back within 24 hours, with 6% taking over two days. As per the data released by the State Covid War Room, which covers one day (January 6), nine districts exhibited problems in delivering quick test results: Raichur, Yadgir, Uttara Kannada, Koppal, Tumakuru, Ballari, Bidar, Belagavi and Vijayapura. Raichur district, which received 1,656 samples, was able to provide results for only 316 (or 10%) in under 24 hours, with the results of 1,286 (89%) taking between 24 and 48 hours. The results of 54 (2%) samples took more than 48 hours to return. District Health Officer Dr Ramakrishna H told DH that the problem in delayed test results was because of bottlenecks, with samples collected in the morning sometimes not being processed until late at night. “However, now we are working around the clock,” he said, adding that the district has one official government lab to process a daily target of about 2,100 samples daily. Meanwhile, In Tumakuru district, where the results of about 2,000 samples (43%) out of 3,331 were returned between 24 to 48 hours, the DHO, Dr M B Nagendrappa said that the district is also processing samples from Bengaluru amid a sudden growth in samples originating from the district.  The report went on to detail 99 testing labs in the state, with the highest average delay between receiving the sample and uploading the report to ICMR. Of the top 12 labs exhibiting delays, only two belonged to the government. Among them was Bowring Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute (BLCMRI), which is said to have delayed the results of 69% of 5,725 samples. According to Dr Manoj Kumar, Dean and Director of the BLCMRI, the number of samples to be processed per day rose recently from 4,000 to 6,000 on average. “Nevertheless, we have two RT-PCR machines that are running for four shifts a day. If case numbers go up, there will be an inevitable delay,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-covid-surge-testing-in-karnataka-hit-by-delays-1069315.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Madhukar Angur held for siphoning student's money||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested a former chancellor of a Bengaluru-based private university for allegedly duping parents of 4,500 students by “siphoning off” Rs 107 crore funds taken from them as fees. Madhukar G Angur, the ex-chancellor of Alliance University, was arrested on Friday. He was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Bengaluru on Saturday that sent him to seven-day judicial custody, the ED said in a statement. It alleged that Angur and others “informed the parents of the students through e-mails and physical notices not to deposit the fee in the official accounts of the Alliance University and instead asked them to deposit the fees of their children into the illegally opened bank accounts (by Angur) and others in the name of Srivari Educational Services”. “Hence, the parents of about 4,500 students were persuaded to deposit the fees in the said illegally opened bank accounts and amounts to the tune of about Rs 107 crore were siphoned off by Angur and others by collecting the tuition fees, hostel fees and other fees illegally from the student community,” it said. These fee deposits, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said, were made between 2016 and 2017. The agency in September last year had attached assets worth over Rs 19 crore of Angur and his family members Priyanka M Angur, Ravi Kumar K, Shruthi and Pavana Dibbur. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/madhukar-angur-held-for-siphoning-students-money-1069319.html
08-01-2022||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre fetes IAS officer for use of tech in pandemic management||Karnataka’s Covid-19 war room has won the Centre’s e-governance jury award for use of information, communications and technology (ICT) in managing the pandemic. The award was received by IAS officer Munish Moudgil, chief of the state Covid-19 war room. Moudgil told reporters on Friday, “We have a lot of work in front of us and we wish to be of help to citizens. Real warriors are working non-stop in the field and the state war room is IT enabled and has an integrated system to enable them and the citizens to successfully fight Covid.” On Friday, Health Minister K Sudhakar, while congratulating Moudgil, tweeted: “Be it the gamut of in-house mobile applications or the fully equipped war room, Karnataka’s tech-driven Covid management has been a model to the entire country.” Moudgil was also instrumental in developing the Quarantine Watch app in the state that helped track those violating home quarantine norms. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-fetes-ias-officer-for-use-of-tech-in-pandemic-management-1069326.html
08-01-2022||West||BJP should confer honorary cabinet status to Advani: Goa Congress||Instead of 'honouring' veteran Congress leaders ahead of the state Assembly elections with dubious "life-long" cabinet status, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should honour its own veteran leaders like LK Advani, who has been banished to the sidelines, says Goa Congress President Girish Chodankar. Chodankar's comment comes days after former Chief Minister and sitting Congress MLA, Pratapsingh Rane was conferred with a "life-long" cabinet status by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Rane, 82, is yet to accept or deny the decision taken by the Goa cabinet on Thursday. "There is a senior leader in our country. A big leader whom everyone respects -- LK Advani, perhaps the BJP has forgotten him. We want to remind the BJP leaders that first you confer the status to LK Advani, which you have conferred on Rane. Advani, who built the BJP, has been pushed to a corner. You do not respect your leaders, but you want to respect our leaders?" Chodankar told the media on Friday. The controversial decision by the BJP-led coalition government has been taken ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls. Sawant said that the honour was in view of the fact that Rane has completed 50 years as an MLA from the Poriem Assembly constituency without losing a single Assembly election. Pratapsingh Rane's son, Vishwajit is currently the Health Minister in the BJP-led coalition government. The Goa Congress President, however, claims Sawant conferred the honorary status on Pratapsingh Rane because the ruling party was likely to lose the Poriem Assembly seat, if the veteran leader chooses to contest it in the upcoming elections. "They (BJP) are afraid because if Pratapsingh Rane contests, then he will win and BJP will lose one seat. They are afraid of losing even one seat. They are afraid of the Congress. They did this out of fear," Chodankar said. "It is like offering chocolate to a small child. They think Pratapsingh Rane is a small boy. He will not fall for such tricks. He has seen it all. If Pramod Sawant wanted he should have said he (Rane) would be made CM, why did he not say that?" he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-should-confer-honorary-cabinet-status-to-advani-goa-congress-1069097.html
08-01-2022||West||Four held in Gujarat, days after 6 workers died due to inhalation of chemical fumes leaked from tanker||Days after six workers died due to the inhalation of toxic fumes that leaked from a tanker in an industrial area in Surat, police have arrested four persons for the alleged illegal discharge of chemical waste under various charges including culpable homicide, an official said on Saturday. Six factory workers died and 22 others were hospitalised on January 6 after they inhaled toxic fumes leaked from the chemical tanker parked near a factory in the Surat district. The workers were in the dyeing factory, located in the Sachin industrial area when the incident occurred. The four persons arrested on Friday include two transporters, a bank employee and a garage owner, a crime branch official said. They were arrested by the Surat crime branch with the help of police of Vadodara and Bharuch, he added. The official said that one Ashish Gupta, a transporter and a partner in a firm, had supplied the industrial chemical waste to two others- Jaipratap Tomar and another person identified as Yadav, for disposal. Another person is identified as Premsagar Gupta, who had accompanied Tomar and Yadav in the tanker to the Sachin GIDC area, the official said, adding that Premsagar had in the past arrested in connection with prohibition and betting-related cases. Tomar works in the loan department of a finance bank, while Yadav runs a garage, the official said. An FIR was registered at the Sachin GIDC police station against unidentified persons under sections 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), rash and negligent act endangering human lives (336, 337, and 338), rash and negligent act involving poisonous substance (284), voluntarily corrupt water of public spring or reservoir (277), making atmosphere noxious to health (278), criminal conspiracy (120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-held-in-gujarat-days-after-6-workers-died-due-to-inhalation-of-chemical-fumes-leaked-from-tanker-1069123.html
08-01-2022||West||Goa Assembly Election 2022: Full list of voting dates, phases, constituency-wise voting||The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the polling dates for the Goa Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2022. Goa Assembly Elections 2022 will be held in a single phase on February 14, for all 40 constituencies, and the counting of votes will take place on March 10.  In Goa, the term of the Assembly is set to end on March 15. The voting will take place to elect 40 members for the Goa Legislative Assembly. The last date of nominations is January 20, while the last date for withdrawal of candidature is January 30. All the five states — Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand — will vote in 7 phases from February 10 to March 7. The counting will take place on March 10. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assembly-election-2022-full-list-of-voting-dates-phases-constituency-wise-voting-1069183.html
08-01-2022||West||Rain, hailstorm hit Rajasthan; crops damaged||Normal life was affected in parts of Rajasthan as rainfall with hailstorm triggered by the western disturbance lashed many parts of the state in the last 24 hours, officials said on Saturday. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at several places in eastern Rajasthan and in almost all regions of the state's western part since Friday. A couple of places in eastern Rajasthan witnessed heavy rainfall too, the MeT department stated. Kishangarh-Renwal in Jaipur district recorded the maximum 8 cm rainfall while Behror and Neemrana in Alwar saw 7 cm rain. The rainfall at other places was below 7 cm. Hailstorms also occurred at several places in the state which damaged standing mustard crops. Meanwhile, the state recorded a minimum temperature between 7 degrees Celsius (Jaisalmer) and 17 degrees Celsius (Dungarpur) on Friday night . The department has predicted light to moderate rain at a few places in Bharatpur, Kota and Jaipur divisions on Saturday and in Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions on Sunday. The weather will be mainly dry in western parts, it said. Night temperatures would fall by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius after the weather clears, the officials said Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rain-hailstorm-hit-rajasthan-crops-damaged-1069186.html
08-01-2022||West||Naqvi calls for precaution, prevention and prayer to make Haj 2022 possible||The selection process of Haj 2022 pilgrims will be done as per the complete vaccination of both the doses and criteria to be decided by the Indian and Saudi Arabian governments, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said here on Saturday as he called for the precaution, prevention and prayer to eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic and to make the annual Islamic pilgrimage possible this year. He inaugurated a two-day programme for trainers of the Haj 2022 pilgrimage at Haj House in Mumbai. Naqvi said that the entire Haj 2022 process has been chalked out with significant reforms and changes giving utmost priority to the health and well-being of the people. The Minority Affairs Minister, who is also deputy leader of Rajya Sabha, said in a statement that making the entire Haj 2022 process 100 per cent digital/online will be extremely beneficial to ensure the health and well-being of the people besides transparent, accessible, affordable and convenient Haj pilgrimage with pandemic precautions. The last date for applying for Haj 2022 is January 31. India is seeing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases. The country saw a single-day rise of 1,41,986 new coronavirus cases, raising the tally to 3,53,68,372, which included 3,071 cases of Omicron variant reported across 27 states and union territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. People are applying for Haj online and also through the “Haj Mobile App” equipped with modern facilities. The “Haj Mobile App” has been upgraded with the tagline “Haj App in Your Hand”. The app contains several new features which include frequently asked questions, information to fill up the application form, videos giving information to applicants to fill up the form in a very simple manner, Naqvi said. More than 53,000 people have applied for Haj 2022 so far including more than 1,000 women who have applied under the "without Mehram (male companion)” category. Naqvi said that the selection process of Haj pilgrims will be done according to the complete vaccination of both the doses and guidelines and criteria to be decided by the Indian and Saudi Arabian governments, as per Covid-19 protocols during the time of Haj 2022. The minister said that embarkation points for Haj 2022 have been reduced from 21 to 10- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cochin, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai and Srinagar. Naqvi also said that Digital Health Card, “E-MASIHA” health facility and “E-luggage pre-tagging”, providing all information regarding accommodation/transportation in Makkah-Madinah, will be provided to all the Haj pilgrims. Arrangements for special training for Haj 2022 regarding Coronavirus protocols and health and hygiene have been made in India and Saudi Arabia for the Haj pilgrims. He said that more than 3,000 women had applied for Haj 2020 and 2021 under without “Mehram” category. Their applications will be eligible for Haj 2022 also if they want to go to perform Haj 2022. Other women can also apply for Haj 2022 under without “Mehram” category. All the women under this category will be exempted from the lottery system. The two-day programme in Mumbai is being attended by 550 trainers, virtually and physically, from different states. Keeping in view the pandemic challenges, this training programme is focused on health and hygiene. Officials from the Haj Committee of India, the Royal Consulate of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Customs, Immigration, airlines and doctors are informing about “Do's and Don'ts” during Haj pilgrimage. It includes information about transport, accommodation in Saudi Arabia and the laws of Saudi Arabia. These trainers will now train the Haj pilgrims in training camps across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/naqvi-calls-for-precaution-prevention-and-prayer-to-make-haj-2022-possible-1069190.html
08-01-2022||West||BJP MLA Ashish Shelar threatened on phone, writes to Maharashtra home minister, Mumbai police commissioner||BJP leader Ashish Shelar has written to Maharashtra home minister and Mumbai police commissioner claiming that he had received threat calls from an unidentified caller, an official said on Saturday. The Bandra (west) MLA stated in his letters that the caller had abused him and threatened to kill him and his family members. Shelar, a former minister, has submitted details of the two phone numbers from which he received the threat calls and requested the police to do the needful. The official, however, didn't elaborate on the reason for Shelar receiving the threat. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said in Nagpur on Saturday that Shelar was vocal about "corruption" in (state) government. "Ashish Shelar often takes a stand against the government and bring out corruption. This could be the reason behind him receiving the threat. Police should take this matter seriously," the former chief minister told reporters.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-ashish-shelar-threatened-on-phone-writes-to-maharashtra-home-minister-mumbai-police-commissioner-1069194.html
08-01-2022||West||Heavy leakage seen in Mahim Kelva dam in Maharashtra||Heavy leakage has been noticed in the Mahim Kelva dam in Palghar district prompting the Maharashtra government and district administration to launch precautionary measures.  Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are being deployed for evacuation of villagers.  Disaster Management Unit under secretary K Suryakrishnamurty has sent a letter to the Commandant, NDRF, Pune to send one team.  The dam is located around 110 kms away from downtown Mumbai. More details are awaited.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-leakage-seen-in-mahim-kelva-dam-in-maharashtra-1069220.html
08-01-2022||West||68 CBI Mumbai personnel Covid positive||As many as 68 Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) employees working out of its Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) office here have contracted coronavirus infection, an official of the central agency said on Saturday. The CBI had asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to test 235 persons working at the BKC office, he said. "From this lot of 235 personnel, which includes officials, 68 have tested positive. The infected ones have been asked to home quarantine," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/68-cbi-mumbai-personnel-covid-positive-1069230.html
08-01-2022||West||Maharashtra imposes restrictions on movement to curb spread of Covid-19||Amid the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the Maharashtra government on Saturday came out with fresh guidelines, restricting movement of people and announcing fines for violating Covid-appropriate behaviour. According to the new order, there would be no movement of people in groups of five or more from 5 am to 11 pm. Besides, there would be no movement of people from 11 pm to 5 am, except for essential purposes. The new order was approved by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after lengthy meetings. The order signed by chief secretary Debasish Chakrabarty states that staggering work timings and work from home should be promoted. In private offices, 50 per cent of the total staff at a point of time would be allowed. Only fully vaccinated persons would be allowed to attend offices. Schools and colleges will remain closed till 15 February, except for 10th and 12th boards. The order also states that swimming pools, spas, gyms, beauty salons and wellness centres will remain closed till further orders. Hair-cutting saloons would be functional at 50 per cent capacity. Entertainment parks, zoos, museums will also be shut. Shopping malls and market complexes will operate with 50 per cent capacity with adherence Covid protocols and only vaccinated persons would be allowed. Cinema halls, theatres, restaurants would operate with 50 per cent capacity. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-imposes-restrictions-on-movement-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-1069270.html
08-01-2022||West||Goa all set to go to polls on Valentine's Day||Major political parties namely the BJP and the Congress are ready to to battle on Valentine's Day, February 14, when the state's 11,56,464 eligible voters will cast their franchise for the state assembly polls. Soon after the Election Commission of India announced its poll schedule for elections to five states, namely Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Punjab and Goa, state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadnanand Shet Tanavade welcomed the decision. "I welcome the decision of the ECI. They have prescribed guidelines, which say that no road shows and public meetings should be held till January 15. BJP had already postponed public meetings from January 5. We have already taken the decision in view of Covid," Tanavade told a press conference in Panaji, expressing confidence that the ruling party would win a full majority.  Chief Minister Pramod Sawant also said that the BJP would win more than 22 seats in the 40-member state legislative assembly. According to Goa's Chief Electoral Officer, Goa has 11,56,464 eligible voters, which includes 5,62,500 male voters, 5,93,960 females voters, apart from four from the third gender, who can cast ballot across 1,722 polling stations across the state. "We are fully prepared. Two flying squads have been constituted in every constituency. Police teams monitoring law and order and central teams doing combing operations," he said, adding that all directives of the ECI would be followed. Around 20,000 officials will be involved in the polling process, he added. The Congress has also welcomed the ECI decision on Saturday. “We will abide by the law. The pandemic situation is a worrying situation. But we will observe the rules and conduct our election campaign in accordance with the rules. We appeal to the people to follow Covid restrictions,” former Union Finance Minister and the Congress' senior observer for the Goa polls P. Chidambaram. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-all-set-to-go-to-polls-on-valentines-day-1069271.html
08-01-2022||West||Maharashtra logs 41,434 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||The Omicron cases -- that is triggering the third wave of Covid-19 -- crossed the 1,000-mark in Maharashtra on Saturday. During the day, 133 new Omicron cases were diagnosed taking the progressive total to 1,009, according to the Public Health Department. A total of 41,434 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths were reported in the state, taking the progressive total to 68,75,656 and 1,41,627, respectively.  In Mumbai, 20,318 coronavirus cases were reported while the same for Mumbai metropolitan region was 33,134. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-logs-41434-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-1069274.html
